[18th century french liberals be like](
would you rather poop in the only toilet at a party, knowing that you’ll clog it, or poop in the bushes in the backyard? please hurry.
is the new covid variant something to worry about?
9 weeks after being rear ended, i got approval to get back into the gym and jogging again. i'm hoping after my ct scan monday that i get approval to return to hockey. 
i forgot just how quickly the body adapts to being sedentary. i went to the gym monday, tuesday and wednesday and... i'm still feeling it.
does this group not have free speech every day?
world chess championship game 1 just ended in a draw, with magnus playing a solid, defensive closed ruy lopez with the black pieces against nepo. no fireworks yet from the anticipated clash of styles, although nepo's intuitive speed was apparent in the midgame when he held a pawn up with an awkward structure for a bit. hopefully we get something a little more daring in game 2.
also, i thought that arcance: league of legends would be another disappointing overproduced sad sack videogame commercial. legit might be the best animated series. truly stunningly beautiful - like into the spider verse but with better writing and even more beautiful art.
[removed]
[
some pretty startling numbers here comparing gun deaths in the usa with the rest of the world.....pretty much what you may expect if you know anything about the gun culture.
[removed]
if your poop is enough to clog a toilet, it's time to see the doctor.
😂😂😂
i'd say it's especially worrying because, at least in on and qc, we seem to be losing a grip on things at the moment already. if it is indeed much more transmissible/vaccine evasive, it could really be a match thrown onto a kindling pile. 
i'm mentally at a point where i just really want this all to be over with, but i'm trying to brace myself for the possibility of some real turbulence.
definitely seems to be the most serious one yet, and that's probably an understatement. anyways, let's hope that it's not as bad as it seems; i'm dying to get off this train after two *long* years.
that's a really good question. for the time being, on this side of the planet anyway, not so much, i'd say. but with global travel restrictions being open and freer now, who's to say?
but if it does gain a foothold and becomes the primary strain, i'm suspecting it'll probably set us back significantly in terms of vaccine efficacy. 
i tend to follow epidemiologists and the like on twitter for information about such things, as opposed to mainstream media. over the years  i've found  that it's much better to get pertinent information directly from the horse's mouth rather than from its back end, so to speak. 😉
i’d say yes, especially as some people seem to think the pandemic should be ckandired over and want to remove their masks and social distancing entirely.
i am worried.  i am in wisconsin, where i've been since early november and supposed to fly back on the 3rd. i am hoping they don't close the borders again.  i am borderline insane after living in a hotel for a month.
delta more?
it doesn’t appear to be more resistant to vaccines than og delta, but it does have spreadability advantages. it’s expected to become the dominant strain in the uk by around summer. but it’s not nearly as worrisome as the jump from alpha to delta. that one had a 40%+ growth advantage and showed dozen percentage point vaccine resistance.
you ask this question?!!
no soup for you!!!
next !!!!!!
everybody drink!
try us.

indeed, and i'd love to see it.
but so far this seems to be a political non-starter in canada, so we have to work in the real world and build on this imperfect, sub-optimal path. it's much better than nothing.
this is really why cap-and-trade is a better system. rather than setting the price, and hoping we hit the emissions target, set the target let the price be what it will. carbon tax is fundamentally a price control, with all the pitfalls that can come with.
another note: raising the carbon price is good, but the real problem is the coverage is quite poor. raising it won't do much good with so many exemptions.
"if we stop letting poor people heat their homes and make them walk everywhere instead of drive, we can save billions!"
yeah what we have in canada right now was needed worldwide 31 years ago
it might be better than nothing, if it doesn't mitigate climate change to the degree it needs to then it is not, in fact, better than nothing.
needs to be clearer that of the insane rise in oil prices the carbon tax only contributed 8.8cents to it and everyone on minimum wage that are forced to walk or bus to work get to keep all of their tax rebate
the most glaring exception being all imports. a carbon tax on canadian industry and consumers just means dirty manufacturing will be moved to other countries. we need a carbon border adjustment to level the paying field between domestic and foreign industry.
yes and this new tax is going to put 60 cents on a liter of gas and similar rises for everything else. a giant inflationary bubble period is  not the time for this.
yep. china is just laughing at this proposal. they would gladly let us move more of our manufacturing there so they can control it and steal all the ip and make it with the worst possible and most polluting methods, ideally with slaves. they will get rich, our politicians will also get rich and will stay in power, and regular canadians will get poor. all the while the environment is actually much worse off. it's the canadian way.
china [has]( a carbon price.

holy shit. this guy legit says police are scared to work because they can't remain professional.. like cell phone cameras interfere with their work.. just goes to show the ignorance of police in general if after nearly 2 decades this is still an issue while they're on the clock. good to see they still have no self awareness, the officer literally forgot about the security cameras at a gas station and made things up.
if your scared to be recorded while being a police office then you shouldn't be a police officer or even a mall cop. really huge red flags there.

auto-generated, non-mobile link: 
*i am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/canadapolitics) if you have any questions or concerns.*
major law firms telling businesses to use opaque laws to put money in tax havens.
liberals hire those people to run their election campaigns heguardian.com/news/2017/nov/05/justin-trudeau-adviser-stephen-bronfman-offshore-paradise-papers


reading "the afghanistan papers", which is based on the us defense department internal review of the war, is highly illuminating. the execution of the war was farcical at times. the us had actually basically won way back in 2001 but rumsfeld threw it away by misunderstanding the taliban's relationship with al qaeda combined with a bit of arrogant short sightedness (we're winning, why should we negotiate?). this might rank as one of the costliest decisions in modern history.
that said, the us basically did nothing with the results of the study and kicked the can down the road to a future president.
absolutely, canada should also look at its role in the way, the conduct of war operations, and results. coming from a background of frequent retrospection, it's actually kind of shocking that such a study isn't automatically launched at the end of any conflict.
just look for a summary of the afghanistan papers, if you think the war was about any sort of moral cause after then i don’t think anything will convince you otherwise.
no plan, no goals, no understanding of the situation, just throwing money around. funding warlords that the taliban had previously overthrown, indiscriminately murdering anyone accused of being part of the taliban, torture causing mass radicalization (understandably, just look up the treatment of people at abu ghraib), and oh right the essential funding of a poppy trade while millions of dollars were siphoned off by the absolute terrible people trusted to be in charge.
if we approach every conflict as us good then evil then we are going to fail every single time. any conflict or tension now if you are approaching it as they are evil then please take a step back and try to look into how those countries actually run. compare, contrast, don’t just take whatever the latest fearmongerjng story is.
for a recent example, look at what is happening in the solomon islands now, the us is punishing a nation for not siding with them on taiwan, a position that what is the best case scenario? a nuclear apocalypse? this whole system is completely farcical, i truly believe that it is just running itself at this point through the needs of markets, if we stop we collapse, so we won’t until it kills us or some miracle happens that makes us relook what we’ve built and been complicit in.
followers of steve saideman will not he's been calling for something like this for quite a while.
one of the fundamental issues is we treated the strategic element's of the conflict as the american's responsibility and above our paygrade. and the americans had no viable strategy, largely because their attention was elsewhere.
on an extremely personal note, i've lost friends to that war, i'd like to know why. because it seems like they were asked to give their lives for some extremely bullshit reason. so i'd like to know what made it worth it or who to hold accountable.
no.
we spent far too much time, far too many resources, far too much money, and far too many lives on fighting a popular, broad-based insurrection. there are already plenty of good studies on the hopelessness of fighting a popular, broad-based insurrection, absolutely no need to waste time and money on creating another one. 
we lost, period. that's all anybody really needs to know. better to spend our time and resources on studying why not to join in the next boondoggle, than to make a side industry about studying why we got into the last one.
you don't think we already did that? right down to people getting upset that canadian soldiers turned captured taliban over to the americans or the afghanis instead of... i dunno, bringing them back to canada and giving them citizenship?
i would say that when it comes to the power brokers in america, winning was a secondary objective. the primary one was to justify military spending and keep those dollars flowing for the military industrial complex. to some, it no doubt seems too horrid to believe, but to rise to the very top of today's military and political ladder, i strongly suspect you need to have sociopathic tendencies.
it's not like in ww2 where winning the struggle was of utmost importance and we couldn't afford to have too many of those types in control. those types pretty much suck at doing everything except enriching themselves in some form or another. not to say those types didn't exist in ww2, but nothing says 'fire johnson!' like johnson getting a battalion decimated when that battalion was desperately needed to win a struggle where a loss would mean the people at home suffer materially. afghanistan was like vietnam, too far away and foreign for victory to truly matter.
when america started the iraq war, after getting nato involved in afghanistan, they betrayed everyone; their allies, their own soldiers, and the people of afghanistan. and now we'll continue to do the wrong thing by sanctioning the taliban who will simply pass that suffering on to the innocent civilians there. as canadians, we are 100% complicit in this and share in the responsibility. the more people realize this the better off we'll be. anyway, that's my depressing take on it.
>coming from a background of frequent retrospection, it's actually kind of shocking that such a study isn't automatically launched at the end of any conflict.
you seem to think that the people who prosecute imperialist wars have an interest in getting to the truth of what happened.  they do not.  truth is the enemy.
the goal is always to forget so that when you need a rationale for the next war, no one remembers the last one.
the american public have the attention span of goldfish, and that's very convenient.
>if we approach every conflict as us good then evil then we are going to fail every single time.
i don't know if you remember 9/11 and the aftermath but i do and it was insane. anti war sentiment for iraq might have been common in canada but not for afghanistan.
 in fact my perception is that almost until biden pulled out and things fell apart, while people were tired of it they still felt the conviction that it was the right thing then suddenly after the taliban sweep into power it's all "what a waste, never shoulda gone" etc.
i've been rankling my peers with the anti aghan invasion hot take for nearly 20 years and its weird to suddenly see them about face as if its obvious now.
> for a recent example, look at what is happening in the solomon islands now, the us is punishing a nation for not siding with them on taiwan, a position that what is the best case scenario? a nuclear apocalypse? this whole system is completely farcical, i truly believe that it is just running itself at this point through the needs of markets, if we stop we collapse, so we won’t until it kills us or some miracle happens that makes us relook what we’ve built and been complicit in.
can you explain? none of [the recent headlines]( regarding that country mention america. all i see is that there are anti-government protests and australia is sending support to the government.
taiwan being annexed by china would be a terrible outcome for the world; in one action china would have a virtual monopoly on chip production. yes, there are fabs elsewhere, but nothing matches tsmc in scale and capacity and quality. 
in a decade it will matter less, as tsmc is building factories elsewhere, but in the near term it's a serious threat to global security.
it's probably why china is pushing so hard. they know that the time is limited for that takeover to be valuable.
the us went in, so we had to go in for optics. the us had no reason to be there, so we, by extension, didn't really have a reason either.
except at least we were supporting an ally, i guess.
>there are already plenty of good studies on the hopelessness of fighting a popular, broad-based insurrection, absolutely no need to waste time and money on creating another one.
*mao zedong has joined the chat.*
>the american public have the attention span of goldfish, and that's very convenient.
given the number of people suggesting we go back into afghanistan, it seems that the canadian public have a similarly short memory.
ugh so much this, i just wanna say it sux when you're right like 20 years ealy and then suddenly a bunch of ppl do a sudden about face and you're just like fuck you all i've been saying that the whole time!
from what i can see the inciting incident was the china recognition over taiwan, of which over two years tensions have risen dramatically. 
>	these very countries that are now influencing malaita are the countries that don’t want ties with the people’s republic of china and they are discouraging solomon islands to enter into diplomatic relations” with beijing, sogavare said in an apparent reference to taiwan and the united states. “i don’t want to name names, we’ll leave it there, we know who they are.”
and i’m sure there is a nuance and the dynamic is more complex but how many times do we see countries that have gone against the will of the us and its allies (australia included) result in civil unrest and violence? we know that intelligence communities cultivate resistance and are not hesitant to steer things in their favour.
>	when the protests began on wednesday, narissa chang, a 28-year-old taiwanese teacher at an international school about a mile from chinatown, left work early, worried about violence. chang and her boyfriend placed taiwan’s flag inside their car to distinguish themselves from chinese nationals
this china taiwan issue has been ongoing for decades but the past few years the ramping up has been absolutely terrifying to see and the medias ability to distill a narrative to meet a political goal shouldn’t be understated.
then you have these open opinions, we are supposed to believe any of this? over the solomon islands?
what is missing from the story is the us backed hysteria being pushed in the solomon islands since the decision two years ago. 
>	in september 2019, republican senator marco rubio threatened to crash the solomons’ economy by cutting off access to global financial markets. this came just after a team of american foreign policy, trade, and military officials had visited malaita and the province’s premier, daniel suidani. the provincial leader subsequently declared that he did not accept the country’s recognition of beijing and would instead maintain an independent foreign policy with taiwan. he added that he had asked both the us and australia to contribute to “malaita security.”
do we seriously think it is justified to play this role when a country makes a decision? to have this much influence and to use it to such harmful effects? 
people can hate on this source all they like but i can’t shake the perspective that this is another country being horribly punished for not going along with us interests and making their own decisions. i fail to imagine that if a country switched from chinese recognition to taiwan a civil war would be agitated and stoked to install and support friendly leadership.
>	tensions have been escalating since suidani spent five months last year in taiwan undergoing brain surgery and receiving subsequent treatment. the malaitan premier promoted this medical treatment as evidence of taiwan’s political support for the solomons. while recuperating, suidani made time to speak with australia’s “sky news” sharri markson, who has prominently fuelled the wuhan lab conspiracy theory over the origins of covid-19. in between appearances on former donald trump advisor steve bannon’s podcast, markson falsely presented suidani as a heroic anti-corruption fighter for “democracy” in the south pacific.
sorry for the disjointed response on my phone, but i will not be surprised to learn if not in a few weeks or months, since these events are so blatantly transparent, that the drive and funding for this came through western linked channels. an organic civil war is one thing but i don’t think we have had one of those in a very long time with our current globally linked mass surveillance system overseen by historically the absolute most disgusting intelligence communities which continually operate without consequences despite being linked to horror after horror.
how are they pushing so hard?
if we were going for favorable optics with the usa we would have gone to iraq.
it seemed more at the time that the us wanted to go into iraq, a lot of allies didn't see a reason to support that but in the aftermath of 9/11 felt like they needed to act in solidarity and said they were going to go after the root of the problem in afghanistan. it was claimed to be the more justifiable and reasonable military action to take.

the market is a raging inferno, the people in the building are already dead, the fire department were paid by the arsonists to not show up, and the arsonists are already collecting the insurance payout. 
the housing market isn't at risk of getting out of control, it's been a runaway train for over a decade.
it's almost as if housing should not be treated as an investment to make a profit off of, and instead, be treated to house people. investors are the real cause of the problem, they are the ones causing an artificial scarcity.
investors aren't doing anything wrong. they are simply taking advantage of policies that the government have implemented that make housing an extremely attractive asset class - a risk free investment with a tremendous rate of return.
it's like the stock market. prices are driven up and down by greed and fear. right now there's too much greed and not enough fear. practically everyone in vancouver and toronto thinks real estate always goes up. (not in alberta or saskatchewan.)
in the stock market, finding an undervalued stock is extremely difficult: it's like finding a diamond in a field that's already been picked over by an army of highly trained experts. why do so many investors seem to think that real estate in vancouver and toronto is undervalued, and that they should borrow to the max to double down on real estate? future immigration? prices are forward-looking - they already incorporate known information about the future, including projected immigration levels.
because over the last couple of decades home prices have kept going up? "past performance is no guarantee of future results."
note that if you're a first-time homebuyer, this doesn't mean that you should count on a crash occurring in the near future. "markets can stay irrational longer than you can stay solvent." [the first-time homebuyer's dilemma](
there's a couple big problems this raises:
(1) housing insecurity. in vancouver, owning is basically out of reach for any first-time homebuyer with a normal salary - a $1.5 million half-duplex requires an annual household income of $335,000 to be affordable, on top of a $300,000 down payment. so that means renting. but renting a condo doesn't provide security: the owner can always sell to someone who wants to live in it.
rental buildings ("purpose-built rental") do provide security for renters. but people are willing to pay a lot more for condos than for rentals (roughly 50% more). that means that the price of land - what a builder is willing to pay, i.e. the selling price of the final product minus the construction cost - is based on condo projects, and rental projects can't afford to buy land at those prices. so we end up with lots of condos and not enough rentals.
the obvious solution is to provide incentives for building rentals so they're on a level playing field with condo projects. the federal government provides low-cost loans for rental projects, reducing the construction cost. in the city of vancouver, a rental project can rezone for higher density (six storeys for rentals instead of four storeys for condos), although the rezoning process is very slow (12-18 months) and somewhat uncertain. there's a [streamlining rental plan]( coming up for a vote on december 14. if local governments can't figure it out, the province will need to step in, as has been happening at the state level in california, oregon, and washington state.
(2) broader economic impact of a crash. if prices decline for a while and people's expectations reverse, we could see a sudden rush for the exits. a lot of investors would get burned. but what are the broader impacts of a crash, like the 2008 crash in the us?
some sources of trouble:
- bad loans. investors who borrowed heavily, counting on prices going up. homeowners who borrowed against their home equity. people who didn't qualify for a loan from the big banks (under the mortgage stress test) and borrowed at high rates from alternative lenders or private lenders.
- as prices come down, households with high levels of debt will cut back spending. see mian and sufi's "house of debt" for an excellent explanation based on zipcode-level data. this means that you see a drop in demand and a rise in unemployment. if the crash happens only in canada it might not be so bad (since we export a lot), but if there's another crash in the us at the same time it could be pretty bad.
- mortgage foreclosures were a big problem in the us crash, driving down house prices and putting more owners underwater, resulting in more foreclosures.
based on "house of debt," i think lenders are going to end up bearing part of the losses.
>should that happen, “the damage can spread far beyond investors.”
well i'm sure the government and boc will bail out the banks and investors and turn around to the younger generations and demand they pay for it.
the important question is what is the bank doing to course correct to avoid that outcome.
investing is impacting the housing market.  
but not as much as the 2 million missing homes.  
a recent scotiabank study puts canada well below the g7 average of housing per person.  measured out, we'd need 2million houses just to get to the g7 average.  
i would suggest that in a nation of ~38 million, missing 2 million homes could cause problems with pricing due to supply constraints.
i was close to a down payment in 2019  now i'm not close again and get to compete with mutli million dollar investment firms so me and my young kids can have a decent house and future. pardon my quebec but fucking stupid as hell i'm getting real demoralized at the deteoriating quality of life and my stagnant wage isn't going to get me anywhere! blah it's overwhelming sometimes.
[removed]
some of y’all have never talked to anyone who rents out a property and it shows… it’s more than just scalping a house.
landlords have to eat the cost of any repairs, vacancies, or bad tenants. 
pipe bursts and destroys the ceilings -> landlord pays
tenant can’t pay rent and then files for bankruptcy -> landlord takes the loss (other than first and last)
all that, plus the landlord has the risk that is attached to any investment/note. so for if for any reason they can’t pay the mortgage they’re screwed.
up more than all these other countries, canada is running an insane experiment, plus they have loads of land!
exactly. been this way for decades, been hearing the same crap all this time, and it never changes. maybe a blip here and there but the sky is the limit.
and i'll still never never ever be able to afford to own my own home.
[removed]
can we exclude basic necessities from all this greedy bull somehow. it doesn't seem right to play money games with housing to profit oneself. is there a way? :/ i hate it here because of things like this. my mom's been homeless. vancouver
it's almost as if we should tax the unimproved value of land.
i don't think investors cause scarcity. they typically buy housing and then rent it out. they don't usually let it sit empty.
this is like saying the price of beef is too high because people are treating it like food.
housing *is* an investment. there's no changing that fact. why shouldn't it be treated for what it is?
everyone who buys a house is making an investment. he's spending money up front in order to obtain a benefit in the future. that's the definition of an investment.
i know, it’s legal but is it right? residential land is finite but we all need it, comparable to air and water. treating it as any other speculation asset doesn’t reflect that special aspect.
of course they're doing something wrong. morality exists indelendent of sociopathic levels of self interest. if investors can turn away from fossil fuels because of climate change and others can decline to involve themselves with violent regimes we can say that yes they're wrong.
we should stop as a culture reinforcing the ides that legal methods of destroying shit is moral because they'll make bank. it might not stop the investors but it will affect the culture that informs what policies are seen as possible.
> child organ sellers aren't doing anything wrong, they are simply taking advantage of a lack of regulation in country xxx.
"it's just business"!

all social media comments should be turned off. you have no idea if those people are even from your city. if they have concerns about something, call or email your city hall.
cbc should also turn off their comments on their website, and take a page from the bbc. the comment section doesn’t promote conversation.
and nothing of value was lost. there are *never* any good or insightful comments on news stories. there's a reason the saying "never read the comments" is a thing. good for them for protecting their staff.
reading a reddit comment about ignoring social media comments, gets confused, tries to ignore these comments. ahhh
if you are going to turn comments off because you can't handle criticism, then the city should stop posting to social media entirely.  we don't need to hire people to post to facebook and twitter.  we don't need to advertise on the american social networks.  
cities should have a blog or news section on their website.  leave social media to the news companies.
[deleted]
>all social media comments should be turned off. you have no idea if those people are even from your city. if they have concerns about something, call or email your city hall.
the social media comments on our media posts are regularly flooded with american commenters.
even ignoring all the topical issues that would encourage this, such as q anon including elements of our politics in its theories, the difference in population scale really make it prevalent.
they should have done that over a decade ago. it was so painfully obvious that most of the comments came from overseas bot farms with their use of generic sounding names and stock photo avatars. most comments were some form of left wing hate regardless of the content of the news story.
at the very least, they should have seen it as suspicious when a story posted in the wee hours of the morning would instantly be flooded by comments from people like "irene pennington" from gaspé talking about how trudeau is murdering babies or something.
this isn't infringing freedom of speech. freedom of speech is where the government won't prosecute you for what you say. we don't even have that in canada but regardless, they don't have to give you a soapbox to stand on. go make your own facebook post if you feel the need to. or better yet go to a council meeting.
freedom of speech: threatening municipal staff. following then home. yep, all part of the plan.
perhaps you should move to alabama?
like the other person said, there is no freedom of speech in canada. you read too much us material. we have freedom of expression. however, we don't tolerate hate speech. there is a difference.
wait -- you're using cromwell as an example of why we need free speech? that's...a first for me. and in the same sentence as luther? amazing.
anyways, you'll have to explain to me how disabling fb comments meaningfully infringes on someones "free speech". you've probably been on the internet long enough to hear the bit about freedom of speech not obligating the other party to listen.
i mean, if you think shitty comments on a facebook post is meaningfully holding your government to account i can see where the confusion would come from.

the ppc at 11% scares the hell out of me. that so many people don't feel represented or addressed in the current political environment and are turning to such an extremist and reactionary outlet is going to cause big problems if things don't change first.
i'm grateful for the "federal vote by federal vote" tables. they were most illuminating
none of these parties inspire me to vote...
am i wrong in saying the quality of political leaders in canada is unsatisfactory?
we should disregard this poll especially of their....fiasco in 2021. as hard as it is to say, there's no way the greens, ppc and ndp will be up at the same time, and 26.6% is always too low for the conservatives.
let's add the variations from ekos's last poll before the election to the federal result in this new ekos poll.
the last ekos election poll was lpc 32.6 cpc 27.3 ndp 18.0 bloc 7.3 ppc 9.9 grn 3.9.
the 2021 election result was lpc 32.6 cpc 33.7 ndp 17.8 bloc 7.6 ppc 4.9 grn 2.3.
this is a variation of lpc 0.0 cpc -6.4 ndp 0.2 bloc -0.3 ppc 5.0 grn 1.6.
add this variation to this ekos poll, you will get cpc 33.0 lpc 30.4 ndp 18.9 ppc 6.4 bloc 6.2 grn 3.6.
[article from ekos research.](
> the field dates for the first survey are november 16-21, 2021. in total, a random sample of 1,006 canadians aged 18 and over responded to the survey. the margin of error associated with the total sample is +/- 3.1 percentage points, 19 times out of 20.
i wish ndp would take the greens in. greens are much the same, humanitarian but also green. they're more subtle in sourcing moneys instead of only tax tax tax, they want policy change. invest in alberta oil, then stop import export of oil. keeps money in canada. lots of things like that. ndp would be in the 25% easily. that momentum would gain them even more votes
ekos vastly overestimated ppc supporters prior to the election because of how they conduct their polls.
pretty sure they had them around that number just days prior to the election - they were far off lol.
i wouldn’t be too concerned until we see it from other pollsters.
it'll die out after the pandemic
it's a response to the growing inequality in the country with no indication change is coming.
i'd take the absolute numbers with a grain of salt, but the age breakdown for ppc is rather interesting:
16% of the 35-49 age group, 7% of the 50-64 age group, and 4% of the 65+ age group.
> the ppc at 11% scares the hell out of me. 
these people are out there. i rather have them in a party that is very unlikely to win than in a party that's going to win as soon as liberals have a bad campaign
extremist? lol
nearly 1 in 8 canadians prefer the ppc over any other party? wow.
ekos heavily overestimated the ppc last election, i wouldn't worry too much honestly.
well they were polling at 7-12% throughout the last election, and they got less than 5%. it’ll probably happen again. they poll high now, but their voters will ultimately vote cpc or stay home and what not.
they're far too spread out among rural communities. with any luck they will be recognized for the dangerous morons that they are and dissolved. they break election rules. they do not understand provincial or federal law. their ideals would put us in some weirdo authoritarian dark age that nobody wants. and the information they rely on comes from 4chan memes and qanon posts.
if we highlighted only the crazies out there of each party the way we highlighted the ppc crazies, i think we would find there’s an equal distribution of crazies across all parties. 
  crazy far lefts, crazy far rights, crazy centrists, they’re all over the map and i find the reporting is biased. election night on global they were telling straight up editorial garbage about ppc as if it was fact. 
   one guy threw some rocks, that was dumb! but by far not the thing that should guide an entire country with way bigger issues. 
  the platform itself is not at all extremist. i don’t find max to be any less competent than any other leader at current time. and he’s the most honest. but hey, maybe i’m an extremist so maybe i just don’t know any better.
luckily 11% doesn't equate to 11% of seats. they had similar support during the election and got no seats.

i honestly would put this down lower on the list below housing.
inflation scare is just a business lobby's way of depressing wages just was workers are finally getting raises.  also low inflation is a neo-liberal dogwhistle.
if you look at canada's historical inflation rates, the period of low inflation starting from the mid 1990s corresponds with wage stagnation, and the hallowing out of our economy as jobs are shipped overseas, real wage increases depressed,  and employers got disproportinate power over workers.
[
the current inflation post-covid-great resignation spike isn't even anywhere near what inflation was in the last half of the 1980s.  so tough luck business owners.
why are these meetings private? why can't all of the public hear what the best minds think about what the government is doing, and then hear the government's response / plans?
i just read on this article that the president of bmo proposed lowering government spending but government spending plays a huge role in gdp. also government expenditure has always been a method to combat inflation.
i suppose the economists’ “reduce spending” mantra is really just dog-whistling about crb spending or future crb spending, too out of touch to realize the economy would have absolutely tanked during covid if poor people hadn’t had spent that money. i thought these people were supposed to be smart but their critical thinking faculties are confined to a tunnel.
she probably met with them to give them an update on the new covid variant. they need to get ahead of the plebs and get their money out of the markets before they crash completely.
i would have liked to see what are these spending the federal government is engaged in that drive up so much the inflation. ultimately is the american perceived reckless budget that is considered inflationary.
as for canadian feds, i do not see in my day to day life any financial contribution, other than the ucb. i don't see road signs telling that the road was modernized due to federal contribution, or anything similar.
so where all these funds go, that drive inflation way up, with soo much money chasing limited goods...?
she will do what she is told, as is the justin trudeau way, and continue to cut cheques to strategic voting interests, and buy their way back to power, and screw over the others.
it’s a good bet to assume the opposite of what economists say. if they knew what they were doing with some consensus then we wouldn’t experience such unexplainable crashes every 7-8 years. 
like a popular historian, sociologist, or whatever other academic it is likely that there status is through deference to those who are in power.
look for voices that don’t get platformed for a better view of our mess of a global political system. a good example mag be michael hudson, who does an excellent job outlining why and how debt works within our systems to keep it running.
does anyone really believe changing interests rates and imposing austerity is going to help? how hard would it be to find other economists who disagree on their own sound reasoning that don’t have the same level of political influence?
dude inflation is terrible for workers, the cost of living goes up and wages don't keep up... or at least lag behind cost of living significantly.  not to mention how much cash work workers do, all that mattress money doesn't buy what it did.
i get you adhere to an ideology but not everything is "the man" keeping workers down.
i agree with you that the housing bubble is a bigger problem, but i don't agree that inflation is a problem restricted to business owners. inflation costs us all money, and creates more uncertainty in our lives.
setting aside the normal basket of goods, let me use an example from the construction industry. when a construction company is bidding a multi-year project, like a hospital or airport, they need to account for material and labout escalation over the multiple years of the job. companies used to be able to assume 3% a year and that was safe. now, construction companies need to assume 6-8% per year. at 3%, materials cost 12.5% more in year 4 than they did in year 1. at 8%, they cost 36% more in year 4. on a large government construction project, that can be hundreds of millions of dollars more in taxpayer money.
the problem with high inflation is that it obliterates the value of saving, and necessitates perpetual work. it's simply not feasible to save for an early retirement when you're losing more than a modest investment strategy would gain, on the outset. perversely, this also hits businesses, who cannot easily borrow to hire or even hold cash reserves when it loses value so fast.
the reason pet curbed inflation in the seventies was because of the severe impact it had on savings and unemployment.
> also low inflation is a neo-liberal dogwhistle.
??? what's this even mean. what's the dog-whistle *exactly*? like, please be precise.
> if you look at canada's historical inflation rates
[this graph]( really shows it off.
[removed]
inflation and fiscal policies was one of the reasons why cryptocurrency took off initially, ignoring it as a speculative vehicle.
you can't honestly say that inflation isn't a concern for anyone when my friends complained about food products increasing in price by 25% from one year to this year.
don't agree with this take on inflation.  you absolutely need to balance inflation and wage growth, and currently it's higher than any wage growth being triggered by the great resignation. real inflation is definitely higher than the fed's reports are saying it is.   this is a real terms pay cut for the vast majority of canadians.
if you keep just artificially upping wages to match inflation and keep interest rates low, you can end up with a wage-price spiral that speeds up inflation to extremely dangerous levels that can cripple your economy.  the very first thing you get with a high level of inflation is the total destruction of normal people's savings, that would be a disaster and you can say goodbye to any social mobility if it happens.
low growth plus high inflation due to supply shocks plus labour asking for and expecting more is what happened in the 70s isn’t it?
isn’t that the definition of stagflation?
housing is a critical issue, but inflation is a more immediate issue that affects people now, and can cause both hardship and worry/panic.
also keep in mind that this was raised by *private sector* economists in their meeting with freeland.  so of course those issues are their concern, and would want to raise it with the government.
personally i think the inflation issue is mostly overblown, but of course i have the luxury of not living paycheque to paycheque.
that's quite the paradox you have there. the housing market is the most affected by inflation right now.

my take on the next ontario election is essentially that the olp and ondp will trade places and ford glides to a strong minority or slim majority.
ontario just seems to vibe a lot more with the olp than the ondp. not to mention after 3 losses (and counting) horwath just has the appeal of stale white bread at this point it would seem.
people look at what the ontario pc party has been doing for the last 3 years and think "i want more of this"?
madness.
huh, crazy high number for "other", which ekos notes is mostly from respondents who said they'd vote for the ppc federally:
> finally, it is worth noting the surprising number of number of respondents who opted for an “other” option. normally, we would not discuss the other category, as it is usually more of a noise category rather than a reflection of respondents who intend to vote for a lesser-known party or an independent. however, 11 per cent of ontarians told us they intend to vote outside the four main party choices and a clear majority of these respondents support the people’s party at the federal level. these findings ought to be a source of concern for doug ford, as they suggest the people’s party could be a major rallying point for disillusioned progressive conservatives next june should they run provincially.
has there been much talk about them running provincially?
only one other poll since the last election has had "other" higher than 5%, and it was only 6%.
[article from ekos research](
> the field dates for the second survey are november 16-25, 2021. in total, a random sample of 569 ontario residents aged 18 and over responded to the survey. the margin of error associated with the total sample is +/- 4.1 percentage points, 19 times out of 20.
this is a okay poll for opc, olp and ogp. this is a very bad poll for ondp. olp is clearly looking like the abc party again and the abc effect hasn't been even seen yet. 
obviously the sample size is low and there's still time, but this is a good poll to confirm some of leger's general findings
since ekos has a tendency to give an extra 5% to the ppc (or in this case “other parties”) i’d probably put the true pc number at something around 36%.
in this very unscientific and wrong method, let's add the variations from ekos's last poll before the election to the federal result in this ontario poll.
the last ekos poll was lpc 32.6 cpc 27.3 ndp 18.0 bloc 7.3 ppc 9.9 grn 3.9.
the 2021 election result was lpc 32.6 cpc 33.7 ndp 17.8 bloc 7.6 ppc 4.9 grn 2.3.
this is a variation of lpc 0.0 cpc -6.4 ndp 0.2 bloc -0.3 ppc 5.0 grn 1.6.
add this variation to the ekos ontario poll, you will get pc 39.2 lib 28.3 ndp 22.9 oth 5.5 grn 3.6.
i'm not sure if it's entirely horwath's fault. i'll certainly admit the ondp could have a better leader (personally id like if they'd steal mathew green) but ontario is also weird about the ndp provincially in general. this is just anecdotal, so it's maybe not a representation of the whole population, but both my boomer parents have told me they like the ondp's policies but they can't get over the spectre of bob rae to vote for them, and several of my friends tells me their parents are the same way.
so i'm not sure if a new leader can save them. maybe more time? you'd think 30 years would be long enough to get over it but apparently not.
people don't know who del duca is at the moment. when the election kicks into high gear, they may or may not like what they see.
it's majority or bust for ford. either party propping up ford at this point would be political suicide haha.
the ondp does this thing where their supporters seem to think they're entitled to votes. like they have this attitude that horwath is amazing, and so are their policies, and it's the voters who are wrong. which is a great way to feel righteous about your cause, but a shitty way to win elections.
the 2018 was the most winnable election in recent memory for the ondp. they blew it. now it'll be back to third place, and all the ondp supporters will blame rae days and the ontario voter for their loss (instead of their poor leader, bad candidates, bad policies, and sucky campaigning)
ford has zero path to a governing minority.
>ontario just seems to vibe a lot more with the olp than the ondp. not to mention after 3 losses (and counting) horwath just has the appeal of stale white bread at this point it would seem.
most voters in ontario understand that the ndp is a joke party and not to be taken seriously.
if ontario re-elects ford the ontarians on this sub have literally no right to make any jokes at alberta’s expense. 
at least albertans seem to be coming to their senses while ford remains a big favourite to win.
it says more about the other parties than it does about the voters.
they’ve (ppc)officially launched a provincial wing of the party thats now going by the ontario first party and randy hillier is a front runner for them.  there’s also the new blue party run the by the karahalios family who seem to have some far right buzz online.
i’m skeptical since it’s ekos - they’ve demonstrated that they tend to largely overestimate ppc support. i know this is a provincial poll, but there must be some overlap in some way.
i can see the ppc getting a few supporters in a survey like this (again, despite it being provincial), but not that high imo.
if they do run provincially i wonder if we’ll see a return of tanya “anal sex in the classroom” granic allen?
she was a hoot!
honestly i hope they do have an ontario party because there’s no way they win here and they split opc votes. liberals and ndp now have a better chance.

this white bread french canadian catholic guy wholeheartedly agrees. they could have also added sanctimonious and self serving, but i think that was implied in the article.
i can't help but feel that his authoritarianism will wear thin pretty quickly as issues other than covid start to dominate the headlines. that may be after the next election. his authoritarianism is actually a boon during covid as it allows himto make decisions quickly and get ahead of the game in containing outbreaks, while allowing him to backtrack confidently when he see's he's made a mistake. this goes down less well in matters of language, race, and identify.
[removed]
as if he was even close to doing a good job on handling the pandemic? it was a catastrophe.
removed for rule 2.
the first wave was bad in the old folks homes, but he was barely in power a year when that happened.  that one's on the liberals.
was? we're over a thousand new cases daily.

it is pretty obvious you have no idea about “big dairy”. sure let us destroy the current supply management dairy industry in canada and replace it with a large american or international corporation (oh yeah! free markets are the answer).  ignorance is bliss, especially for those who have never step on a dairy farm.
the cult surrounding canadian dairy is such a testament to how canadians just lie down and accept monopolistic/oligopoly competition, whether it be telecom or groceries.  why shouldn't i be able to purchase a piece of land and a couple of dairy cows, and start producing milk, sell it at the price i want to whom i want?  why do we accept price fixing with such national pride?  it's nuts.
and to head off the usual excuses:
1. price does not determine quality, regulatory standards can still be kept on the quality of the dairy sold.
2. dairy import tarriffs are astronomically high making any foreign entrant to the market pay a cost so high its functionally not worth it, and quality can still be maintained by setting standards for imported dairy.
all supply management gives us is an entire industry ripping of canadians while we cheer it on. absurd.
let the farmers decide where best to sell their products. 
if they wish to sell to the marketing board, so be it. if they wish to sell directly to their consumers and customers - then that too is fine.
the two main dairy processors in canada are international corporations.
saputo has operations in australia, the us, argentina, and the uk, and is listed as being one of the top 10 dairy processors in the world.
ditto agropur; also a massive multinational with big operations overseas.
why is american/international milk inherently worse? it’s not like it wouldn’t be subject to the same inspections/quality control as canadian farms. your post feels like an appeal to nationalism without any real substance to it.
really? that's the best we can come up with? that eliminating supply mgmt will turn everything "american"? eliminating supply mgmt doesnt mean we have to embrace a regulation free for all.
there might be some negative impacts for canadians, but let's try and be specific and grounded.
you used to be able to do just that - be completely free to choose to have dairy cattle on your family farm and sell your milk and cream. in the 1970s there were about 145,000 dairy producers/ farmers  in canada.  now there about 11,000  .
it’s not ‘family farms’ , it’s a large scale agribusiness , a sanctioned swindle  that targets the poor people  the most.  average net worth if dairy farmers ?  $5 million dollars. net.
in the 60s and 70s producers used their superior negotiating position to drive down prices paid to farmers, even refusing deliveries of goods and forcing farmers to compete for the right to even sell their product to the producer.  due to the low prices farmers would overproduce their product in an attempt to sell more of it but any farmer unwilling to sell for the same price as their most desperate neighbor just ended up dumping their product without finding a buyer.  supply management was introduced to give price stability to farmers by giving them a negotiating position equal to the producers that package their product for commercial sale, to prevent farmers from overproducing product that would just be destroyed, and to prevent farmers from becoming dependent on government subsidies to break even.  without first breaking up the oligopoly of the producers and negating their negotiating position, eliminating supply management would just lead to farmers overproducing product, dumping it, and relying on government handouts to break even just like in other countries.
supply management has ensured that our industry doesn't have a boom and bust cycle, which means consumers know what they'll be paying, and the industry can ensure they meet demand.
there is a difference between processing and the farm. without supply management saputo would completely shrink any margins dairy farms have and screw over the industry. look at the pork industry decade or so ago.
actually american milk it is not the same as canadian milk. 
it would be nice if the usa had to meet or exceed canada's canadian quality milk (cqm) and proaction standards. the former was 'stage 1' where haccp-like protocols became mandatory on all farms in canada. the latter is 'stage 2' which rolled cqm into a more comprehensive food safety, animal welfare, traceability (dairytrace), and environmental program. though some states might have standards that exceed federal standards (e.g. several states lowered grade a somatic cell count from 750k to 400k-600k) there is no equivalent to proaction.
supply management is essentially a farmer cooperative. cows can’t be bought off a shelf while the  flooded farms in bc, may never come back. the amount of infrastructure and overhead required to dairy farm is very high and with out a certain amount of return to investment it will not happen. why is american or international milk, necessarily worse? because we are exporting jobs, with little or no benefit?  those jobs help the rural economy.  we bend over backwards to keep o&g jobs, not taxing,  while spending billions on pipelines and cleaning up wells?
same people braying their ignorance about this, are the same lunatics that were absolutely certain that killing the grain board monopoly would destroy all of canada.
i have family who work in dairy, and i'd just like to add that the folks who do the labour are hella underpaid and overworked as well.
yup and we complain but look at what happened pork industry without controlled pricing from producers. no system is without issue and no matter what we will complain.
can you quote a neutral source, instead of the dairy cartel?
if american milk is not the same as canadian milk then surely canadian consumers would choose to buy a higher quality product ie the canadian product.
your argument seems to be, "we have better dairy and dairy products, but also if consumers aren't forced to buy our products and we weren't protected by the government the consumer would reject our products." 
i get the argument that the dairy cartel keeps jobs in canada, but we can probably cut the bullshit that canadian milk is somehow better than american.
that’s all you’ve got? a non-harmful additive that we could choose not to allow? if we want to say no rbst in milk consumed by canadians, i have no doubt there are american dairies that will meet our standards in order to gain access to the canadian market.


haha, while the world worries about inflation and the us negotiates with opec nations the release of oil reserves from their strategic reserves to control energy inflation. canada similarity does it’s part by releasing inventory from its strategic reserve of maple syrup.


i have mixed feelings on this. while i believe foi is important, i think there are measures that should be considered to prevent frivolous foi requests that do nothing more then over-burden the government and taxpayer.
according to this article:  
foi requests have increased 40% over the last two years to approximately 10k a year. the average request costs 3k putting a bill to taxpayers at 30mil. 
i'm not necessarily arguing if this amount is "too" expensive or not, but i think some people or organizations could abuse a free (to them) system. 
perhaps we should allow a certain amount of free requests per year per individual, and then require a small fee over that number to discourage frivolous requests that become quite expensive for the taxpayer to fill.


nice headline - the article briefing touches on the fact that the letters being public naturally has them undergo more scrutiny, before settling on the conclusion that the letters taking a long time is a completely irrelevant thing to write about. this is because the bureaucracy that can assume the direction given to it by a minister will be based on the mandate letter, the contents of which are a simple amalgamation of the department's current priorities and the government's election platform. so the machinery of government can function just fine for quite a while in the absence of mandate letters.
okay, makes sense; i don't know why this got written about and published though. might as well say "federal public service continues to function; also, senior bureaucrats and pmo continue to wordsmith 37 mandate letters (that are just a paraphrasing of the lpc platform/ongoing projects) for public consumption (for some reason)".
the fact that these so-called "mandate letters" are public makes them almost entirely useless.  they are full of the same feel-good pablum that exists in all political materials for public consumption, such as campaign platforms.  not that the public pays any attention to them whatsoever, for exactly that reason.  the media pays them a little attention, but they have content to produce to get clicks on ads.
lots of people gumbling about slow return to parliament and unveiling of new parliamentary agenda. this is a rational explanation for it. if it means the government has its ducks in a row, it will be worth it.

pushed up in part by the countries largest mass shooting, which the rcmp haven’t been transparent on. cool just a sensationalist headline, nothing to see here
to put that into context, it means canada moves up to 102/167 (from 105/167).
among the g20, the following countries have lower murder rates per capita: australia, china (unless you're a uighur, tennis star, democracy activist, i guess), france, germany, indonesia (really?), italy, japan, south korea, saudi arabia, united kingdom.
tied at 167 with a murder rate of 0.00 per 100,000 are liechtenstein, san marino, monaco and andorra. and, i suppose, antarctica...
yup, exactly. sensationalist headline that contradicts the steadily lowering homicide trend.
not only that, but using a mass shooting - that was a result of the rcmp not doing their job - to crack down on target shooters is just painfully deceptive.
it's ok for canadians to not understand just how good our gun control laws were pre 2020, but it's embarrassing for the current government not to understand that.
china and saudi arabia definitely don't have trustworthy numbers. they're strict as hell so they might have a lower murder rate, but i think it's more likely that they're simply not counting deaths of "undesirables" as murders. 
indonesia, i'm not sure. it seems like they just have a low murder rate, although i'm sure many crimes go unreported as it's a big country made up of a lot of little islands with fairly widespread poverty in many regions. i doubt the government has a truly accurate picture of what's going on in many places.
see the problem with antarctica, the scientist just locks themselves out and freeze. it's always just an accident or blamed on the penguins.
i work in a gun enforcement unit for the police a major canadian city... our gun control laws are horrendous and the regulatory stuff isn't enforced at all.
yeah, they conveniently exclude murders committed by penguins to juke the stats.
after seeing the below photo, i blame the penguin's
lemme clarify that some... the extensive background checking required to get a pal, plus the daily automated criminal records checks are great.
the enforcement of hot guns coming across the border to people without pals is not so great.
same as it ever was.
nooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

it is a bit early to mark the new german coalition as a "success" although i must say that coalitions in germany are much more the norm than the exception.
well our politicians would have to start actually working together to accomplish something other than optics points and one-liners in the hoc or social media etc.
seems a little optimistic seeing that this government hasn't done anything yet. in particular, the centre left spd chancellor and greens  are  an awkward fit with the neo-conservative, free market worshipping  fdp. this was done to shut out the far right afd and the  left party.
i would say that the ndp, liberals, and bq worked pretty well together, sometimes even with tory contributions, during the pandemic. wouldn't you agree?
kind of, but the liberals and ndp are far less related than greens and spd, since at least the latter two want climate action while the liberals and ndp are fighting over canada's oil fetish.
edit: tho to be fair germany's greens have a stupid issue around nuclear and wanting coal industries, they seem at least more invested in resolving climate change.
sure i think they worked 'pretty well' together. however, there is always so much partisan bullshit i really wish the parties would act more out of the interest of their voters than their party, but that's business baby... i just think the current political climate is a bit too petty, for lack of a better word, for any true progress to be made in a minority government. 
did we not just have an election predicated on the pm's inability to work with the hoc?
greens are for renewables, so are against nuclear and coal. that's why renewables have gone from 6% to 33% and will go to 80% byy 2050. to 2/3 od germany's energy production in the last 30 years [
also, the loose cannon here is the fdp. they are a neo-conservative, libertarian, free-market party and pretty hard right ojn economic issues. we'll see how long this lasts.
from where i'm sitting, the minority government of justin trudeau was able to pass, with the help of the opposition parties, unprecedented amounts of spending and secure vaccines for canadians. i would say the minority functioned rather well.
while i do agree that the current political environment is a bit too petty, i don't think that the current election we just had will impede 'progress' on certain files. the bq has already said it will work with the liberals whenever something is to the benefit of quebecers and the ndp also said it would take a bill-by-bill approach. we'll probably get a ban on conversion therapy in this parliament, as well as a new version of c-10 as well, not to mention we might also see changes to ei.
i would say that things are progressing, perhaps not at the speed a social democrat would want, but certainly a bit faster than partisans of my party would want.
edit: also forgot to mention that work on universal child care continues
yeah i dont really disagree with any of that. i just have low confidence in our systems representatives right now.

[removed]
we are currently about to see if massive deficit spending really does result in serious economic hardships. the "if you print/borrow money and give it away people wont want to work and you will get inflation' crowd are def starting to appear as though they may have had a point. up until this year it really seemed like they were all worked up about nothing, but now i'm not so sure.
rule 2
did you even read the article?
inflation is going up even in countries that didn’t do that.
would you look at that.
who would have thought that in an era of lean supply chains, low interest rates and a supply shock that their would be inflation. 😂
you do know that inflation can have multiple causes, right?
i know, right?
no, wait. fuck turdo!!!!  did i do that right?

while i genuinely support gender parity in many areas, this is extremely self-defeating and limiting.  if only because let's suppose a male candidate who has been a pillar in a community who has championed the advancement of women and minorities is now disqualified? this is literally fuelling support for the second-most popular candidate/party.  this is a case of not reading the room. voters are going to wonder, "is the liberal party pushing the best candidate or the best female candidate?" and because of that, they'll lose votes across ontario, which may bleed into loss of support at the federal level.  with the trudeau government having a minority government, this is a terrible move, and won't achieve long-term political goals.  
i'm okay with gender-parity cabinets, and filling leadership roles with more women, but this is going to blow up in the liberals faces.  on the upside, the ndp may end up as opposition or a minority government.
labour does this in the uk. labour also hasn't won an election in over a decade. 
i'm not saying this is the cause, but when you're fighting from a losing position, you don't want to shoot yourself in the foot by potentially disqualifying your best candidates.
also, are these safe seats? they mostly look like it but i'm not an expert. designating difficult seats for women candidates would be a way of appearing to support gender parity but not actually. 
anyway, let's see how this turns out for them.
remember when maryam monsef was paraded around just after the 2015 election only because she was a woman of colour. and over time she proved her incompetence as a minister and ultimately lost the 2021 election. i do.
first of all, this sounds like a terrible idea. second, i wonder how they would handle trans women, genderfluid people, etc. massive minority in politics for sure but still something to think about.
edit: i wonder if male candidates could bring this to court on grounds of gender based discrimination?
lookin through these seats...and they are generally not safe seats. about 14 of them are not safe or even gettable based off the history of the seats (quickly looking up), 8 are safe or gettable considering the collapse of the last election. a couple are strange former safe seats such as guelph which was a traditional safe liberal seat is now  mike schneir's seat (green party leader) and i don't see him loosing that anytime soon. and the last candidate they put out in guelph who was a woman...was extremally weak as a public speaker and at retail politics despite her credentials. and then there is etobicoke north was also a traditional liberal seat but is now doug ford's seat...  
essex, windsor west, toronto-danforth have elected ndp for the past decade...so i don't see how these would be gettable  
kitchener-conestoga is pc stronghold held by michael harris (not that one), and now mike harris jr. (son of that one), and thornhill has been held by pc since created in 1999 except for four years (2003-07).   
this is setting these candidates up to fail for the most part.
why not pick the best candidates to run for the riding. this is probably the reason the progressive conservatives in ontario are the favorite to win. the ontario liberals obsession with playing identity politics. like honestly plus the fact that the leader of the ontario liberals was part of kathleen wynne government and all the scandals that she had
i worked on two different nominations that were cut short because the party declared at a later point in the race that it would be women-only. it's an absolutely brutal way for a campaign to end, both for a contestant and for the few volunteers likely trying to break into political staffing for the first time.
but appointments and other restrictions have always been an unfortunate fact-of-life with party nominations, no matter the party. you can't get bitter over it if you want to have a career long-term. you maintain a good relationship with the decision-makers in your party, and you move on to the next campaign and the next campaign after that, until you finally win a general and can go to queens park / parliament hill / [insert local equivalent here].
most of those seats are either safe or unwinnable. how progressive of them to encourage minority representation in ridings where their performance won't suffer.
i think what it'll actually do is just lead to more nominee candidates running in neighbouring ridings.
while i get the comparison to the uk labour party, their issues run far far deeper than the quality of candidates they run.
as for whether these are safe seats, some are, others are seats they may never win from the looks of it.
i feel the "a list" (as it's called) is much more prevalent in the uk than here where candidates (if they're not notables/celebrities, e.g. bill blair) actually have to be from the riding/area (or at least in proximity or having grown up in it). i feel in the uk, there's a lot of mps who's first trip to the area they represent was during the campaign.
> remember when maryam monsef was paraded around just after the 2015 election only because she was a woman of colour. and over time she proved her incompetence as a minister and ultimately lost the 2021 election. i do.
our government has been massively incompetent for a *long* time and it has usually been led by white men. i don't think it's new that race has played a role in attaining power or that we wind up with incompetent leaders because of it.
it isn't like there's a big bucket of "competent" candidates and a separate bucket of "women and minority" candidates.
it's just that it's hard to know who will be a good politician until *after* we give them a chance.
**we still should seek to give more women a chance...there's no shortage of competent women.**
remember how for centuries only men (and white men at that) held power and directed the world and gave rise to the horrors and nightmares of the recent past?
i do.
the charter explicitly says that affirmative action is permitted
mike of the gpo is very popular in guelph. he’s going to win. the liberal candidate for guelph is a relative unknown. 
the gpo might be able to win kitchener centre if they have a good candidate.
there are plenty of high quality women candidates to choose from too. simply declaring a riding nomination to be “for women only” does not necessarily mean the best candidate won’t be chosen.
it’s just like the stupid arguments about a gender equal cabinet. the talent pool is very deep, there doesn’t have to be a lack of quality in choosing women at all.
and if i were you i’d check the recent polls that have come out. ford is barely ahead, the liberals stand a real chance of either pulling out a surprise government or gaining a large amount of new seats.
i agree, although those decisions, while brutal, don’t always just hinge on the identity group of a failed candidate. in this case, one has the feeling that it’s unnecessarily restrictive.
labour’s fundamental issue is that low education and low ses voters have shifted to the conservatives. meanwhile the reverse is happening for highly educated and high ses voters. 
this is something that’s occurring across the western world. 
but it’s important to think of the mechanism of how this actually happens. basically highly educated young people run the party and there’s now enough of them that they can implement their social policy preferences. in many cases these are orthogonal to the preferences of lower ses voters, who get turned off and leave the party. i’d argue all women shortlists is a symptom of this effect. so it’s not why labour is in trouble, but it reflects why they are.
> seats they may never win 
those are also safe

interesting idea, maybe it will catch on.  there's lots of land for sale in the rural areas of the east, if there's interest in buying it.
i'm curious if this is going to be treated like reserve land or if it's simply property rights.  did anything change about the parcel of land other than  ownership?
i'd guess just property rights. i grew up near a small rez in ontario that purchased some adjacent farms. while they'd like to add it to the rez, that requires all 3 levels of government to agree.
around stand off?
not sure what you're referring to, but it's ne of toronto. they bought the land with their casino profits. the rumour is that they want to build a hotel, but don't want to deal with the township.
heh - sorry. 
there is a farming community that abuts a reserve in southern alberta. the name of the town on the reserve is stand off. 
the reserve is heavy into cattle and ranching, so i had wondered if it was the same place.
oh, gotcha. no, they aren't even farming this land. just letting it grow up in buckthorn and trembling aspen.



the fact that we are getting boosters while other countries (that we could be donating our vaccines to) can’t even get a single dose is just idiotic. even if you don’t give a shit about people in other countries at all and are looking at it strictly from a selfish point of view, having highly unvaccinated places is just creating new variants thus diluting the usefulness of the vaccines here. just short-sightedness to the extreme.
giving boosters to canadians while there are so many poor countries with low access to vaccines is dubious. aside from the immunocompromised, i haven't seen hard evidence that vaccine protection wanes enough to justify boosters. 
the entire reason we're seeing dangerous variants emerge is because places with low vaccination rates are spawning grounds for the virus. the more it spreads, the more opportunity for mutation. the quickest way out is to get the entire world vaccinated asap.
and it's just weird to link the discussion of boosters to the variants. public health officials are concerned because of the possibility that the omicron variant is vaccine resistant. if that's the case, boosters would be useless.
> new data from public health ontario shows just nine fully vaccinated people under the age of 60 have been admitted to icu since the vaccine rollout began.   
> researchers at the institute for clinical evaluative sciences (ices) in toronto also found most fully vaccinated people in ontario were still highly protected against both infection and severe covid-19 eight months after their second dose.  
> ices's vaccine estimates showed that while protection against symptoms dropped to just over 80 per cent — and to more than 70 per cent when including asymptomatic infections — prevention of hospitalizations remained high at more than 90 per cent.   
still 70%-80% effective 8 months in, pretty good.  i think the under 60 crowd (excluding hospital/nursing home workers) will end up on a 12 month booster schedule if they need one at all.
boosters are impractical as new variants arise. i have been banned on other subreddits for stating the obvious - in order to control transmission we need to institute free/cheap rapid antigen tests. afaik, these tests which identify n-protein should still be viable bc most of the mutations in omicron are in the s-protein, but manufacturers can keep a close eye and change up these tests as needed. it makes a lot more sense to give people immediate access to information than a costly booster program a few times a year. if people had the ability to self test 2-3x/wk and isolate if positive, we could finally shut down transmission, and get back to some degree of normalcy.
my cousin in the uk has just gotten his booster. i see no reason why we shouldn't make this available, especially to canadians with compromised immune systems or other background illnesses, and older canadians.
so depending on the vaccine, sending it to some countries wouldn't help at all. some just don't have the infrastructure to handle the cryogenics. 
in other countries, the low vaxx rate is also tied to vaccine hesitancy of the population.
so if you think that's gross behavior, canada is one of only a few countries that have said they're against making the formula/production methods for making covid vaccine available to all nations. even the united states said it was down with it...
i wrote my mp about it 6 months ago. no response. the vast majority of canadians have not yet realized that if you forget our past reputation and judge us based on the actions of our government over the last 20 years, that we're a total piece of shit. perhaps even more gross because we claim to be so nice, yet our actions say the exact opposite. i am very angry about it. i want to be proud of our country, but i am not.
it is important to recognize that those low vaccination rates are not entirely a supply issue. vaccine hesitancy is not uniquely a western world issue.
[removed]
but people won’t self test, widespread involuntary vaccination is increasingly the answer, either get vaccinated or you can’t leave your house … we will get there, despite anti-vaxxers …
testing is a reactive measure, vaccination is proactive.
that is already being done, with no real objections. the debate here is about whether or not we should open up booster shots to the general population now.
this is true. i genuinely am not sure how we would go about tackling that issue. vaccine hesitancy has to be combated by primarily by community leaders. if they don't already trust vaccines, westerners aren't going to be able to sway them.
vaccination rates in canada have been high bc there is a strong sense of maintaining the social contract, but vaccination clearly doesn't reach everyone. widespread rapid antigen testing still depends on maintaining this social contract but it includes antivaxxers, many of whom do believe that covid-19 is a real health issue, they just have different belief about how to resolve it. rats have zero controversy, and simply provide people with information. there may be some that refuse to get tested, but from a sociological perspective, it is easier to exclude these people rather those that refuse to get vaccinated, and there will be fewer of them.
> either get vaccinated or you can’t leave your house 
that will never pass a charter challenge
why not just require universal vaccination? … true medical exemptions are miniscule and these folks will likely be pretty careful how they live, no exemption for religious reasons
we already have universal vaccination, but there remains a significant portion of the pop'n that refuses to get vaccinated. if like measles we need >95% vax rate to stem transmission, it's not going to happen with covid. this is apart from the fact that with delta, and now omicron, vaccination does not significantly impact transmission, and moreover, the speed at which these different variants are evolving means that vaccination is an inefficient and cumbersome public health tool.
we need to require vaccination to participate in anything that involves other people, if you want to live in the woods or not leave your house, fine …. but if you want to work travel or do anything around other people you will need to get vaccinated
austria is leading the way and there is little doubt that in 10 years universal vaccination will be required worldwide when these novel diseases pop up if we can get a good protection from a vaccine as we can with pfizer and the mrna’s
we need to get out in front and do it now, canada needs to wake up and require universal vaccination
the destruction of our economy and the debt is simply too much
vaccination is the best way out


>yellowknife-based lawyer nick sowsun says the alaska/canada border is 'arbitrary' and an affront to the social and cultural traditions of the invuialuit 
the person in question crossed the border illegally and just started living in canada. on top of that they have multiple criminal convictions which make them inadmissible to canada. anyone else would be deported as well. that's not in any way "arbitrary".
"indigenous rights take legal precedence over process,"
no, they do not.
borders are a fact of life, and what people did 1000 years ago is not an issue.
he's a criminal so he should be deported.  his race shouldn't be a consideration.  otherwise we would have people of different races having different rights.
"july 13, 2005
anchorage, alaska - alaska native herman a. oyagak was sentenced to seven years in federal prison for killing six walruses. oyagak was on probation for felony assault when he participated in the wasteful killing of walruses in 2003.
frequently, such illegal items end up at anchorage gift shops, said steve oberholtzer, assistant special agent in charge of the u.s. fish and wildlife service in alaska. a bull walrus head mount just the tusks and nose plate mounted on a piece of wood can sell for $3,000 or more, he said.
oberholtzer said the arrests in the walrus killings came from information supplied by outraged villagers. the walrus were killed and had their heads removed to sell the ivory, and the carcasses were sunk.
under federal law, it is legal for alaska natives to hunt walruses for subsistence but they must use a substantial portion of the animal. in this case, the walruses were being killed for the ivory and bodies were discarded.
a co-defendant in the case, samuel akpik, also of barrow, was sentenced to two months in federal prison, two months of home confinement and a $500 fine.
oyagak's criminal history led to the harsh sentence, assistant u.s. attorney james goeke said tuesday."
they should defer the deportation and exempt him from the conditions that make him inadmissible for entrance to canada and help him get canadian citizenship if he wants it. and the condition for canadian citizenship should be simpler for arctic indigenous people living near the canadian border if an agreement can't be struck between canada and the us to let people cross using their band id or something like it. 
people in the comments here are talking about how it doesn't matter what happened a thousand years ago or defitions of what is arbitrary or not but you just need to think of the raw facts of this situation. people in the high arctic had little to no interaction with euro-canadian/american institutions until the 20th century, some until after ww2. the high arctic relocation was in the 50s, not 1492. this is the inuit we're talking about, not the wampanoag or mikmaq, their relationship with our governments is not the same and we don't legally treat them the same either, for good reason. 
and even ignoring that, the alaska-canadian border was a formality in large part for everyone until 9/11, so to treat our draconian border laws as god-given or something seems silly to me. and this should go for more than people in the high arctic, the situation with border towns like in bc/alaska, vancouver or lake of the woods is stupid too. if these people are accepted in their communities which are local across the border then what good are we serving to mak their lives difficult?
spoken by someone clearly entirely ignorant of citizenship and residency rights of those from first nations along our borders.
both canada and the us offer residency and paths to citizenship for such fns groups. so indeed it is an issue and one that has both supporting law and precedent.
>you just need to think of the raw facts of this situation.
the "raw facts" of this situation are that he has a serious criminal record (including for acts of violence, and poaching while on probation - acts for which the people in his own village were completely fed up with him, and who were the ones that turned him in). if he wants to come into this country then he can apply for criminal rehabilitation, just as any other person with a serious criminal record is required to. 
personally, i am not at all interested in people with serious criminal records being allowed unfettered access into the country, whether it be in the arctic, at the peace arch, or in lake of the woods ...
the jay treaty (jay's treaty) isn't recognized as canadian law, and unlike the usa, canada does not offer either residency nor paths to citizenship based on fn status.
inuit are not first nations.
would like to note that the cbc article included no information about a violent criminal history and listed only charges amounting to low value property damage or theft and failure to comply with specific hunting regulations (which if we're allowing indigenous people to have different hunting regulations that allow them to kill walrus, the improper use walrus they've killed amounts to that, and i'm not sure basing immigration law on that is the best course of action). if he actually does have criminal charges for violence and not 
> he was convicted in alaska of criminal mischief for property damage under $250 and, before that, of offences like burglary and poaching walrus off the alaskan coast, sowsun said.
as the article said then my opinion about this specific case changes. the difference between a non violent criminal offender with petty criminal history 15+ years old and somebody with felony assault convictions is pretty massive.
my point about the draconian nature of our border laws, the harm they do to border communities and the need for a return to normal for them stand though.
edit: i typed up a response to a since deleted unrelated reply from another person so i'm going to post it here for now in case they repost it. 
> do you really believe that a liberalization of our border laws to be more in line with those practiced around the world and throughout most of human history would be a return to classical anarchism? is that what they're practicing in europe, south asia, south america, central america, east africa, the gulf, the caribbean, etc? heck, svalbard has an even more open form of travel and immigration law and it's a similar arctic territory. and i'm not even proposing anything like that, i just think the specific nature of the canada-us border right now is silly and does more harm than it does good, and in a better world we would have better arrangements for freer movement, living and working, at least for people in unique border areas.
>the difference between a non violent criminal offender with petty criminal history 15+ years old and somebody with felony assault convictions is pretty massive.
then figure it out, it is all a matter of public record.
it is that "massive" difference that causes him to be inadmissible due to prior criminality.

[deleted]
> o'regan said the pandemic showed how a lack of sick days left many workers at risk. he said that now is the "time to close the gap that the pandemic exposed in our social safety net
this guy has nerve. i guess paid sick time wasn't import for the first two years. or at least it didn't matter until it could be used for votes in the election.
i'm so sick and tired of this "we'll do the right thing, but only after you elect us." whatever happened to helping canadians when they need help?
frig. here's hoping o'regan doesn't defame any more veterans who faught for their country and cost the taxpayer hundreds of thousands in his new position
how is it an erosion of rights if new laws cover things which are already illegal?  if they were already illegal, no rights have been changed.
also, all human rights come with responsibilities; the universal declaration of human rights says that “everyone has duties to the community” (article 29). this means that we all have a responsibility to respect each other's rights and not do things that endanger the rights of others.  
with the advent of this pandemic, our duties and responsibilities to the community have to change in order for all of us not to endanger the rights of others.  rights changing because of a crisis (i.e. the pandemic) is neither unreasonable nor something new.
you're correct, my right to intimidate healthcare workers has been eroded and i celebrate.
it's not possible to do all the things at once.  try asking 9 girls to have a baby in a month.
exactly. people seem to think rights are eroded anytime those rights are limited. swinging your arms wildly is totally legal, but if you hit some stranger in the head it becomes battery. the fact that smacking someone in the head is against the law doesn't mean your rights have been eroded.

canada has announced that any non citizen (or non-pr) that has travelled to south africa and other affected countries are now barred from entering canada.   citizens and permanent residents will be required to test and quarantine, regardless of vaccination status if they have been to those areas upon return.
[removed]
seems moot if we keep the us border open.
i don't see the us border closing again. it would be political suicide.
in all likelihood it's allready in canada.
edit: we should increase testing
edit2: closing borders is a game of wack a mole and would require stopping all travel into the country. just because we close borders with all countries that currently have confirmed cases won't stop it coming in from a proxy
[removed]
by all means close the border to those countries, but it’ll likely get in here if it hasn’t already, australia and new zealand proved no matter how hard you seal up the borders, the virus can still get in.
if he’s actually concerned and not just grandstanding, one thing ford could actually do right now, and i hope someone asks him this, is open up 3rd dose availability to everyone > 6 months from their last dose. bc and manitoba have already done it, there’s no reason not to
man who's actions directly caused the 3rd wave in ontario is back to blaming the liberals so he can pass the blame of his inactions on to the feds
i agree with ford on this one. we're not going to stop the new variant from getting in, but more border restrictions can slow it down. that buys us time to learn more about the nu variant and prepare accordingly.
it's hard to believe the feds are still so slow to react nearly two years in to the pandemic. some european countries have already closed their borders to south africa.
lmao, there are no direct flights from canada to south africa. more importantly: the virus isn’t going away, variants are gonna crop up periodically. i’m vaccinated and don’t engage in any overtly risky behaviour but at this point i’m happy to take my chances living completely without restrictions, rather than destroy society again for marginally more “safety”.
doug is doing that thing where he points his finger at somebody else and dictates what they should do in  an attempt to distract from how bad a job he is doing.
[removed]
if this variant is more transmissible then there is no stopping it. we couldn't stop delta from getting into canada, why would we expect to stop omicron?
doug ford is right. we need new travel restrictions and other measures to prevent the spread of this new covid-19 variant; there is no telling how much havoc it could wreak.
2 years of this already to not know that isn’t how it works at all. i believe the articles about this already clearly say the variants have been found in other countries.
the interests and mess of managers overseeing this system have no shame, they do not care. that we did not give or let others produce their own vaccine to protect some of the wealthiest people from amassing more wealth.
there will be more variants too.
we are 1000x more likely to get this into canada via tourists returning from florida.
> canada has announced that any non citizen (or non-pr) that has travelled to south africa and other affected countries are now barred from entering canada.
including belgium?
excellent!
regardless of vaccination status.
so just two more weeks…..i thought vaccine was to get back to normal.
they don’t want that though.
removed for rule 2.
the world not allowing flights from countries with nu variants buys them time.  if this is serious it gives us more time to enact serious measures.  if this requires a new vaccine there will be a shorter period of it spreading before we can start vaccinating.
remember, we were the ones who had new variants of concern become dominant in canada before they did in the us.

third time's the charm.
>it’s already been named as one of four key priority bills the liberals want to see become law before the end of the year.
despite political posturing to the contrary, i *highly* doubt this timeline is feasible.    i think it will pass.  eventually.  there just isn't a political will to quickly get it through the house and senate.  to do it before the end of the year would need buy in from all the other parties and i don't see the conservatives fast tracking this.  if it's passed before next summer break i would be pleasantly surprised.
i look forward to them once again managing to not actually do anything about children being tortured for how they were born.
sometimes i wonder if i'm from an alternative time line or something, i could swear it was banned like 20 years ago.
from a procedural perspective, how would second and third reading of this bill work without house commtitees being setup yet?
i'm glad they're at least doing it. when it died on the table when they called the election i was 'annoyed'. as long as they actually pass it that's good right? better late then never. 
good on the scum for picking it back up again. let's give them that...
you need buy in from one other party, you can do a lot with a majority of the seats.
> and i don't see the conservatives fast tracking this.
exactly why the liberals are doing it this way. it's a good way to smear the conservatives.
honestly, i've heard so much talk about this over the past couple of years i thought they already passed the law banning this malpractice. i can't imagine this isn't supported by any of the major parties other than the right-wing of the conservative party, so i'm kind of at a loss for why this hasn't been passed yet.
elections keep getting called. that's it. 
first attempt we started the petition pretty late in the term and there was some reluctance until the senate picked it up and drafted. then the election. 
the pandemic usurped the second attempt pushing it to the backburner, when it fired up the conservatives stalled it as long as possible, the senate didn't do a summer recall, and then the election killed it. 
while it's all irritating, it is understandable. but if it doesn't pass this time i'm coming fully uncunted.
the bill keeps on getting killed due to elections. the most recent one which or course was of their own doing (for nothing). but they haven’t made it a priority since 2015 so the torture of kids continues because idk. 
i’ll be honest them killing this bill again was why i didn’t vote them this time around.
this last election killing the bill is not understandable considering the liberals didn’t need to call it and the election didn’t produce anything different
so the cpc and ndp will be voting for the throne speech, right? because otherwise they're voting for another 'unnecessary' election nearly immediately.

good.
also the new health minister confirmed that their slow reaction to close the border in march/april of 2020 was entirely because they were playing politics with trump. 
good, now the virus knows it's not welcome here and it won't arrive on a plane from another country with less than rigid covid guidelines.
/s
won't matter, airport restriction theatre didn't stop covid or delta. it could work if we acknowledged or learned from those failures but as usual our leaders are just looking for a quick meaningless shrug in the direction of containment.
does it really matter? the variant has spread well beyond africa now - and that is what has been detected. unless they are checking travel history for the past month and banning the countries in which it has been identified it’s all political plays to appear competent.
but hasn't this strain also already been detected outside of that region? i mean, sa found this variant because they have some very good epidemiologists -- not because it's necessarily from that region.
i just feel like throwing restrictions at s african nations is the low-hanging fruit that already accords with canadian ideas about a dangerous continent. if it's already also been found in hk, israel and belgium -- are they soon to follow? i wasn't planning on going to ghent any time soon, but maybe i should get over there while i still can.
i feel like this is racist. i mean we didn't shut down travel from china and india because it's racist. now when it is africa we are shutting down our borders to black people. it's just wrong. i hate racism so much.
travel restrictions are such a meme. all this does is hurt trade and make it annoying for people who have to travel to southern africa. the variant is going to come here, it's pretty much inevitable.
[removed]
they had to co-ordinate the closure of the us/canada border to non-essential traffic or else trump would go off the rails and retaliate blocking essential traffic as well.
that's not what the tweet says.
global trade still hasn't recovered from the last round of lockdowns and border closures. it didn't work last time and it won't work this time, this variant will definitely end up in canada. we aren't and island nation and if we're going to continue down this path of border closure and restrictions we will have to enact more protectionist economic rules.
doesn't surprise really. he was probably still pissed off at jt for stopping his classic handshake
oh my...more oragemanbad chicken shit.
typical libbie bs.
it obviously can't be stopped by they're trying to slow it down.
this one comes from omicron persei 8 so just don’t let the cartoon alien monsters in and we’re all good.
fair enough, but we have nearly a hundred thousand border crossings a day. that's just essential goods, not travellers. this variant will end up here, pretending we can prevent that is completely futile.
what should be done?
and as we all know, if you can't stop 100% of a thing then why bother at all? reduce case count? pshh.
they are checking travel hostory for the past 14 days. so ½ a month.

law of headlines says no.
drug overdoses are pretty obviously not murder, with the very rare exception of an intentional overdose being administered with the intention of killing someone (e.g. the nurse who killed a dozen or so patients with insulin).  drug dealers may be guilty of *manslaughter* -- negligent killing -- but as a general rule they have no *intention* to kill their customers.
>  twenty-four american states have specific laws targeting dealers who sell drugs that kill. these laws carry a sentence, depending on the state, of anywhere from two years imprisonment to the death penalty.
this is just so stupid. imposing some sort of duty of care onto illicit drug dealers isn't going to help anything; they're already facing insane jail terms if caught, this isn't going to scare them into being more careful. it's also not going to magically give them the know-how and resources to even know if their supply is good. 
time and time again we've tried new and stiffer penalties and they've always failed. if we want to stop the deaths we need a new approach.
folks here should read the article, not just the headline. the article highlights a news report that showed an increasing trend of police **in canada** treating overdose deaths as crimes:
> combing through a database of media reports, court filings, and in rare cases, police statistics, we have uncovered a 700 per cent increase in manslaughter and criminal negligence causing death charges against those who deal, and even those who share drugs that result in death. in 2016, we could find just nine instances. by 2019 that number increased to 65.
> 
> the spike is due, in large part, to a novel, yet controversial approach to the overdose epidemic by canada’s second largest police service, the ontario provincial police. in 2018, the opp developed a new policy to treat every overdose death as not just a medical call, but also a potential murder.
the article furthers the discussion based on a report that discusses the outcomes of american states which have made that approach *law* and shows how the approach is in no way empirically supported, *i.e.* treating drug-related deaths as "murder" (irl: manslaughter or criminal negligence causing death) does nothing to help people who use illicit drugs. 
key points from that report:
+ prosecutions of drug-induced homicide will not curb overdose deaths
  + drug-induced homicide prosecutions will neither deter drug selling nor reduce overdose death rates
  + drug-induced homicide laws undermine 911 good samaritan laws
+ drug-induced homicide laws perpetuate the harms of criminalization
  + drug-induced homicide laws foster poor prosecutorial discretion
  + enforcement of drug-induced homicide laws has the potential to exacerbate racial disparities in the criminal justice system
  + drug-induced homicide laws reduce access to needed services
+ drug-induced homicide prosecutions waste resources that could be spent on effective interventions proven to reduce overdose deaths
  + overdose prevention education, good samaritan, and naloxone access
  + safe consumption sites
  + drug checking
  + opioid agonist therapy
  + heroin-assisted treatment
the report on the approach and how it fails is here:
[*an overdose death is not murder: why drug-induced homicide laws are counterproductive and inhumane*](
no, murder requires intent.  it's an interesting thought experiment if knowingly selling possibly shoddy drugs might be criminal negligence of some kind. i think it is.  but presumably that's why we have criminal drug laws to prohibit this, because of the possible consequences like death and injury.
yes, killing off customers isn’t a smart way to grow your clientele.
there's also the fact that many dealers don't necessarily know what they're pushing. everyone buys product from someone else, and sellers aren't necessarily going to be forthcoming about cutting their product. your local dealer probably has no idea what purity their product is.
in europe where there are very few over does they go hard after the dealers.
you really should read and respond to the article, not just the headline:
> combing through a database of media reports, court filings, and in rare cases, police statistics, we have uncovered a 700 per cent increase in manslaughter and criminal negligence causing death charges against those who deal, and even those who share drugs that result in death. in 2016, we could find just nine instances. by 2019 that number increased to 65.
> 
> the spike is due, in large part, to a novel, yet controversial approach to the overdose epidemic by canada’s second largest police service, the ontario provincial police. in 2018, the opp developed a new policy to treat every overdose death as not just a medical call, but also a potential murder.
from what i’ve heard there is some value in that for a drug dealer.  when drug addicts hear about someone over dosing it can indicate that the dealer has a strong batch of drugs and drive up sales.  i’m not certain this is true but i’ve heard it more than once.
most of what i hear anecdotally about the illicit drug business through the media or police is found to be blatantly false. i don't see why this would be an exception to that rule of thumb, personally. just like no one is lacing cocaine with opiates, there's just nothing in it for dealers to kill their customers with any hint of intention.
i remember hearing this in a netflix documentary. though at the end of the day who knows how reliable that is, never actually asked a dealer myself.
you don't have to intend to kill someone to be charged with homicide. [the guy who plowed his speeding car into a crowded parade]( in wisconsn is being charged with intentional  homicide even though his intention was not to kill anyone (he was fleeing police). the point is that he should have known his actions were putting people in danger. the same reasoning applies to drug pushers who sell fentenyl: they should know this is going to kill people.
i suppose it depends on the dealer and how sane they are, or how much control they have over what’s in the product.
you think a drug dealer would tell you the truth?
don't think so.
the wisconsin suspect was not fleeing police. he was actively out on bail.
my dad wouldn’t lie to me.
>before driving into the crowd, the suspect, darrell e. brooks jr., had been at the scene of an alleged altercation involving a knife, but sped away in the red suv when police arrived, a law enforcement official said.
he was fleeing police. also, i think he was ut on parole. all the more reason for him to flee when police arrived.
point is, his intention was never to kill anybody. his intention was to stay out of jail. the reason he was charged with intentional homicide is that he should have know driving a speeding car into a parade would kill people.
the driver *may* have fled a knife fight - not the police (and there's been no further evidence other than speculation immediately after it happened). he also refused to stop when a police officer at the parade tried to flag him down, and then proceeded to zig-zag his way through the crowd at high speed. and no, he wasn't out on parole, he was out on bail.
it's prfetty clear he was fleeing the police and not intending to mow down people like alex manassian, so the principle remain the same. if you wrecklessly endanger someone's life and kill them, you'll be charged with homicide, perhaps murder if its bad enough.

am i the only one wildly confused by this?
we banned people hopping the border because of the pandemic, and now we're allowing people to hop the border? clearly we established that we can stop these crossings, so why not keep them stopped?
also ignoring the who "okay illegal crossing" part of the story, opening this up just as the o variant is taking off seems like timing only a bureaucrat could come up with.

yeah but the problem is a lot of canadian cities cap sprawl and then barely do any upzoning all in the face of population growth. it's arguably why there so much price appreciation.
the fight against urban sprawl is really about limiting climate climate change is well. sprawl increases car dependency, which increases energy consumption.
as long as hamilton actually upzones and takes intensification seriously this should be no problem at all. saying no to an urban boundary expansion is easy, changing your zoning without getting scared of some local opposition is hard.
my in laws live down the mountain in detached residential. against urban sprawl, but mortified at the thought of upzoning their neighborhood. there was a huge outcry around locke st. area particularly about upzoning. “densification changes the feel of the community” cough cough changes the value of your coveted properties more like it.
and the sprawl gets pushed to a more willing community further from where people work (in this case, brantford), resulting in even greater car dependency, traffic, and emissions.
yes. this is the issue. we ban sprawl and do nothing to replace it.

>instead, commissioner allan said, “to be very clear, i have not found any suggestions of wrongdoing on the part of any individual or organization. no individual or organization, in my view, has done anything illegal. indeed, they have exercised their rights of free speech.”
>no “lies and disinformation” or “foreign-funded radicals” were uncovered, despite the fact the government gave allan five time extensions and raised his budget to $3.5 million to give him  a chance to come up with something. 
>you wouldn’t know it from what kenney and other ucp politicians have been saying ever since, though. allan could only show $38 to $59 million had been spent to oppose alberta fossil fuel developments, not the $1.3 billion repeatedly claimed since by the ucp. 
so that's $3.5 million wasted. not that it matters, they just kept repeating the lie
>kenney could claim absolute privilege if he had only made his statements in the legislature. alas for him, they were plastered all over social media, under his name. 
>worse, from the premier’s perspective, he will have to appear in court to make his case — and if he appears in court, he will have to allow himself to be cross-examined by the plaintiffs’ lawyers. 
i'm looking forward to watching kenny have to try and get through a cross-examination without being able to lie.
also, that "asymmetrical legal warfare" is really weird, just say they're suing the premier. it's hardly unconventional either, governments have been sued before, [kenney's office]( is being sued already too.
this is an interesting legal challenge, but this is a terribly written article. 
if his potentially defaming claims are plastered all over social media i feel like the author should've linked / posted a screenshot of them, instead of posting the britannica definition of asymmetric warfare which felt rather unnecessary.
not doubting those social media posts exists, it just feels like lazy professional reporting to not look them up.
i hope they bring up kenney's support of brett wilson saying that environmentalists should be hanged to death.  it's crazy that albertans don't understand why they have a bad rep in the rest of canada.    
picking on lgbt kids because adults would stand up for themselves, companies giving out stickers that joke about raping greta when she was 14 years old, etc.... real mystery, yep no one can figure it out.
[deleted]
yet more tax money to be spent on defending ab from these “enviro” organizations. great job kenny. also hard for the organizations to argue this work is in the interest of albertans or the environment, and not just their own pr.
it's just interesting that civil cases are quickly becoming the only option for combating deliberate misinformation. look at dominion voting systems suing everyone making false statements about "rigged" election in the us and all the rightwing pundits falling over themselves in a rush to retract their statements. look at the sandy hook lawsuits against alex jones, which may finally silence that lying sack of shit. look at the suit against tucker carlson where fox was forced to use the defence that it's not really news, it's just entertainment - which has harmed their credibility and put them on tenuous legal footing. i'm surprised this legal defence hasn't been used to kick them out of white house briefings. no doubt there are cases where people have sued leftwing establishments for stretching the truth and causing harm, it's just that none of them come to mind at the moment. the lesson, which is valuable, is that you can't tell lies when they cause real harm to another or harm the reputation of a company or organization. i welcome the return of consequences.
i don’t think he concluded that environmental  groups never lied or mislead the public. he simply said everything they did was legal. they lied and mislead plenty,
great photo though he looks irked
we just had a $3.5 million worth of investigation into them. what else do you think discovery is going to turn up?
which inconvenient truths? and why didn’t the inquiry find them?
the people of alberta, by way of their elected officials, have chosen to attack and libel these environmental groups; why should these orgs give a hoot whether defending their name is "in the interest of albertans"? they want to do their jobs effectively, and by defaming their names and their work, kenney and the ucp are hindering their ability to do so. 
and if kenney is so sure he's right, he shouldn't have any issue spending the money to defend his claims in court, considering the millions he's already spent trying to prove those claims.
not sure i can really follow your point here.
the allan inquiry itself cost 3.5 million, so i'm not going to be pearl clutching over the cost of responding to a libel demand. if kenney is truly worried about it, he could clarify his remarks, give a half-hearted apology, and move on. but the inquiry and the war room were both about pandering, so i highly doubt he will.
as for the organizations, they live on donations and all of their work depends on their reputation. i can totally understand why they'd need to defend against someone calling them foreign shills or malicious actors.
it’s in the interest of good governance. having a government official lie to the citizenry, repeatedly, and waste taxpayer dollars to try to justify that lie is a violation of good governance. personal litigation against that official will have a cooling effect on particularly vile and disingenuous rhetoric. 
that’s how it’s good for albertans.
you put “enviro” in quotes.  do you think the environment is a hoax!?
pretty cool how you turn kenney lying into "how dare these groups defend themselves from blatant lies?"
it's like you're being paid to "manage issues."
matt?
from the article it makes it sound like they are suing kenney personally for statements made outside parliament.
using the "not news, but entertainment" angle to kick journalists out of press briefings [can backfire pretty badly]( though. evidently we live in an age where people can switch from being entertainers to journalists and back as easily as a cyclist can become a pedestrian.
i am on board with appropriate consequences for harming people with lies, but i don't have much hope for this lawsuit... the best result they can hope for is probably a judge ruling that kenney lied, but didn't harm specific organizations because he didn't name them. in the meantime, kenney will use the lawsuit to raise money, claiming that environmental groups are trying to *silence him* and prevent him from speaking the *truth*.
> fox was forced to use the defence that it's not really news, it's just entertainment - which has harmed their credibility
wait.  fox news has credibility?
to be fair, the "entertainment not news" defense was created by the one of the big 3 before fox even existed.  possibly nbc, unfortunately for us the argument prevailed in a us court.

every penny spent on this investigation may as well have been lit on fire. not only would it be insane, if even constitutionally possible, to replace the gg, but it's also completely meaningless. nothing would change if the gg didn't speak english, let alone french. the 1300 people who wrote in to complain about this symbolic trivium should be on the hook for this investigation, it's so frivolous.
the pm does not appoint the gg. the pm makes a recommendation to the sovereign who then appoints their canadian representative.
aborignal languages need to become official languages. it's simply racist to give colonial languages superior status.
those people who wrote in should have been ignored honestly.
very true that the title from the commissioner is badly worded. how would you rewrite the title?
de jure vs de facto
> it's simply racist to give colonial languages superior status.
or the numbers just aren't there. guaranteeing languages at all levels of government is already hard enough in french, and we should add every indigenous language?
sure it's got a history of colonialism behind it and that sucks, but just practically speaking it's not a good idea.
how is it racist
please stop calling everything racism.
there are 10x as many federal employees are there are inuktituk speakers (400 vs 40k). it's silly to think they should be an official language.
and just making inuktituk a national language would be unfair to the 59 other native languages that exist.
why do you think the numbers aren't there in the first place?
\> guaranteeing native languages at all levels of government is already hard enough in french, and we should add every indigenous language?
all minority language rights are provided on a sliding scale where numbers warrant. 
[
practicality is built into the official languages act. 
nice try at evading the real point. 
it's just a question of going throught the official languages and specifying how aboriginal languages may or must be used. it doesn't have to be impractical.
 [
examples
* if the gg signs into law or makes a throne speech using inuktituk, it should have equal legal validity to her doing it in english or french. 
* all mp'shave the right to adress the house in aboriginal languages
* all laws applying on aboriginal territories must be translated into that laanguage if requested by that nation.
it gives colonial languages  superior status to aboriginal languages.
i mean, obviously cultural genocide, i'm not denying that. 
i'm just saying it's more of an unfortunate reality.
> all minority language rights are provided on a sliding scale where numbers warrant.
that source mentions french and english only, not indigenous languages. we guarantee it for them because the numbers warrant it, and nowhere else in canada do enough people speak an indigenous language as their *first* language that it then warrants the same treatment. (not to mention that education is a provincial responsibility.) that is, again, an unfortunate numbers game and of course the outcome of colonial policies.
>practicality is built into the official languages act.
for english and french, because the numbers warrant it. for example. i found a source reporting on [indigenous language use]( and just picking one at random, a large number of indigenous naskapi speak their language first at home. there are 1000 of them.
>nice try at evading the real point.
i am engaging directly with the point.
>it's just a question of going throught the official languages and specifying how aboriginal languages may or must be used. it doesn't have to be impractical.
i'm not saying that canada shouldn't do it's best to preserve indigenous cultures, obviously it should. but again, just a sheer numbers games dictates that it's not practical to make it an official language. if provinces or regional areas want to make them official languages and offer services in that language they are by all means welcome. but the federal government should not be responsible for catering to every indigenous language group by making it an official language.
>if the gg signs into law or makes a throne speech using inuktituk, it should have equal legal validity to her doing it in english or french.
~~i disagree.~~ actually i'm ok with this so long as it's done in both english and french still.
>all mp'shave the right to adress the house in aboriginal languages
sure, but again, since this is the federal government it should not be on them to find and interpreter for this because many indigenous languages are so small in number. it should be up the the mp to provide the translation separately or do the same address again in one of the two official languages.
>all laws applying on aboriginal territories must be translated into that laanguage if requested by that nation.
sure, i'm fine with that. that doesn't require them being an official language though.
edit: i will say again, i understand that it is an unfortunate outcome of a colonial and racist history, i would never deny that. but i live in the real world where i can't cater to every whim of small groups so i can feel better about myself.
you said that already. why is that racist?
\> that source mentions french and english only, not indigenous languages.
yes. the same should be done with indigenous languages. the law should be changed. there is no reason this sliding scale cannot apply equally to indigenous languages. [shawinigan has an english school](  for an [anglophone population of 375]( you can't extend a scale that is used to give 375 anglophones a school  to 20 000 cree-speaking people in northern quebec or 20 000 inuit in nunuvik? both these schools exist, but only the english ones have constitutional protection. that unreasonable put the colonial language on a superior footing to the aboriginal one.
\> for english and french, because the numbers warrant it. for example. i found a source reporting on indigenous language use and just picking one at random, a large number of indigenous naskapi speak their language first at home. there are 1000 of them.
like i said, there is an english school in shawinigan serving an anglophone populaion of 375. there is one in la tuque serving 195 anglophones. in trois rivire, there is an english  school serving 1400 anglophones (845 if you take into accont assimilation and only count the ones who still speak it at home and ). that's three high schools in the mauricie for a population of 2800 (1700 if you consider language spoken at home). compare that to 3200 in the mauricie who speak aboriginal languages (mostly atikamekw) at home and are not guaranteed schools in their own language. the imbalance is so ridiculous it is palpable.
\> i'm ok with this so long as it's done in both english and french still.
official language legislation provides simulataneous translation services so that officials can carry out official functions in englisha nd french. no reason this shusldn;t be done with inuktituk, as is done in nunavut. it's alsready done ins oem instances in parliament. it's just a question of writing it up formally in the official languages act. [
giving colonial white people and their culture and language superior status to aboriginal people is racist. it's kind of the very defintion of racism and white supremecy: 
>the belief that the white race is inherently superior to other races and that white people should have control over people of other races
> shawinigan has an english school for an anglophone population of 375. 
because english is an official language of canada. because the number of national english speakers is big enough that it should be mandated. 58% of canada speaks english as a first language *that's* why it's official. 
the law should not be changed *federally* because just from a practical, non-emotion driven argument, it's not there.
>you can't extend a scale that is used to give 375 anglophones a school to 20 000 cree-speaking people in northern quebec or 20 000 inuit in nunuvik?
no, because in the big picture over all of canada, that does not make sense. if the *province* or local community would like to do something gauranteeing language in cree, they can feel free.
>both these schools exist, but only the english ones have constitutional protection.
**because federally there are a shit ton of english speakers.**
>that unreasonable put the colonial language on a superior footing to the aboriginal one.
the numbers make it reasonable.
you're either lying to yourself, or naive.

oh that's a healthy sign. man the caf is just screwing the pooch all over the place, like there needs to be some serious changes because this is clearly not working.
good thing we completely gutted them in the 90s and turned them into what they are now.

police need to enforce these things. most of this could already be done with existing laws but they let it happen.
right?
harassment and the catch-all mischief are already crimes.
if the existing laws aren't being used, what make anyone think the new and shiny laws are going to be used?
yeah, i *had* been under the impression threatening people was *already* illegal.
weird.
is there a good primer out there on what does and doesn't constitute as mischief in canada?
mischief covers most things.
when it comes to things like hospitals, if you interfere with the lawful use or operation of property (i.e. block access to a hospital) that's a crime.
everything is subject to the charter, but mischief is one of the most catch-all charges out there.

didn't higgs reduce the gas tax to try and counteract the carbon tax? he could could use that money to pay for replacing their single coal power plant instead of trying to win political points by cutting revenue.
is this a case of ask really high knowing you will end up negotiating down?
that seems ridiculous. they have one coal plant which i'm sure could be replaced by something else for less than 5b, it seems like what they really want it for the federal government to pay to link all the atlantic provinces grids together, and my question wild be why is that the responsibility of the federal government?
alberta had managed to get set up a plan to get off coal by 2023, (without five billion federal dollars) why can't they?
the port of belledune adjacent to this plant exports 150000 tonnes of wood pellets to biomass plants in scandinavia every year.  
it's a fraction of what a plant this size would need to keep the same gwh/year, but if they really want to move off of nonrenewable fuel they could always just retrofit to burn pellets - the supply chain is there already, and the irvings (who still own higgs' soul) would like that too no doubt.
they're asking trudeau. he's not exactly thrifty. might as well ask for the moon.
higgs is premier of nb, not ns.
i remember reading that alberta’s plan required massive compensation payments that i don’t believe have ever been publicly disclosed due to confidentiality (could be wrong about that). and, as we all know, alberta is much better positioned to make those payments than the atlantic provinces are.
edit: this is, at the end of the day, akin to a regulatory taking or expropriation and will require massive write downs. regulated utilities are not, and never have been, a free market. the company is very probably entitled to compensation and, if the reason for the early retirement is a federal mandate, i don’t see why nb shouldn’t ask the federal government to pay for it. as for the alberta precedent, i would guess alberta shouldering this cost was, together with implementing a carbon tax before most of the country did, part of the grand bargain for tmx.
doesn't just seem ridiculous, it absolutely is.
at 5 billion for shutting down 450mw you're well on your way to paying the capital costs for nuclear/hydro the most capital intensive options out there. now if ns or any province wants to build something like that, or a big transmission project or whatever else i'd be happy for them to make a proposal and make the case for the feds chipping in and if you put a few projects together you might reach 5 billion in total contribution. as is this is reminiscent of kenny's similarly ridiculous ask for [30 billion]( for carbon capture efforts.
hell in both those cases if they want to foist the entire bill on ottawa i think federal ownership of the grid operators should be in the cards and in both cases this would actually have some ancillary benefits. for the atlantic provinces it'd get all the operators into one house that'd have a whole lot more capital cushion to absorb hits like muskrat falls and would make centralization of efforts easier politically and financially. alberta managed to create a similar problem with their deregulated generation side and could use a unified generation+grid operator as well.
good catch, fixed
1.1 billion over 14 years, and keep in mind alberta had more than one coal plant in operation  a far cry from 5 billion for one plant serving less than a quarter of the people.
>  massive write downs.
problem is it's not massive at all. by 2030 ( the deadline for coal ) the 450 mw in nb will have had 37 years of operation, a pretty healthy chunk of it's useful life. 5 billion is in the ballpark of paying for complete new replacement with nuclear/hydro with no depreciation at all. nevermind that with a suitable reactor you might be able to re-use the steam side of the plant and transmission infrastructure.
5 billion could pay for a hell of a lot of wind farms, along with the regional grid connections needed to make it work.
>nevermind that with a suitable reactor you might be able to re-use the steam side of the plant and transmission infrastructure.
that is possible but extremely impractical.

the article named like 4 countries that have taken action - one of which hasn’t actually taken action yet lol.
i’m sure there are some more that have as well, but the headline stating that the “world takes action” is quite premature. this headline might be better suited in a couple of weeks or so.
it appears that there are no direct flights from south africa to canada.  
it would be interesting to understand how we could block travel via third countries without pushing the verification off to other nations.  a connecting flight would be easy to verify, but if a traveller few to egypt for a couple of days and then to canada we would have no way of knowing.
i'm not going to lie to you - this is phenomenally creepy. to see everyone acting so swiftly and the markets take a dive doesn't exactly make me feel like this is nothing to worry about.  
there's no way that this isn't halfway around the globe already and actively spreading.
although i agree that more border restrictions need to be in place with the news of new covid variants…i hope the mps calling for “shutting down the border” have their vaccinations up to date.
this seems eerily like the ramp-up leading to the original covid spread around the world. welp, let's just hope the mutations don't render existing vaccines obsolete.
it’s been almost exactly two years since we acted too slowly to ban flights from china, i truly hope we’ve learned since then.
the world takes action. but not canada. no real quarantine. no real screening. "meh, why bother" remains the liberal philosophy regarding protecting canada from dangerous new variants. trudeau continues his slack unconcern about viruses coming into canada and killing canadians.
edit: erin o'toole and doug ford have called on the liberals to ban travel from affected regions immediately.
*ontario premier doug ford is recommending that canada immediately ban all incoming flights from countries in africa where a troubling new covid-19 variant has been identified.*
*“i was just briefed by dr. kieran moore, ontario’s chief medical officer of health, about the new variant that’s been found in several countries in africa that early reports suggest could be vaccine resistant,” ford said in a release friday.*
*“i have contacted the federal government to express my extreme concern about the risks it poses and the need for immediate action today.”*
the eu is calling for a travel ban
they only focus on the west, but i know singapore and taiwan have already acted. india and australia have so far merely ordered more rigorous screening for people from that region. and canada? we have never taken border screening seriously.
edit. the eu is now calling on its member nations to ban travel from those areas hit with the new variant.
edit 2 ontario premier and erin o'toole calling on government to ban travel from affected regions immediately.
also notably, all the countries that have taken action (or plan to) are in a different time zone. for example, u.k. announced their travel restrictions at noon (their time); as of writing it's only 11:20am ottawa time. the canadian government is still being briefed and deliberating what to do... as the uk was doing 5 hours ago.
we can definitely see what countries a person has been to in the last 14 days, it’s all there in your passport. in fact some countries that allow foreigners require that any country you’ve been to in the last 14 days be on their green list
ban on entry of foreign nationals who travelled through southern africa in the last 14 days has been announced.
did you forget that passports are a thing? :)
i bet the travel ban does not stop it.
"they hadn't learned anything." - ron howard
calm the f down, yeesh. i agree we need to act but countries are only just starting to do so. give it a day.
[as an alarming new covid-19 variant emerges, canada moves to limit travel from southern africa](	  
> health minister jean-yves duclos announced friday that canada will limit travel from seven countries in southern africa, a region that has reported cases of a new — and possibly more infectious — covid-19 variant.   
> starting today, all foreign nationals who have travelled through south africa, namibia, zimbabwe, botswana, lesotho and eswatini or mozambique in the last 14 days will be barred from entering canada.
don't worry ... once there are 1000 or so cases of it here i'm sure the govt will react, limit the flights, and enhance border screening.
edit: from [rachel gilmore at global news who is covering the phac briefing](
>there are five announcements
>- banning entry of foreign nationals who have travelled to southern africa in the last 14 days
> + anyone who has arrived in canada in the last 14 days is being asked to quarantine now and go get a covid-19 test.
> + canadians and pr will be tested on arrival and must quarantine until they get a negative test result
> + gac is going to issue a travel advisory that advises against travel to southern africa for the time being
> + canadians returning from that region who need to transit through another country will have to be tested there before being allowed to come home
good stuff. i'm pleased to say that my overly snarky response was premature and i now look a bit foolish.
yeah, they stranded the dutch cricket team in south africa right after forcing them to cancel their tour.

i was hoping for something more substantial than strawman arguments and quit when he quoted jordan peterson, calling him a famous canadian psychologist.
article highlights that the progressive movement (whatever that is) lacks the concepts of personal responsibility and self improvement. the focus on blame and being a victim creates more inequality, specifically in san francisco.
and for how much he faults progressives for ruining cities by claiming they *want* more drug users and homeless people to treat as victims, he's really light on what regressives would do better.  the only time he steps away from talking about how dumb and useless his strawman progressive is, his first suggestion for ending homelessness is to hire more police to arrest even more drug dealers and drug users (after he spent the previous answers talking about how drug use shouldn't be a criminal charge and taxpayers shouldn't spend money to arrest them) and deporting hondurans.
i thought there was something valid to his argument that just didn't come across properly in the transcript of the verbal interview. basically, he made me think that there is a real case to be made for the embrace by progressives (who i count myself among) of "victimhood"; however, towards the end, he came off poorly as he spoke about arresting people for doing drugs in the open. 
i believe there *is* a powerful motivator for self-improvement inherent in elements of our current, flawed, system that would be tragically lost if we simply legalized everything and provided opiates to addicts free of charge. the solutions progressives push for strongly are, i feel, similarly imbalanced to what we have today. 
i found this quotation, in particular, to ring true:
>when i was a teenager and part of the radical left, or at least a progressive, that meant embracing a story of heroism, whether from martin luther king or gandhi or nelson mandela. **but today to be a progressive means to celebrate victimhood**. and part of that is to insist on people’s victimhood.
but that said, there was a hell of a lot in that transcript to criticize as well.
the cliché dishonest “progressive” just looking for any attention.
like peterson or not, he is both famous and a psychologist.
[deleted]
that's a very good distillation of the content of the link, although i would quibble with calling it an article; it was a transcription of a verbal interview.
providing free drugs isn't supposed to be the solution, which is the major strawman argument of the piece. it's harm reduction. a big part of it is that you get these people interacting with a system that can provide proper treatment.
imo, the solutions are a long game of preventing kids from dropping out and becoming addicts. that means dealing with child poverty, keeping kids in school, getting them treatment for mental illness, etc.
more like infamous.
infamous
agreed, poor word word choice on my part.
oh, i certainly agree with all of your proposed solutions. but i did note that none of them were straight up safe supply. despite my strong belief and advocacy for harm reduction, i also believe that, unfortunately, there is a limit to the harm that can be reduced through well-intentioned harm reduction initiatives. the natural tension that exists in society that allows for some danger/harm to be a risk for serious drug users is an extremely powerful motivator for people to find the strength within themselves to try to recover. take that risk away *entirely*, and i have a hard time seeing why anyone would have the motivation to do the incredibly hard work associated with recovering. the risk today is too high, for sure, and harm reduction will help people live long enough to get a chance at recovery. but people need to fear a negative consequences to be pushed into a terribly difficult action, so we can't remove the risk of harm to too great of an extent.
i think what schellenberg is arguing here is that progressive-ism has begun vilifying any point of view that doesn't advocate for complete and total removal of harm/risk of harm to anyone who is a victim of *something*. i don't think he expressed this as clearly as he could have in the interview that was transcribed, but i do believe that to be his fundamental thesis, and i see something in that thesis that's worth exploring further. that's all i was really attempting to express.
meh, on some further introspection, i realize that "article" has almost become a generic term for "content on a specific topic presented on the web page of a media organization" (in a similar way to how "kleenex" means "facial tissue"); in that sense, article was a totally reasonable word to use, and i was being pedantic!

meanwhile employers across canada are trying to force canadians, who have been successfully working remotely, back into the office and on public transit.
this should prove to be a good recipe

well we might have saved one... but still 150 other sites that are potentially up for grab!? i wonder what the other province's numbers are!? i know we need to build new homes. but not like this....
our previous provincial government tried to push through a deal to give a developer park land at $300/acre to build a golf course.  there should be people in handcuffs over this.  especially our former premier who's education is in golf course management....
i live close to this area.  it wasn't "saved" a bunch of busy bodies from halifax who never set foot near the area killed a huge tourist based economic development.  
it was one of close to 20 potential areas that the province might turn into a provincial park but never made it past being named on a potential list.  
meanwhile the porters lake provincial park, already developed and closer to the city 1- gets 0 funding and 2- never has these same busy bodies darken their door.
and because it's politics, when the ndp were in power they funded a biomass plant an hour and a half from this site that burns 6900 acres of trees a year clear cut.  do the math that's 8 acres a day of forest a day.  
you could build that golf course on 3 days worth of ndp clear cutting.  and here they are patting themselves on the back for depriving an entire commuinity from much needed investment from a billionaire who invested heavily in the commuinity to the point where he helped pay for the elementary school.
if anyone actually bothered to go there all the signs in the commuinity were *for* the golf course.  
here here they are ignoring the wholesale rape of our forests so they can shut down a golf course because they don't play it.  
shame on them.
i thought this was for a golf course. also halifax could start building up and in a more planned condensed manner really.
it's about sending a message, you can't just use money to ruthlessly bulldoze your way over our beautiful green space. it shows pushback works if there is strength in numbers, and i would happily participate to oppose this sort of development in ontario.
>we need to build new homes. but not like this....
lol, this is exactly why we can't build homes. the perfect is the enemy of the good.
edit: no one even wants to make a bad argument? the progressive brainrot is so advanced that people can't engage with the consequences of what they're doing.
no offense but who cares if they didn’t get the golf course they wanted. golf courses are a stupid excuse to destroy the land, and waste tons of water.
a golf course and multiple homes. but destroying what was a preserved park.  there's probably more land to develop on. but they want to take advantage that the government stopped regulation that it is a park. the community is apparently fighting hard on this one. 
imagine you're hiking on a provincial park trail for years. then all of a sudden construction starts, torn all down. it's a golf course and high priced homes for tourists. 
not locals.  tourists.  people that come by when the weather is nice. drop a few hundred bucks into the community.  then fly away to do the same thing in a better climate. 
it's not going to keep a small community growing.  it just builds more minimum wage jobs catering to rich folk.
i'm in gravenhurst ontario.  not the most tourists place. we're a drive by on to better places. but our downtown is 7 real estate brokers and 5 banks. and 6 pizza shops.  and a hand full  of mom and pop stuff.
why come visit downtown when all you'll see is banks and real-estate stores. 
the disconnection from reality is frightening.  i have no idea what kind of store could survive downtown gravenhurst.  if you're not a bank, or selling property.  what are you selling? pizza apparently...
just because you don't like something doesn't mean it shouldn't exist.
incorrect.

get so tired of this shit game played by the us. they impose a tariff. canada appeals to the nafta mediation process and wins every time. but in the meantime, us producers get to inflate the price of wood to us consumers. their government literally screws over the population to support the ultra rich who profit from the subsidy. and it is tolerated over and over.
the longer i live, the more i see the exact same nonsense over and over again.
the democrats have never been a better neighbour to canada than the republicans.  they're just more polite when they screw us.
the us exports massive amounts of coal from the port of vancouver. why not just close the export terminal. no lumber? no coal.
and yet you still have people believing that the us are our friends. no they aren't. the us is the greatest threat to canada.
i'm no expert, but is it not because in canada we charge stumpage fees for trees harvested on crown land vs. in the us trees are harvested on private property and subjected to those taxes?  at least that's my understanding.  so many international trade tribunals have sided with canada that the system is fair, yet here we are.
these tariffs hit us consumers the hardest, especially when there's already a shortage of softwood in the us and high inflation.  this leads me to suspect that the only winner will be us softwood manufacturers (and their employees).  must be a pretty powerful lobby.
whenever they do this our regulators should start criminal investigations into us based tech companies who do business here. its disgusting how weak we are by design.
[removed]
each time a little more tooling is sent back to the us and a mill closes in canada.
i was coming to ask "didn't we just redo nafta to fix this whole mess" but you already answered it. i don't even know why i'm surprised by the situation at this point.
the price increase of canadian lumber as a result of the tariff has a pretty sweet knock on effect for weyerhaeuser and their timberland holdings in the us.  the us lumber “council” that always puts forward these disputes is basically a weyerhaeuser front.
i don’t even think competition is on their mind when these decisions get made, it’s more likely maximizing profits from private sale of timber and some tax write offs or whatever else they’re doing with their land.
man i hate how in the modern day absolutely 100% of the blame of any issue gets shifted to "the rich". protectionism isn't to benefit the wealthy, its to benefit people working in extremely sub-par industries who need constant government support to be competitive, its just buying votes by keeping people employed even if their sector is ludicrously inefficient.
its like our dairy sector, the average farmer isn't "ultra rich" they just vote in ways that disproportionately benefit themselves because competing on fair grounds feels unfair when others do it better.
the difference is the democrats buy us dinner and say they’ll call us after. the republicans call us the wrong name on the way out the door.
>the democrats have never been a better neighbour to canada than the republicans.  they're just more polite when they screw us.
hell that doesn’t even just apply to canada (and other us allies) anymore, but to their own people too. 
there’s a reason [this becomes less a meme and more a sad take on modern american politics every year.](
it's coke vs pepsi. more or less the same shit, different branding.
...they're increasingly the sane party though. so yeah -- they're not going to be great trading partners on anything but their terms. however, they're at least interested in business. the r side has increasingly just been totally batshit crazy, and that kind of instability isn't good for anyone.
that’s pretty much the same with the rest of the continent, though they don’t need to show deference with countries south of mexico. even mexico they screw them over and they are happy they do. we get some “respect” because there are a lot of businesses that rely on trade, but make no mistake. our friends to the south are abusive bullies who show up unannounced, show no manners, take our savings and kick the dog out of their way out.
democrats are traditionally more protectionist than republicans. trump was an outlier, as republicans are generally supportive of a "free" market.
anyone who thought biden wasn't going to be like this probably only started paying attention to politics when trump got involved.
exactly my thoughts. let's just keep the product here where we have desperate need for new homes/construction or find someone else to trade with if they don't want to play fair? why do we act like they're the only option...
>  the us is the greatest threat to canada.
come on, this hyperbolic stuff isn't necessary or productive.

alright, i'm gonna get down voted for this, but gonna say it.
1. we want cows to be raised well, and not factory farmed = $$
2. we want workers to get paid more = $$
3. transportation is costing more = $$
with those things, how can we expect the price to stay cheap?
i buy milk fairly regularly, and have my whole adult life, the price change per bag in the last twenty years has barely moved, a bag of grapes cost me like $15 the other day, milk isn't driving my grocery bill up nearly as much as produce or meat has been lately, even eggs are much more.
whenever supply management comes up, i remember that there’s like only 3 companies that actually process milk in canada
could we just elect a government who is not a bernier-kind of nut job but have the balls to rid this country of its cartels, and work seriously towards removing the barriers to trade between provinces?
for some inexplicable reason milk was the only thing hoarded in my hometown after all the roads to van closed. that means there are people out there with 16 litres of milk in their fridge that are watching it slowly curdle. maybe they are having lots of cereal?
i have noticed how close to $2 it is for a 1l carton of 1% standard quebec brand (beatrice now i think?) milk. 
but i buy a liter of milk maybe once a month. i don't know many people who consume milk so regularly that the increase in its price is somehow bad relative to say, the increase in cost for vegetables and meat.
milk prices are high because we have a literal landed-gentry that is guaranteed full control of the milk market so they can remain rich and powerful. what will it take for any serious political party to attack this crooked system?
i'm a lactose-free kinda guy and i've actually seen prices *drop* there. while everyone was hoarding gallons in bc my milk was on sale with $1 off, nowhere near expiry... weird. 
that said, it'll put supply management of dairy into the spotlight. with most staples going up in price people will want relief somewhere. but is it really worth to be at the mercy of megacorps whose supply chains have proven to be fragile during times of disruption?
fair point. let me ask these questions tho: are cows treated properly? are farmers paid more?
not rhetorical, i’m actually asking
break the dairy cartel.
>with those things, how can we expect the price to stay cheap?
ok, and here's two questions followed by a rhetorical one:
- how much does a dairy cow cost?
- how much does the quota for a year's milk production from a cow cost? (depends on the province, but you can find it easily via google)
- given the answers to those two questions, what do you think is the larger factor in driving the price of milk?
are these higher prices actually going to make improvements on any of that though?
by ending supply management and allowing competition
have you seen the amount of dairy advertising there is in canada? they literally send lesson boxes to teachers for use in food nutrition lessons.
we pay for that.
except that you can regulate how cows are raised and how workers are treated without supply management. do you really think that any of these things are worse in, say, new zealand or france?
see that’s the problem is the companies don’t want to lose any of there profit margin. they could do the things you listed and still be making more then enough money but like all the rich and powerful it comes down to greed
right on. we should also add that we want the industry to be as self-sustaining as possible rather than subsidizing farms with public money to sell milk at a loss, which is what happens in the us.
are the cows being raised well? i will 100% pay more for that.
tell me you're from ontario without telling me you're from ontario

one of those useful economic terms to know in life is "stated preferences vs revealed preferences". people might *say* they value something, but their actions will show otherwise.
in that respect insurance companies are interesting things to observe. every individual or company can blather on about future plans or grand designs, but it's insurance companies whose bread and butter is in accurately predicting the future course of things. canadian politicians and city councils are dragging their feet about updating flood models and maps (because it's going to have massive implications for taxation and planning), and meanwhile insurance companies are either hiking rates sky high or refusing to offer flood insurance at all. you wouldn't trust insurance companies with *your* money, but you should trust their actions when it comes to theirs.
if it's not insurance comedians l companies paying out, it will be governments. no way will governments, federal, provincial, or municipal, will allow 10% of home owners to lose their homes and have no way to pay for it. 
 this already happens.  people have homes in flood plains, a flood that *no one* could have predicted happens, and the home owners struggle.  there's usually a swath of people effected, and the government can't let them eat the costs themselves so they get bailed out.
how do you even know?  
the floodplains map for my city (ontario, not toronto), just has a yellow triangle on the north end of town and another on the west end, doesn't really say how far you should be from them.
only 10%?  i am a couple of blocks from the river and a few miles from its mouth. the house is over a hundred years old and to my knowledge never been flooded.  however if it was at least half the town would be swimming. there have been changes to the building codes in the flood plain but they have been strange at best.  some new builds weren't allowed basements so they are built on slabs, (basement can't flood if you don't have one). some are built on basements or regular foundations, others are built with garages underneath and the house on top 8 feet up.  hopefully we never have to find out which design works the best.
very insightful post.
even pre-2020 flood claims were going way up and floodplains maps were expanding. there's a lot of public and private investment in the sector to map out areas that are at risk and provide risk assessments. i've always found it strange that it's taxpayers themselves demanding politicians to keep away information crucial to them that they're already paying for.
it just downloads the cost of building in dumb spots to regular taxpayers. if it's uninsurable, they should be shouldering the risk on their own, not being bailed out by everyone else.
well, with that said, we won't be continually doing this with climate change.
we won't have enough money to bail out everyone.
sooner or later people will be on their own.
word to the wide, get a home on the highest possible land you can.
this is coming.
me, i'm about 190 ft above the local river. hopefully that's high enough. the real threat to me and mine is that a local downspout is enough to overwhelm the infrastructure and flood my basement anyways... which can and has happened in this city before and will undoubtedly happen again and more frequently.
i wonder what the general canadian sentiment is around this. i agree with you but think it would be politically difficult for the government to tell people they're on their own. 
the us has had a national flood insurance program for a while and it's now starting to get a lot of heat there because it's such a big money loser. i think canadians might need to learn the hard way though. set up a similar program, watch it lose money, eventually another government cancels the program or increases rates so much people can't afford the insurance anyway (currently happening in the us). 
at the very least the program needs to be well designed to eliminate moral hazards as much as possible. developers and municipalities gaining financially by knowingly building in floodplains should not be allowed to transfer risk to the federal government and national taxpayer.

this is a massive risk for the auto sector. local companies could lose most of their order book if the bbb proposal goes through, and the dispute process will probably take too long for most companies to survive. as the article suggests, auto oems will want to avoid the risk and just set up new ev production in the us.
unless those businesses retool for the new situation, just like any other business that wants to survive when technologies in their field change.
i don’t think there is any ‘might kill’ in this equation.  the us intends to kill/ greatly reduce  the canadian and mexican  roles in the auto  industry .  
countless manufacturing jobs have left the us, they want them back and will do whatever needs  to be done to repatriate them. it doesn’t matter to america that canada has already lost jobs.  
if canada suffers as a result … oh well, collateral damage.  what really hampers any canadian ‘strategy ‘ to stay in the game  is that it’s bipartisan, both us political parties want rustbelt votes and nothing gets more votes than opening factories.
retool to build what?  ev's have less parts.  ev fewer parts break less.
the problem is that the canadian government is not proactive in providing support for development of advanced technology. we trust that the free market will work. while this is true for well established industry, it's not true for starting new industries. 
protectionist policy has been used by most developed counties until the industry is mature enough to compete freely. 
the most prominent example for cars is lithium iorn phosphate batteries. the ip for lfp is shared the ut and hydro-québec. 
yet currently canada and the us produce zero lfp cells. for what ever reason we won't fund these technologies properly. 
yeah we need to hoard our cobalt and only insist on building the batteries the cobalt uses. only sell cobalt to companies that build battery plants here. legislate it as strategic resource. biden doesn't have congo. he needs cobalt.
if i think about all the parts i’ve had to change in my car none of them have had anything to do with it being a gasser. it’s been suspension, brakes, door handle, heated seat module, sun roof, sun visor, ball joints. evs still have a ton of moving parts that any other vehicle has.
>ev fewer parts break less.
everything breaks don't get it twisted.
they make chemistries that are using less and less cobalt. it won't be long before they no longer need cobalt
edit: fewer parts means less to repair
ok. other raw materials then. like argued here.

[removed]
removed for rule 3.

these "pregnancy crisis centers" pretend to be medical facilities, and frequently provide misinformation about the risks of abortion, and also attempt to stall these women until the fetus has developed too far to proceed with termination.
this behavior is heinous and criminal. these organizations interfere with the provision of medical care to vulnerable women. while health is a provincial jurisdiction, the federal government should use the *criminal power* and make these centres illegal outright so that there are fewer barriers to a woman's right and access to abortion.
i’m at a loss. i don’t know why she would think doing this is a good idea. she’s just giving ammo to the lpc. although maybe that’s the plan, rock the boat until o’toole can no longer be leader, break him by making him look powerless in front of the caucus. 
anyways, i personally disagree with her position. i think this is what’s driving away centrist voters and the gta ridings.
the anti abortion centres prey on vulnerable people and manipulate them, giving them incorrect information and makes them wait until they’re too far along to have an abortion.  they’re not charities because they don’t help people.  they add nothing to society.
well that's going to throw a wrench is cpc supporters plan of saving "abortion debate is just a boogeyman that liberals bring up", this and this years attempt at opening up the debate are proof the threat is real
and yet conservatives in this sub would have you believe that progressives saying conservatives are a threat to access to abortions are just making up a boogeyman. 
the emperor has no clothes.
the consevatives are in the news more than either other party it feels right now.. i am not sure the press they are getting right now is good either.. feels like the cpc are imploding.
just ensure they don't provide false info, and for those that are proven to do then revoke their charity status. this seems like an overly broad hammer to apply to a narrow problem.
exactly, they aren’t providing a religious based health services to pregnant women in good faith, something i have no issue with.  they are tricking women who generally are seeking services to terminate a pregnancy and use manipulative tactics to get them to keep their baby, not cool!
they should all be shut down
fighting the lpc is for tomorrow. for today, she is trying secure the cpc leadership.
it's because she's a social conservative and made it personally clear in the leadership. she's never shied away from expressing herself on these issues. she thinks it is a good idea because she genuinely believes that life begins at conception and that abortion is akin to murder. 
o'toole courted her supporters and her even in the leadership, and now she's got a place in the party.
is it her conservative ideology that you don't like or only the fact that it will cost right wing votes?
what bothers you more?
>i’m at a loss. i don’t know why she would think doing this is a good idea. she’s just giving ammo to the lpc
an opposition mp shouldn't oppose the government in case the governmemt criticizes her for it?
they kept saying it when lewis and others in the party proposed to ban sex-selective abortion, so why let this stop them?
i mean it's never stopped the tories from yelling about boogeymen before
[removed]
i mean, to be fair, even if this wasn’t a proposal from a backbencher that has no hope of being implemented, it wouldn’t restrict or reduce access to abortion.
this literally has nothing to do with access to abortion. removing the charity status of these organizations would do nothing whatsoever to increase access to abortion.
they are attracting renewed interest from the ppc voters.

>perhaps, then, the only way to make the speech interesting is to look at what wasn’t in it – sort of the way sovietologists used to examine who wasn’t standing next to stalin during the may day parade in moscow, in order to better understand what was going on behind the walls of the kremlin.
this is the passage that signals there will be no value in the remainder of the article.
what kind of editorial board puts this out and then pats themselves on the back for a job-well-done?
meanwhile, there have been real policy changes at the fed level to reduce economic supports, namely dialing back the income supports that have been incorrectly attacked as the main source of inflation.
the article doesn't even present the basics of reality correctly. which senpai is the gnm trying to get validation from with this?
"you couldn’t even say it achieved the more modest goals of being somewhat newish, or sort of fresh.". 
til a modest government speech is supposed to be somewhat newish or sort of fresh...
the news media in this country have gone to complete shit over time by amalgamating into a handful of voices. there’s almost no competition and seemingly little interest in providing unique content or a story others may not have.
instead we get a handful of stories that are flogged to death. they decide what to write based on social media trend data and that means, instead of something new, they touch on the same general topics without actually introducing new thoughts.
what amusing about your comment is that you decided to avoid discussing the very real problem of inflation at all. it’s as if your approach is to kill the messenger and put your head in the sand. the reality is that the trudeau liberals have no idea what to do so the best thing is to pretend as of there is no issue.
pundits love to conflate the throne speech as something that should be extraordinary and life-changing lol
the throne speech is what defines the agenda and direction of the government over the next sitting of parliament.
it's not a "modest government speech", it's one of the most important communications that occurs in each parliament.
and if it actually was they would freak the fuck out and stir up panic.
they want to be inspired but if you’re inspiring that’s tyranny.

they basically just voted for the option to work from home. many businesses are giving their employees the same option. 🤷‍♂️
good. it’s effective and no need to rush for parliament to fully physical, especially if one party isn’t promising to behave responsibly  regarding vaccine openness. also otoole should realize debates can still occur through this hybrid method.
i really want to know why the bloc québécois oppose a hybrid model of parliament.
don’t see a problem with this. it’s not the same hybrid model as last parliament. the text of the bill doesn’t force cohorts like (was necessary) last year, it lets each individual mp choose to participate or not — so every bloc and conservative member are still more than welcomed to show up every day.
i'm for this. keeps mp's and parliamentary staff safe in case of a covid outbreak. the space between house seats doesn't really allow for social distancing anyways.
o’toole could do his part by ensuring the parliament is a safe workplace, by clarifying how many of his mps are refusing the recommended vaccines.
also, assuming we are done with covid, is short-sighted. how many re-runs of this shitty episode do we need? 
i really hope we are past the worst, but that could change very quickly. let’s not let our guard down early for a fifth fucking time. hybrid is still the way to go, as much as it has its many disadvantages.
i'm 100% in favour of in-person parliament, but only once its safe. a hybrid or remote parliamentary setting when covid is a dangerous factor, especially with the new variant, is something i think everyone can get behind. 
something that is bugging me, however, is that we have parliament going hybrid but provinces allowing entire stadiums to be filled. if it's not safe for parliament to meet, then how is it safe for all of us to be packed like capelin in a net at a stadium? different jurisdictions, i suppose, but it's not a great look when there does appear to be such a disconnect.
there is no reason for a hybrid parliament with everyone vaccinated. only a minuscule number of vaccinated people have been seriously harmed by covid, and almost all of them had background health issues. the real reason for a hybrid model is to allow trudeau and ministers to avoid parliament. because despite trudeau's claims of an open and transparent government his has been the most secretive in canadian history. and his arrogance means he detests being questioned on anything.
not surprised to see the ndp supporting him on this. they're not really a political party any more so much as a junior branch of the liberal party, and singh will do anything he's told and vote however he's instructed by his 'big brother' trudeau.
the thing is the mps staff have to be in the [office.](
[removed]
huh, it’s almost like there are solutions other than firing people for not getting vaccinated.
who would have thought that.
they’ve pretty much just handed the federal unions a grievance win with this move.
the press gallery in ottawa is able to give them more coverage when they’re on the hill. plus heckling is easier in person- zoom makes it difficult lol.
they are afraid of less good media moments during qp or something?
the best possible reason is that the remote appearances have been awful on the translators who have incurred an incredible amount of on job injuries. 
in debate over this motion, the two main arguments of the bq seemed to be that: 1) there were often times during the last parliament, which was also hybrid, that liberal mp mark gerretsen would represent the government by himself, meaning that the opposition couldn't ask questions of ministers as they could before the pandemic; and 2) because covid is a continually evolving situation, the extension of hybrid parliament until june 23 is too long, and any extensions should be decided across shorter intervals (e.g. a month or two, per bloc mp claude debellfeuille). 
the liberal response to the former was that the conditions of the pandemic have changed since the previous parliament, and, as such, they expect ministers will be more frequently present. the ndp, which shared the bloc concern over this point, appeared to be satisfied with this; the bloc did not. i do not recall if the liberals ever directly responded to the point about the extension being too long. there were also a few points about interpretation and translation, but i don't exactly recall those either.
there has been issues with voting.
will ministers and the prime minister be forced to attend? a major part of what happens in parliament is holding the government to account. this is harder to do when the minister's aren't there or calling in when they expect to have a bad day.
o'toole should hire the best doctors in all the land to figure out why so many cpc mps aren't able to be vaccinated. it's disproportionate to the general public. assuming they're all being completely honest (as is the polite assumption), this points to some sort of endemic illness or condition sweeping conservative ranks. it's in the best interest of these mps as well as canada as a whole to get them quarantined and thoroughly examined as soon as possible in case this condition is dangerous and/or contagious.
but really, they're either lying or there's something wrong. i think both scenarios could use a doctor, but just a different kind.
i think a hybrid model is a good idea after the risk is gone as well. less travel, more time for mps in their riding, and you can still set minimum quotas for attendance.
if you feel you need help, please contact someone.
1.833.456.4566
many men have no purpose in our society.
i'm gay.  at the time i was growing up, that meant i would never get to have anything that society endorsed as acceptable.  there would be no wife, no career, no kids.  (i was kinda wrong on that, it turned out.  but it's how i understood it at the time.)  the alienation hit hard, fast and i knew it was happening.  i barely survived.  i suspect this effect is part of why so many of us didn't, though.
anyway at some point i asked myself what's the point of life?  well i still don't know.  but maybe.  being useful to others.  making things.  yes, even making new, hopefully better people.  
these are deeply rewarding things and despite the various ways of getting lost our society has come up with, i think most people at the end of the day are very dull.  they want stability, safety, and to start a family and make something they can be proud of in some way.  i had to invent a queer spin on that i could figure out how to align with.  kept me going so far.  i assume you [all know the old observation about married vs. single people](
but honestly it's really hard today.  people aren't finding mates.  people don't have friends.  people don't have jobs with purpose.  people don't have economic security.
are more men running into a version of what i did?  the writing is on the wall.  for a lot of them, it looks like there will be no wife, career, home, or kids, at least in the way they were raised to expect and strive for.  i can attest it's quite depressing.
i want to offer my perspective: all the anti depressants and therapist visits won’t fix not having/having a shrinking support system and the colossal difficulty of building one from scratch in your late 20s early 30s. it’s hard to connect with people nowadays and the whole connect via hobbies thing don’t really work unless you actually got hobbies. many men are just boring guys -  video games, wife/gf, family and job, but wouldn’t mind getting together with a bunch of equally boring guys to shoot the shit. you don’t wanna attempt to connect with someone with a full social circle already that can really make you feel like worthless and that you’ve wasted your time/effort and put you off the cliff. basically we need a male focused match making app for finding friends without defined hobbies and people who have space in their lives to let new people in. i personally find it hard to connect in real life as a former hardcore gamer wanting to move on. popular culture promoting “no new friends” is also very toxic. need a modern solution for this modern problem. plenty of video game addicts fall into this social rut
it isn't a silent crisis at all. everyone knows, no one cares. anyone who pipes up about it is labeled an mra, incel or whatever the pejorative of the day is to allow people to focus on other problems elsewhere.
if i have to work until i die once my parents are gone i might just end it frankly. i don't want to work until the day i die, at that point i'm already nearly dead as it is.
a lot of mainstream thinking either tells men they are oppressors or that their issues are secondary and should focus on being allies to women or other groups. there some validity to that but issues that men face are not seen as serious.
then people wonder someone of the likes of peterson blew up so fast.
we destroyed basic cultural institutions and norms and replaced them with absolutely nothing in the meatspace. into the abyss slips drugs, alcohol and porn and depending on your age possibly video games. 
if you're a blue collar man and your social life centred around the bowling alley and the bar next door what becomes of you when its torn down to build condos? 
one of my friends has been doing research in the us on this and is finding that it fuels isolation and the breakdown real-world social networks. doug doesn't want to be facebook friends with gord from bowling, the relationships don't exist outside of that context.
his funding application was basically what would the dude, walter and donny be doing with their free time if they weren't bowling and would they still be friends.
our labour laws and benefits need to change, more in the workers favour. france has it dialled in, we should carbon copy. need a few years of healing the people, all this negative news being thrown in our faces does nothing to help. national healing is what we need
can we acknowledge that life has gotten significantly harder and much more cutthroat for those who need to work for a living within the past 30-40 years?
people handle this stress differently based on their backgrounds. but i think that we need to take a step back at times and acknowledge what the root cause is and not get distracted on our differences.
those who benefit from all this chaos would love for us to get stuck in the weeds.
nobody cares about depressed men, and the older you get the less people care. i feel like people would prefer that we just killed ourselves.
the suicide crisis among men is directly related to our patriarchal social system and the ways we socialize men to suppress and not talk about our emotions. there are a lot of causal factors for why many people are in a poor mental state, from illness to capitalism. but the way we teach men to not be in touch with their feelings is, i think, the most prominent reason why these causal factors lead to more men committing suicide than women.
and yes, i am making this comment directly in response to the other parent comment that claimed talking about male suicide gets you labeled an mra. it's important to bring this up, because there's a weird culture that's prominent online of men who want to double down on stereotypes of masculinity and toxic masculinity in response to the men's mental health crisis. in reality we need to dismantle destructive versions of masculinity in order to help men.
---
editing this parent comment in response to the various people replying to this claiming that the phrase "toxic masculinity" is an attack on men. it isn't. it's a description of the ways society weaponizes masculinity against men. there are ample ways to describe and examples of healthy, positive masculinity, and pointing out that there are also toxic forms of masculinity isn't an attack on men. here's what i wrote further into the comment thread:
>> toxic masculinity is really toxic expectations of men. by both men and women.
> >but casually forgetting that is just another way men get given the big f-you when it comes to mental health.
>you're not contradicting or even disagreeing with what i said. toxic masculinity isn't saying that masculinity is inherently toxic, it's pointing out the toxic things that society teaches and expects of men under the guise of masculinity.
>you mention that men are too often told to deal with their own problems and suck it up. those unfair expectations are what toxic masculinity means. those expectations are a harmful idea, enforced on boys and then men under the guise of them being the "manly" way to be. in reality, needing community, needing help, and needing emotional support are all normal and healthy things for everyone, and none of them are contradictory to being masculine. so defining masculinity in a way that excludes those supports is toxic to men. it's a toxic way to frame masculinity.
>if you ask men to define masculinity, they usually list positive attributes that they're proud of. those attributes are healthy masculinity, and it's usually things related to loyalty, protectiveness, caring, strength, sometimes stuff like physical prowess, ambition and diligence.
>and as to the patriarchy, if you look up what the idea of the patriarchy is actually about, it very much acknowledges and focuses on how it hurts men just like it hurts women. in a patriarchal society that expects and enforces gender roles, you get men being boxed into toxic ideas that are unfair to men and which hurt men.
>neither of these phrases are an attack on men. what they do is name and describe the things in our society that actually are attacking men. stereotyping, peer pressuring, and shaming men into being people who don't want to or aren't allowed to express themselves.
>you're rightly identifying a lot of the problems men face in your post, but i think you're griping about phrases that describe the very problems you're concerned about, instead of focusing on the problems themselves. you mention pride and women's liberation — maybe you could check out mens liberation. it's a positive movement for male positivity, like you said you're looking for. here's a wikipedia intro: 
>and there's a subreddit: 
yeah, life is pretty pointless... i've thought about ending it a few times.
just same thing day in, day out... no partner, small home, meh job
the simple fact is that there's men out there with nothing.  no friends, no support structure, alienated from their own labour and nothing in their life to derive meaning from.  social isolation eventually gets to a boiling point, and with no real support structures out there for these men, it results in suicides.  
additionally, toxicly masculine social pressures keep men from ever expressing these feelings, as men of often ostracized for being "overly emotional" or "too feminine".  society is slowly changing over these preconceived notions, but not nearly fast enough to save a lost generation of socially isolated and ostracized men from choosing the rope.
three guys in my town of 700 all killed themselves within two weeks. i’ve known four others. haven’t known a woman to do it. there’s a double standard on mental health. women get to cry it out and talk to people about it. men are supposed to grin and bare it. i myself spent a decade fantasizing about doing it myself. when i tried to get help, i was told to quit drinking because that’s the cause. didn’t matter that i explained that i drink to cope and have been depressed a lot longer than i had been drunk. i was then told “well it will help if you quit drinking”. couldn’t explain that the only time i didn’t think of killing myself was when i’m drinking. i got caught in a loop and quit going. i had to dig myself out of it, and it was the hardest thing i ever did.
my experience has been that a lot of my urges with this have to do with a general sense of trapped hopelessness for the future - and a chunk of that lays in things that relate specifically to canada like a feeling of lack of opportunity, worsening job prospects, increasingly unaffordable shelter, etc. compounded with more global stuff like climate change, the general trajectory of the world at large seems to just be bad with a lot of lip service but no real political or societal will to correct-course. 
like others have (rightfully, imo) pointed out, there's a big issue with social atomization and isolation; a lot of the previous pillars of community like religion (note: i am not a fan of the dogmatic aspects, but the community aspect is real), long-term employment (and the stability/long-term nature of housing they bring) are completely gone, so meeting other likeminded peers in real life is difficult if you're no longer in school.
a lot of this might just be me and i don't presume to assign it to others, but i really feel a deep level of malaise, as a young-ish (30) canadian man, i feel like society/economy/politics in particular are drifting along on pure intertia and nothing more. basically i guess i would say it's just a deep and pervasive pessimism  that life here is not getting better, and outside of novel tech stuff like phones, has decreased in quality since the time my parents generation came of age.
how does this fit in with the data that suicides were down 32% last year?
also - male suicides are more often successful due to the methods men choose vs women.
i think that inteenational mens day, instead of attacking feminists and trying to devour international women’s day, should focus and highlight these high suicide and mental issues. meninism shouldn’t be associated with being anti-woman and strive to advocate solutions to real issues among the male community, like suicide and high mental illness rates, as well the male gbtqi+ community.
society has (rightfully, i might add) focused on the systemic barriers facing women. however, it's only slowly catching up to the fact that "toxic masculinity" "masculine" expectations also harm men.
i hope if anyone here is considering suicide that you can get help. life can be really hard some times, but it's worth it to hang in there. getting help can make a huge difference in how much you enjoy life, please try it.
honestly i think about suicide alot, i have support, i've seen counsellors. i dont trust pharmaceutical treatments because i've watched to many of my close friends attempt suicide from the antidepressants they were prescribed and i dont want it to change who i am. it's almost impossible to get an appointment to see a psychiatrist or psychologist i've been trying for 2 years. all the fear, inflation rising costs of living people turning on each other stress everywhere you look. not to mention i feel like i never had a chance well a logical chance the way the world is set up it's near impossible to get ahead in life i make good money but i dont think i'll ever be able to own my own home i'm single i have alot of issues from childhood trauma that i'm am not boyfriend material. suicide has been on my mind since i can remember and i've put in a lot of effort to change and seek help but in this world theres only so much you can do until the system fails you. i'm surprised more people dont feel this way or there as good at hiding it as i am. anyways today was a bad mental health day and i seen this just wanted to empty a bit of my mind

feds announce five measures:   
1. banning foreign nationals who have travelled through seven countries in south africa in the last 14 days.   
2. request for quarantine and test for anybody in canada who have been in said countries.   
3. returning canadians must be tested and quarantine.   
4. travel advisory, asking canadians not to travel to southern africa.   
5. canadians who connect to come home have to be tested in connecting countries.
just for reference, there are no direct flights to that part of the world (in case anyone is wondering why there is no outright flight ban).


our government isn't very skilled when it comes to defending canada's export commodities. just look at oil, steel, softwood lumber, canola....
?

her followers have long been involved in violent incidents. she keeps explicitly calling for more violence and trying to incite murders. why is she still not behind bars?
alright, i think her delusions have carried on long enough. this individual is inciting violence, and might also be committing treason? are you allowed to claim to be the monarch? i don’t even know. throw the book at this maniac.
all it would take is just one of her rabid followers to do something stupid. let’s nip this in the bud.
that's not good. considering we know who she is and this is reasonable to view this as a real threat, when can we expect an arrest and charges? 
and to be clear, i mean arrest by actual police and charges in actual court. not code for something else.
i have not idea who this person is, have never heard of her before.  but regardless anyone who actually buys into this crap being real is just as crazy as anyone who would calls themselves qanon.
this woman demonstrates a combination of mental illness and terrorism. appropriate action should be taken by the police to squash this violent threat to law, order and reality based democratic government.
total speculation of course, but there was an active shooter in vanderhoof, targeting their rcmp offices... wonder if it's related?
back in the day challenging a monarch's legitimate right to rule would get you sent to the tower of london. now, i'm not saying this women should be locked in the basement of the citadelle of quebec but she does appear to have a desire to live in a castle.
her complete ignorance of a monarch's proper role [reminds me of this comic](
qanon is a terrorist organization. come on, if the proud boys can make the list then so can these deranged lunatics.
how is this not a criminal offense? couldn't have anything to do with the kid gloves this country uses when it comea to right wing extremists could it?
this is straight up terrorism. gonna be hard to be the queen of canada from prison.
>didulo implies that her duck hunters are secretive military veterans she’s bringing in from the u.s. but on telegram (a chat app known for their lax rules), over 6,000 of her online supporters have signed up to be a part of “canada military 2.0”—a separate, but inactive, telegram page where followers pledge to be part of didulo’s fighting force. “i have offered my life for humanity and joined our canadian duck hunters,” one of her followers wrote.
"duck hunters"? why do canadian terror/hate groups have the weirdest names?
why is this on canadian politics? this is a mental illness case.
why has receiving a medical treatment become political?
[removed]
it seems like police underestimate the severity of online threats across the board. they seem permanently stuck on the idea that online and real life are completely separate, even though we've seen time and time again that that's not true. to make things worse, didulo and her followers are ridiculous. she spends all day sending out fake orders to government agencies. she currently seems to think she's directing the highway repairs in southern bc and keeps telling the crews how many excavators to deploy and where. i imagine it's hard to take a look at that and think "terrorist" even while she directs her followers to murder health care workers
>why is she still not behind bars?
liberal " social democracies " and the west in general never take fascism seriously until its too late. the benefit of the doubt will be awarded until a murder happens. theres no putting the q anon jack back into the box now. even if she is arrested she becomes a martyr, if she is killed she becomes a prophet and if she's let free she keeps rolling as a heavy hitter in the propoganda world.
there's no winning solution that the state can provide once movements reach these levels of thought & proliferation. again, the police aren't inclined to take action against anti vaxxers and anti maskers. they protested with them, let them swarm & block hospitals so and so forth. it will take alot for these people to see real jail time , if any is seen at all.
> why is she still not behind bars?
because she's aligned with fascists, and the police are fascists. there's no one who could make such a public call for mass murders and then have zero consequences - unless you're a right wing nutter.
please, tell me what violent incidents you're referring to. i haven't even heard of this person before and suddenly they're some hot-shot group leader organizing  violence? why are they not being covered by media?
i don't think it's treason; it doesn't fit any of the categories that i can find listed.
what it *does* look like to me (ianal) is "instructing to carry out terrorist activity" (section 83.22 of the criminal code).
if what she's instructing people to do doesn't fall under "terrorist activity" under section 83.01, it walks right up to the line of it:
>***terrorist activity*** [means](  
>...   
>**(b)** an act or omission, in or outside canada,  
>.**(i)** that is committed  
>..**(a)** in whole or in part for a political, religious or ideological purpose, objective or cause, and  
>..**(b)** in whole or in part with the intention of intimidating the public, or a segment of the public, with regard to its security, including its economic security, or compelling a person, a government or a domestic or an international organization to do or to refrain from doing any act, whether the public or the person, government or organization is inside or outside canada, and  
>.**(ii)** that intentionally  
>..**(a)** causes death or serious bodily harm to a person by the use of violence,  
>..**(b)** endangers a person’s life,  
>..**(c)** causes a serious risk to the health or safety of the public or any segment of the public,  
>..**(d)** causes substantial property damage, whether to public or private property, if causing such damage is likely to result in the conduct or harm referred to in any of clauses (a) to (c), or  
>..**(e)** causes serious interference with or serious disruption of an essential service, facility or system, whether public or private, other than as a result of advocacy, protest, dissent or stoppage of work that is not intended to result in the conduct or harm referred to in any of clauses (a) to (c),  
>and includes a conspiracy, attempt or threat to commit any such act or omission, or being an accessory after the fact or counselling in relation to any such act or omission, but, for greater certainty, does not include an act or omission that is committed during an armed conflict and that, at the time and in the place of its commission, is in accordance with customary international law or conventional international law applicable to the conflict, or the activities undertaken by military forces of a state in the exercise of their official duties, to the extent that those activities are governed by other rules of international law.
the only thing in that definition that *doesn't* seem to fit the instruction, "shoot to kill anyone who tries to inject children under the age of 19 years old with coronavirus19 vaccines/ bioweapons or any other vaccines," is 83.01(b)(ii)(d), and that's in the "or" part of the list.
as a dedicated non-conservative, i completely agree with you.
she needs institutionalization for her own safety and others'. but she lives in bc, and all those facilities were closed in the 90s here.
so she has to commit a crime or hurt herself in order to land in incarceration or the psych ward.

local news access is already pretty garbage from a television standpoint. many local newscasts have been replaced by generic programs that are the same in every market (same hosts, same national news, same political points) and they tack on a local story at the end. the issue is that they don't have boots on the ground reporting on local issues.
the business model for local tv news has been destroyed by the very medium on which you are reading this comment.
the rogers-shaw deal, and whatever conditions are imposed when/if it is approved, won't change that.
[removed]
i thought the medium we're reading this on might be pretty much the only business model that matters (cable internet).  do they even make money on tv still?
not really. a ton of the articles posted in local subreddits usually come from local stations.
removed for rule 3.
revenues for conventional television have been declining for years. the internet (which is the medium that i was referring to) has destroyed the business model for local ad sales. 
vertically integrated companies like rogers and shaw have a number of revenue streams, to be sure, but local tv isn't the money maker it once was.
in 2019, conventional tv broadcasters in canada posted an 0.8 year-over-year growth in revenue. that was the first time they have grown revenues since 2009.
in 2020, revenues dropped 14.3%, year-over-year.
so, not exactly a healthy industry...

definitely a worthwhile listen for those with any interest in the canadian oil & gas industry and the problem of climate change. i’ve always respected him, but weaver is far more reasonable and interesting as a scientist than he ever was as a politician.
i listened to it too. the thing that i don't understand is why he, and those with similar views, care so much about what private investors are doing. i mean, if you think lng or pipelines aren't a great investment, fine, they may not be. buy why do you care? any losses are coming out of their pockets, not yours. (and no, there aren't actually piles of money coming from government/tax dollars). he talks about "we" shouldn't be investing in lng, when "we" are not doing the investing, it's the companies involved putting up the cash. that argument has never held water for me.
i think his comments on lng have to be understood in the context of the clark government’s push to develop lng and his concern that there are some tax expenditures going out the door to incentivize development of the industry. in the case of lng canada, that’s probably a good investment. but he’s right the market can’t support 5+ terminals on the west coast. he also probably thinks that private investment in lng could be better invested in other technologies. i don’t necessarily disagree (though i think it’s clear from my posting history that i think we should continue developing oil and gas as an export), but i don’t think canada is the right place to try to ride the wave of a massive renewable push. we have too much hydro for it to represent a significant market opportunity. transmission, in the other hand…
it makes a difference if those investments are pushing an agenda that threatens everybody.  if you start burning rubber tires in your own backyard and i have to deal with the smoke i don't really care if public or private property you're doing it on. if you're investing in an lng project that's going to destroy eelgrass beds and fuck up the salmon fishery for the entire west coast i don't really care if its private investment or public investment, i just want it to stop.
why can't "we" mean all of humanity, since we're all in the same environment?
every fossil fuel investment we take on at this point is madness. it's a like a cancer patient smoking and drinking while they're hooked up to a chemo iv.
i agree with you on power, and am myself skeptical of lng given the capital cost in canada. its more that private investment ought to be separate from government policy. he appears to conflate  private investment decisions and outcomes with government policy, which confuses the public.
good thing we assessed those risks as part of the environmental assessment, then. will there be no impact? no. but don’t exaggerate the potential magnitude either.
i agree there are linkages. thing is, there is demand for the stuff. the investment is meeting a need. nobody loves fossil fuels for themselves, but they have great utility. transition is going to take a long time as alternatives arise.
the real truth is most of the enviro and govt pundits have strong negative ideological opinions about private profits in general. which is why they are critical about private investment effectiveness compared to rosy opinions of government investment effectiveness.
excellent point. much as we wish it weren't so, there's no such thing as a zero impact project or product. does not and cannot exist. everything we humans do on the planet has some impact. it's a matter of understanding the trade offs to minimize overall negative effects in exchange for the stuff we want.
we assessed the site c construction risks. 
we assessed open-pen net salmon farming risks. 
we assessed the mt polley mine tailings pond risks. 
we assessed the deepwater horizon oil rig risks. 
we assessed sumas lake flooding risks. 
we assessed hydraulic fracturing risks. 
we assessed risks to highways and bridges for torrential rainfall. 
we assessed risks to clear cutting forests. 
just because we assessed the risks doesn’t mean our assessments were correct, particularly when we receive new information.
can you understand why some people feel like they have grounds to exaggerate those risks for the worse?
i agree... in the analogy the cancer patient would go through withdrawal of their habits are stopped immediately.
the other problem with the analogy is the patient is still refusing treatment and arguing with the doctors.
maybe we need to stop smoking cigarettes, but canadian cigarettes are cleaner than saudi or chinese cigarettes, so we really need to export ours to save those cancer patients.
> but canadian cigarettes are cleaner than saudi or chinese cigarettes
depends where from. oil sands is not cleaner than the majority of other sites.
we have tarsands, fracked gas, asbestos and coal.

>under the bill, a city like toronto could pass a bylaw banning handguns and the federal government would respect it by refusing to license handgun owners who live within the city and intend to store their weapons there.
this is going to be a jurisdictional mess. downloading what is in essence a federal responsibility to municipalities bypassing the province while having it all based on the feds word that the bylaws will be respected.
because if there's one thing that toronto gang members will respect, it's a city or provincial law saying that their already illegal handguns are even more illegal now.
once again, illegal guns from the us are the issue. the vast majority of gun crime is conducted with illegal firearms. further legislation will do a nothing, punish illegal gun owners and gun runners. 
more virtue signalling from the liberals.
every time they announce something like this, instead of some kind of comprehensive border security reform, they make it clear they think the electorate is stupid.
for the love of god no, we have functional federal level gun laws. look at the us they have gun laws at all 3 levels of government and its a absolute mess, this will be too.
when the conservatives say trudeau is divisive, here is one of the stark examples.
this is a useless policy not based on evidence. it is meant to shore up misinformed urban votes, at the expense of law-abiding rural folks. this will change nothing with respect to gun violence, and it will further exacerbate the urban-rural divide.
ah, i love nothing more with my morning coffee than being blamed for gangsters in toronto using [majority]( (edit: added link) prohibited smuggled handguns to kill eachother (edit: [both attempt to kill eachother and kill eachother]( being higher than in previous years.)
on a related note, good job cbsa intercepting that [car with 56 glock 26s]( (prohibited) over in sarnia earlier this month. hopefully there weren’t another five cars with the same payload.
even bill blair (during c71 cabinet hearings) confessed that an”handgun” ban would have no meaningful impact.  
this is a political move, at extremely great expense, which callously distracts from the real issues while vulnerable communities continue to be killed.
ah yes, the ever present "let's punish legal gunowners because of gang violence". the liberals know this is the case yet still pretend as if they don't because they are anti gun. you guys don't have to fear guns, responsible citizens own guns.
this is a bad policy.  
the gun violence is almost entirely associated with the drug trade.  people whose business is the import and sale of contraband.  they're not going to have problems getting weapons.  
if you want to make a real impact you need to hurt the drug trade.  the way you do that is through legalization.
bruh can this please stop, i literally just want to enjoy my hobby. i present no risk to society and i don't want to ever have to use my gun on other humans. why am i being punished for doing nothing wrong?
yes because legally owned handguns are responsible for the gun crime, right?
...r...right? oh theyre not? oh its literally 99% illegally smuggled american guns?
yet another worthless law that only punishes canadian gun owners. 
im all for gun control. im a huge proponent of it. we have strict licensing in canada, and as a result there are few crimes committed with legal guns. 
what im not a fan of is kneejerk laws to appease people afraid of guns. banning guns because they look scary, banning handguns when extremely strict licensing already exists. this is all bullshit pandering to the scared voters.
handguns are already banned unless you're the member of a target shooting club.
side question: how much legislation are they going to try to ram through as if they have a majority?
what's the purpose of owning a handgun anyway? and isn't the real problem with illegally obtained handguns? why ban them from responsible gun owners?
[removed]
i hate guns, but this will make such a mess and not impact gun violence at all. legal gun owners aren't the issue, it's gun violence with stolen guns.
"let's punish legal owners and create more government jobs in the process"
what a waste of money and resources that could be diverted to health care or education.  how about targeting illegal guns being imported into the country (crackdown on reserves).
these changes will not have any impact on gun violence.
the liberal government does not care about gun violence, they care about looking like they care about gun violence. this will save no lives.
it's too bad, too. the poor and racialized are the ones who bear the brunt of gun violence in this country, as if they don't enough other shit to deal with, and jt likes the feel-good feeling of pretending to be the one that will help them. what did we get so far? banned a bunch of guns that are rarely used in crimes anyway, with a program that will absolutely balloon in cost and not prevent shit. i'm sure the affected communities could think of a few better ways to spend the billions that will end up costing.
if the province chooses to ban handguns, wouldn't federal support for that decision make sense instead of blocking the will of the province to govern itself?


cop26 failed by giving photo op climate actions a place and rewarding people who only demand action in words and not thri action. this article perfectly broke down canada’s lacklustre action especially in transitioning away from fossil fuel sectors and working with provinces with these key energy resources as so there can be a consensus change.
it's very clear that politics in general is unable to address climate change, not just in canada but virtually everywhere. this is what happens when we simplify the world into simple good and evil dynamics and convince everyone the peak of participation is being a consumer.
what we know, compared to what we do and what we are told does not make sense. it hasn't made sense for a while and it will only get worse.
this world needs another universal treaty similar to that of the montreal protocol. the world came together in 1987 to repair the hole in the ozone layer when we banned the use of chlorofluorocarbons. we have the technology to implement substitutes for the use of fossil fuels. so now we wait for the trillion-dollar fossil fuel industry and stakeholders to decide if they prefer saving the planet over profit.
we keep uping the taxes on fossil fuels but provide no real alternatives.  consumption of fossil fuels doesn't change and consumers get shit on.
rip: middle and lower income earners.
[deleted]
cop26 was a meeting of sovereign nations. what does it mean to demand a sovereign nation has to do something?
> this world needs another universal treaty similar to that of the montreal protocol.
we need an organized working class composed of intersectional organizations into a movement to force politicians into action by hitting the economy where it hurts, the bottom line.
playing nice with politicians isn't working, it's time to bring back militant activism & unionism.
there's no need for a universal treaty, just an international working class coalition with a bottom-up grassroots democratic structure.
there totally are alternatives. most of the power in canada is not supplied via fossil fuels. there are a ton of smaller, more fuel efficient vehicles on the market. there are also advances everyday in electric and hydrogen fuel cell vehicles. depending on where you live, there are mass transit options as well.
you don't even need to look at your own use of fossil fuels. one of the arguably best things you can do for the plant is eat less meat. going vegetarian (or better full vegan) is a great opportunity to reduce your carbon foot print. i am not fully veg myself, but have been trying to limit myself to only a couple of meals involving meat a week. 
if you order from amazon, next day or express delivery will cause trucks to run when they are less than full, which will also affect carbon footprint of the stuff you buy.
i would also like to ask what you would define as low and middle income earners?
wouldn’t matter which party was in office. all politicians are full of shit now. looking out for themselves and their interests. the public and what we think or want, doesn’t matter anymore.
the working class hates it when the cost of carbon goes up.
[
if anything it's the elites like steven guilbeault (and other urban elites) that are pushing as hard as possible.
also which unions are you talking about? auto unions, forestry unions, steelmaker unions? none of these are on the side of mitigating climate change.
canadians don't want climate change action that requires them to make individual changes in lifestyle.
> there's no need for a universal treaty, just an international working class coalition with a bottom-up grassroots democratic structure.
good luck with that. most of the working class is actively driving wedges through itself along superficial intersectional boundaries.
ah the future, when oil, forestry, construction, manufacturing, mining and similar workers are respected by activists on twitter as the bedrock of the working class that they are. ha!
we need to stop viewing political action from the lenses of consumerism. yes, there should be a cultural shift towards sustainable consumption but resorting to "market based solutions" puts the initative to solve the problem on the cause of the problem. it's like asking the police to investigate themselves for police brutality, it's ridiculous.
the solutions needed to address climate change in the necessary timeframe involves mass societal investments and cultural change, not pretty ads and consumer preferences.
just say no to the market.
[deleted]
> the working class hates it when the cost of carbon goes up.
yea, did know that we can solve climate change without relying on putting the burden of the cost on working class canadians? it's really not that hard and it's understandable that most canadians want to pay for a system that they are trapped into as a result of government and corporate policy.
> if anything it's the elites like steven guilbeault (and other urban elites) that are pushing as hard as possible.
***lmao!!!*** please don't make me laugh, if i have to see another out-of-class elite member of society trying to reinvent the wheel, innovate a solution to capitalism by using capitalism or try and sell me lifestyle consumerism, i'm gonna lock them out of their homes and force them to live like the rest of us.
> also which unions are you talking about? auto unions, forestry unions, steelmaker unions?
auto unions:
> the united auto workers is telling its more than 400,000 members to urge elected officials to support proposed tax credits for union-made electric vehicles.
> steelworkers unions?
[steelworkers union tackles climate change in workshop guide - pdf available in link](
also, the usw would likely support infrastructure developments into making steel [co2 free.](
canadians are fine with climate change action that effects them personally when they have a say in the direction that action takes.
fun fact, people don't generally want their lives controlled by an overbearing and unaccountable state.
> good luck with that. most of the working class is actively driving wedges through itself along superficial intersectional boundaries.
oh yea totally, that's why unions are becoming more equitable & environmentally conscious. it's why activist organizations recognize the importance of organized labour and so are working to foster an environment ready for strikes. am i right? totally because of these supposedly real "wedges".
> ah the future, when oil, forestry, construction, manufacturing, mining and similar workers are respected by activists on twitter as the bedrock of the working class that they are.
i guarantee these workers will support a lot of change when their financial security isn't in jeopardy. the majority of oil workers in alberta support weening off of oil for example.
i fully agree with you there. the largest emitter of green house gases are not personal but industrial. legislative action that will vastly disrupt industrial outputs are truly the only actual effective answer.
 this is not to say that any of the things i suggested are negatives. we should all drive the smallest most energy efficient vehicle we can, as it will both help with our wallets and with reducing usage of fossil fuels. we should eat less meat cause it is better for the environment as well as better for food sustainability and will reduced waste in production. we shouldn't insist on next day deliver cause it is damaging to the planet as well as to the individual within the supply chain.
i do feel bad though. i was not trying to come off as preachy (though i probably did). i just can't stand when people say their is not other way of doing things when there clearly is.
not true at all. stop trying to defend one form
of idiocy against another, all  big parties in canada have no interest in what average canadians think, or need. you’re fooling  yourself if you think politicians care about the citizens they say they “serve”.
it’s also better for health!

the civil war has been raging for several months already. if you’re a fighting age male travelling to ethiopia one has to suspect it’s to fight, and i’m sure canadians have. given the nature of the fighting, we may have the uncomfortable situation of housing war criminals (again).
just learned ethiopia, like canada, is a federation with some ethnically defined provinces and a lot of this is breakdown along ethnic lines against tigrays.  seems messy.
canada and war criminals go together like maple syrup and snow
it just works
yeah, i worked with a couple of guys who are tigray and am still in touch with their families (in canada). it's been really bad for some time, and unless you're looking for the news stories there hasn't been a lot of coverage on the atrocities/violence going on there.
provided you boil it long enough, you mean?
pops up on cbc radio one fairly often. either 6pm news, or as it happens at 6 30.
there are telegram groups documenting every little bit available footage of the fighting and war crimes happening there. wouldn't recommend to most, as obviously there's a lot of gore and images and footage of people being brutally killed.

i mean he isn't wrong, there is a segment of the environmentalist movement that is shifting increasingly in that direction. not there yet but it's not entirely unimaginable in the face of the monumental amount of goverment inaction we've been seeing. 
there is a book titled 'how to blow up a pipeline' that's less of an instructional terrorism book and more trying to start a discussion. the author uses workers rights battles for a lot of parallel struggles that involved violence and ended with a positive outcome.
good on him for seeking to defuse the idea that he's endorsing violence, even if it was an honest assessment of the risk. i wish that others were equally quick to apologize and retract inflammatory statements. we don't need to encourage nor risk encouraging stochastic terrorism here in canada.
>"any suggestion that violence is inevitable is wrong and will not lead us to a desperately needed solution to the climate crisis. my words were spoken out of extreme frustration and i apologize."
i'm glad he walked this back.  it was silly to throw it out there like that.  at best it's a distraction that devolves into silly grandstanding, like we saw from my alberta this week.  at worst, it gives some doomer ideas about how they can 'help' and they start blowing stuff up.
i think he's a bit too early on the jump, but it's an angle (ecoterrorism) that'll probably be picking up if inaction and worsening prognosis' of the situation continue. i totally believe he said it out of frustration, but i wonder how much of his apology was an actual apology or him having an "oh shit i'm a public figure, i can't get heated and suggest civil unrest" moment.
he could have phrased it better, but eco-terrorism is likely going to be a consequence of worsening climate anyways. also regular, plain old terrorism will increase while people get displaced.
either way, terrorism.
disclaimer: i do not support any kind of political violence or terrorism.
i completely understand his frustration/concerns with canada’s lacklustre action on climate change (yes, words are meaningless). but i’m glad he backed down on violence rhetoric as the last thing we need are people considering climate activists repressive and sending in tanks, the rcmp and the canadian army to quash and disperse peaceful environmental protests.
given his life's work and the direction the world has gone, it's not much wonder he's an angry old man that lashes out from time to time. he should stay away from the media and retire.
he shouldn’t, he’s right, people should listen and canadians should stop sending the rcmp to enforce pipelines on people, that’s what really creates violence
>i mean he isn't wrong, there is a segment of the environmentalist movement that is shifting increasingly in that direction. not there yet but it's not entirely unimaginable in the face of the monumental amount of goverment inaction we've been seeing.
the issue is that he's a well-known leader in the environmental movement, so his "prediction" could actually be interpreted by extreme environmentalists as a suggestion or a signal that this is a reasonable action to take.
if he made this prediction as an outside observer, like a terrorism researcher (or even an average person like you or me), then nobody would mind so much.
ultimately, his words have a lot more power to influence people.
i wouldn’t necessarily go as far as to say he was quick to retract his statement—on tuesday, the day after his original pipeline comment, he was asked by reporters at chek news to respond to the blowback he’d received, and he doubled down, saying he did not apologize. then his foundation made a public statement denouncing his quip, and fast forward to today and now he’s apologizing. he’s doing it because of the blowback, not because he’s you know, come to his senses or something.
i agree with your statement on the whole, but i wanted to be clear that he was already given the chance to retract or clarify what he said, and he just doubled down on it.
edit: [link](
fun fact: the last time someone blew up a pipeline (to my knowledge) it was the rcmp working in conjunction with a company to frame a problematic land owner.
the rcmp in northern b.c were enforcing a court order from  an b.c supreme court judge. also why should protesters be able to over turn what elected first nation's chiefs voted to support.
the issue is also that it clouds the issue and moves opinions to polarized extremes. pipelines come with a significant environmental cost, but they are also supported by a wide range of communities in canada, many of them first nations. this attempt to turn this argument into a"if you support resource development you hate indigenous people" is a false narrative. we have to be able to have actual nuanced conversations about these issues, not juvenile extremes and threats of terrorism if a group doesn't get its way.
not to mention that it's incredibly naive to only look at these pipelines through a lens of canada, rather than the larger oil and gas industry globally, and who actually benefits from canada's own efforts to move these resources being deterred. we absolutely need to be looking long term about moving away from oil but we need an actual plan, not pretend that we can just stop it tomorrow. shutting down pipelines is more about geopolitics and other oil producing nations wanting a bigger slice of the pie than any real legitimate long term environmental concerns in my estimation.
worth noting that there is a distinction between property destruction and bodily violence. the suffragates, civil rights activists, decolonial movements throughout asia and africa all utilized property destruction. nelson mandela began blowing up power plants when he realized the futility of pacifism in the face of a militant aggressor that had no qualms with violence itself.
he knows his words have a lot of power, which is why he said them. he believes an escalation of tactics is not just likely, but morally necessary--given our increasingly grim prognosis of the current climate situation.
it's essentially a call to arms for some people.
he did clarify it earlier, by reiterating that he didn't support or condone terrorism (as everyone realizes), and of course there was nothing to retract because a prediction that people could become radicalized if ignored is hardly problematic
the rcmp did bomb a pipeline in 1998 however there have been pipeline bombings since then including a few in 2008-2009 in bc.
i think if the government looked like they were making prudent plans about environmental stuff they would get a bit more benefit of the doubt in that department. but it often looks like they're making environmental gestures to shut people up while they pucker up to suck cash out of some oil barons back pocket.
your interpretation of his comments - that he believes an escalation of tactics is morally necessary - is a prime example of why there was such outcry, and it’s why he had to walk them back.
btw there is indeed a difference between property destruction and bodily violence, but in some cases property destruction can cause just as much harm to people (or more).  for example blowing up a natural gas pipeline could cause people (especially seniors) to freeze in their homes and die.  or if blowing up an oil pipeline caused a regional fuel shortage, it could prevent ambulances from picking up patients, stop medical supplies from being delivered, stop food deliveries, etc.

i saw articles and sites saying to basically purchase a portion of a house with other people basically like buying a fraction of a stock. and they called that home "ownership". like fuck off millenials want a home to live in not just investments like boomers.
wonder how the psychology of being stuck in renting and not being able to ever have a stable sense of putting down roots plays out long term. certainly some people like that feeling, but i suspect most want a sense of "their own bit of land."
couldn't agree more that people need to be very wary of anything that looks at housing as an investment rather than housing.  i'm afraid that there isn't enough rational thought left in people to avoid the temptation of get rich quick dreams.
if this was 100 years ago there would be riots in the streets and there should be today. this is and has been essentially generational warfare when it comes to housing in canada.
lets imagine that millenials and genz decided "hey why don't we just privatize water, we could buy then sell it to the next generations at triple the price....we'd be rich!" heck. we could even do it with airspace.  "oh i see youre breathing air in my zone - that would be $5 please"
people think thats a silly concept but its pretty close to housing. people need a house as much as they need water and food. despite what canadians say - everyone is clearly out for themselves - they just dont want to admit it.
i work ft as a gov worker and i cant even afford a proper 1 bedroom unit in my city. imagine that - canada cant even supply me with space to exist.
this is essentially a tragedy of the commons.  since so many canadians own real estate, they are incentivized to support policies that increase that value.  so solutions like a lvt, looser zoning laws, etc are not enacted
but the downside is that it will hurt our economy in the long run.  if canadians are spending <50% of their income on housing, they are not spending it on more productive things in the economy
as of 2016, around 34% of people in this country between the ages of 20 and 34 live with their parents. in the gta it's closer to 50%.
the reality is our society is too cutthroat to allow new entrants, if you are a young person you are at a disadvantage and it's very likely that the kids of millennials and gen z will have to pay over 50% of their income to a landlord for their entire lives, more then the amount they pay in taxes every year and the only say they'll get is self-imposed exile.
unless of course you were lucky enough to be born into a rich family in which case you'll be making money hand over fist.
and the scary is, there's nothing we can really do about it is there?
i took part in a survey recently asking how i'd feel about a premise where instead of me buying a house, i put down a fraction of the down-payment while a corporation pays the majority, and then i essentially pay the mortgage to the corporation while acting as their "live-in superintendent" maintaining the property to their standards.  
i had a lot of opinions for their comment-box. sounds absolutely nightmarish to me.
i always find it hilarious (and sad) when articles come out that can be described as "young people are so pathetic, just settle for less than every other person who came before you did and quit complaining."
imagine telling the wider demographic of 45+ homeowners that they will be forced to sell off portions of their homes.
talk to some real estate lawyers if you think that is a boomer centric idea
i would do this. it's like a co-op in a sense. the only thing is that i want actual equity from my piece, otherwise it's just a co-op.
it’s true. and unless it is 50-50 (or equally invested) there could be a lot of arguing at the selling point. “i’d this much work, so i should get more” yudda yudda. not everyone is gonna purchase together and find equality when selling.
yea i remember that article. i think it was jennifer keesmaat who was suggesting it.
it's a fucking nightmare. i'm now living back with my dad. moving every single year, for the last 30 has traumatized me to the point where i refuse to unpack anything (i live out of 2 suitcases, just in case), i won't buy furniture, i use an air mattress because it's easier to move, etc. it's its own kind of ptsd. all i own is my 2 suitcases and the clothes in them, my tv, an air mattress, and my vehicle. this way, when i inevitably move again, it's easy as throwing the 4 things in my truck, and off to my new temporary living space. the crazy thing is, i'm not even remotely poor, i just constantly have to move to avoid crushing rent increases, which means ever smaller, grungier apartments. my dad saw the toll it was taking on me, and just told me to move back home.
the increasing wealth disparity is leading to a more entrenched class system. i think part of our social contract needs to include a high level of class mobility. i think we're heading towards more populism, as people realize the life they've thought was ahead of them had been snatched away.
it's awful. i was rennovicted last year. i'm paying nearly double rent now, and i just found out that my landlord is selling the property. if i get kicked out of here too i'm going to go fucking full on bolshevik.
i'm defs gonna start fucking with the rich alot more often. the more they fuck with the system the more we need to make their loves living hell
don't have to look too far back in canadian history to find out. the high rate of homeownership we're accustomed to is quite new. prior to the 1950s, the majority of canadians were not homeowners.
just makes a person want to give up.
wanted to own some by 25.
not at 35 i'm no where even close.  and this point im thinking what's the point.  best case scenario i'll be in my 40's before my first house.
if there was a major psychological impact for renting vs home ownership then we should see significant mental health problems and the side effects of those problems in countries that have high rental rates.  
here is a link to various rental/home ownership rates.  
i see switzerland and germany have very high rental rates.  but in general, are not known for being full of psychological traumatized individuals.  
alternatively some nations have very high home ownership, but are not what i would call particularly stable.  
considering the amount of counter examples available either way, i would suggest that home ownership is a negligible factor in mental health.  
that said, individuals will have a wide variety of experiences both in home ownership and renting.

ah yes because it’s not like carbon emissions are directly linked to climate change. 
instead we should focus on just dealing with the consequences. great idea
although i agree with ivison that climate resiliency has taken on less importance than reducing emissions, i think he’s targeting the wrong level of government here. 
local municipalities and provincial governments have arguably a much larger role to play at making sure communities are climate resilient compared to the federal government. the federal government doesn’t determine how to plan your community or what local environmental measures take place, they generally just pass money along. 
communities built on flood plains for example should be made aware of the danger and take proactive action, maybe the feds can provide research assistance or give them warnings, but what else are they supposed to do?


yes but any sacrifices to our way of life is evil. could you imagine the depravity of creating good public transit in canada where possible for example? how would we buy up the stock of new almost identical cars year after year!

running an independent studio for 6 months is going to cost that much. it's covid. what else was he supposed to do. i am not a conservative. this cultureof doing a gotcha on legitimate expenses or vacation time, on both sides, doesn't help anything and just makes governing uncivilized. let's all use some judgement. and not turn into other countries that make the mundane contentious to score points. let's be better than that.
the cost here isn't surprising.  it takes money to set up an entire studio like that. if conservatives are looking for something negative it should have less to do with the price itself and more to do with whether a  studio was a good idea in the first place.
personally, it was probably better than the alternative.  this way the party could control the narrative, keep the stage clean, not have o'toole interact with random voters, and get ready made film clips to share. 
on the other hand, they lost.  so probably some review should take place on the value gained. 
>around the same time in early 2021 that the party was setting up the studio, o’toole’s office also used taxpayer funds to purchase roughly $74,000 in “video communication and broadcast equipment,” though o’toole’s office denied any public funds went into the partisan studio operation.
hmm.  that part might bear looking in to.
this sounds a lot like the scheer private school articles that came out soon before his departure.
obviously, this is much easier to defend on o’toole’s part, but it has that same feel.
even as a comms & media major, i believe that this wasn’t a good expenditure. it had some potential, but it ended up being a million dollar expense that added little to no benefit. that’s not a cheap expense with such strict donation rules for political parties.
so does this count as campaign spending, and if so, did it exceed the spending limits? i'm thinking not, otherwise that would have been screamed out at the headline, so i'm not sure why this is a story.
the cpc has a right to spend funds on what it wants (within elections canada limits), and there's nothing nefarious about glamming up some space for broadcasts.
this shouldn't be a surprise to anyone, nor should it be considered scandalous.  it was well known even before the campaign began that o'toole would be travelling less and instead spending a few days per week in the virtual studio.
they took a gamble that o'toole would be good at virtual campaigning, because he had already won a leadership campaign the same way the previous year.  the studio setup allowed o'toole to reach thousands of people per day, improve the conservatives' digital media presence, and collect more data from potential voters.  many political experts and members of the media considered it to be a good idea.  most importantly during a pandemic election, while trudeau was out violating public health guidelines on the campaign trail, o'toole was able to take the moral high-ground by instead broadcasting his campaign from a hotel in ottawa.
yes, the election results weren't exactly what they were hoping for, and perhaps they won't try this again next time, but i don't think trying something new should be a scandal.  and yes, a million dollars is a lot of money, but flying a large team around the country during a pandemic would have also been highly costly and would have brought with it many problems of its own.
takes money and equipment to run a national campaign, no surprise. and it was party-funded. there is no story here, other than as others have pointed out: internal leaks real of the scheer days when his party-funded daycare costs were leaked in a bid to unthrine him.
the difference here is o'toole us several orders of magnitude kre likable than scheer (tho that's not saying much) and the expenses were legitimate.
ok? and?
alternative headline is "conservatives pandemic measures cost $1 million"
they easily would have spent that amount on o'toole physically flying to the places he visited virtually.
so what? unless this is a violation of some cpc policy or election spending laws this is little more than the cpc trying to push one of their own under the bus.
meanwhile the average twitch streamer does better with a green screen, ring light, and mirrorless camera for a couple grand.
eh, i thought the set was pretty good, better than what scheer had going on. and those things are expensive. i dont really think this is unjustifiable.
> erin o’toole’s team spent more than $1 million in party funds to set up and run their downtown ottawa election studio, multiple sources tell global news.
[...]
> around the same time in early 2021 that the party was setting up the studio, o’toole’s office also used taxpayer funds to purchase roughly $74,000 in “video communication and broadcast equipment,” though o’toole’s office denied any public funds went into the partisan studio operation.
these two paragraphs imply that there is a significant distinction between the source of funds used for the former vs the latter;  ie that taxpayer money is completely separate from party money.
in reality there is very little difference between those two sources.  yes, party funds are funds that are given directly to the party by individual canadians.  however, all of those donations are subject to elections canada contribution limits, and, much more importantly, all of those donations come with a political contribution tax receipt, which then allows the donors to get a rebate, from taxpayers, as a part of their income tax return.
the exact amount of the rebate is a bit hard for me to figure out, but it does involve a sliding scale:
* taxpayers will rebate $300 of the first $400
* taxpayers will rebate $175 of the next $350
* taxpayers will rebate $175 of the next $525
in the past, i have looked at an entire year's contributions for the lpc, and it is the case that a large number of contributors limit themselves to total donations of $400.  for those contributions the taxpayer is actually on the hook for 75%.
for me the bottom line is that taxpayers should be almost as interested in how party funds get spent, as they should be about more direct claims against the public purse by mps, the pmo, the olo and other similar entities.  also, i do not completely understand why the media does not seem to understand this.
honestly i found the studio to be a rather genius idea, it allows you to connect with far more people without needing to travel as often while also avoiding the risks of covid entirely. honestly if you were to compare the costs spent on the studio vs travel costs i seriously doubt they "wasted" anything.
case in point: "according to the party, the 2021 conservative campaign tour cost $3.2 million, compared to $5.2 million in 2019 and $8.7 million in 2015."
spending that money is the wrong way for a candidate to win an election in canada. to win you need many many scandals. that’s what canadians like in a pm
i agree with your assessment of the blow back to this, the cost isn’t that surprising. i think the larger issue for the tories was whether or not it was an effective strategy. i think it’s safe to say it didn’t have a positive impact on the results. it was clear early on the virtual town hall model was being manipulated and moderated by staff and wasn’t seen as an earnest attempt to engage with real voters. liberals (and bloc and ndp) hit the ground everyday and were able to hold onto government (and grow the caucus.) also, to see the party now vehemently against the concept of a hybrid parliament makes them seem hypocritical, out of touch and generally clueless. can’t expect any more from the canada proud goons though.
i agree with your sentiment, but this sounds like a media leak from within the conservative party. 
> multiple sources told global news that the price tag was north of $1 million. the sources were not authorized to speak on the record, and global news agreed to protect their identity. the conservative party would not confirm the total cost of the studio, but a senior party source did not dispute global’s reporting thursday.
this seems like a fishing expedition. counter the 1 million against other leaders flying planes across canada with a team of support workers in tow who all require hotels, cars, and av set up at each location. i think a virtual studio actually saved them money?  i mean it didn't help them win the election.
good point. i am not a conservative but i don’t really understand the “ scandal” here. he chose to spend some party money on getting his message out.
>	running an independent studio for 6 months is going to cost that much.
it was up and running for ~36 days.
> also used taxpayer funds to purchase roughly $74,000 in “video communication and broadcast equipment,” 
bloody hell that is a lot to handle some zoom calls. even twitch streamers have cheaper setups.

big hypocritical historical revisionism of mr. coine here. lower canada wanted proportional representation from the start, but upper canada (and therefore great britain) refused because lower canada was more populous and would dominate parliament. the perspective of upper canada quickly changed once the anglophones were in the majority, since it was no longer democratic and we obviously had to have proportional representation. and now he tells us that upper canada has always wanted a proportional vote but quebec prevented it.

>and it says: "even though we are also members of the gidimt'en clan, the protesters ... have never consulted us about their actions and cannot claim to represent us or any members of the first nation." what do you say to them?
>i say i still respect them. i don't want to move forward in disrespecting any more wet'suwet'en people. i don't want to move forward anymore [with] these divide-and-conquer tactics by anybody. i still respect people with their own opinions, especially when they're wet'suwet'en people.
>but have you ever consulted them?
>i still respect these people, whoever they are. i still respect them. our system is the way it is for thousands of years. it will never change.
that's the most interesting part of the interview.  it doesn't sound like woos is addressing the actual issues of division in his community.  when he's pressed on it he reverts to an appeal to tradition, that his claim to power can never be challenged or changed. 
this is part of what makes this pipeleong so fraught.  a bunch of people are claiming to speak for the indigenous peoples of the area and too many outsiders ignoring the inconvenient truth that the community actually wants the pipeline.
i don't understand why canadian progressives are so eager to support a literal oligarchic power structure as opposed to democratic consensus and decision making.
the two questions about the elected council's statement and band members who support the pipeline have telling responses. he completely shut down and gives a non answer about how he respects them and everyone and their right to have their own opinion.
i don't think the band will resolve its inner conflict any time soon.
‘self-proclaimed authority declares that legally approved pipeline project can’t proceed, despite receiving the approval of multiple, democratically elected jurisdictions because he wants to maintain a hunter-gatherer lifestyle in the 21st century’ - fixed that headline for you.
absolute monarchies are not legitimate forms of government in the west so why should we tolerate hereditary chiefs? i’m much inclined to respect the democratically supported policy programs of a band council. if hereditary chiefs wants to run for an elected position then they are free to do so like everyone else, otherwise they should stay out of politics. 
fallacious appeals to tradition aside, how could this possibly be controversial in 2021?
we need to be committed to providing more authority to the natives and their bands, but that extends to *all* natives within their bands.
however, we have no basis in recognizing more authority to some form of native aristocracy/monarchy that wishes to continue to exert absolute, undemocratic control over other natives by fiat. 
why would we recognize a form of rule that we long ago rejected for ourselves as illegitimate, and not let the majority of natives do the same thing when they demand it?
ultimately as much as it's ridiculous that a couple of hereditary chiefs of a tiny band of people are able to overturn the will of both a huge multi-ethnic democracy and of their own tiny band of people the man is right
rcmp raids and courts orders won't stop pipeline blockade
canada doesn't really have the stones to play hardball or ram anything through
this guy destroyed his own credibility.  first he claims that the hereditary chiefs, not the wet’suwet’en people, are the owners of the land.  then he claims that there are ”thousands of roads” into the work camp, which is an absurd exaggeration,.  then he completely refuses to answer the question about consulting the rest of his people, repeating the lie that he ”respects” them.  he has no personal merits, so needs to rely on his hereditary status and the belief that this system will never change.
which hereditary chief? the hereditary ones, or the hereditary ones who became hereditary after the female hereditary dissenting chiefs were stripped of their hereditary chief status…phew, that was a mouthful. 
i really wish cgl had of gone around, i feel like they didn’t do their diligence in consulting all 48-ish hereditary chief and clans.
>hereditary chief
and just like that i don't fucking care
democracy should be the only form of government that is respected in the 21st century. hereditary aristocrats can get bent.
all of bc has either been on fire or underwater in the last 5 months. at this point i don't really care who has the legal authority to build a pipeline, they should be stopped regardless.
it’s ridiculous why cgl, the alleged b.c branch of the new democratic party and elected groups wajt this pipeline. it’s environmentally costly and yet another lethal injection onto our planet, and green washed pipelines will do literally nothing to both the local wet’suwt’en and other indigenous communities and canada as a whole. this incident will probably hurt the bc ndp and down their left leaning voters especially, and i wouldn’t be surprised if the greens hit record vote levels next election the longer this goes and more people hear about the hereditary groups struggle. just because they’re not your typical westminster abbey, doesn’t mean their concerns are illegitimate.
how were the stripped matriarchal hereditary clan chiefs stripped if this woos guys chieftain claims are so tight.
>  when he's pressed on it he reverts to an appeal to tradition, that his claim to power can never be challenged or changed. 
well... it can't. their traditional leadership isn't consensus-driven.
because it coincides with their position (which is also complicated since most experts agree this pipeline would *reduce* net carbon emissions if built).  
anyone who suggets progressives would be standing up for the rights of hereditary chiefs if they had made a deal over the objections of elected representatives is either deep in denial or lying.  i can't imagine ever being convinced otherwise.
wait until you hear left wing canadians defend murderous left wing dictatorships. people need prioritize supporting democratic institutions over their political “team”.
for the same reason why they don't support western governments overthrowing any other government because they are deemed insufficiently 'democratic'. invasions and military efforts in the name of exporting democracy have been some of the most violent and bloodiest--and usually not even about democracy, but rather a pretext to extract oil profits. wouldn't be any different here.
idk enemy of my enemy is my friend?
same reason that the cia always backs up the worst of the worst because it seems to advance their interests
funny how they never cared to deal with the hereditary chiefs, you know, those who actually have legal right over those lands.

i guess we'll have to buy less f35s and save some money for all the settlements. at this point.. i'm wondering if they don't need to absolutely clean house at the general/admiral level since they're are already too many already. just blow up the general staff since they can't seem to control their urges
so...
we take sexual assault seriously in this country do we?
it's odd that 19,000 claims potentially related to past sexual assaults are now coming forward. almost like they weren't dealt with at the time of their occurrence.
sounds like a serious treatment to me.
or no?


"thoughts and prayers" - trudeau...
"thoughts and prayers" - macklem...
stop commenting, propose legislation, cool inflating areas of cpi back down. the amount of articles coming from everywhere, but when the legislative branch of our government and the  authoritative branch of our government (boc), both say, there is a problem guys, without offering aggressive solutions, they can't be taken seriously.
then do something about it. stop making it profitable to buy a house and let it appreciate in value just to rent it out and do the bare minimum for up keep. there's so many things that can be done at this point inaction is a choice.
[remember when our now finance minister chrystia freeland told the conservatives to stop playing political games and introduce a budget that dealt with the overheated housing market?](
clearly freeland thought the feds could do something then to cure it, but since this government has been in power canada has gotten less and less affordable with the cost of living going through the roof.
why has this government has actively chosen to ignore this issue for over half a decade instead of doing what they said should have been done? why are they only offering thoughts and prayers and brow furrowing now that they are in power? 
i think we need to ask ourselves how the liberals benefit from this unaffordability, since clearly they're doing their best to keep it. where do they profit?
[deleted]
make my cellphone and internet bill cheaper. they can do that at the snap of a finger. it'll be a generation before they solve affordable housing.
"concerned" 
as in concerned how to use this issue in his favor to win accolades and then votes 
actual change for the canadian people is always a afterthought
ban single family zoning, parking minimums, and setback rules, and let the market take it from there. it's cheap, it's easy, it appeals to conservatives who hate regulation, and it ticks off all the nimby dicks ruining our cities.
the central bank quintupled the money supply, and has spent the equivalent of government bonds "defending the payments system." 
additionally the bank of canada took the never been done before step of directly buying mortgage bonds on the open market so banks could keep lending while meeting their requirements. 
printing money at multiples of your current balance sheet has always caused inflation. 
how can anyone be surprised?
maybe try lowering taxes, stop frivolous spending, no more foreign housing buyers unless they build new homes using local construction. invest in canadian industry, stop the reliance on china for everything that can be made here. i don't know just spitballing here.
i'll take your apology and heartfelt words of concern into consideration.  while i do that, here's a great skit from 22 minutes to watch:
any article that begins with "justin trudeau says..." means i can safely ignore it since nothing will come of it.
trudeau and the government is the cause of inflation. they need to stop printing money, stop promising programs that we cant afford, raise interest rates and lower taxes.
extremely concerned - like he literally jumps out of sleep wakes up in the middle of the night sweating and wandering around thinking about how, why, when … the soaring costs are mind boggling, what can he do, what can.he.do.
no he's not. he will do exactly what the wealthy tell him to do, while saying something "progressive" to placate us.
counterpoint: policy makers took dramatic measures to avoid a bad covid-19-induced recession. that goal was successfully achieved.
those measures were not without tradeoffs, however. fiscal support and low interest rates increase demand, increasing the quantity of economic activity (what we want) and consumer prices (what we don’t want). policy makers are now bound to the commitments they made in early 2020, or they will lose much of the credibility that makes economic stimulus measures effective. 
that’s on the national side. on the international side, global supply chains have been heavily disrupted (by covid-19 too, if it weren’t obvious). a negative supply shock decreases economic activity *and* raises prices. both bad. supply chains are the reason we’re seeing inflation everywhere in the world, not just here in canada. these things will adjust over time, though, particularly as covid-19 ceases to be a problem.
i’m personally not too worried about inflation—yes, it sucks right now, but extra fiscal support is scheduled to slow down at the end of 2022q1, and end mid-2022. the boc has already ended its quantitative easing (bond-buying) program, and is expected to gradually raise interest rates throughout next year. these things need to be gradual, because policy makers worry that shifting their stance too quickly could accidentally induce another recession.
i will start to worry about inflation if one of two things happens: 1) regular people expect inflation to persist long-term—inflation expectations can often become a self-fulfilling prophecy; 2) the government changes its mind and keeps extending fiscal support long after it’s needed.
(one minor quibble with your comment: the boc is not the authoritative arm of the government. rather, it is a politically independent central bank and crown corporation whose long-term mandate is set in agreement with the government. being at an arm’s length from the government means that its policy decisions are set by technocrats with phds. justin trudeau doesn’t have the power to say “hey i don’t like what you’re doing, change it right now,” whereas he does when it comes to finance canada.)
what would you suggest?
[removed]
you know the recent inflation scare doesn't even include housing , which has risen astronomically for at least a decade. cpi measures strip out housing  
this is purely bread and butter cost of living minus housing which i take a dim view on and it's mostly boomers whining and driving the mindshare because they actually have to pay more for stuff now. 
they weren't too concerned about housing prices as long as the core inflation remained low.  
and you know who is affected by this inflation scare?  low wage low skill entry level minimum wage workers , so young people, who has seen wages suppressed for decades in the name of driving inflation down
what do you want them to?
people on complaining saying they can do a lot but what? seems like a lot of people are still bitter trudeau is in power

yes! record broken! 
......oh wait. well that’s not so good, i think ns also had a similar rise but the mass shooting likely skews things.


hope this means quebec will slowly integrate dental care into their public system, and will result in more provinces getting public dental in the future
a man can dream...

so, now we have a choice between the f-35s, or the gripen e. the f-35 is indeed expensive but it really appears to be the better jet. the stealth and radar capabilities of the f-35 is superior. also most of our allies will be using the f-35, maintenence and training will be easier if we’re using the same equipment.
paywall. can anyone explain to me why we aren’t (or tell me we are) using this as a bargaining chip with the us over trade? drop your ev and lumber protectionism or we go with the grippen.
i’ve heard they are going to build the saab in quebec if they award them the contract.  if that’s true then it’s a guarantee for the saab gripen.
i can’t imagine how complex awarding these jobs must be. one point worth considering is where we want to align ourselves strategically. the us is a crumbling empire, and already being excluded from new alliances in europe. we may be better served with stronger economic and military ties to the uk and eu at this point in history.
brazil paid $130mn per unit for the gripen e so the $60mn seems a little fishy. me thinks that's referring to the original gripen which we're not getting. i guess you could say we'd pay around $80mn a unit, but even then the f-35 is about double the operating cost. with adoption though, that will go down, and the f-35 already has a lot of interest. you also can't compare the gripen to the f-35, it's just not fair to the gripen. i saw some headlines like "gripen could just be the best non-stealth jet..." umm, we want a stealth jet. and what good is a jet when every radar in the area lights up like a christmas tree. 
but given our government's cash crunch and stubbornness to admit they were wrong and wasted another half decade on getting jets, i really wouldn't be surprised if we'll get saabs for purely political reasons.
watch trudeau choose the saab instead.
maybe because continuing to play politics with the acquisition would really only mean we're shooting ourselves in the foot by stifling our air force?
tell me this won’t involve  bombardier .
to me this makes the most sense. the us hasn't been doing us any favours in the last decade. just thumbed at us with more softwood tariffs and cutting us out of the future for electric car manufaturing. lockheed will require the planes to be sent down to the states for regular maintenance from what i've read as well. 
may as well go with the europeans. we don't need stealth fighters anyway. 99% of our air force's duties are letting the russians know they need to leave our air identification zone. which doesn't require stealth.
wait, why do we want a stealth jet? seems like it does not help with anything the canadian military normally does.
trying to simultaneously refit a geriatric navy and air force is hard, the consequence of decades of passing down the buck
there's a lot of different accountings to go by. "flyaway cost" is the lowest, and is just the cost of the jet. canada's favorite is the lifetime budget - which includes fuel, maintenance, pilot salaries and munitions for the life of the aircraft - is highest. a lot of deals publish the flyaway + up-front capital costs as a per unit number. it's all over the place. 
by the gocs standard accounting, the gripen is probably *vastly* cheaper - when we're accounting for maintaining them out to 2070. i wouldn't bat an eye if it came in at half the price.
we buy grippens or we buy f-35s. which one is stifling the air force?
i'd be surprised if bombardier accepted after being screwed into bankruptcy by boeing just as they were taking off  
in any case, they are pretty much out of the aerospacial game for good. everything that is still of worth belongs to airbus at that point, after bombardier sold them the c-series and its production capacity in retaliation
quebec does make sense since the federal have continuously pushed everything aerospacial there (and everything car related in ontario) for decades. they'll be able to capitalize on the existing infrastructure and on bombardier's labour pool, which, despite the dubious management of the company, still made the airbus a220 that was set to displace the boeing 737 before the illegal 300% tariff tanked them.
we do air patrolling in eastern europe as part of nato and respond to our air interdiction zones around canada.
what is a fighter jet normally used for? it patrols and engages. while the details of the procurement are secret, stealth is very important considering each of our feasible foes (namely, russia and china) have fifth generation stealth fighters in their arsenal. stealth is an advantage when patrolling both your own ground (meaning enemies are relying on their own onboard radar and without ground support) and abroad (you are invisible to all radar until too close to matter). the stealthier the better, and none of the other aircraft (including the ones that dropped out) have a hat to the f-35 on that front. the benefit of the saab, ignoring price, is greater operating range/flight time. saab claims they rely on better avionics to make it stealthier, but that doesn't help when a missile says 'hello' from outside your own engagement range.
one of the reasons russia comes up to our arctic border so often is to determine what our electronic order of battle is: where were they detected and how long does it take us to respond? stealth aircraft obfuscate this information, by virtue of being identified visually, or by choosing our own rcs arbitrarily (eg, by selecting what combination of reflectors and drop tanks to use).
well we were supposed to get some 35s in 2015 but the lpc put a lid on that, so really nothing is changing unfortunately. we knew what we wanted for like 20yrs, 10 of those being serious, and we’re at the beginning again. at least unit cost went down (even though we’re still paying to be in the f-35 program).
i’m just happy boeing got the stick. fuck ‘em. suing us over bullshit and making us lose valuable plane manufacturing l.
yes

these companies have played such a grotesque trick on society.  
the net result of their existence is increased downward pressure and an increase of the gilded economy and society in which we live.  
all of the sudden you're expected to uber on the evenings and weekends to supplement income for *any* luxuries, or retirement income, and so on. all of the while, your earnings are basically a wash given that you're just squeezing the equity out of your car so you can spend it now. meanwhile, people who don't need to do this to make ends meet can enjoy cheaper rides and see more people dance for their money.  
it's nauseating. i'd sooner pay fair rates to travel than to think that someone is getting the screwjob like this.
i have no idea how these have even been permitted as long as they have.  they're the worst parts of time work and piece work combined into one.  they're piece work when it comes to payment, as in people are only paid when work is actually necessary, but time work when it comes to the demand for that work; they're time work when it comes to setting expectations on how long it takes to complete a task, but piece work when it comes to actually paying for that task; and unlike actual piece work, these gig companies aren't even required to track time and top up wage payments if the piece work pay rate doesn't pay as much as minimum wage.
> these companies have played such a grotesque trick on society.
not so. society has long played a grotesque trick on the underprivileged by crafting labour laws such that they only apply to the middle class and wealthy. even the ndp's own stay at home if you are sick act that was proposed late last year in ontario was specifically written to exclude the poor – the very group who actually cannot self-fund days when they are sick. figure that one out.
these companies are just capitalizing society's intrinsic hatred of the poor.
> i have no idea how these have even been permitted as long as they have. 
because many moons ago, before the internet even existed, we went out of our way to declare middle-class workers as their own unique group and then attached the labour laws only to those in that group, leaving the marginalized workers out in the cold because we hate poor people?
they've been permitted to operate as long as they have as they are operating exactly as we always intended them to. we always wanted to see the poor exploited. it's just gets talked about more now because the internet has also provided a platform for the poor to highlight the injustices of not treating all workers as being equals.
> that was proposed late last year in ontario was specifically written to exclude the poor 
i don't recall that line in the proposal
well i'd agree, but it's also a chicken/egg quandary.  
rich people be richin'. that's just it.
seriously though, you're right. just read the esa, middle class office jobs get lots of protections while the rest of the world is just conveniently exempt.
when teachers, co-op students, engineers, it staff, construction workers, and anyone who is employed through a temp agency or "self employed" is exempt from the labour laws, there's no point to the laws in the first place. all these sectors make up at least a third of the economy, it's crazy.
right there in the very first one. but we understand that reddit users don't read beyond the headline, so you're forgiven for not getting that far.
i disagree. companies have no feelings. they are only able to navigate the world by bumping up against the confines of the law. this is why we, the humans with feelings towards other people, have defined laws for the businesses to follow. when you purposefully write the laws to exploit the underprivileged because you have negative feelings about them, companies will see that as being how the world intends for them to function.
society defining how business should operate always comes first. business action always follows.
did you mean to link something?
kind of ignores the role business owners and operators play in writing and support those laws don't you think? i feel like we give a lot of leeway to businesses when we say they are just adjusting to market conditions that we set as if they have no other role or input.
almost feels victim blamey at times. that the underprivileged and society at large are responsible for failing to adequately fight back against the tremendous influence and power of competing interests. true to a certain extent i suppose, but seems to me that there can be blame for those imposing those conditions in the first place, not just those failing to stop them.
no. were you expecting one?
> kind of ignores the role business owners and operators play in writing and support those laws don't you think?
not really. business owners are the minority. ~15% of the population. up to ~30% if you assume that they bring family support. ain't nobody controlling things with only 15-30% support.
furthermore, a large segment of the business owning population are the very poor being exploited! business tends to be very much feast or famine. those who do well in business do really well, but those who do not are usually worse off than those up the middle working as employees.
the fact of the matter is that everyone hates the poor (even the poor).
you said "right there in the first one". the article the thread is about doesn't have anything about the proposal you referenced.
a loud vocal minority that can afford $1500 fundraiser plates, industry advocacy groups and not to mention are often the people who have the time to run for office in the first place. i don't know the canadian numbers but i imagine our parliament in terms of wealth and ownership is close to as unrepresentative as the states.
>those who do well in business do really well, but those who do not are usually worse off than those up the middle working as employees.
that is true though, i wonder how the numbers actually break out. lots of gas stations and convenience stores where you're effectively buying a minimum wage job for life. 
>the fact of the matter is that everyone hates the poor (even the poor).
that's probably sadly more true than false when it comes down to it, if not always.
before that you said "i don't recall that line in the proposal". what you were looking for is right there in the first line of the proposal.
> a loud vocal minority that can afford $1500 fundraiser plates
thing is, said loud, vocal minority would prefer to exploit *all* workers. the fact that our laws are actually favourable to the middle class is telling about who is actually pulling the strings.
this was especially apparent back when the stay at home if you are sick act was announced. i pointed out here on reddit that it was purposefully excluding the poor – those who actually have a dire need for paid sick days. in return, i received endless comment after comment akin to "but it's the ndp. they're working for *meee*!!"
the eventual paid sick day legislation that we did get from ford and co. also favoured the middle class to the exclusion of the poor. ford likes to portray that he's on the side of business, but always ends up caving to majority pressure.
yeah so i read it [here]( and i see nothing that talks about excluding the poor like you claimed. can you elaborate as i know i may be missing it.
> thing is, said loud, vocal minority would prefer to exploit all workers.
they do. we work for them and they take the proceeds. they exploit us all but exploit some more than others.

i assume cbc changed the title since the op posted this as there's nothing in the article suggesting the tragedy that the new green party leader experienced was linked to climate change.
indeed, they did change it.

it isn't all money laundering in the traditional sense of making illicit activity look legitimate. 
from china anyone with money wants to have some of it in a place where it is safe from their own govt and canada is the #1 sucker. 
imagine every wealthy american, but living in cuba. what would they want to do? secure their money in another country  where the government cant just seize it. 
canada let's that happen without issue and now actual canadians cant afford to live here as housing is bought up by a small percentage of china's billion plus population. 
canada should immediately cut off all immigration or foreign investment from china.
even if the source is actual crime in china, like fentanyl production, if they are bringing the money to canada we can't actually charge them with money laundering, even if it looks shady as hell/exactly like money laundering, because we can't build evidence as to the predicate crime that occurred in china. china is a black hole in terms of cooperation with law enforcement, determining beneficial ownership, extradition etc. 
it's basically impossible to figure out what exactly the person is/was doing in china. 
so they can park $20 million at a canadian bank or in a $5 million dollar house and there's not much that can be done. they may have their wife/kids live in the house and go to school here, but it may just be vacant. 
you can also bet the farm that they aren't declaring any taxes here, so the chinese millionaire with the $5 million home is likely paying zero taxes, perhaps even claiming benefits for low-income.

if trump runs for the presidency i think that he will win. 
i also think that would be a dark day in the history of north america. he gave up pretending that he was not a fascist when he encouraged his goons to storm  the capitol. 
i honestly think it could be the end of american democracy.
thing is there are some warning signs in the usa.
1. biden won clearly in the popular vote but the ec 3-4 states made the difference with razor thing margins. 3 states were decided by .6% of the vote. 
2. unlike obama, he is more unpopular already and not as personally likeable as obama. he was more a compromise candidate to beat trump
3.  in 2024, if  gop flips georgia, wisconsin and arizona then they win (as blue states are losing ec votes ). in 2020 this would lead to a tie instead.
i don’t buy the idea that trump is the sole threat to democracy in america. in fact, i think he’s the least of our worries when it comes to the authoritarian right. especially with his mental decline that has been quite clear since 2016. what is he going to be like in 2024? he’s already incoherent now so it’s not going to get any better. i have no doubt that *if* runs in 2024 that he will win, but between his health and criminal exposure i don’t think he’ll be in the position to run in 2024.
the real risk is the authoritarian right that has taken over the republican party and what they choose as trump’s replacement. trump didn’t succeed in becoming a dictator because he was too incompetent and bumbled his way through the presidency. now, replace trump with someone who has the same disdain for democracy, but is a little more competent and organized then that could spell the end of america as we know it. think someone like tucker carlson (who i’m willing to bet on being the republican nominee in 2024 if it’s not trump). he’s the face of the movement right now if you set aside trump.
i think its less likely he runs than it is he wins. 
i.e. i am not 100% convinced he will run, but if he does, i am 100% certain he will win. quite handily. 
democrats in the usa are as tone-deaf and out of touch as liberals here, but american voters aren't nearly as complacent as we are.
bush, obama, trump, hillary, biden. they all sit further right than our cpc. they have 2 parties. right wing and ultra right wing. i liked tump because he at least stirred the pot.
the odds of him winning in 2024 are next to zero. things will likely be better around 2024 and biden should get a decent boost by then. also it’s going to be very hard for trump to get through another republican primary. also it’s very rare for a one term president to attempt a successful comeback in the us. i expect biden to win  a theoretical matchup with trump in 2024 by an obama 08 type margin
the dems definitely have a disadvantage in terms of the ec right now. there will be a point though we’re they regain there advantage in the ec as states like texas, north carolina(maybe) and stretch states like kansas and alaska tilt more towards them and some of the swing states like georgia become safer for them
>1. biden won clearly in the popular vote but the ec 3-4 states made the difference with razor thing margins. 3 states were decided by .6% of the vote. 
this is the same thing that got trump into office by the way.
i think it's more likely that desantis will be "trump 2.0". well-known us pundits will pull way more money in their current roles than as politicians, as well as draw accountability demands towards themselves. as far as they're concerned office runs just make their lives harder.
[deleted]
> democrats in the usa are as tone-deaf and out of touch as liberals here
the liberal party of canada is like 100x more effective than the dems lol, they're much closer in effectiveness to the republicans in the states. the conservatives are like the dems with regards to how shit the party is run.
if biden doesn't do anything to materially improve people's lives in the next few months, the republicans will win back control in the midterms and he will have no ability to do anything before his next election.
the left was already sceptical of him in the last election. losing the loosely-held left vote to a third party or even to just not voting is a very real threat.
i do not share this optimism, it was uncomfortably close last time. democrats being unmotivated compared to their republican counterparts could easily cover the narrow gap. i do think the primary would be the biggest hurdle.
> the odds of him winning in 2024 are next to zero
jfc no. he has shown 2 elections in a row now that he does have a massive following who will not leave him. he was 50000 votes away from getting a second term. the party is now fully behind him and any remaining anti-trump republican will be purged by 2024. 
i can't believe people still think he has no chance of winning. he is definitely winning the nomination and is 50-50 to win the presidency.
> things will likely be better around 2024 and biden should get a decent boost by then.
a lot of this will depend on how the midterms next november go for the democrats. so far, it doesn't look promising, and the republicans are likely to retake both the senate and the house. 
> also it’s going to be very hard for trump to get through another republican primary.
[not necessarily.] ( he's the clear frontrunner for the 2024 gop nomination. only ron desantis has polled regularly in the double-digits. if trump runs for the nomination, i wouldn't be surprised to see the field cleared pretty easily for him to easily secure the nomination. 
> also it’s very rare for a one term president to attempt a successful comeback in the us. 
that is true; however, we know that trump's candidacy and presidency was the definition of unprecedented. 
> i expect biden to win a theoretical matchup with trump in 2024 by an obama 08 type margin
i doubt it. it may happen with a non-trump candidate against a non-biden candidate, but trump also won the second-most votes of any presidential candidate in history in 2020. the base will turn out. as the old adage goes: democrats fall in love, republicans fall in line.
i'd be pretty surprised if biden ran at age 82. i know thats what he says but i just don't buy it, i really can't see him having the stamina for a much more vigorous campaigning schedule than he had in 2020(most of which was virtual). the next most prominent candidates are harris and buttigieg, which should leave democrats deeply concerned about 2024.
i don't know, i wouldn't be so sure. biden is doing ok but he is hardly going to get people out enthusiastically. meanwhile trump supporters are extremely eager. biden made a lot of big promises he won't really be able to keep, people will look around and see nothing has really changed.
i think that's what democrats were saying about biden since the afghan withdrawal in 2024 - the issue is *when* is this boost coming? they didn't recover from a botched withdrawal, neither from its repercussions. stalling bill talks certainly don't help and the forced passage of 1 without the promised bbb bill will make the impact less noticeable, and don't get me started on their 2021 gubernatorial elections.
your so right he's the most popular president in history


ahhhhh, what a conundrum:
does betteridge's law of headlines hold true, or does better judgment that only one side has an election coming up and something to lose if this deal doesn't go through?

thank goodness i grow and consume my own, in my back yard, with minimal fertilizer and zero pesticides. thanks ontario!

perhaps had they admitted in 2019 that the disease was airborne they wouldn't be trying to re-communicate now a message to wear surgical masks that contradicts their droplets narrative that was used to prevent a panicked run on masks.
> dr. malgorzata gasperowicz ... given names
is she the only expert in the country?  haven't every one of her models been wrong?  can we just use a ouija board instead?  at least then i can get some good advice from mackenzie king's dead mother at the same time.
> haven't every one of her models been wrong?
who is your go to source for good covid modelling in canada?
someone with a better track record.
or look at a couple of models and discuss how they differ.
someone different from the same old broken record.


as a homeowner i am ecstatic
as a humanist i am horrified
the point of a housing industry should be to house people, not maximize profits. we used to build plenty of beautiful social homes. how is it that we've lost the ability to do something our ancestors did with less resources and less machinery?
the solution is ample amounts of quality, affordable, public housing. governments at all levels need to cooperate to create social housing, and rents should be set in relation to minimum wages. if affordable housing refers to housing which costs no more than 30% of household income then we should make sure that housing is available at that price point. hopefully this also puts downward pressure on private rental prices as landlords are forced to compete against quality housing at an affordable price.
quick! ramp up the immigrant-investor program! tell fintrac to look away! tell revenue to pretend nothing is happening! give a free rein to the property developers! let the real estate agents cash their commissions while they pretend none of the money is from criminal sources!
/s (if that's really neccessary)
home owners are rich on paper. then sell and the fun begins. either overpay the next purchase, no decent housing available or move hours away from a city or rent at $3k+/month for a house and a million bucks disappears quickly.
homeowners got into politics and decided non homeowners don't matter
even as a homeowner i'm not thrilled. i still live in the neighborhood i grew up in, but it saddens me that essentially none of the people i grew up with could've lived here, and almost none of them could afford to buy the house they grew up in even when they're much more educated than their parents. 
so yeah in 30 years when i sell and downsize i'll come out ahead, but how does that help my kid buy a house? how does that make my life better in any way until then?
why, do you plan to live in a tent? right now your property taxes are up.
yes, but has to be done in a scattered amount so as to avoid the issue of low income housing neighbourhoods becoming poverty traps. you see it all over nyc. projects being these little islands of all the "undesireds". do largely will only interact with and form social networks with others in that area. kids will go to school only with other kids in the same boat (which we know is a *huge* impact on socioeconomic mobility later in life)
the liberals stopped fintrac from providing information to the bc money laundering commision.
so glad we have all these canadian institutions recording the collapse of labour value in canada. boc. cmch. newspapers. all dutifully writing down how life is next to impossible unless you already bought a home at a far cheaper price.
when is something going to be _done_.
agreed. housing prices going up only benefits people who own multiple homes. it's a wash for people with one home and it's horrific for those without one.
it's a mixed bag.  if people are planning on the value of their house for retirement that money certainly goes a long way if they need to downgrade to a retirement home or apartment.
well my plan is to do the rv life thing. i don't want to experience winter unless i want to. 
even if i make zero dollars on my house, i can manage this by 50 so i'm not particularly concerned either way. making money on the house is a small bonus to me at a big detriment to a lot of other people, which is why my preference is to house people regardless of the outcome for me. 
if nothing else, i'd rather have the "insurance policy" of living in a country that doesn't let people become homeless, since that's basically what i want the rv for anyways. a bed to call my own and somewhere safe to put my stuff. 
even from a purely selfish perspective, and even from my privileged position, it seems a no-brainer. add in that whole "empathy for living creatures" thing...
you won't come out ahead (unless you radically downsize) but it's the only way to really keep up with inflation.
people doing the “move hours away from a city” have pushed prices up a solid 10-20% in the rural area i live in. i dint blame them, you can sell a house for $3 million in van or to and get a *better* house here for under 500k and live off the difference
actually, 1 million could easily generate 4% dividends, which is 40k per year or 3333/mth.
>homeowners got into politics
there was a time when in order to be involved in politics being a property owner was a prerequisite. they've always been involved, it was theirs first.
i'm not at all concerned about paying taxes :\ i like to live in a civil society.
but yes, i plan to retire to an rv or something like that.
this isn’t just an issue with social housing, it’s a flaw in modern urban design. there’s starting to be a much bigger push for mixed income, mixed used developments for exactly this reason. if we’re investing in infrastructure we should be doing so with good design principles and a solid vision.

>mr. demarco told reporters at a press conference that he’s optimistic canada can break its streak of “unfulfilled promises” but he said there has been a lack of urgency and sluggish leadership from prime minister justin trudeau’s government.
>“not everything that could have been done was done. canada was relatively late at the federal level in taking a leadership position on carbon pricing,” mr. demarco said.
>“we can’t continue to go from failure to failure. we need action and results, not just more targets and plans.”
the commissioner is correct but more targets and plans are exactly what we're likely to get. i don't share his optimism about breaking our streak of unfulfilled promises but hopefully he will be correct and i'll be wrong. 
also...
>canada’s emissions represent 1.6 per cent of global emissions, but the report suggests that stat downplays canada’s impact on international picture. the country is in the top 10 emitters, has one of the highest levels of emissions per capita, and “continues to play a large role in the dangerous accumulation of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere,” the report finds.
so if you are typing a reply with some form of "well these one or two other countries are bad therefore we can also be bad because i never learned that two wrongs don't make a right", don't even bother.

building on floodplains and not caring for the infrastructure is what causes flooding.  
packing more and more people into the most remote areas of our country, contiguous with forests is the precursor to the largest of disasters.  
pretending changes in climate are to blame simply ignores the underlying issues and kicks the can down the road while wringing our hands.
are you seriously trying to say that the remote areas of our country are ‘packed’ with people? also we’re so you suggest people live because you seem to be making some sort of population control program….
the population has most certainly increased, often significantly.  
feel free to live next to a tinderbox or in a floodplain.  but stop expecting sympathy when you don’t look after the infrastructure required to keep yourself safe.
you know toronto did not come with plumbing and infrastructure already built…..
this is why people hate toronto….and ofc you have it in your name….i grew up there and live there half the year but man some of you need to leave the city so you can actually experience all that canada has to offer.
if you are fine living in some basement or cramped appartment that’s fine, but don’t expect everyone else to be ok with that. you should actually be grateful if it was not for people settling other places you probably would not be alive.

i don't know how to comment on articles such as these anymore. it seems futile to do so. i mean i have my own views and take on *my own* personal and civic responsibility because i am one of those that believes in the notion of the common good. but not everybody subscribes to this notion anymore in this country. sadly. so i'm kind of left to say: "yeah, ok. whatever. you do you. move on, man. and have a good life." 🤷‍♀️
i used to be all for letting people do their own thing and letting the consequences sort it out.  since this pandemic i've switched over to a point where i'm more willing to force people to do the right thing rather than trust them not to screw themselves and everyone around them over.  if they were just hurting themselves then fine, but that's no longer the case here.
i don't disagree with your point, of course. i guess i'm somewhat getting fatigued reading articles such as these where a person placed in a position of public trust can't even bring himself to have a sense of the common good. in some very real way, my comment above is more of a "good riddance and don't let the door hit you on the way out!" than anything else. 
but i take your point.
i'm right there with you.  nobody should be entitled to cause this much damage to our society and our economy based off of paranoid internet conspiracies.
it's not even about the common good.  it's also about individual health, which these people are more than willing to throw out the window for no good reason.
they don't care about their own well-being or that of those around them.
they're absolute marvels of modern-day idiocy.


if the manitoba government is asking for more money i don't believe them.  they are currently sitting on money intended to lower our insane backlog of surgeries and, well, the conservatives are just sitting on it.
>in march 2021, the pc government announced $50 million to clear the surgical backlog. however, newly-released government documents obtained by the manitoba ndp show as of august the pc government had only spent $2.4 million of the announcement. [source](  
>  
>in june 2021, doctors manitoba released a report showing the number of manitobans waiting for tests and surgeries had reached 110,000 including 39,000 life-saving procedures. they called on the pc government to commit to eliminating the backlog by a fixed date, create a diagnostic and surgical recovery task force and publish monthly public reports on their progress. so far the pc government has taken none of these actions.
this is not the first time the manitoba pcs have done this, refuse to spend money on healthcare, then run crying to the feds to beg for more money, all the while they have been closing ers and fighting with nurses who have gone years without a raise.
if the feds hand over any money to the manitoba government i hope it comes with iron claim requirements on how it be spend -- the manitoba pcs have shown they are not to be trusted with our healthcare.  
this is literally the most they've actually done to address the issue:
# [manitoba health minister offers 'thoughts and prayers' to those affected by postponed surgeries](
do these people even proofread the articles?
4.5 million over 5 years?
>commit to permanent, ongoing funding for mental health services under the canada mental health transfer, with an initial investment of **$4.5 billion over 5 years**. including the existing bilateral agreement on mental health services signed in 2017, this would bring federal support for mental health services to $2.5 billion per year by 2025-26. this is in addition to further investments we will make to support first nations, inuit, and métis communities with better access to trauma and mental health services.
nahhh, let's let them waste money banning and enforcing ridiculous new handgun laws so you can get more votes in urban ridings.
why can't they just set up national guidelines to integrate mental health care into primary care? just bring in a cha style legislation for mental health
>why can't they just set up national guidelines to integrate mental health care into primary care? just bring in a cha style legislation for mental health
that is exactly what the cmht is.

at least he spent $230 million tearing down an almost-completed wind-farm so that we could accomplish this incredible goal.
during his first year in government doug ford scrapped pretty much every meaningful climate change policy on the provincial books, he even took 'climate change' out of the name of the environment ministry. so is this any real surprise?
the pc's have been able to avoid a lot of scrutiny their federal cousins have had to endure for not taking climate change seriously because so much of the discussion is taking place at the federal level, but the pc's have arguably been worse in just putting any effort into it compared to federal conservatives, and that's saying something.
>	"i can look ontarians in the eye and say ontario is a leader in greenhouse gas emissions reduction in this federation," said piccini. "we are the only province responsible for canada's progress. that is ontario, and that is thanks to action premier ford has taken." 
>	the latest national figures, which are published with a two-year lag time, show the province's emissions in 2019 were back up as high as they were in 2015. until 2018, ontario's emissions had been on a decade-long decline, almost entirely as a result of moves by previous liberal governments to shut down coal-fired power plants.  
i think these two paragraphs from the article highlight things pretty well. as usual, the conservatives pat themselves on the back and claim they’re doing a great job. then you look at the data and they’re doing the opposite of what they say they are.
climate change emergency?  wow!  who knew?  my timmies is doubling its drive thru.  some recently built takeouts are only drive thrus.  new towns are built with share the road bike lines (love cycling with semis). new shopping areas are unwalkable.  planning is the job of the provinces and their municipalities. so far in my part of southern ontario there has been no sign of forward thinking. planning that would help the population make the personal changes needed to address climate change.
the thing is, any climate policy beyond the greens and ndp (excluding alberta and bc for obvious reasons) will be too safe and moderate, radical is a dirty word but so is fossil fuels and we need action yesterday.
which one was that?
i would go further and say not only was no real effort but they they actively destroyed many programs that were in place when they took over that were moving us forward to continue to reduce emissions.   then they didn't replace it with anything.  i would argue they have done nothing and in fact have actively worked against it.   see ripping out charging stations for evs, cancelling almost completed wind farms, and fighting the carbon tax in court.   let alone the fact that cancelling cap and trade meant every program it funded went away and were largely not replaced with anything substantive.  i mean how do you increase the use of natural gas electricity generation without increasing carbon emissions?   it is all smoke and mirrors bs from the conservatives as usual.
they are actually patting themselves on the back for what the liberals did.    ontario did have significant reductions in green house gas emissions up to 2018 when they took over.     but that was done by eliminating coal generated electricity and other programs done by the liberals.   as soon as the conservatives took over in 2018 they cancelled cap and trade and almost all of these types of programs from ev incentives to increasing the energy efficiencies of homes through upgrading window, ect.     and almost immediately we started to increase our emissions.
[
the plain fact is that all the conservatives had to do was continue the programs that were in place.     by electrifying as much transportation as we could we could have continued to drive down emissions.   but instead they outright cancelled everything.   it is amazing they have the balls to stand there and claim they did all of that.    but the reality is the average voter won't have a clue about what actually occurred.    they just will say "well at least those millionaires aren't getting ev incentives".
> planning is the job of the provinces and their municipalities.
but are required to serve the will of the people. and the people overwhelmingly prefer sprawl until they can no longer afford it.
in countries with long-standing housing cost issues, we've seen a convergence towards walkable/bikable culture. car culture wasn't economically viable anymore and they had to change their ways.
that problem is quite new to canada – and a newborn baby new problem for the vast majority of the country – so we've largely not recognized an economic need to accept a different fate. i see hints that sentiment is changing, but it is early days.
four out of 9 turbines were already up.
230 million is the price for them to scrap "various green energy projects", but they tried to hide the original amount under "other transactions" and then never gave details on how much each project cost to scrap.
one man's castle is another man's sprawl. i think that we are going to have trouble adapting to climate change because the province/municipality is not making housing, shopping, walking/biking, outdoor spaces sufficiently convenient) for most people.
i think this one had to do with nimbyism from a pc riding eh?
there was also a second wind farm near ottawa that got cancelled. it wasn't quite as far along in the construction process, but i'm sure it was a big expense as well.
yeah. but the taxpayers were on the hook for $1b. that's what the auditor general found. the project would have never paid for itself ever. 
>[at that time, the liberals said the cost of scrapping those deals was approximately $230 million, but the auditor general later established that taxpayers were on the hook for about $1 billion.](
> because the province/municipality is not making housing, shopping, walking/biking, outdoor spaces sufficiently convenient) for most people.
government cannot do what the people don't want. the government is there simply to follow through with its instructions. so, yeah, you're right, but it can't do much else until the people are willing to change.
history has shown that the people won't change until their pocketbook forces them to. we're getting there, but it's early days.
the article has the energy minister saying that the "community never wanted these windfarms", but i personally think that's some stupid bullshit that should be ignored.
i grew up rural, and for whatever reason everyone out there is fucking terrified of windmills popping up. it's become almost a cultural issue for them, and they'll cite all teh crazy shit like the vibrations from them cause cancer, etc.
i'm pretty sure the weston family had a mansion that was within view of the turbines.
it's hilarious the fear-mongering about windmills. my parents are rural and the last time we talked they told me "did you hear they were going to build 700 windmills around ottawa?"
this was something i definitely would have heard about. so i googled it. nothing shows up.
they tell me to check facebook. sigh.
i find one article on facebook with that headline, where the actual article doesn't even mention it.
there's literally anti-windmill misinformation campaigns going on targetting ottawa for some reason.
"government cannot do what the people don't want. the government is there simply to follow through with its instructions." 
whose instructions? most people don't know  a new shopping area is going to arrive until the steam shovel starts digging..
  the new town of binbrook has share the road bike lanes. i am pretty sure nobody asked for them.  big box store plazas. all built within the last 30 years. impossible to walk around some of them. did you ask for that? all those walmart smart centres.  the small stores are a huge parking lot away from the walmart. and for sure none of these were set up for the unfortunate carless customer. i didn't ask for that. 
these arrangements don't reflect the will of the customers but the will of the builders/owners. if we want people to leave their cars in the driveway or in the showroom then our shopping (and recreational) spaces have to be convenient and easily walkable.



this is one area where canada is disgustingly far behind the 1st world (except for the us).
much of europe gives a statutory minimum of 5 *weeks* paid **vacation** days. in france, federal employees get 10 weeks off.
as for sick days, many nations offer well over a year. for example, sweden offers 550days (75%) paid sick leave. in many countries, you can take sick leave off to care for a sick child. and you can get covered for sick leave while self employed. apparently 98 nations offer over 1 month of sick leave.
for weeks we've known of the intent of the federal liberals to introduce 10 days of sick leave for federally regulated workers.   
incredibly the bc ndp felt that it was appropriate for them to come up short and allow themselves to be outflanked on the left.   
i realize that the bc liberals remain to the bc ndp's right, but what sort of message does this send to voters in general? is the ndp a labour party? are they ideologically different in any way from the liberals? if a ndp government is *less* progressive on labour issues than the liberals maybe not. maybe politics in this country is just a simple left/right duality between conservative and not-conservative  
the cautious approach of the bc ndp here muddies the waters and erodes at the reasoning for why the fed ndp exist.
i wonder how this applies to non-full time workers or workers who work shifts and may work only a couple hours one week and almost full time the next?
i work for the bc public service which gives us roughly 6 months (if needed) of sick time at 75% pay with the option to use our vacation time to top up to 100%.
there have been rumors that they want to take it away and give 10 full paid sick days a year.
if only we had a place that tracked stats so they could pick a number of days that serves people.
[
the government offers up a deal like they are on pawnstars. " i see you need 10 days off per year. the best i can do is 5"
does anyone else think that the wording of the title is inaccurate?
i'll need to ask an english teacher but it seems wrong because it's saying that  five days is permanent.
[removed]
norway has 100% compensation for paid sick leave for 1 year
imagine how much more attractive public sector would be with 10 weeks paid leave!
how can you have more than 365 paid sick days per year? or are these lifetime/per job?
>  and you can get covered for sick leave while self employed.
i.e. when you are poor. according to statscan, 40% of the working poor are self-employed in canada.
it always seems strange to me that we celebrate these paid sick day laws with such vigour when it really only address the issue for the middle class, to the exclusion of the poor, when it would be just as easy to include the poor – the ones who actually need the support – in the legislation from the get-go.
a classic case of "i got mine", i guess.
the us is a third world country with a handful of 1st world cities.
while i do agree, i think that you're confusing employer paid sick leave with ei sickness benefits. countries like australia and new zealand provide for 10 employer paid sick days. if the illness is longer lasting, you can get up to 15 weeks of ei sick leave benefits from the government (going up to 26 next summer). even sweden has an initial allocation of 14 employer paid sick days and then the 550 day thing if the illness is drawn out.
i'm happy to see this, everyone should be entitled to some days off for sickness whether physical or mental. i hope managers realize the benefits and don't try to prevent workers from taking these.
i'm lucky enough to have virtually unlimited sick days and a great manager who encourages me to take them, even if it's just a mental health day. a manager who called me up after my boy was born and said "you *only* booked two weeks off, i don't wanna see you for at least a month", and then when i did come back insisted that i block out my first two hours and sleep in whenever i need it. that was ten years ago, and i've never forgotten it.
i'm a healthy guy so i probably only took like 3 sick days in those first 10 years. i can never bring myself to take one when i don't need it, it would feel like breaking the trust we have. and why would i? when my father passed this year, my manager told me to come back when i'm ready and not to worry about the date. he didn't give a fuck if i took 1 week or 10, which was actually kind of genius because i probably would have said 4 in the moment, but then after a week i was ready to be back.
when employees feel their manager has their back, then they'll have their managers backs as well. you can't buy that kind of trust and loyalty.
the difference is that bc's sick days are for all workers, not just civil servants.
while it's correct to criticize the bc ndp for not going all the way to 10 on this, let's not pretend the federal liberals' plan is impressive or "outflanking" progressives. they're bringing in mandatory paid leave for federally regulated workers, which is a small number of workers in a limited set of industries. it's good but it really doesn't accomplish much.
federally, i think the real progressive position would be for the federal government to do something to actually try and bring paid leave to all workers. create a sick leave system, adapt the ei system to provide sick leave, come up with a program to fund sick leave and bring the provinces along, negotiate with the provinces to mandate sick leave by negotiating something else with them.
the political differences between two different parties at two different levels of government are far greater than 5 sick days.
there's not a too many folks in bc that make the mistake of confusing the federal liberal party and the bc liberal party. a huge portion of bc liberal voters vote conservative in every federal election.
with the first pass to post system and a precedence of only two parties ever winning, i would argue that there is no reason for them to exist in a sense. i think the liberals are the more corrupt version of them but at the same time they've never been in power and we have no demonstration of whether or not that's true


> the [450mw] plant consumes approximately 1 million tons of coal per year, and currently generates approximately fifteen percent of the province's electricity,[3] while producing roughly thirty percent of the province's air pollution and greenhouse gas emissions (among large industrial polluters)
it and the 980mw colson cove heavy oil plant are the last two conventional thermal plants in regular operation in nb.
interesting. 
i wonder if this will force the maritime provinces into buying hydro from qc/nfld. since i doubt they want to pony up billions and spend political capital on nuclear. which is probably the only other optionto replace that much on demand energy.
point lepreau nuclear plant produces about 40% of their power , hydro is about 20%, hydrocarbons (coal, heavy oil and ng) another 30%  and the remainder wind, biomass. 
they've added about 400mw of wind over the last number of years. 
with the history of point lepreau, i can't imagine a government pursuing another reactor.
there are interties with quebec hydro currently, and they've been upgraded fairly recently, but i'm not sure how it's currently implemented.

so boc's mandate expires after dec.31, is liberal gonna increase inflation target to 5% for boc? so current inflation is lower than the mandate. or, they gonna include 100% full  employment as mandate so interest rate can be justified at 0.25% for long long  time.

the pearl clutching from the right over somebody pointing out the very self-apparent fact that people will continue to radicalize over this issue if their concerns are not addressed is simply bizarre.
discussing the potential for radicalization in certain groups has never been taken to mean endorsing that radicalization.  these claims of him "talking like a mobster" literally only makes sense if you already believe david fucking suzuki is a violent criminal. people reading too much into this need to give their heads a shake.
> those who make peaceful revolution impossible will make violent revolution inevitable.
--jfk
is it really so hard for people to grasp that this was a fatalistic prediction and not a threat? well it isn't surprising kenney is hammering on it, he is just looking for a distraction and is going after this with the complete lack of subtlety we've all come to expect. but that doesn't mean anyone else has to agree with him. unless perhaps they were already predisposed to thinking the worst of suzuki.
well maybe don't suggest you will bomb nationally significant infrastructure if you don't want backlash from the government.
he did not suggest he was gonna do it you know, he simply stated that in a future scenario (like maybe climate wars for instance) people are gonna get desperate about climate change and some may be driven to terrorism in their desperation.
certain climate activists already take part in borderline terrorist activities to fight against government inaction. to suggest those activities may continue in the future is not condoning terrorism, it's simply learning from the past.
to suggest that he's encouraging acts *that are already occurring without his prompting* is simply being willfully ignorant. he's a scientist looking at data and predicting the future based on known history. that is all.
nobody suggested that, so what you’re saying is a red herring.
what is he trying to say? if a democratically elected government will not stop investing in pipelines that a mob will take it upon themselves to blow them up? and that government should acquiesce to threats of future violence?
it all amounts to "i'm just saying..." type of rhetoric.
it's still extremely close to stochastic terrorism, and wildly unacceptable.
"won't somebody rid me of this meddlesome pipeline?"
> people are gonna get desperate about climate change and some may be driven to terrorism in their desperation.
nope it was a veiled threat, oil will peak in 2030 and decrease decades before any climate war.
he sent threats like an abusive husband would tell his wife if you leave something might happen.
>what is he trying to say? if a democratically elected government will not stop investing in pipelines that a mob will take it upon themselves to blow them up? ~~and that government should acquiesce to threats of future violence?~~
that's exactly what he's saying, that doesn't mean he thinks that's good or wants it to happen, it's explaining that things are going to get ugly if governments don't do a better job of assuaging the fears of these people.  
i imagine suzuki's solution would be to stop investing in pipelines, but that's secondary to the nature of his comments.
it really wasn't.  in what way is "people are going to radicalize if they don't feel heard" a threat?

a levy on what. seriously, wtf kind of vague nonsense is this. it doesn't say anywhere what the levy is on. not on his website. not his comments on twitter. nowhere.
and it won't pass anyways because he alienated his own faction by hanging them out to dry when he was the decisive vote against the old parking levy proposal.
stewart was the decisive vote in defeating the previous proposal to fund the city's climate plane through parking fees. i guess it's to his credit that he is coming forward with another proposal, presumably a form of property tax.
while the parking fees were a very good policy proposal, they were fairly unpopular. of course, raising property taxes is not terribly popular either, but the truth is that vancouver's property taxes are really low and owners of vancouver real estate can afford them, to say the least. i think this is a reasonable way to fund the needed spending.
while having climate change actions is important, i do not think that a levy is the way to go, considering that vancouver is already unaffordable to many.
low?? are you nuts.  my property taxes are going from $4000 to $5000 this year.
our climate goals are impossibility.
not group has been able to explain how we’re going to meet these targets. all this does is make life more unaffordable.
we can retrofit every hour in the country and fall short of climate goals.
the only way to stop climate change is with taxes and making things more expensive.
i'd that's the case, can we assume that you own a 1.7 million dollar house? which, on average, would have gaines $100,000-$200,000 in value this year?
so give up?
happy to explain how we can meet our targets. is there an area of particular concern for you?
the cost of living and things are already pretty expensive in vancouver. this new levy is only going to worsen things and worsen the unaffordability crisis in vancouver.
you can't use carbon if you have no money to spend.
close 1.8, "gains" are around $300,000.
those gains mean nothing, if your living in your house.  the cost of servicing my property has increased $1000 in a year?
pick a realistic goal.
i don’t understand how we can retrofit 100% of canadian buildings in 10 years. heat pump installation is 10,000 minimum per building. there are 20 million buildings in canada. it’s would also lead to a massive increase in electricity demand. the cost would easily jn the hundreds of millions for just 10% of emissions.
i don’t see how can have a clean grid without nuclear by 2030.
i also think the vehicle projection seems to be 10% electric by 2030 which would be just 1%.
these green jobs are also much lower paying than fossil fuel jobs and mostly temporary
i agree with you.
but then let’s be honest about our climate goals and climate commitments then.
well, i know it's tough so i'm willing to help out. i'll cover you extra property tax as in return you can give me those unrealized gains. after all, they are meaningless to you.
>i don’t understand how we can retrofit 100% of canadian buildings in 10 years.
well, for starters our target is to retrofit 100% of canadian buildings in 30 years, not 10. furthermore, the number of buildings is more like 10 million rather than 20. so just by getting the target right, the problem has become about 6 times easier. the key to making this work is providing very low-cost financing for improvements, and increasing the cost of natural gas.
the increase in electricity demand could be considerable, although it's worth noting there are huge efficiency gains to be had, so it's not necessarily as much as you might think.
as for having a clean grid, i'll refer you to this paper, [*the cost of decarbonizing the canadian electricity system*]( it models the canadian power grid and finds the cheapest path toward decarbonization. its a couple year out of date and renewables have continued to plummet in price, so the calculations are only becoming more favourable, actually.
on evs, bc has committed to mandate of 90% of new sales by 2030, from around 10% today. that's a rapid change that should have a significant effect on emissions, but whether the global auto industry can deliver this is debatable.
on transportation, it would be wise to invest in other forms like public transit, biking and walking. this is perhaps where vancouver's plan makes the most impact.
they are meaningless as i intend to live in my house for decades.  
the cost of living is just going nuts, everything is going up in price, increasing taxes, there is no relief.
i feel like you’re proving my point to an extent. we have a goal of a 40-40% reduction by 2030. heating is 10% of our emission. your saying we only have to do a third of that, but that’s only 3.3%. where does the other 37% reduction come from? 
according to this: 
it will cost 13 billion a year over 30 years just for 10% of emissions. i don’t know how we pay for that. i also don’t think that’s cost effective. it just seems bizarre that this is actually a realistic proposal.
for what i’ve seen, electricity would have to double in production  for transportation and heating. we don’t even have a plan to get to 100% renewable now, let alone doubling it. there is no realistic plan to do it by 2030.
i couldn’t read the link. the cost has to be at least in the hundreds on billions. as a whole electricity is only 10% of canada’s emission. so retrofits plus electricity comes with a massive bill and only solves a small portion of our current climate goals.
bc seems to have idealistic optimistic projections for ev. ontario and quebec are banning them by 2035. regardless, most cars will still be gas powered by 2030. the federal estimate was closer to 10%. most those gains wouldn’t happen this decade. also cars are only 10% of emissions. once province having sales at 90% (which i highly doubt) doesn’t really help us get closer to the 40% goal. i also doubt this goal is doable.
overall, these seem like expensive ideas which still don’t even guarantee a 30% reduction.

why are they allowed to just take time off, but if i call in sick i get written up, need a doctor's note, and lose hours.
ask your provincial leaders that question. you won't get any traction hanging out on reddit.

wow! this is a pleasant surprise. kuttner is exactly what the green party needs in this moment. they’ve been outspoken on climate change and issues within the party which are the two issues that have dragged the greens down recently. however, i’m disappointed this means that kuttner won’t be the permanent leader as i think they could be a breath of fresh air that the party needs long terms.
interesting that manly withdrew at the last minute especially when it seems like he was almost guaranteed the position. as it says in the article, ambitions to be the permanent leader could’ve been a factor, but you would think he would have considered that before.
their wikipedia page says their dad was killed in a mudslide in bc, timely personal experience for the interim green party leader right now.
with a physics degree, let's hope ~~she isn't~~ they aren't anti-nuclear like previous greens.
i'm otherwise in political agreement with the party in general, but right now i vote ndp for that reason (and because ndp is the abc vote for alberta). nuclear power needs to be on the table if we're to survive the next few centuries and i refuse to vote for people who say otherwise.
party's press release is here: 
[removed]
it's hard to believe there's not a single individual among the green party's membership or supporter base who has actual elected political experience. i know this would be a thankless job, but it's astounding that they can't find someone- anyone- who knows what the inside of a parliament is like.
i can see why manly does not want to do it, but some other former mp or mla who knows what the two members should be doing, and who can instill some sense of seriousness would have been a positive thing.
i joined the greens to vote for amita in the leadership election. i definitely don't agree with all their politics but i liked their eager approach, scientific background and i was pretty intrigued by their pro-gun stance. i am supportive of any development that shows the potential of breaking firearms ownership out of the left-right dichotomy.
i had the pleasure of meeting dr. kuttner during the 2018 pro-rep referendum, and they impressed me quite a bit.  enough for me to donate to their 2019 campaign and do some canvassing for them, despite them running against an mp who i quite like too (terry beach). glad to see kuttner get this role and i see glen murray has already tweeted his wholehearted support too (apparently the two became friends during leadership).
not sure why they had to mention she was trans but her science background is definitely appreciated in a leadership. white people pushing the narrative of diversity hires again. getting really sick of it
manly may have discovered at tonight's meeting that his only competition was kuttner and was happy to see kuttner become interim leader.
their mom was the one who died in the mudslide, their father suffered brain damage but survived. truly, someone who has personally suffered from climate disaster right here in canada.
i hope it doesn't have to be about that.
that was my first hope, i'd like to think a scientist wouldn't be anti nuclear. but there are antivax doctors, so who knows these days.
[these were their thoughts]( [on nuclear during the leadership race](
unfortunately, it seems they gave up on their website which was the only place with their actual platform available.
*they
removed for rule 3.
it's not like the greens have a large list of people with experience. there's only ever been 4 elected greens at the federal level and one of them crossed the floor to the liberals. on the provincial side, there's only one person that's been elected and is not currently in a legislature and he's mostly retired from politics.
i think manly is going for the permanent leader gig.  and i think kuttner brings seriousness to the role.
apart from paul manly, every green who has ever been elected in canada remains in their seat - so there simply aren't any "former" elected folks available. 
once you go green...

many canadians just spent 1.5+ years working from home virtually. why does he think this is a good attack? it screams of desperation and lack of inspiration.
i admit i don't really understand this argument. what is special about being there in person during question period or when voting that increases accountability? it honestly seems the same to me but perhaps i just don't get it.
>liberal house leader mark holland has said he's heard from mps with compromised immune systems who are uncomfortable with the idea of being in the chamber with conservative mps who refuse to get vaccinated.
>an unknown number of conservative mps have avoided getting a shot by claiming medical exemptions to the commons rules.
also ... why is an unknown number? if they have valid exemptions, fine, but why hide the number who do from canadians? that doesn't seem like accountability to me. 
nor does showing up to give your announcement on accountability and walking out after 20 minutes without answering questions. as [reported by glen mcgregor](
and o'toole ducks accountability to canadians for not requiring "his" mps to be fully vaccinated as are most of the rest of us.
ducking accountability by pushing for accommodations so all members can participate. can't hold him accountable if you aren't there and there is no way for you to be.
this one doesn't even fully make sense on the surface, let alone when you actually think about it for a second.
this attack might be viable if most canadians saw any value in the pathetic farce that is question period. meaningless hooting and shouting where no question is ever answered. maybe reform it into something relevant and then making attack? until then nobody cares.
>it screams of desperation and lack of inspiration.
everything coming out of erin o'toole's mouth these days seems like this
press are concerned about having less access to mps. o'toole's just concerned about his question period sound bites.
>press are concerned about having less access to mps.
that makes sense and could be solved in some way i think. maybe having mps give more interviews.
also if it's a partial virtual parliament with most mps in person (which i think is what they're asking for?) then they should have lots of access i'd think. given the statistics on how many people have legitimate vaccine exemptions there shouldn't be a lot of mps who would need to be virtual.

canada total homicides in 2020: 743.
women accounted for 78 in the first half (fair to say approx 156) total for the year.
in 2020 of the 743 murders, approx 587 were not women, and approx 156 were women.
canada total homicides in 2019: 687
women accounted for 60 in the first half (fair to say approx 120) total for the year. not sure why they leave out the total, did it get better, worse? 
in 2019 of the 687 murders, approx 567 were not women and approx 120 were women.
seems like the numbers are high regardless of their vaginal state.

i agree with the conclusion of the article: that we are heading towards vassal-state status, and it would be in our best interest to diversify our foreign policy in a new era of great power competition. however, the article doesn’t mention trade at all which grossly misrepresents our reason for dependence. as long as our economy is dependent on the us it doesn’t matter how many languages our diplomats speak.
>by embracing its bilingual identity on the world stage more fully, canada would distinguish itself from its american neighbour and counter its growing reputation as a “vassal state” of the united states.
nobody cares. 
it's just feel-good rhetoric in favor of the status quo. nations don't think canada is an american vassal because it speaks english. they think it's an american vassal because the majority of its trade happens with the us and it is totally dwarfed by said country which is in extreme proximity. canada can switch to punjab as the official language and it wouldn't change the underlying logic. 
i could just as easily say that we really should embrace mandarin or hindi bilingualism as a way to build better relationships with china or india (via the substantial minority populations already within canada) as a counterbalance to the us. 
it would be silly, because the underlying reason to be bilingual is just to preserve the canadian federation (not foreign policy gains) and for that only french will do. 
trying to tack on some extra benefits to obscure the real reason to make the pill go down easier just doesn't seem convincing to me. if the quebecois were scattered all across canada and so didn't pose a secession threat i doubt anyone would be like "we need to actively make it harder to hire top executive talent *for foreign policy reasons*!".
come on.
the article doesn't mention trade because it has no actual case for how bilingualism can overcome this brute economic fact. 
instead it deals in generalities like "reputation" and "distinguish itself" and pretends as if speaking a bit more french will change basic realities of geography and politics.
> didn't pose a secession threat
there hasn't been a credible secession threat since harper got elected. however, i agree with you that if the french population wasn't concentrated in one place, the dynamics would be very different. a scattered french population would not have been able to remain coherent enough to avoid being whittled down through demographic pressure. so the french vote would have shrunk.
it may aide us when developing trade ties with north african states as they continue to develop further. giving us an edge when starting taks. but as you note we have a major geography issue when diversifying our trade. 
pre ww2 majority of our trade was actually with the uk, and not the us. so maybe it's possible again with europe or elsewhere. but a lot has changed in the world since then.
>however, i agree with you that if the french population wasn't concentrated in one place, the dynamics would be very different. a scattered french population would not have been able to remain coherent enough to avoid being whittled down through demographic pressure
"if only it were easier to assimilate the population, we'd be much better off!"
> there hasn't been a credible secession threat since harper got elected.
that is an incredibly short time span for such things to disappear as a potential concern.
>"if only it were easier to assimilate the population, we'd be much better off!"
if that doesn't bother you too much, then try not to pretend to me that i don't have intentions. it is possible to observe that the situation of french canadians would have been very different if we were not concentrated in quebec without wishing for the disappearance of the french language.
worked for france.
almost no one speaks breton anymore. the tragedy.
what gave it momentum at the time was jean chretien constantly kicking the beehive so he could turn around and score points in the rest of canada by pointing at the horrible separatists that want to destroy our country and saying he'll put them in their place with his tough love policies.
once harper came to power and his attitude was:  yeah, sure, distinct society, whatever, don't care  .... the pq and bloc both went into a nosedive. 
the liberal party later tried to revive the separatist boogeyman in the 2015 elections, and no one bought it. it could become relevant again, but the only way that will happen is if a sitting canadian prime minister actively decides to provoke it for political gain. 
at least, that's my opinion on the matter.

people just want someone to blame, something right in front of them is the easiest target.
a fractured global supply chain is too intangible for most people to consider.
>poilievre punctuated his point with a play on words, describing the current situation as "justin… flation."
bravo.  truly some of poillieivres best work to date.  almost as good as the '[bidenflation]( that folks like fox news has been using for the last couple weeks.  i wonder if poilievre was inspired.
>"i am impressed to see the high esteem in which the member for carleton seems to hold me, that i was able to create a global inflation crisis with our initiatives to support canadians throughout this pandemic," trudeau said in reply to poilievre.
this is it really.  inflatation is global and entirely due to the effects of the pandemic.  how the government deals with it is on them, but blaming trudeau's stimulus spending for global inflation is dumb politics.  
that said, wherry is might.  dumb or not, people might believe it so it makes political sense for the cpc to make this play. the liberals will have to manage the crisis and fend off these attacks, thankful that the electuon already happened and their main opponents are busy dealing with vaccines and leadership challenges.
i understand i am not the target audience for this line of attack but i find it insulting that they are creating misinformation to divide and distract. the cpc is not a functioning or credible political party as long as they have the canada proud boys running their comms.
i still agree spending needs to be on the fore front of consideration during inflation, however to say the liberals are fully to blame is a bit of a stretch.
inflating is somewhat transitory, but it's also very much because of the global spending.
liberals spent more than almost anyone in the first wave, relative to gdp. it was unbridled spending at a $300m deficit in 2020. i'm curious how that will set us up in the next few years, compared to those who spent less. i'm sure we could have spent significantly less and had the same general outcome. it is what it is, but justin's ineptitude with monetary policy was not the biggest factor in today's inflation. inflation will take care of our national debt, but we will personally all suffer. i'm sure governments will continue to let it run hot.
i think the usd and € is setting the pace (of permanent inflation) here i just hope they turn off the taps of easement soon, but does not look like that will happen.
pretty fair editorial. it's not going to be easy to be in charge for the next few years, no matter who forms government. people aren't going to be super rational and neutral about the cost of a shipping container being 5x what it used to be across the entire world if they're choosing between heating their homes and putting decent food on the table.
if conservatives are going to insist that global inflation is somehow trudeau's fault then they should state exactly what spending they would cut in order to fix it.
would it be cerb? federal health care support spending? how about the enhanced ei? the child care plan? where's the money going to come from huh? what is it that's less important than inflation?
the conservatives are so quick to say we're spending too much, but i remember harris and eves in ontario: once people know where that money has to come from suddenly the public perception turns on a dime.
it's literally economics 101 that none of these people have taken. it was predicted the moment the lockdowns happened and people were given money for nothing. economics is a systems based discipline that follows laws that might as well be embedded in the universe. yes, liberal decisions caused this and it was/still is mostly in their control. 
in truth it's that these reporters are relying on canadian ignorance and anti conservative bias to peddle statements that do not conform to reality. anyone aware of basic economics can and has rightly predicted this outcome a year ago. this didn't blindside us, this wasn't an act of god. this was the unintended consequence of the actions of ignorant people who were they to have listened to literally any economist would have known this would happen.
i think they're going down the right track. their job as the opposition is to hold the government accountable. there's seems to be an increase in blame deflection from our federal goverment and it's partisan supporters. for example:
inflation? no, it's just transitory. well, maybe there's a deeper issue, but surely it's an international issue and there's nothing we can do about it.
housing crisis? nope, municipal and provincial responsibility. please ignore that we control interest rates, a significant portion of taxation, and own the cmhc, an organization whose entire purpose is to promote affordable home ownership.
one of the problems with our democracy is that the sitting government will refuse to acknowledge problems, because the opposition will just use it as attack fodder. i think if the government could start acknowledging economic problems in the same way it acknowledges social issues it would go a long way to restoring trust and integrity in our system.
indeed 
no one really has control over the global supply chain when it comes down to it
the problem with chasing that invisible monster is that in 4 years time when there is another election, if they are wrong and this is supply chain pressured inflation and it stabilizes, they are going to look dumb.
>justin… flation.
i'm cringing, does the conservative party have to import all things trump for their own use.  now they are using playground insults...  
is this also the work of their cpc's newest hire, the [canada proud founder](
i feel they called this election early as they feel the inflation issues were going to become a huge liability into 2022.
liberals did something similar with the diefendollar: [
it kinda worked.
the budget will balance itself.  how could that go wrong?
in what respect is this misinformation?  this is economics 101.
why do you think that's so damning? i would take anything a proud page shares with a pound of salt, but i'd say the same about many left wing sources as well. the amount of shit i've seen shared about the rittenhouse trial down south that was outright fiction was frankly a little disturbing.
double stretchy when the conservatives supported all the spending also.
how is it fair?  he claims inflation wasn't an issue in the election and he cites kevin page completely inaccurately.



this looks so bad, and is such a waste of time.  to voters it looks like the cpc is trying to get out of doing what everyone else has to do to go out to dinner or a movie.  it looks like they're hiding something.  and its a  distraction from anything else they want to talk about right now, at the start of a new parliament. all because a few members are resistant to getting vaccinated and/or want to signal to antivaxxers for their support.
 o'toole is putting his immediate leadership concerns ahead of the parties prospects. something i'm sure the liberals appreciate.
>but after the board imposed the vaccination mandate for everyone on parliament hill, conservative leader erin o’toole attempted to find a middle ground. he said all his caucus members would either be vaccinated or have been given a medical exemption — but he also vowed to formally object to the way the rule was implemented.
>that’s what happened on tuesday as richards rose on what’s known as a question of privilege. he argued that the committee didn’t have the right to set a vaccination policy, *which he said ought to have been determined by the house of commons as a whole.*
two things.
1. why would he be asking for a house of commons vote on this matter, all this would do is reveal the exact number of anti-vaxxers in the cpc, unless o'toole is betting the number is not as big as it seems -- but in that case, why not just release the number?
2. i'm so tired of erin o'toole attempting to please every single person in the cpc.  "oh, he supports vaccine mandates, but at the same time he doesn't".  brilliant, not at all confusing... or pandering.
they don't want hybrid parliament, but they don't want everyone in parliament vaccinated... in the light of an immunocompromised senator in her 50s dying recently of covid, i don't know what coherent message they're trying to send. any vulnerable mps and staff should stay home if they don't want people recklessly endangering them?
fine. they can stay home and not participate, if they're not willing to do the literal bare minimum to protect their fellow canadians.
i agree that this is bad strategy for the cpc, but the headline is a bit misleading. the objection was not to the vaccine requirement itself, but to the idea that the board of internal economy can implement one without a vote in the house. and honestly it's a reasonable question to raise, i was fairly surprised when i heard about it originally because it would seem that something as extreme as preventing a member from entering the house would require a full vote. 
of course, the conservative members on the boie could have objected at the time, which makes me all the more suspicious of how sincere this objection is. it may well be that this is a calculated move from o'toole, finding a way to make a half-hearted objection to placate part of caucus/the cpc base without actually objecting to the policy.
erin o'toole is vaccinated and doesn't personally stand behind this objection, but he is doing it because he is a weak leader who doesn't have control over his own party.
they saw how it was going in the states and said "yeah we should make this medical emergency  political nightmare."
[removed]
cannot imagine why the senator wanted a leadership review.... so fortunate they did not win the election. time to weed out the backward thinkers... not embrace their rambling thoughts as policy!!! what an embarrassment! do as we say, not as we do!
does anyone know if an mp who was unvaccinated would be denied voice and vote? or would they simply have to attend parliament virtually.
add covid vaccination rules to women, lgbt, poor people, unions, and everything else the they formally object to.
such an unfortunate position. it would make sense if they were against this but for virtual sessions... but they're against both.
dangerous game for the libs, as covid ebbs people will start to side with the people against restrictions.  the mob has a short memory.
[removed]
[removed]
he’s trying to get back the people that voted for the ppc strictly on their mask and vaccine mandate opinions. 
it looks stupid though, and honestly erin isn’t the leader he thinks he is. he’s working too hard to convince dumb anti vaxxers to vote for him, and i highly doubt he’ll survive as leader until the next federal election.
the cynic in me feels like your correct, though it could be an ideological stance.
forced mandates regardless of the benevolence or benefit can be problematic to certain ideologies. a lot of people have become myopic to the views of others because they automatically think it’s worst case scenario.
>it's* a distraction 
>the party's* prospects
it’s the current way for guys like him or kenney. they worry that their actual beliefs would not appeal to a larger voter base but they also don’t want to lose the rwnj vote so they try to vouch everything so it pleases everyone. 
they’re trying to suck and blow at the same time.

actually should say that everyone in the world will feel the pinch. it’s a global issue, not a uniquely canadian one.
[removed]
let's see. first they ramp up the printing of dollars and then there is inflation. is anyone surprised? 
the official rates are complete fiction. the real rate is about 15%. yeah, folks are going to hurt. but, what else can they do? if they turn off the printing presses, the world will descend into a particularly nasty depression - one that will make "the great depression" look like a practice run.
this is not a surprise. it had been building for decades. some folks say since the yanks put am end to the gold standard and there is a lot of truth to it but really, it is the decades of over spending and putting the bill off to the next year, the next government, the next "good times". covid-19 did not create this, it just set it off.
the financial system has been creaking and groaning under the stress for a long time. but, there was no way off of this merry go 'round, until... non-governmental currency - currency that governments can't tamper with. enter cryptocurrency - a way off of the merry go 'round. and just in time.
watch the global economy switch to crypto so fast your head will swim. then watch government's the world over, inflate away their debts. 
i remember having a 29.5% mortgage. it can happen again. and much worse. look up hyper-inflation.
that depends on how quickly other places are able to adapt to ongoing supply chain restrictions, versus canada.
ahh yes, those swiss and their high inflation rates.
removed for rule 3.
[removed]
if inflation is 15%, then our gdp didn’t recover post covid. that or gdp was adjusted for 15% inflation and it wasn’t as far as i know.
unironically yes, the swiss are very upset about inflation rn
it’s a global supply chain issue. there’s fewer everything and longer waits for everything. has nearly nothing to do with our domestic policy.
what do our interest rates have to do with a zero covid pro-lockdown policy in chinese ports? answer: sweet fuck all.
once place. 
[removed]
removed for rule 2.
[removed]
the key is to look at the things that people actually spend money on and not the aggregate figures. my bad. i should have said that.
what does the *global* supply chain have to do with the *inflationary price* increases of eggs? or dairy?
edited for clarity.
well and japan.
most of these countries with high inflation also had massive covid spending, so it's a policy driven cause, not a byproduct of being in the global community. but you're right, it is a global problem and the real question now is what to do about it.
[removed]
fuel, processed goods, egg cartons, wastage because of slow shipping. 
that would be my guess but i’m not a macroeconomist

i agree with the first part of his argument, that the conservatives have not done very well under fptp (which he refers to as "smp"), but i feel he is mistaken in the the second argument he presents.  he states that there's a fear that the conservative party might split, and this would weaken it.  he then states these fears are unfounded, in that it didn't really happen in new zealand.
i'm not sure about new zealand, but in canada, i feel the fact that every vote would count (or, at least, be far better represented) means that the conservative party in canada could divide back into something like reform and tory (aka progressive conservative), and win even more votes and seats than they currently are able to with one united party.  this would give right-of-centre parties an option for developing coalitions and/or confidence and supply agreements after an election and gaining control of government more often than they do now.  it would solve the infighting that often occurs within the conservative party now between its two factions.  it would allow more seats to be won in the east (the atlantic, quebec, and the gta) along with the seats it currently wins in the west.  and it would lead to getting many blue libs being more comfortable to switch sides.    
proportional representation would be a winning move for right-of-centre voters, i feel.  and everyone having better representation in a government that actually reflects how people voted would lead to a better more stable nation as a whole.
they would pretty much lose the ability to win a majority, that's a big loss. if liberals can push ranked then their ability to win majority will remain.
> they adapted to new circumstances in order to win power.
so something cpc has been not known to do
for those curious, here is the policy on electoral reform from the conservative party (this is the latest that i was able to find).  see section 13:  
i say we take both the conservatives and liberals favoured reforms and enact them both.  there's no reason we can't have proportional and ranked ballot at the same time.  the fact that each only wants whats best for them, and gamed the system to make sure the other side didn't win, is a problem.  let the people decide.
yes pr would be a win for canadians all across the political spectrum, but it would be a loss for people who care more about their political party than canada as a whole.
right now, the cpc tried to portray themselves as if the reform party doesn’t exist. look at how o’toole campaigns during a general election. if the parties split into pc and reform (regardless of the actual chosen party names), then the extreme socons and anti-abortionists will be openly running the show. and after 1-2 election cycles, it’ll be very clear. a vote for the liberals is a vote for ndp’s being involved ingovernment. and a vote for the pc’s is a vote for the reform party involved in government.
yes, we definitely don't want ranked ballots, which is what trudeau wants for the obvious reasons you stated.
while conservatives would lose the ability to win a majority, i'm not convinced they will win very many majorities in the future. the reasons harper was able to get a minority was that canadians were tired of the liberals and the sponsorship scandal. the reason harper was then able to get two majorities was because the liberals didn't have a viable leader, which is typical of how conservatives win majorities in canada. i think canadians prefer minorities and won't be looking to give either major party any more majorities.
trudeau only got his majority because canadians wanted harper out. they were going to vote ndp but mulcair took the bait when harper suggested hijabs should be banned in canada. this upset quebec and when the rest of canada saw that quebec has switched from supporting the ndp to supporting the liberals, they also switched to ensure harper didn't get back in. unfortunately it happened close enough to the election that the liberals ended up with a majority.
pr would be a win for canadians all across the political spectrum. it would only be a loss for canadians who are partisan and care more about their party than canada as a whole.
the conservatives favour proportional?  that's very new to me.  all this time i thought their stance was referendum, aka status quo.
when justin trudeau initially got elected they tried the whole electoral reform push.  the issue was that liberals wanted ranked ballot which is better for them, while conservatives wanted proportional because that would give them the best chance of being elected.  this entire thing ended up being played out where the conservatives were able to keep ranked ballots out of the proposed referrendum, effectively meaning that people would be asked if they wanted fptp or proportional.  since that didn't work for the liberals they scrapped the entire thing.  so in both cases, each of the parties wanted what was best for them, instead of what's best for democracy.  i say if ranked is better for liberals, and porportional is better for conservatives, we do them both and give people better representation, regardless of what's best for any particular party.
as above, that's new to me.  i also was under the impression the conservatives wanted to keep fptp, but whatever was chosen had to go to a referendum (which based on history, would fail).

why waste much needed money ? this is a complex issue/proxy war between america and russia. 
don’t we have enough of our own problems at home that we should be focusing on ?
are we sure what we send won't inevitably end up in the hands of the nazi's the ukrainian government has let run around in the east? or are we going to get another batch of "we kinda armed neo-nazi's in the ukraine - top general" articles in a couple years?
canada and nato have no business being along the russian border. 
could you imagine the blow back if china started filing up troops in mexico....or put missiles on a small neighboring island...
our leaders are leading us into conflict.
canada can't free ride off of the us forever. 
russia is our northern neighbor and europe contains some of our closest allies.
canada has deep political and historical ties to ukraine. canada was the first western country to support ukrainian independence back in 1991. canada was also one of the first western nations to provide military support following the 2014 war.
some of this is domestic politics. the 1 million ukrainian-canadians represent the largest segment of the ukrainian diaspora after russia. some of it is foreign policy. canada is a strong supporter of the international rule of law and would like to see ukraine remain in the western sphere of influence.
the cost of a few hundred more soldiers is immaterial. we have had deployments in recent years in romania, latvia and iceland among other places, and none of those has broken the bank.
proxy war? do you not think that the people of ukraine might have some feelings about this?
the idea that ukraine is somehow swarming with nazis is russian propaganda designed to legitimize their illegal aggression. 
i'm going to suggest to you that it is wise for canada to support a relatively-liberal democracy against aggression by an authoritarian dictatorship.
definitely going to be part two
[removed]
canada has borders with russia. our neighbours are russia, usa, denmark and france. 
to reproduce your scenario with china/canada/mexico (to be similar with canada/russia/ukraine) a set of events is required to happen right before that:
1. canada should declare that mexican government discriminate spanish speaking population;
2. canada should occupy large portion of mexico after that;
3. canada should place nuclear missles into occupied portions of mexico, as well as 100,000 troops
4. mexicans should hate canadians;
5. mexicans should repeatedly request help from china
while 4 is possible - we beat mexico in a soccer world cup for the first time in 45 years, 3 is not.
why can’t we transition to becoming a neutral states like switzerland and sweden. both being european countries and a lot closer to the conflict region. 
look at how many billions of dollars we spent in afghanistan because of our “allies , and how many lives we lost and the amount of atrocities we were complicit in - only to runaway and leave the country in a mess. 
we could have done so many great things for our country with all those billions, is my point.
“canada is a strong supporter of the international rule of law” 
cute.
to be honest why is ukraine anymore important than all the other nations/regions/peoples that are suffering in the world through proxy war related conflicts ? 
is ukraine more important because it’s in europe ? because they are white ? or because it’s if more strategic value to the eu and america ?
removed for rule 3.
> canada has borders with russia.
ya over very rough terrain. armies arent crossing that path via tanks and parachute. this is where the difference lies between the ukraine conflict. russia has every reason to defend the perimeter of buffer zone(much like the arctic). canadas claim on much of the north will be under dispute in the future - likely within my lifetime.
the swiss and the swedes spent a ton of money on national defence, and both countries have mandatory conscription of all adult men, with jail sentences for those who refuse service.
there is a saying regarding switzerland; switzerland has no army, **switzerland is an army.** sweden is also just as well armed.
> why can’t we transition to becoming a neutral states like switzerland and sweden.
one thing to watch out for is that neutral countries, lacking the protection of allies, need to spend **more** on their military, not less. pierre trudeau was surprised to learn this from sweden when he was thinking about whether canada should withdraw from nato.
sweden established its own domestic arms industry (which of course sought export markets).
... ukraine was a neutral state like switzerland and sweeden. it also has a border with russia. we have a  border with russia as well. and you suggest to become a neutral state?
i have a better idea. let's be like costa rica and abolish the military altogether.
let's be honest: no one is going to invade canada. this isn't a game of risk.
"but we have tons of resources!" some uninformed would say. sure, but do you actually think someone would risk invading america's neighbour? (unless america was the one that did the invading, in which case there's nothing we could do in the first place. so, might as well abolish the military)

>drawing on his lived experience while applying the detachment of a historian
sure jan.
just so you all know, the author, john weissenberger, is a climate change "skeptic" (i'm being kind here), who once dismissed climate change believers as being part of a "popular delusion" and participants in a form of "collective psychosis."
he was also jason kenney's campaign manager and, in an act of blatant cronyism, was named vp of the alberta energy regulator in 2020 - all the while penning several articles decrying the failings of the corrupt "laurentian elite".
i would take anything he says with a grain of salt.
i didn’t finish the article, but i strongly disagree with his assertion the quebec anglos should “get out”. not sure how seriously how the article defended this notion, but it’s bullshit. this only increases tensions between nations within a nation. the more english speakers leave quebec, the more distinct the two nations within a nation become. alienation and division serves no fruitful purpose for anybody. divide, and divide some more, and divide some more?! when does it end? 
i also strongly disagree with the quebec’s obsession with fighting language evolution, a process that is as old as human civilization. none of these legislative efforts will stop languages from evolving/merging/changing with the passage of time. if languages didn’t evolve, we would still be speaking archaic languages. french itself has a variety of latin/celtic roots, like hosts of other languages. 
money’s tight for everybody these days, why are we throwing money at issues that are not only fighting losing battles, but actually increasing hostility towards minority languages. like usual, ignorance on both sides of the debate. ignorant author pointing finger at ignorant government.
edit: am franco-albertan, for clarity, before replies jump to asinine conclusions.
"get out", and go where? im a quebec anglo and my family has been in quebec for over 200 years.
this place is my home as much as it is anybody else's

as a progressive who actually agrees that systemic racism is a problem that needs attention, this scares me. not because the direct result but mostly the attitudes it will drum up from the right and even centre. 
telling people that their opinion matters less because they are white is not going to bring people closer together.
“we have heard from members at both the local and provincial level within our union that black, racialised and indigenous members do not feel safe or welcome at union activities,” the email says.
because i know what makes me feel safer is entering a room where i'm a minority, and telling everyone my vote is more valuable than theirs.
this is a bad idea, it's not bad to want to hear from minorities. it is bad to get away from a system of 1 person = 1 vote.
a weird result of this "minority voters always get 50% of the vote" rule is that it incentivizes current union members who are part of said minority to prevent more from joining. the fewer members of the minority that are present, the more power each person gets, and actually working toward the goal of equity in the workforce makes their votes less valuable, and does nothing to increase the total influence of the group.
“we have heard from members at both the local and provincial level within our union that black, racialised and indigenous members do not feel safe or welcome at union activities,” the email says.
what does this mean?  “unsafe” is an extremely broad term.
so they decided to fight perceived or actual racism by engaging in racism.
you have to wonder whether such thinking extends to areas outside of union activities.
this is just one union local, to be clear, “ontario teachers union” might imply it is province wide. 
still, this is just going to be fodder for anti union sentiment, when unions can actually help achieve meaningful equity through economic improvements and rights at work rather than of this kind of divisive internal stuff
so now some people are worth less than 1 vote? i think this was an issue at some point in time.
when people speak of how equality has swung too far the other way, they're correct. the people who were at the top are now at the bottom (socially) and have screamed that this would happen for years.
perhaps the most frustrating part of this is that in the discussion about whether this was a good idea or a bad idea, there was not free discussion. instead, the union leaders said that calling this "reverse racism" caused "harm" and that the union does not condone "words that are harmful and offensive".
so basically, have an open discussion, but if you disagree with this policy you are saying things that are harmful and offensive. what a way to get a policy passed.
this is an absolute disaster, and i'm speaking as someone who believes in equity, privilege, and the systemic issues facing racialized people.  
people seem to forget that advancing these causes is subject to public marketing at large, and this is the exact type of thing that is *intuitively divisive* in our current culture. deviating from the one person, one vote scheme is a great way to deepen divides and give ammunition to bad-faith actors who seek to capitalize on the optics surrounding this type of solution. frankly, i don't think this is going to have the intended consequences that they are seeking.  
edit - to add, some people might have a legitimate concern with this. frankly, i don't know that i can argue against them.  
double edit - i decided to watch the slideshow on top of reading the article. straight-up, i'm not for this.  
people seem to forget that managing divides between dominant and marginalized cultures, and managing the perception of fairness between marginalized and dominant cultures, is an important part of equity. this steps way too far, and it's only a matter of time before a contentious issue passes or fails due to weighted voting, which, i believe, will result in divide, toxicity, and resentment. that's not a way for anyone to feel "safe."  
moreover, the dominant culture are still people worthy of representation, and they still need to be considered in these transactions. call me crazy, but i don't want grotesquely disharmonious equity, especially in the face of society's deepening divisions.  
inclusion, balancing of privilege, equity, and equality are all noble goals, but this isn't it. the execution and communication is grotesquely clumsy, and i think this union has willingly pilloried a greater cause for a goofy, inelegant solution.
quote: “i did vote for it,” said leblanc. “i do believe it’s a very positive step for equity.”
but how it is purposefully saying a certain group of people is more important then everyone else that is the opposite of equality.
as a poc with en ex who is a part of that union and also a poc i get what they're going for but don't agree.
i get that in this environment at the moment there are less poc and therefore their voice often goes unheard/inaction, but making their opinions weighted more aggressively isn't it.
train and educated people on why those opinions are valid and need better consideration, whatever they may be.
the article says that this is a response to bipoc people not feeling "safe" in their union. it would be nice to know what that actually means, or how this measure addresses it.
[removed]
canadians really took the term “racialized” which has an actual sociological meaning and distorted it to be shorthand for minority. 
which is not helpful in deconstructing or understanding race.
this creepy attempt to achieve equity is a similar misstep.
[removed]
[removed]
i believe in systemic racism but the best way to show people you care about it would either be an elegant solution or a complex, well thought-out solution consulting everybody. this feels a bit like a shoehorn, they could've made an ad campaign that encouraged bipoc people to join the union for example.
one day people will remember that equality means everyone is equal. no discrimination *or* privilege. treating any group as special or different from any other is the opposite of equality.

>both milliard and proulx said encouraging older skilled workers to remain in the workforce and enticing retired workers to return are key strategies.
>proulx said right now there's a tax credit offered to retired workers who rejoin the workforce, but she said it's not enough.
>"when you combine the federal and provincial tax credits it's about $4,000. is that enough for someone who's retired to go back to work? i don't think so," proulx said.
incredible, still nothing for younger people, but older people get nice tax credits for working.  have businesses considered that they might just not be paying high enough wages to attract employees?  there is no labour shortage, just a wage shortage.
* proulx estimates manufacturers in the province have lost $18 billion over the last two years due to the shortage.
 "they're losing international contracts because they're not able to deliver on time, some have chosen to let loyal customers go because they're unable to supply them anymore," proulx said.
* milliard said the quebec pension plan actively discourages workers from returning to the workforce.
 he said retired workers only have the choice to suspend their pension and return to the workforce for up to six months after their initial retirement.
 he called this six month period "arbitrarily short and unnecessarily rigid."
 "it encourages permanent and irreversible retirement when the government finds itself in a context where the participation rate of experienced workers should be increased," milliard said.
 he also said workers who've started receiving quebec pension plan benefits who return to work should be exempt from making further contributions to the plan.
* proulx said a longer term fix would be for the province to increase the number of new immigrants allowed to come to quebec each year.
 business leaders were puzzled when the caq government slashed the number of immigrants by 20 per cent when it was first elected in 2018, just as the labour shortage was beginning to hurt.
 in 2019 about 40,000 new immigrants were allowed in, down from 50,000.
last month, the provincial immigration ministry increased the target back to about 50,000, and promised to process thousands more applications that were stuck in backlog in the system.
 proulx said the target should be 70,000 a year.
yup.  it's entirely about diluting the labor pool with cheap labor from out of country.  can't have people getting a living wage, that would cut into profits.
did you know the with strong labour protections and an increased minimum wage that isn't an issue?  blaming people immigrating into a country is like blaming new university graduates for diluting the workforce as they enter the job pool, just silliness mixed with xenophobia :/
the immigration minister even said that immigration helped suppress wages.
immigration is raising housing prices and suppressing wages.

chapman's made their pandemic pay permanent
they paid all their workers full wage while rebuilding from a fire.
they are a good company we should all support.
from a business standpoint, it's smarter to side with 90% of canadians that are vaccinated than the 10% that don't know better or have oppositional defiant disorder. i doubt even that 10% will know or have the political will to boycott.
this just makes me want chapman’s ice cream more. they’re a good canadian company that takes care of their workers. anyone trying to boycott them over vaccines seriously needs to re-examine their life choices.
posting this as an illustration of the dark depths to which the anti-vaccine mob is stooping. it's a deeply disturbing trend.
their stuff is the bomb (so too is kawarthas dairy to be fair). consistent tasting real ice cream, plus they do yearly manufacturer’s coupons to try out their stuff.
after the pandemic subsides, i hope they reopen their onsite ice cream shop to visits at their headquarters south of owen sound.
they also offered to donate super cold freezers at the beginning of this year to help out with the vaccine distribution.
[removed]
they make peanut free everything and honestly that means it’s the only product my family can buy. this makes me happy to continue to support them! 
im buying some tonight or this weekend.
it's crazy that they're getting backlash for *just* requiring testing for unvaccinated employees. yet they are the ones paying for that for each employee. that's an incredible level of accommodation. 
the article's last paragraph is beautiful though:
> "there's just not enough canadians that are anti-vax enough to send us hate mail and to affect our sales," he said. "they might think that their boycott could actually do something to us, but we would never notice."
they make ice cream sandwiches that are both low-carb and lactose free. i guess i'm going to increase my ice cream sandwich intake markedly.
well i needed ice cream anyways, guess it's gonna be chapman's. 
yo anyone know if they have non-dairy stuff yet?
i bought some ice cream for the first time in a year after hearing about this. it was chapman’s and will be going forward
funny how the antivaxxers who cry about cancel culture are more than happy to do the same thing to others. hypocrites and fools. 
kick their asses to the curb when they get sick and crawl to a hospital begging for help.
i am happy to reward businesses that care for their employees with my business. if it upsets the worst people in the world and i get to enjoy ice cream while doing so then even better.
well this is the easiest and most delicious way to vote with my wallet. blue berry cheese cake ice cream and neopolitan ice cream sandwiches here it come!
we’ve bought chapman’s exclusively since they had the fire and kept all their employees on the payroll while rebuilding. good companies deserve our support.
damn what a stand up company. i wish i liked their ice-cream. gonna have to buy it and make milkshakes and ice-cream sandwiches.
[deleted]
well i'm just gonna buy chapmans even harder now
just picked up two boxes of their vanilla sandwiches. yum.

well that was quick. there was an article posted a few hours ago saying he was the favourite to be interim leader.
the greens are so messy good lord.

peter julian needs to get over himself, quite frankly. it's just pathetic at this point.
you lost pete. badly. like... 20 times in the courts. none of them were even close. 
you need to move on with your life and stop fighting the battles of 2018 that feel like a lifetime ago to most of us now.
[deleted]
wrong pipeline babes.
[deleted]
i suggest you read the article. peter julian is all upset about *transmountain*, which is about 500km south of the wetsuweten issue with *coastal gaslink*.
[deleted]
nah... you just didn’t read the article. s’okay, it happens.
the ndp have made a lot of statements about coastal gaslink. if you would like to read it, here it is:
this just doesn’t happen to be one of them. this is an mp who can’t let go of the fights of 2018, it’s actually a bit sad.
been busy with uni so all the press i'd seen made it seem like the ndp were ignoring the issue my bad

it's not the least bit surprising that an ndp bc premier is in hot water over resource management from their base. that is because they are in power. horgan abandons either natural gas or forestry in the province his premiership is over. 
wonder how the liberals will change those industries? christy clark got us into this mess by building site c. forestry has always been out of wack in this province but the dam is something else.
he should step off the old growth though. it's disgusting. we should never log another og forest again. less than 1 percent ar left. let them be. gross!
we've unfortunately being doing it for so long it's getting to a point where we are actually realizing their isn't much left. if you fly up to somewhere like quesnel from vancouver it is truely depressing to see all the clear cut that show like scabs on the landscape.
yeah. but hasn't the recent scandal been authorizing logging on the last old growth or something?

the 413 will be fantastic for nearby land speculators who will get a massive payday as the highway encourages nearby urban sprawl but will do little to benefit anyone else. 
time and time again we learn that building more roads and more lanes doesn’t reduce traffic in the long-term. ironically it may even make gridlock near toronto even worse as more and more cars are funnelled into the core rather than encouraged to take alternative modes like go transit. 
this is urban planning straight from the disastrous 1960’s.
[removed]
does anybody recall the spadina expressway plan in the early 1970s? it was canned after partial completion. the unfinished part of that is now allen road. the aim of the spadina expressway was to move more traffic, just like 413. it was a bit of a boondoggle at the time as i recall. i cannot recall though whether the spadina route was originally a political decision to win votes, help construction companies (with connections?), or was based on real or perceived need at the time.
we need to replace our elected officials with a computer post-haste. a computer wouldn't roll out a highway that its own research showed as ineffective. the computer would just go beep boop and calculate a better plan. the computer wouldn't have an antivaxx daughter either. 
vote computer.
can confirm that more lanes on a highway does little to fix traffic issues.
hell, in a perfect world highways themselves were supposed to fix traffic issues - turns out that it’s not a perfect world haha
highways and personal automobiles are just so inefficient at transporting large volumes of people long term. they should be finding alternatives (aka rapid transit) to building new highways or expanding lanes.
how else is society supposed to function unless everyone is driving a tank sized suv?
fighting gridlock by building more roads is like fighting weight gain by buying bigger pants.
not my quote but i picked it up awhile ago and always think of it when the topic comes up.
removed for rule 3.
that said, trying to squeeze into a 30 inch waist when you're at 40 and climbing isn't going to work either.

i hope this kills the trudeau keystone support, manchin will kill democracy before west virginia gets transitioned and treated of its coal addiction.
this wohld be great. biden cohld use it to get a trade on something and ab gets a pipeline and we get more revenue. top it off with an ndp government getting the income and likely poll bump.
this is why alberta’s unemployment is 8% and canadas economy is stagnant.
we’re all going to work more hours for less. we are going to lose our standard of living because people like you wanted to posture and let others produce the oil instead of us.
harming the environment wouldn't be good
statements like these are why the entire bio system is dying.
tankers are more acceptable, apparently. they're gonna get it from somewhere. kxl and demand for energy are two separate things.
the counter argument is that the pipeline would make alberta oil cheaper and more profitable to extract, thus encouraging extraction.
if tankers worked just as well, then there would be no need for a pipeline, which implies that without the pipeline less oil will be extracted overall.
tankers are not very efficient transportation on the prairies,  great plains  and  mountain ranges.  i’m not a hydrologist , but think it may be due to the shortage of deep water.
>which implies that without the pipeline less oil will be extracted overall.
solid point, you're right. i hear tankers from saudi arabia leave the port of ras tanura empty, and oil magically accumulates on the way to gulf refineries. no extraction necessary for dictator oil!
due to discounts because of a lack of access to tidewater. oil form alberta is cheaper. by building this line and getting higher prices, it would reduce the demand.
your subtly implying prices would have to rise, but there’s no evidence they have. so we can conclude the oil was just produced elsewhere.
which is why alberta wants a pipeline.  without the pipeline they'll have trouble getting oil efficiently to market.  i"m not sure what people think i'm trying to defend here, i'm only saying that without a pipeline less albertan oil will reach market, which is why they want the damn thing in the first place.
less albertan oil i mean.
the pipeline is required in order to make albertan oil more economical, allowing more extraction.
if you are for more extraction of alberta oil, then you want the pipeline.  if you want less extraction of alberta oil, you don't want the pipeline.
i'm not making a judgement call either way, or saying saudi oil is better.
i'm doing no such thing.  i'm saying alberta wants to extract and sell their oil, and a pipeline facilitates that.  
no pipeline means alberta can't sell as much oil.
i never spoke to the question of where other people get their oil from, which obviously would have to be somewhere else.
why would we forego revenue that could help fund a transition?
but on a global scale, we’d just be transferring those emission to other countries
you're ascribing a position to me that i'm not taking.  i'm just saying that kxl means more alberta oil extracted, and no-kxl means less, and if you think alberta oil is especially environmentally deleterious, then that makes a difference.
i'm not taking a moral position on it either way beyond saying that the pipeline does affect the total amount of alberta oil extracted, which is obviously true, otherwise people in alberta wouldn't want the pipeline.

i doubt this is the magic bullet that the conservatives seem to think this is, but i must admit i want to know what the documents say myself.
> if the speaker finds a prima facie case of privilege, then the conservatives, backed by the ndp, bloc québécois and green parties, would support a motion to have a warrant issued for the documents.
let that sentence just hang in the air a moment.
that's a full opposition sweep, with even orange and blue standing shoulder to shoulder.
> the globe and mail has reported that the rcmp are investigating whether the two dismissed scientists passed on canadian intellectual property to china, including to the wuhan institute of virology. the investigation centres on the possibility that materials such as plasma dna molecules, which could be used to recreate vaccines or viruses, were transferred to chinese authorities without the approval of the public health agency of canada.
> the globe has also reported that ms. qiu, who headed the vaccine development and anti-viral therapies section at the winnipeg lab, collaborated on scientific papers with china military researchers. (the rcmp have been informed the scientists have relocated to china.)
> ...
> they also relate to the march, 2019, transfer of deadly virus samples to the wuhan institute of virology that was overseen by ms. qiu.
that certainly sounds awful.
the grits aren't doing themselves any favors by trying to keep parliament in the dark on this; the shifting reasons from privacy to national security, then the court case and suggestion to release it to a partisan, _non-parliamentary_ committee, well, it stinks.
i definitely want to know what's in those 250 pages that the grits are so desperate to hide. what we know already is distressing!
[removed]
here's a liberal motion from 2009. any emphasis is mine:
> [hon. ujjal dosanjh (vancouver south, lib.) moved:](
> **that, given the undisputed privileges of parliament under canada’s constitution, including the absolute power to require the government to produce uncensored documents when requested,** and given the reality that the government has violated the rights of parliament by invoking the canada evidence act to censor documents before producing them, the house urgently requires access to the following documents in their original and uncensored form:
> all documents referred to in the affidavit of richard colvin, dated october 5, 2009;
all documents within the department of foreign affairs written in response to the documents referred to in the affidavit of richard colvin, dated october 5, 2009;
all memoranda for information or memoranda for decision sent to the minister of foreign affairs concerning detainees from december 18, 2005 to the present;
> all documents produced pursuant to all orders of the federal court in amnesty international canada and british columbia civil liberties association v. chief of the defence staff for the canadian forces, minister of national defence and attorney general of canada
> all documents produced to the military police complaints commission in the afghanistan public interest hearings;
all annual human rights reports by the department of foreign affairs on afghanistan; and
> accordingly the house hereby orders that these documents be produced in their original and uncensored form forthwith.
also from dosanjh during debate:
> hon. ujjal dosanjh:
> mr. speaker, if there is any embarrassment, it has been created by the government itself. the fact is that the government should concede that members of parliament, some of whom are privy councillors themselves, may be as responsible as the government itself in protecting national security when they deal with the documents once disclosed. why do conservatives doubt the integrity of the members of the committee, that somehow the members of the committee pose a national security risk that if given the documents, somehow they will reveal secrets to the entire world?
from ignatieff during debate
> we must have the truth, uncensored and unredacted. **that is the privilege of parliament** and the right of the canadian people. that is the reason for today's motion. the government must account for an entire year of wilful blindness.
our current pm voted in favour of that motion.
surely that means everyone involved agrees that parliament has the right to view documents. the speaker at the time also agreed that parliament had that right.
so where's the issue? everyone has acknowledged what is right, so why is this so difficult?
a quick thought: regardless of whether you think parliament *should* request these documents, whether it’s a priority, etc., at this point it’s become a fight over parliamentary privilege and the authority of the house in its own right to compel documents, moreso than a fight over the contents of the documents themselves. which is why heels have been dug in by the various parties.
you'd think that having two foreign scientists using our facilities and sending unauthorized plasma samples of deadly viruses to a foreign dictatorship would be a breach of national security and not the report on how it happened and who was responsible. i think the liberals may be forgetting who they serve.
i wish the parties would just work together on a troubling incident instead of trying to score political points.
yes, the opposition is right that the house of commons has the right to demand the secret documents. no, that does not mean demanding them to be released is a wise thing to do.
yes, the government is right to raise national security concerns about these documents. no, that's not an excuse to just bury the whole thing.
how hard would it be to create a committee consisting of mps from all parties, train them in handling classified documents, swear them to secrecy about any sensitive info, and then open the documents there for everyone to look at?
seems like that would satisfy the opposition demands to scrutinize the government, without pissing off our allies or the intelligence community if it turns out the documents contain secret information from them.
kinda surprised that parliament doesn't have some version of the [gang of eight]( like in the us.
[removed]
[removed]
right? the thing is fishy but it’s not going to topple the liberals. unless the conservatives can magically attach the hiring of these two to direct liberal intervention then it’s just a bunch of noise. 
that said, the story is neat and i’d like more information.
don’t all of the other parties also support this? ndp and green included?
>i definitely want to know what's in those 250 pages that the grits are so desperate to hide. 
the head of phac is withholding the documents due to legal advice stating that the info is classified and making them public breaks national security law.
reading between the lines, it's clear that the info that lead to the firing was received from international surveillance sharing/ongoing investigations. revealing the source/methodology of gathering that surveillance info breaks our international security agreements (like 5 eyes).
this same situation occurred just over a decade ago, and resulted in the creation of nsicop so that non-government parliamentarians, with proper security clearance, could provide oversight to otherwise classified info.
**the opposition members of nsicop have access to the info and could themselves release it if they wanted, but instead they are trying to force the head of phac to do it for them. any opposition nsicop member could stand in the house and read word-for-word what the documents contain, with complete immunity to any legal consequence.**
**they don't because this story isn't about the info, it's about stringing along an uninformed populace and complicit media to create a misinformational scandal outside of the facts of the story.**
right, so let's just release documents that have been said to be highly classified because they relate to national security apparatus and potentially endanger an investigation to boot.
i don't think we need to see these documents in full light in public.
i think what we really need is a proper natsec parliamentary committee rather than a committee of parliament because there is a difference.
i still don't understand how the opposition parties, banging on the oversight drum, can't seem to wrap their heads around pressuring the lpc to create a better parliamentary mechanism for national security issues.
of course it benefits the incumbent government to have a committee of parliament rather than a parliamentary committee, but this same issue of "that's not good enough" showed up under harper and the parliamentary committee route gives more power to the members of the committee and it provides a more secure process by which to see this stuff too.
most of not all of these scandals had all the parties working together against the liberals hand in hand, but media and the lpc diehards would say it was just the mean conservatives.
> let that sentence just hang in the air a moment.
> 
> 
> 
> that's a full opposition sweep, with even orange and blue standing shoulder to shoulder.
not interesting until it actually happens. the parties are well aware that revealing the documents would likely break our international spying agreements, so they can beat the liberals over the head with this and the liberals can't say anything.
what's a grit?
it's part of the us launched china initiative, which other five eyes nations have been strong armed into participating in. they've been busy rounding up various chinese academics, scientists and researchers and laying bullshit charges on them, in some cases only after the implicated scientist has refused requests to spy on china.
[this article]( gets into the details of one case:
>hu, a chinese-born canadian citizen, is a celebrated researcher in nanotechnology. in 2013, the university of tennessee recruited him to teach and continue his research. hu disclosed on multiple occasions that he’d worked part time teaching graduate students and researchers at the beijing university of technology, according to the knoxville news sentinel.
>none of this raised any issues at the time. when hu began collaborating with nasa, which is legally barred from funding any research that involves “participation, collaboration, or coordination” with “china or a chinese-owned corporation,” ut administrators assured both him and the government agency that this part-time work didn’t violate the restriction. the law is meant to apply to nasa, not to its research collaborators.
>in 2018, however, the fbi identified hu as a potential spy. during his court testimonial, agent sadiku said he had found and made a “rough translation” via google of a chinese-language news release and flier that suggested hu had once received a short-term contract from the thousand talents program. that was evidence enough for sadiku to open up a formal probe.
>during sadiku’s first visit to hu’s office, hu says, the agent tried to get him to admit to involvement in a talent program. 
>“they said, ‘you are so smart. you should be in the thousand talents program,’” he recounted during his trial. “i say, ‘i’m not that smart.’”
>sadiku also tried to persuade him to become a spy for the us government, using his beijing university work as a cover. hu declined via email after sadiku’s visit. after this, sadiku doubled down on his investigation, placing hu and his son—then a freshman at ut—under surveillance.
removed for rule 3.


“their mother was killed and their father severely injured in a mudslide in 2005 after their north vancouver home was crushed.”
this is slightly off topic, but this para actually came as a pleasant surprise. this is the first time i’ve seen the non binary pronoun used in mainstream canadian media without a preface explaining that non-binary people identify as “they”. i’m a member of the queer community myself, but i admit i had to reread that paragraph twice. seeing “they” in a sentence and not automatically assuming it’s plural in the traditional sense will take some getting used to.
you know what's funny. i switched to they in all of my work emails just over 2 years ago, originally because the people i was referencing had ethnic names that i couldn't gender without asking for reference, i then started doing it for all emails in reference to others. it's easier and no one has ever noticed, i kind of hope using 'they' becomes the norm.
> plural in the traditional sense 
... "they" has been singular about as long as it has been plural... 14th c vs 13th c.
i'm always baffled when people act like this is some newfangled invention to please 'non binary' people. it isn't.
> hastely hiȝed eche wiȝt..til þei neyȝþed so neiȝh..þere william & his worþi lef were liand i-fere.
this uses 'they/þei' as a singular and it isn't exactly modern woke english (written in 1375).
i doubt a week has gone by in your life where you didn't use or hear 'they' used in a singular sense. an example from earlier today for me:
"some one called for you." "who? did they leave a message?"
this has to be some berenstein type phenomenon, as you aren't the only person i've heard claim they've never heard the word before. but seriously... it's like saying you've never heard of apples.
edit: quoting you using they as a singular 9 days ago: "it is important to note that a landing occurs when a foreign national sees **their** legal status in canada converted to permanent residence."
wow, their mother was my computer science teacher at cap college. great instructor and very nice person, was so sad when she was killed :(
huh. wasn’t even aware of it. point taken!

millennials are either just getting by single, living well paired or going into poverty raising children. birth rates are complicated, but this is at least a part why they’re down.
i hope all the people living large on housing gains recognize that kids are going without breakfast so mom and dad can pay the rent.
it's tragic this isn't a topic of conversation right now as environmentalists do everything they can to drive up the cost of energy.
meanwhile, no leaders in canada have shown any courage to bring down housing costs or spark a meaningful increase in building.
a lot of my friends are just deciding to not have children cause their too expensive to have or they don't know what kind of planet will be left for them by the time their adults. it's a fucked situation.
not many non boomers are living large on housing gains. for the average homeowner it just means taxes went up and my wages likely didn't.
who is living large on housing gains?
i have a house - bought it 13 years ago.  it roughly doubled in value.  i am still living in the same house as i did when i first moved in.  literally the same exact house - no difference in my quality of life whatsoever.  whatever i can provide my kids comes from our paychecks and we work for those.  and i only have two kids.  show me the graph of how many kids are considered low income and how many siblings they have - maybe we'll see something to explain the trends.
how does one spend one's house?
do tell.
>i hope all the people living large on housing gains recognize that kids are going without breakfast so mom and dad can pay the rent.
i recognize it. i hope you recognize i want my kids to have the best in life, and its my prerogative to make sure they do.
the average home owner is a baby boomer
>who is living large on housing gains?
landlords. obviously the original comment is talking about landlords, not regular homeowners.
so your  house doubled in value but that doesn't count? downsizing to cash out that value, getting a heloc, or buying another property with the first property as collateral are all real options to use that wealth for something. some people want to re-invest somewhere else, some want to spend on luxuries, but either way this provides way more than a poor working class renter will ever have just renting. honestly it is ridiculous how much homeowners are sitting on significant property wealth and acting like they are poor working class people with no savings. 
if you think family size is the reason for child poverty, go ahead and find some data to back that up. right now it just looks like a weak attempt to deflect away from the homeowner wealth discussion. if you think family size is truly relevant, show us some data.
what are you talking about? many people are living large on borrowing against their home vales and older people are selling them and cashing in. moreover, they're spending huge inheritances from housing gains as well.
you don't think that money feeds through?
you could heloc.
you borrow against the equity.
duh.
except there's really an upper limit on how much your money can improve your kids' lives. like, pay for college, pay for all their clubs and whatever, sure. but really, it's not like private jets or resort trips are really enriching your kids' lives. there's diminishing returns really.
of course everyone wants the best life for their kids. you missed the point, dude.
heloc! heloc! heloc! 😀😀😀
and then you end up with no house.
not exactly a winning move.
plus you end up owing more than the value of your house.
again, not a winning move.
i suppose if you're dumb you do that. otherwise, how does one spend one's house? i suppose you could sell and end up homeless with cash in hand, but i'm not sure that puts anyone in a better situation. you gotta live somewhere and it won't be free.
so how do you spend your own house? help me out would ya? offer me a reasonable, smart way to do it that doesn't result in a worse financial situation.
thanks.
>there's diminishing returns really.
yes, if you are buying them resort trips.
no, if you are buying them assets. i'd like my kids not to have to scramble like i did. maybe they can do something in their life they enjoy instead of toil for money. something creative.
dude, are you serious.
you buy a house for $300k and you have a 250k mortgage.
the value of the house goes up to 600k.
you take out 100k. now you have a 350k mortgage on a 600k home. that's 100k to spend and your mortgage is lower in percentage terms to the value of the home.
this happens every single day. now imagine you're in vancouver and your house has gone from 300k to 3 million.


>o'toole said the opposition conservatives "won't stay silent" while prime minister justin trudeau threatens the country's prosperity and national unity with big government spending and an anti-oil and gas agenda.
this outrageously out-of-touch statement, paired with the recent poll that found most canadians fine our country's action on climate change lacking, and happening too slow is just \*chef's kiss\*.
here, i'll fix the 'fiery' speech for erin:
>o'toole said the opposition conservatives "won't stay silent" while prime minister justin trudeau threatens the country's ~~prosperity and national unity~~ **billion dollar oil and gas companies** with big government spending and an anti-oil and gas agenda.
but i guess this is the kind of speech you get after [hiring the canada proud founder](
this is where people would use that "eric andre shooting meme" right?   o'toole blaming trudeau for division is just jawdropping.
i guess he'll address those who want the west to literally separate from canada with equally fiery words, any day now.
that's kinda funny, the conservative talking about the liberals dividing the country. it's the conservatives that want to push the divisive policies of the far right wing.
i'd take warnings about 'division' more seriously if they weren't always chased with an implied 'and that's why you should give us whatever we want while we do nothing in return'.
o’toole needs to avoid using division as a political tactic as it only furthers the division merely for personal political gain.
it’s a dangerous and weak road to walk down.
> o'toole said trudeau and his team are unfairly targeting what he described as "the cleanest, most ethical, most environmentally conscious and most indigenous-engaged energy sector in the world."
canadian tarsand oil has among the highest ghg content per barrel of any producer in the world.
conservative governments have launched misinformation campaigns via the "energy war room" and allan inquiry, which spread lies and paint civil society groups exercising their freedom of speech charter rights as enemies of the state.
conservative government a oppose the un declaration of the rights of indigenous people on the grounds that they need to consult with first nations before forcing fossil fuel projects on them.
til that scott moe wanting to take his 1.1 million people and join the usa  because the conservatives have lost three straight elections constitutes a “national unity crisis” ….. 
come on man, even jason kenny has ruled it out!
i don't know about "division" (polls have been relatively stable over time with respect to a lot of issues that matter to canadians), but the lpc's penchant for spending mountains of printed money, not paying any real concern to longer-term spending patterns, and basically whiffing on the deeper, structural problems involving our economy and finances makes me very worried.
o'toole is just doing his job as the leader of the loyal opposition, but frankly if i were ever to get the chance to tell trudeau 2.0 face-to-face my own concerns with where he is taking this country fiscally, then "fiery" wouldn't begin to describe it.
he's not wrong, but it is conveniently forgetting the harper government or exactly what he would have done differently to avoid this.
literally no one on this thread has actually acknowledged how much debt canada has gotten into on trudeau's watch. 
the conservatives are a mess right now. but things won't get better until we acknowledge we are in debt, inflation is rising and we as a country are also in a mess.
[deleted]
a lot of the people affected by the flooding are in solid conservative ridings. i wonder given both the heat and flooding if bc conservatives are more open to the idea of climate change than before.
is it not okay for governments to protect large companies in their country?
do the liberals not enact legislation that protects large corporations?
no you see; stonewalling any chance of working together isn't divisive if the blue team does it! don't you understand?!
that or the dude in the hot dog costume
people in the prairies want to separation because of trudeau. if you go back to the harper years, chretien/martin years there was no desire for western separation. it seems to be an exclusive trudeau trait.
the only people who seem 'divided' on vaccinations are conservatives.
>push the divisive policies of the far right wing
such as?
[removed]

i'm sorry, but this sounds like something close to terrorism, or weaponized antagonism that more resembles a foreign adversary's subterfuge than recommendations coming from a citizen of canada.  
what a horse's arse.
freedom of choice was always a bullshit talking point from max. the ppc is the anti-vaxx, anti-mask, anti-science, anti-freedom party.
i bet you 100 bucks he has his shots, he is trying to get children killed to further his political ambitions. disgusting human filth.
christ where do they find these kind of people.
i lean conservative, but after harper left, its just been getting worse and worse. i will have to hold my nose and vote trudeau, again.
its funny - after voting federal liberals for last 10 years, give or take, can i even say i still lean conservative?
yep, domestic terrorism
if they actually start protesting at vaccination clinics when parents bring their kids, things are going to get ugly. many of the most passive people in the world lose their minds when there is a perceived or real threat towards their kids.
bernier was always so eager to claim that they *weren’t* anti-vax, but yet he is apparently unvaccinated himself, which kinda blows apart the whole idea that he’s only opposing vaccine mandates because of “freedom of choice.” 
if you aren’t anti-vax mr. bernier, then why have you chosen not to get the vaccine?
rules for thee but now for me at its hollowest, bottom of the barrel worst.
[removed]
you didn;lt leave the conservative party. the conservative party left you.
not a conservative but i'm curious why you stopped voting for the cpc. aren't they more centrist under o'toole?
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
["we are the only party that will have an open debate on social issues. we are in the club of nations with no abortion policies," jaaskelainen said.](
thats so true. i highly doubt i will ever vote for them again, after looking at the states, after looking at brexit, after looking at our own domestic morons...
which leaves me homeless, politically speaking. all i want is a party thats broadly liberal, but without the far left social justice reverse racism and woke shit. why does it have to be one extreme, or the other? where did the middle go? where did harper go, god damn it...
[removed]
have you seen the social conservatives in the party? disgusting bunch of folks
good work. you proved their point.


every drop of rain (or bitumen) that falls anywhere west of the rocky mountain range and south of prince george, finds its way to fraser river and the lower mainland.
what could go wrong?
except for the columbia basin...

it's an absolutely insane failure of government that 2 years into this pandemic, we still haven't made a simple change to make sure there's no economic incentive to go in to work sick. nevermind that it's good public health and economic policy in the best of times, or just basic human decency. it's a simple piece of policy that would make sure vulnerable people don't have to risk their own health and that of coworkers in order to put food on the table. 
this should've been day 1 stuff.
but it's so hard to do.  they would have change employment standards and draft legislation.  well beyond the scope of government.
business lobbies are strong and many of them believe employees are children who will abuse every privilege.

putting aside the issue of the "land defenders" - who are pretty clearly no paragons of virtue - i always understood this comment to be "people are going to radicalize if they don't feel listened to" and not "hey folks lets all go bomb a pipeline" so i really don't get the outrage from conservative sectors over this
who’s really inciting violence here? the guy saying “hey, if you keep this up then things might get hairy”, or the government sending armed paramilitary forces to remove peaceful protesters from the land that’s rightfully theirs?
i really have to wonder the mindset that hears what suzuki said and thinks he was threatening domestic terrorism.
> at an unrelated news conference, premier jason kenney said suzuki’s remarks were an “implicit or winking” incitement to violence, and as a public figure he needs to be held to account.
> “i think it creates a context that some people could use to rationalize violence,” he said, comparing suzuki’s words to those of former u.s. president donald trump widely considered to have helped incite the jan. 6 capitol attack in washington, d.c.
nice touch on kenney's part to bring in trump as a comparison example.
on the other hand, kenney himself is no stranger to "winking", as many of his statements around masking, vaccine passports and possible covid restrictions over the last year and a half show.
edit:  to be clear, kenney's winks have not been to incite violence.
>i always understood this comment to be "people are going to radicalize if they don't feel listened to"
would you think that was fine when applied to other topics? would you be okay with a politician who said, say,  "if the government doesn't stop the slaughter of the unborn, abortion clinics are going to get bombed"? or "if the government doesn't slash immigration rates, politicians are going to get killed?" because i think most people here would view those as threats of violence, even though they are technically only saying "people are going to radicalize if they don't feel listened to"
those protesters are breaking the law to which they are subject and they certainly haven’t proven that it’s rightfully theirs yet.
>the guy saying “hey, if you keep this up then things might get hairy”
that's quite a generous interpretation of what he said.
i like how you frame this.    
perhaps you could elaborate on where the "armed paramilitary forces" are relocating these peaceful protesters?    
who's really advancing charged rhetoric here?
how do you read blowing up pipelines as anything else?
the same mindset it takes to interpret "defund the police" as "defund the police" and not some alternative convoluted explanation
david isn't a politician.
this is such a weird comment.  putting aside the fact that dr. suzuki isn't a politician and so has much less responsibility for calm rhetoric, yes, that's totally fine.  if we got into a situation where a large percentage of canadians were radically anti-choice and somebody said "look, we need to make these people feel heard or they're going to resort to violence" i cannot see a problem with it.
we’ve seen this show before, my friend. it’s played out over and over across canadian history and the indigenous protestors are more often than not in the right. this isn’t happening in a vacuum. look at oka, or the war in the woods, or landback lane. there’s a huge list of these types of events. indigenous people are forced to stand up to protect their land, they get accused of being violent criminals with no right to be protesting.
there is a rich history of our government fucking over indigenous peoples. it isn’t difficult to find. it isn’t difficult to see the patterns. it isn’t difficult to give them the benefit of the doubt until you can prove they’re in the wrong.
is it?  that's exactly how i interpreted it.
it's basically the most direct interpretation of suzuki's warning.
you'd have to be incredibly uncharitable to him to perceive his statements as a threat.
why do you put “armed paramilitary forces” in quotes? the rcmp has been an armed paramilitary force since they began as the north west mounted rifles, they even were shipped overseas to fight during the world wars. now they’re deploying assault squads with sniper rifles and assault rifles against unarmed protesters. why would i not refer to them as an armed paramilitary force when that’s what they were designed to be and how they continue to operate?
even the calgary herald said this in the article:  
“suzuki didn’t directly encourage the destruction of pipelines. when asked monday by the national post whether he would support the bombing of pipelines, suzuki said “of course not.” he added that violence is coming from the government and rcmp against anti-logging and anti-pipeline protesters.”  
but headlines or small quotes often form or re-enforce opinions among people who can’t be bothered to read any deeper into a narrative. and post media wants everyone to be sure (well, suzuki’s lawyers at least) that they are not saying he encouraged the destruction of pipelines.
[removed]
the people who coined defend the police literally meant defend the police. it  has only become muddied by moderates trying to use the term and make it doubts less ridicolous



really shows the ugly side of unions. they don't actually care about the majority of people, just the minority who complain or don't want to comply. they protect the people abusing the system. i still think they are necessary but they do have negatives as well.
i mean, has there actually been any successful attempts (so far) of courts agreeing with challenges to vaccine mandates? i am pretty certain i haven't seen any cases yet where they were overturned by a judge.
[the duty of fair representation]( **requires** unions protect all of their members if there's a reasonable chance that they can actually do something. 
arguing they don't care about the majority of its members because they're willing to perform its duties in good faith and represent an unpopular opinion is abhorrent. 
additionally, the idea that minorities should be ignored or not protected when possible in any democratic institution is a fundamentally anti-democratic idea.
unions support their members, not the general public. and they support _all_ of their members. if the majority has an issue with their leadership, they'll vote to change up the leadership.
this isn't a black & white issue. the unions can encourage their members to get vaccinated, but also look for ways to keep unvaccinated members employed without threatening the safety of their coworkers. there are a lot of canada post jobs where you never come into indoor contact with anyone else.
> they don't actually care about the majority of people, just the minority who complain or don't want to comply. 
no, it shows that they care about the rules around firing people being a matter of collective bargaining, not something management can change on a whim.
shouldn't they be supporting the view that the majority of their members share? i've never been in one so i am a bit clueless on that detail.
of course it's not the job of unions to care about the majority of people. then they'd be fighting for *lower wages* for their own members so that goods and services would be cheaper for the general public.
minorities that can't control their situation need to be protected. minorities that are ignorant and/or harmful to others do not need to be protected. being dumb isn't a minority that is a protected class.
it’s not abhorrent, the nurse’s unions for example directly put other nurses at risk by supporting the small minority who refuse to get vaccinated. nurses often work in close contact with each other on the ward, being near unvaccinated individuals is a direct risk to their health.
> the duty of fair representation requires unions protect all of their members if there's a reasonable chance that they can actually do something.
why does that not trigger a duty for them to protect their workers by requiring higher safety standards (including vaccine mandates) for their workplaces?
they do not support every single person for every single then even when they are wrong.
no unions support all of there members equally. you can't just pick and choose who to represent when they are all paying for representation with union dues. if a member is in danger of loseing there job or layoff for in there opinion is unjust the unions should represent them regardless of opinions on the matter.
i think they have a moral responsibility, like government, to protect against the tyranny of the majority by looking out for minority interests. if you take a majority-centric view, unions would allow employers to abuse racial, (dis)ability, sexual, and religious minority group employees if doing so was to the advantage of the majority group (e.g., pay disparities). i don't think being in the minority due to a protected ground should mean your interests are not protected by your union. 
that said, promoting anti-vax interests is not promoting the interests of a vulnerable minority group and, in fact, does direct harm to both majority and minority groups. i think it's probably the case of an anti-vaxxer being in a position of authority within the union, which if anything, demonstrates that unions need to do a better job at who they give responsibility.
unions should be about getting eniugh wages, benefits, and workplace safety.  and, no, not job security in most cases. gotta be able to get fired if you dont do your job.  btw ive been a member of two unions and neither had any job security. (restaurant, and carpenters union)
fighting public health measures like vaccines is fundamentally against the goals of unions since its fighting against workplace safety.
unions are not about individual choices or freedoms, especially when those choices put the collective workforce at risk.
protected classes are not relevant here. unions are required to assess grievances on their merits, not whether they're arbitrarily considered stupid. in fact, making arbitrary decisions like "these members are stupid so we won't defend them" is prohibited behavior for unions. check the link i provided in the previous comment.
in this instance, cp instituted a policy that did not address regular molecular testing as a reasonable alternative to mandating a vaccination. this is possibly an overreach by cp and represents a possible legal objection to the policy. thus, because there is a reasonable chance of success, the unions must act on the grievance.
>nurses often work in close contact with each other on the ward, being near unvaccinated individuals is a direct risk to their health.
being near unvaxxed individuals is not a direct risk by any reasonable measure. being near covid positive people is a direct risk.
i acknowledge that unvaxxed individuals are more likely to contract covid but this risk can be mitigated by regularly testing, potentially mitigating the risk to an equivalent degree as vaccination. 
also, nurses are not a good example for arguing vaccination should be mandatory. bcnu successfully argued that nurses at not required to get the annual flu shot. [see this bcnu bulletin](
i recognise the relative hazard of the seasonal flu vs. covid-19 are not the same thing but the situations are still somewhat analogous.
because the argument the unions are making is that regular testing is as safe or safer than vaccination. 
it's not a slam dunk argument  by any means but it has some weight and should be explored on the basis that policy should be less invasive if possible. the employer refused to justify its stance that testing unvaxxed employees was insufficient and chose instead to require vaccination.
first paragraph is totally accurate. 
the second however has some misconceptions. the legal responsibility to represent members also requires that procedural steps are followed when the employer makes new policy.  
the union can't simply ignore procedural or legal faults because the cause is a good one. 
in this instance, there are expectations that when making requirements like vaccines, the employer must consider less invasive measures as long as they're reasonably equivalent in protecting workers. cp has refused to consider regular molecular testing as an alternative to vaccination and so the union must, as required by its duty of fair representation, bring this grievance forward.
media portrayals of unions protecting members too often make out the unions to be anti-vaxx. in most cases, this is not true. they're just ensuring policies and mandates like these are being implemented in a way that is consistent with current canadian jurisprudence, which they must do legally.
historically many american unions were notoriously racist and dedicated to excluding minority workers and create high wages

tl;dr: she was fined, government was made aware, guidance for canadian border services was firmed up, fines will be reviewed. 
non-story.
fines being reviewed, sounds good.
doesn't mean it's a non-story. seems a pretty major fuck up.
it means there are major mis-communication between the cbsa and the government, imagine what would happen if there was a criminal loose over the border? point is, any sorts of these hiccup should be heavily scrutinized and not just classified as an "oopsie".
shouldn’t have happened in the first place. why the hell are canadians being fined for following the rules? that shouldn’t ever happen. just because they said “we’re looking into it”, doesn’t make it a non-story.
really? do you know what headaches this will cause on the poor lady.
you have no idea of the bureaucracy, roadblocks and pain they now have to go through to get this dealt with.
how can every canadian and the media already be aware of this but not the border officers? that is a horrible lack of communication.
i find it more surprising that people would think that there wouldn't be some hiccups on an emergency announcement a day after it goes into place.
also, doesn't sound like it's a done deal either.  still seems to be some confusion around the new regulations and fines may still apply according to the cbsa:
> cbsa is reminding people that the b.c. exemption does not apply to discretionary, non-essential travel. 
> "this means that travellers who enter the u.s. for the purposes of shopping for non-essential goods, or to eat at restaurants, visit friends or attend events, would be deemed discretionary and would not be exempt from the requirements for a molecular [pcr] test," the agency said.
the exemption was approved to allow people from affected areas to go home, not for some clown to save money on gas. i’m with cbsa on this one.
no, the exemption was approved so that people in affected areas could get gas or essential supplies.
actually, it was passed with the express intent of allowing canadians to buy gas and groceries.
she lives in surrey. you’re telling me the floods meant she couldn’t get to a single gas station in canada?
there is actually a limit of 30l per fill by provincial order due to expected shortages of gas, so it is irrelevant if she can get to a single gas station in canada. if she needs more gas for any reason then it is ok to get it from the us to ease our supplies
you know that some gas stations in bc had literally run out of gas, right?

> liberal house leader mark holland said his party believes some conservative mps have offered up medical exemptions and the liberals want the rules to be tighter.
good. real medical exemptions are extremely rare.       
> holland said a hybrid sitting would allow mps who test positive or are waiting for tests after displaying symptoms to participate virtually.
agreed. it should be an option when needed. hopefully the ndp backs it.
it's so strange to me the the conservatives didn't support a hybrid parliament. their anti-vax mps would still get to vote, but i guess they wouldn't get to feel the same sense of persecution. whatever, their loss. they get to whine about it in the media for a few weeks, and even if they have their way with their motion regarding the board of internal economy, the lpc and ndp could still pass a motion in the house to block unvaccinated mps. i can't see how o'toole is offering anything more than red meat for the increasingly uncontrollable section of the cpc's base.
for the procedure nerds among us, [here's the motion]( the government plans to bring up for debate tomorrow:
vaccines are over politicized. a handful of unvaccinated conservative mp's will only pose a threat to themselves, at this point its just political chest beating from trudeau.
hybrid should be the standard anyway this dat and age. let a mp be in their constituency and also representing it at the same time.
never seen a more blatant rules for thee not for me.
>lpc and ndp could still pass a motion in the house to block unvaccinated mps
is there precedent for blocking lawfully elected mp's from parliament? seems like a pretty egregious infringment on our democracy.
they would be more likely to get and spread covid. can't they just do the right thing like the majority of canadians did. they are supposed to be leaders..
huh? so you just let a few break the rules because everyone else followed the rules?
the majority of the country has spoken by getting vaccinated. sick of pandering to such a small group of adult children.
you mean like the thing erin tool went up on a debate stage and said before millions of canadians he’d deliver a 90 percent vaccination rate on?
[removed]
[removed]
improves constituent engagement by allowing mps to spend more time locally and reduces the cost, carbon emissions, and adverse toll on mp health from unnecessary travel. there is no bona fide reason why this shouldn't be the norm.
i don’t follow. 
what rules did the cpc bring in that they aren’t following?
if you don't meet the dress code you get kicked out. i would think that failing to meet national health standards is a reasonable enough cause. at the end of the day, it's their decision to make themselves ineligible, just as it would be if they walked in wearing their underwear (*cough* will amos).
a more egregious infringement would be for the selfish mp's not vaxxed to get parliament shut down by an outbreak!
it's hard to get 100% compliance on anything. eventually we have to consider the cost benefit analysis of having that as a goal.
[removed]

let me get this straight. 
there are 75 communities built in areas that were so prone to flooding that they required dikes and those dikes were predicted to fail years ago, which has now happened. 
the terrain is so harsh that there is only a single road through the mountains to access the area. 
we’ve removed large swaths of established vegetation from the areas over many decades.    
but this is a climate issue?
this is a failure for adequate planning and of increasing encroachment on the least habitable areas of our country.  
the issue of climate change is separate yet we allow those responsible for poor decisions to simply shout “climate change” to avoid scrutiny of the decisions that got us into this mess.
don't worry, we'll keep on ignoring it for a few more decades i'm sure.
things will get worse before they get better.
the council on foreign relations have many reports on the immediate future of the planet. in short - too many people with too many expectations. 
some crisis that are on the horizon include - water wars in northern/central africa, sand shortages(for building), food shortages(fish levels depleted) thus likely will result in conflicts over the oceans, healthcare demands will rise(the expectations - straining the system), energy shortages/blackouts as weather impacts the energy grid, chip shortages due to material demands(not shipping issues), border conflicts as people try to migrate out of the areas already pillaged by human activity. in short we will and are short of water, sand, food, housing(materials) - during a time when my politicians and bankers are advertising the idea of growing canada's population(artificially) by millions. 
so in order for canada to grow - we will likely have to lower all our qols by tremendous amounts for us to 'grow' our 'economy' - whatever that means at the ground level.
prepare to be reckoned... 
it is an unusual amount of rain lately.  over here in ontario we are just building more highway to serve a runaway housing market.
it's both. 
as severe weather becomes more common, precarious places like this will be the first to be hit continuously and hard. it's not alone.
our pathological opposition to any sort of planning in this country, urban, suburban or rural, is likely going to bite us hard as land pressure increases from climate change and from continued efforts to rapidly boost our population without any form of plan anywhere for housing, transport, or ecological preservation and resiliency.
climate change won't kill everyone with in 5 years. its like having ms, it just makes your life progressively more difficult. the lack of long term planning on all levels of governance  you get a situation were the can just gets kicked down the road forever.  like allowing people to farm on a reclaimed lake with out any real investment in the infrastructure to keep a place like that from flooding.  
think of it in terms of rare weather events becoming more common. once in 100 year storm is now once in 10 year storm.
ding ding ding. someone with critical thinking skills.
not every natural disaster is climate change.
this was poor planning that was called out years ago.
thats the sad part, a bandaid will get slapped on and we will forget all of this by christmas.
most of these things are already happening.
i didn’t say we don’t need to deal with changes in our climate, i was speaking of this particular disaster and this article about it.
this year has seen the hottest day ever recorded and  a "once in a lifetime" storm in bc, with newfoundland is staring down the barrel of another "record setting" storm. swaths of saskatchewan and winnipeg were the driest they've been in 40 years, devastating crops. northern ontario burned so intensely the sun turned red and i could smell smoke in kitchener.
the climate emergency is here. there's no reprieve between events now, just enviromental disaster after environmental disaster, hitting virtually every part of the country. [and our emmissions are accelerating.]( while we may not all be dead in 5 years, i think we will be seeing disasters stack to the point where we are in a perpetual state of crisis.
it can be more than one thing.
climate change just escalates the problem. 
maybe they would only fail on a 100 year storm. but 1960's 100 year storm intensity is 2020's 50 year storm and 2050's 20 year storm....
notice to uptick in flood events, drastic winter storms, violent hurricanes, forest fires etc.
for ~200 years we have been subsidizing our economies with damage to the environment  on a global scale. unless we force industry to include the cost to remediate that damage we are saying its free to screw over everyone to make a buck
pretty much, yep.
i understand. i think its reasonable to say that climate change is not the only or even primary problem here, but wrong to go so far as saying its not an important consideration in this case.
as extreme or varied weather events become more common as a result of the changing climate, precarious places will suffer the worst effects. since this is a gradual process, dangerously placed and ill prepared communities will be hit hardest fist. 
a reasonable conclusion is that since climate change makes events like this more frequent, we need to seriously invest for preparing for these sorts of events to continue and cannot afford to neglect levees, dikes or even proper planning, given what we're likely to face over the next several decades.
sure, but climate change is not one of those things
climate change will make us pay more frequently for our failures on infrastructure. that's the connection.
nothing i've read has said that the rainfall bc got last week was normal.
it is. atmospheric rivers and extreme flooding are more likley thanks to climate change

>whether politicians will take this advice, a year before an election, is another question.
i would love for them to do this, but there is not a snowball's chance in hell that **city councilors** will pass in its current form. more people living in neighborhoods? i can already hear the smack of nimbyers falling on the ground, having seizures from reading those words strung together. i can't imagine how many phone calls city councilor offices are getting right now. 
at best they'll probably gut it but leave a sprinkle of ostensible do goodery so they can say "huzzah! we did something!" but there's no way they'll do what new zealand or the state of california did. 
i will watch this vote for sure and be praying i am wrong.


wow at the blatant misogyny in this thread holy hell.
"i just don't trust her!"
"her voice is annoying"
"i don't like being spoken down to by womenfolk"
"she's just not qualified, lets go with the man instead"
y'all need to do better, seriously.
she might have the political stamina and smarts for the position but i don’t see her as a viable candidate to canadians. or maybe i’m projecting, i don’t know.
whenever i see her speak, she’s so slow and careful (while nodding her head in time with her words) it makes me think she’s speaking to a toddler. 
melanie joly might be a more welcome candidate.
after being largely absent from the finance portfolio and having done absolutely nothing to address incoming economic problems, i'm really left wondering what's all the hype for chrystia. she may be setting herself up for failure by her own incompetence.
it looks to me  like joly is being primed for a run. the next leader will be slowly rolled out in the next year on  social media including  reddit. the liberals won’t want much of a drag- it- out leadership campaign, not their style anymore . a smooth transition will be engineered.
i'd say her work in ukraine and family legacy will be the biggest hurdle. right now its not under the spotlight but i'm guessing it won't be pretty once it is.
everyone talking about joly as an alternative to freeland, but what about anita anand? i think she did a great job in procurement and now elevated to defence. anyone know if she speaks french
on one hand her long experience could convince voters easily and show she is a strong and capable worker in politics to last three cabinets. on the other hand there are also potentially more demographically strong candidates like melanie joly in quebec or mar carney with middle class voters with his bank position. it would depend on which types of people they want to appeal to although trudeau liberals would definitely prefer freeland in the end it seems.
don't forget "i think this other one is better looking"
to be frank, her tone issues are the same as ignatieff's. ivory tower academics who speak down when explaining things. it can be regulated and it's not a deal breaker, but when push comes to shove who you are comes out. happened over and over with ignatieff and i haven't seen an improvement with freeland -- if anything the opposite, where she and trudeau both get frustrated with the opposition and turn teacher-y. it's not a good vibe.
why would not trusting her be misogynistic?
is this what you're referring to?
> whenever i see her speak, she’s so slow and careful (while nodding her head in time with her words) it makes me think she’s speaking to a toddler. 
> melanie joly might be a more welcome candidate
nothing says misogyny like suggesting that instead of a woman a more welcome candidate would *checks notes* also be a woman.
would it be misogynistic to say freeland would be a better choice because joly was a failure in her last role?
joly would have to be stellar in her current role, where most people believe she is just a ambassador with a face. before this cabinet she was regularly held up as a failure of the trudeau government.
doubt she will be pm any time soon
yeah i feel patronized and talked down to any time she speaks, i don't care for how breathy trudeau is when he speaks but freeland is gonna piss me off if i have to hear her talk for 4 years minimum
i think trudeau would have wanted joly to be primed years ago until she was labeled as a failure in her first portfolio. he’s giving her a bit of a last minute redemption in the spotlight, but it might be too late for that.
in the meantime, freeland emerged and trudeau/pmo/lpc found themselves the individual that they are now priming for the job.
joly has a better chance of winning the elections compared to freeland. she doesn’t have as much of the toxic baggage hanging over her from trudeau and it would be a lot easier for her to win the quebec votes compared to freeland.
"i'd vote for a woman, but just not that woman!"
i know the tactic well.
freeland is far more liked and well defined to canadians than ignatieff ever was. she’s a household name and the “mom” demographic loves her. even deeply conservative women i know admire her intellect. 
i think people are leaning hard into the “uppity condescending bitch” trope about qualified women. it’s a bit crass tbh.
because there's little reason not to "trust" her, and given the tenor of the other criticisms swirling around her - and basically all women in politics - it's hard not to guess at ulterior motives.
>nothing says misogyny like suggesting that instead of a woman a more welcome candidate would checks notes also be a woman.
2016: "i would vote for elizabeth warren, but i will never vote for hillary"
2020: "warren is a lying bitch".
yeah, i don't believe people when they say "i'll vote for a woman but not *that one"*. there will always be some new flaw that's conveniently found.
and the most flagrant one was the one where someone literally said:
>*i feel patronized and talked down to any time she speaks*, i don't care for how breathy trudeau is when he speaks but *freeland is gonna piss me off if i have to hear her talk* for 4 years minimum
i'll take blatant misogyny that belongs in 1959 for $500, trebek!

this is a bad look for him and the party. he’s starting to sound unhinged.
> o’toole said it is the conservatives who truly speak for canadians in parliament, and said they will stand up for businesses, workers, farmers, fishers and the energy sector — a line that drew big cheers from his team.
only 34% of canadians voted for the conservatives, i don’t think o’toole has the right to claim they are the party that “truly speak(s) for canadians in parliament” when 66% of the votes went to other parties.
[removed]
i believe the tough rhetoric here is designed for internal consumption. he has to prove to his party he can be tough so he can survive any leadership challenge. this is in a nutshell the problem any tory leader  faces. the  tone and content of what they say to keep their leadership and the party members happy isn’t helpful with the general population. this also helps to explain his convoluted stance on vaccines.
i'm wondering if it's the new addition of that canada proud dude to his team. his twitter is increasingly full of weird slogans and today he apparently referred to the liberals and ndp as ["the far left"]( which is ludicrous. 
i'm not saying he shouldn't criticize because of course he should but there's got to be a more rational and effective way to do it than what he's currently doing.
[removed]
i think he does. they won the popular vote in the last 2 elections.
the majority of canadians didn’t even vote. 
no party should make that claim.
removed for rule 3.
removed for rule 3.
that isn't true. last available data was 67% of voters which was in 2019. it's never gone below 58(?)%.
do you have some evidence to support this claim of yours?
our population is 38 million and less than 17 million people voted.
<17 million votes cast and our population is 38 million.
38 million includes those too young to vote and non-citizens
incorrect again. 27,373,058 was the number of electors in 2019 and 18,350,359 of them voted. 
no we don't count the entire population, why would we? they can't vote.
surely you don’t intend for twelve-year-olds to vote? eligible voting populace for the 2021 election was 27.4m canadians. 17m votes cast equals 62% of the adult populace. 
from your link:
voter turnout:16,991,074 of 27,366,297 registered electors (62.09 %) -- does not include electors who registered on election day.
seems like 12.09% more than half. or did i math wrong?
don’t move the goalpost. 
i -clearly- stated majority of canadians didn’t vote and i am factually correct.
the statement above is about parties claiming to speak for the majority of canadians.  no party can make that claim - as i have proven.
the comment above is about speaking for all canadians. 
i’m simply stating no party can make that claim because the majority of canadians didn’t vote.

a couple days old. hopefully they calm down a little. if the feds are telling the truth that the us was going to do it if we didn't, then better to do it and calm them so we can then lift the bam, rather than have to rely on them lifting a ban. yeah it's political, but it's the politics of the us.
> the cfia said it took the action after the u.s. notified canada it would act if canada did not take voluntary measures.
i thought that might be the situation. as much as this sucks for pei, canada taking control is the right deicsion. if we let the us cut things off on their end, then we're at their mercy as to when they want to allow these potatoes back into their market. with canada taking action, we then get to push by saying "we're ready to send you these again, you cool?"
> he also said the suspension is not following science.
sure, but so what? if the us bans imports, that fucks over pei even more, and they won't care about any claims that this isn't following science.
>  is being made, using her words, to appease a trading partner. that's not how trade relationships work
um, no, that is how trade relationships work, especially ones with a significant power imbalance.
canada does need to get this ban reversed, but pei going on a tantrum, doesn't help.
i'll be looking for some pei potatoes to help out with this all winter. it would be ashame to see them go to waste.
>he also said the suspension is not following science.
>sure, but so what? if the us bans imports, that fucks over pei even more, and they won't care about any claims that this isn't following science.
it doesn't have any bearing on this situation, but the 'so what,' is the erosion of public confidence in the government when they continuously make false claims regarding the scientific basis of their obviously political decisions.
i don't see any sign of the feds saying they're doing this because of science.
didn't read the article?
>"we are taking a responsible approach that is based in science. it would provide the protection that our industry needs through this difficult time."

as a kid i had like $12 in my piggy bank. now i have a house and two cars, and owe about half a million.
turns out i was a rich kid!
jokes aside, though, i actually grew up really poor. i look back at how my mother somehow scraped together enough money to keep us in a home, feed us, clothe us, and even try to take me to the movies every now and then, and i honestly have no idea how she did it.
the thing is, back then rent for a two bedroom flat with a basement was $400/mo. now it would be $2,200/mo. chicken beasts were $6 for two, and now they're $20+. two litres of milk was like $2.29 and now it's $6.19. i have no idea how people in low end jobs can make ends meet.

one teen had nothing to do with gangs and was murdered in cold blood.
another teen was a known gang member and was stabbed during a street fight between rival gangs.
guess which one is going to get the most sympathy?
got some evidence that he was a gang member?
thanks!
in french.
[
> on social networks, the young jannai, alias twizzy, displayed his membership in the younger segment of 160. the teenager was not at all known to police circles. but he was known in the neighborhood. "it's not the troublemaker style," a relative told us, his voice distorted by sobs. it was around 3 p.m., monday, on avenue van horne, not far from the plamondon metro station, that his friend found himself at the heart of an argument between several teenagers aged 16 to 18. jannai dopwell-bailey was then stabbed in the upper body and the young victim took refuge inside coronation school, where he was studying in the mile end program for young dropouts. he was seriously injured at the time, but still alive. he was pronounced dead in hospital a few hours later.according to our information, a recent conflict between the oxb (oxford block), which takes their name from oxford avenue in notre-dame-de-grâce, and the 160 de côte-des-neiges would be at the origin of this bloody altercation. however, no suspect has been identified in this case.
translation:
>on social networks, the young jannai, alias twizzy, displayed his belonging to the younger 160. the teenager was not at all known in police circles. but he was known in the neighborhood."he's not the troublemaker type," a relative told us, his voice distorted by sobs.it was around 3 p.m. on monday, on van horne avenue, not far from the plamondon metro station, that his friend found himself in the middle of an argument between several teenagers aged 16 to 18. jannai dopwell-bailey was stabbed in the upper body.the young victim fled inside coronation school, where he was studying in the mile end program for young dropouts. he was seriously injured but still alive. he was pronounced dead at the hospital a few hours later.according to our information, a recent conflict between the oxbs (oxford block), who take their name from oxford avenue in notre-dame-de-grâce, and the 160s of côte-des-neiges is at the origin of this bloody altercation. no suspects have been identified in this case.
translated with [www.deepl.com/translator]( (free version)
the article goes into more detail and explains that rival gang members were doing videos mocking his death and goading for a retaliation.

how do we maintain economic growth, which needs to always be rising for the system to function, and deal with the climate crisis?
are we going to build an economy not dependent on endless consumption? these two topics don't mesh well.
the biggest crisis will be the housing crisis when people start loosing thier homes because interest rates climb.


ah yes, the old ,"don't blame the employers who choose not to pay a decent wage instead blame the immigrants who just want the same thing you do." 
the sad thing is alot of people are going buy this shifting the blame from the those responsible to the acceptable target out group hook, line and sinker.
canadian wages are below 1976 levels. software developers in buffalo are paid more than those in toronto. buffalo home prices are maybe 15% of toronto’s. canada’s population growth is 2.3x the next highest g7 country.
this analysis seems to completely ignore that many immigrants to canada tend to be well educated/skilled but due to various reasons they aren’t allowed to utilize those skills so they’re forced into these low paying jobs
can anyone tell me why we took our natural population growth issue and then turned around and centered our immigration system on "labour" instead of young families?
shouldn't our immigration system be trying to mimic natural population growth as much as possible?
imo it would be better have 100,000 young families coming every year instead of 400,000 working age population.
i can't read the article since it's paywalled for me(side note bloomberg has the most annoying paywall system.)
i've been looking for work for around 16 months on the east coast. i've had over 30 interviews and applied to around 150 jobs(estimate). i get positive feedback from all my interviewers, but no job offer. my most common feedback is they decided to hire internally. 
i feel companies don't want to train new staff online so they decide to train internal hires.
i have a bba(accounting) and experience. before covid when i was a job seeker i had a interviews every week, now it's more like every 3 weeks.
edit: i graduated in 2017 and had a job right out of school. worked for 3.5 years and my entire group got laid off. luckily i was close to family, had savings, work experience, and good recommendations. just an awful job market for younger people atm it seems from my point of view.
while on wages, i don't really know but seems like they've gone up according to friends and family who received more business and salary.
i think the liberals deserve some blame for pumping immigration to record highs during a pandemic and during a housing crisis.
and it's a genius play by corporations to smear any discussion of their use of immigration to suppress wages as "anti-immigrant" or "racism".
immigration is wonderful if it's matched to available housing and employment.
i don't blame immigrants, i blame our government for prioritizing non citizens over the interests of people in our country already!
that's not how supply and demand works. if there is not tightness in the labor market it reduces the willingness of people to bargain and increase their salary as employers can always find someone to undercut them.
absolutely. immigrants don't deserve blame. the corporations using immigrants to reduce wages and increase profits deserve the blame.
the solution is still the same though. not allow corporations to use immigrants to increase profits.
no one blames the immigrants themselves, of course it’s the employers. but it’s clear that employers are using immigration as a way to purposely stagnate wages.
it's a feature for canada's corporate and political leaders, they advertise how much cheaper our labour force is compared to the us.
i'm calling bs on the canadian wage claim. wages here didn't erode as they did in the us over the same period.  
i've worked a lot in the us over the years in consulting engineering. wages vary a lot, so does the amount of income, property taxes, home and health insurance you have to pay. 
the last job offer i had down there was similar pay, higher payroll deductions, marginally cheaper housing, and more property tax. the kicker though, was two weeks vacation regardless of years of service. i got four weeks vacation at the time here, and i'm currently up to five. it just wasn't worth the move.
edit 
> like all widely accepted myths, this myth rests on superficially plausible foundations. some data for canada do tell a tale of stagnation or even decline. the inflation-adjusted median income of canadian families before taxes was 7.0 percent lower in 2011 than it was in 1976. it’s easy to conclude from such a statistic that, over the past several decades, middle-class canadians have indeed not gained economically.
> 
> but statistics, although invaluable, are notorious for their potential to mislead the unwary. great care must be exercised when assembling, interpreting, and drawing conclusions from them. statistics emphatically do not speak for themselves.
> 
> the statistics that suggest stagnation suffer several problems, including:
> 
> failure to adjust income for changes in taxes and government transfers;
> failure to adjust family income for changes in the number of people in the typical canadian family;
> an overestimate of the amount of inflation suffered by the canadian dollar.
> first, instead of pre-tax income, looking at family income after taxes and government transfers reveals that, rather than falling by 7.0 percent between 1976 and 2011, real median income rose by 5.6 percent. this figure is more relevant for a family’s economic well-being, because what a family cares about in the end is how much it has available to spend (and to save) after it has paid all taxes and received all transfers.
> 
> next, consider the effects of changes in the average size of families. in 2011, the average number of people in a canadian family was 2.3, which is 19 percent lower than the 1976 figure of 2.9 persons per family. this difference is not small. it means that the seemingly meager 5.6 percent increase in real median post-tax and -transfer family income becomes a 30.7 percent increase—in per-family-member income—once the data are adjusted for family size.
> 
> finally, consider the distorting effects of over-estimating inflation. the income and wage figures that tell the tale of stagnation are adjusted for inflation using the consumer price index (cpi). but researchers have found that this common inflation adjuster erroneously overestimates inflation of the dollar by about 0.45 percentage points annually.
> 
> this error seems small, but over the course of 35 years its distortion looms large. adjusting for inflation by correcting for this bias in the cpi, we find that in 2011 the income per member of the canadian family earning the median after-tax and -transfer income was 52.1 percent higher than in 1976. this figure suggests impressive economic improvement, not stagnation. it is all the more marked when compared to the initial 7.0 percent decline cited above over the same period.
> 
> an alternative way to gauge changes over time in ordinary people’s standard of living is to calculate how much time an ordinary worker must work today to earn enough income to buy a variety of goods compared to the amount of time an ordinary worker in the past had to work in order to buy the same goods. if the amount of work-time required to buy typical middle-class goods remains unchanged over time, then a conclusion of stagnation is warranted. but if work-time costs have fallen for most such goods, then a conclusion of stagnation is mistaken.
> 
> an examination of a wide variety of goods sold by sears in 1976 and their counterparts sold by sears today shows that the average canadian wage earner today works fewer hours than he or she did in 1976 to earn enough income to buy almost all goods. for example, it took the typical canadian worker 90 percent fewer hours to purchase a colour television and 84 percent fewer work hours to earn enough to purchase a refrigerator in 2011 than in 1976. these findings are yet further evidence that ordinary canadians have enjoyed significant economic improvement since the mid-1970s.
> 
> the bottom line is that the myth of middle-class stagnation is just that: a myth.
i'm not convinced there are actual labor shortages in many of these high paying fields in canada either. see the wage discrepancy between us and the u.s.
>due to various reasons they aren’t allowed to utilize those skills so they’re forced into these low paying jobs 
wow that sure sounds like a broken immigration system that only benefits the banking class to me. what is the point of pointing that out like it somehow makes the poor results better?
for financial reasons, the government does not want to make the dependency ratio too high - that would require more social spending and more taxes on workers to support the dependents (children, elderly, non-working adults, etc). the most logical thing is to lead immigration with workers, also younger workers (this is done with student visas allowing young adults to stay if they find a job), that will grow the tax base and grow the state's capacity to support dependents. then these workers can sponsor their family for immigration or even start a family in canada after some years pass and their life is established in here.
this is blatantly false. immigration fell hard in 2020 and only recovered in 2021 because they "immigrated" people who were already here on visas. show us the data for your "record highs during a pandemic"
supply and demand economics doesnt really work in the real world. very little actually works under those theories.
so the immigrants are reasonable for the actions taken by the rich and powerful. gotcha.

>boosters, though, appear to do more than simply restore eroded immunity. the first trials indicate a three-dose regimen could result in up to 20 times less risk than with two doses; which itself is so far superior to being unvaccinated. a third dose is orders of magnitude better.
seems like a no-brainer. unbelievable that the pcs are still dragging their feet at this stage.
>now, there is absolutely an argument that rich countries should send extra doses to the poorer parts of the world, where vaccines are scarce; in the medical community there is a belief that idea has influenced deliberations on a third dose.
fringe twitter/reddit nonsense causing real-life deaths. the mrna vaccines can't be easily distributed to third-world countries because they don't have the deep freezers necessary. if we want to immunize developing countries with mrna vaccines we would need to build a whole new supply chain of guarded mobile freezers to get it done. no one is advocating for that right now and it can't be achieved before current doses expire anyway. they would be much better served by the j&j vaccine among others.
we should be shipping them to the 3rd world if we cared.
an extra shot here has minimal benefit. but in the 3rd world it would save lives.
it is some awful sci-fi movie like elysium where the elites put medicine in their fountains because it makes a nice shimmering effect, whilst the poor die like dogs.
>fringe twitter/reddit nonsense causing real-life deaths.
"there is an argument" doesn't mean that anyone in power is listening to it, though?
i know redditors like to rail against "twitter wokescolds," but it's a lot more likely that the millions of boosters are sitting unused for the same reason local health authorities had to go around the ontario conservatives to vaccinate people the first time: the conservatives care about keeping the antivaxxers in their base happy. they do not care about thousands of olp/ondp voters dying.
> we should be shipping them to the 3rd world if we cared.
we care, but we don't have the means to do this. on top fo that, most 3rd world countries don't yet have infrastructure to keep the mrna vaccines at the right temps. 
so weven if we shipped our excess over to them, they'd likely spoil before they're ever injected.
we (the first world at least) need to do more overall to uplift 3rd world nations. and that's more than just shipping the doses. we'll have to bankroll and support the whole infrastructure deployment. 
however, even if we do ship "excess" vaccines to 3rd world nations. the ones in our freezers are already here and need to be used before they expire. why isn't the ford government pushing them out to phu's for 3rd doses faster?  i'd take my 3rd dose today if i was offered it.


at this point;
my entire university residence building is vaccinated
literally anyone attending in person classes at my school is vaccinated 
my entire family is vaccinated 
all my friends are vaccinated 
my entire work is vaccinated 
any attempt to tell me i can’t  have a maskless social distance-less family gathering or hanging out with friends is ridiculous. what’s the point of the vaccines if we can’t actually start getting back to normal? when is it going to be “enough”? i feel like the goalposts keep shifting
almost half? i've been through southern ontario, northern ontario and manitoba... nobody cares! almost half are admitting to it.
the report might as well read: half of canadians lie to pollsters.
what are the actual rules and guidelines now anyways? i thought private gatherings were allowed, though i guess it could still require social distancing.
regardless, i'll be one of the many people ditching social distancing.
honestly now that i'm double vaxxed and so is the rest of my family, i could not give a single fuck about holiday social distancing.
i’m surprised that number isn’t higher. 
it’s been two years. over 95 percent of canadians have *not* been infected with covid-19. more than 78 percent have had at least one vaccine dose, and 75 percent have had two. the vaccines are effective—cases are down, deaths are down, hospitalizations are down, transmission is less likely, and symptoms are less severe. the risks are disproportionately low for young, healthy people.
covid-19 is still a global problem. lots of countries, particularly low-income ones, have insufficient immunity. some infected people will still feel ill, or even die. but the vaccines are so powerful that the risks to canadians have, in my view, diminished such that they are now comparable to other risks that many of us choose to accept.
we drive cars despite the risks. we cross the street despite the risks. we play hockey despite the risks. we eat donuts despite the risks. 
i, for one, am ready to spend the holidays with my loved ones without socially or physically distancing, despite the risks.
to be fair, if you're inviting someone indoors, and there aren't some significant hvac or ppe measures at play, you might as well hug. you're going to be sharing each other's aerosolized microdroplets over the course of the evening anyway.
last year no one i knew was planning an xmas gathering.
this year everyone i know is going all out.
it likely will lead to an increase of cases post xmas but be honest nothing short of martial law will stop xmas gatherings anyways.
at this point you can get a vaccine if you want to get one, and you can also drown in your own self-righteous vomit if you don't want to get one.
your choice, my choice. it is time to move on.
[removed]
at my christmas gathering i'm going to get a table from mcdonald's and some walmart in-aisle displays so the virus is too scared to enter
this may be the last xmas i have with my grandparents. why the fuck would i socially distance when my family and i are fully vaxed.
the second the kids under 12 vaccinations are available for a few weeks, i'm done with it.    it's time for the onus of protecting the minority with health conditions to shift back to them (i say this as a person who's family member had cancer pre pandemic and had to wear masks etc... when visiting them).  and honestly i don't care if antivaxxers get it, they made their bed.
have you seen whats happening in germany? granted they are under different circumstances but the disease is not gone. i dont plan on wearing a mask at xmas but i am still keeping to small gatherings of people i trust. many people i know would probably be considered at risk, and i feel a responsibility to take at least some precautions still.
i’m honestly shocked that number isn’t 90-98%. i don’t know anyone who was ever social distancing at private gatherings in the last 6 months or so. obviously people follow wear masks in public and what not, but i’ve never met anyone who does so when friends or family are visiting.
if i allowed to go to a club jam packed full of people. i'm sure as heck going to spent my holidays with extended family. i don't understand how citizens are held to a different standard.
buried at the bottom is information on public approval of governments handling if covid. no surprise, kenney and moe are getting the lowest marks, 
>in alberta, only 33 per cent of those polled said they were satisfied with the measures that premier jason kenney had put in place to combat covid-19, while in saskatchewan, 37 per cent were satisfied with premier scott moe’s pandemic action plan.
legault has the highest at 77 and trudeau has 63.  
there continues to be high support for vaccine mandates and some highlights on people comfortability with vacations and travel.  
[here's the entire report](
indoor non-socially-distanced gatherings where everyone is double (or more) vaccinated are pretty low risk. as someone who's risk averse and has been very cautious all during covid, we've been having these kinds of gatherings with family and close friends (somewhat smaller groups than pre-covid) ever since we all got double vaccinated and the rules permitted larger indoor gatherings. i thought most people were. i'm shocked that more than half (according to this poll) will still maintain social distancing at holiday parties. maybe they're thinking about like, office parties? i could see people not going all out for an office party but surely most people will be gathering in their homes with family over the holidays and won't be socially distancing
[removed]
i have done what i have been told to do up until now. i am double vaccinated and always wear a mask. i will be hanging out with family and friends this christmas. at some point normal life has to return

to everyone that keeps repeating that the federal government is powerless to address the housing crisis, here's a big contributing factor they could address.
1. lending rules need to be tighter for investors buying existing homes.
2. taxes need to be higher on investors buying multiple existing homes.
we need to take the wind out of the sails of the housing market, and cutting out 25% of buyers, who are likely marginal buyers, is a great start.
'investors' - they are not creating wealth, they take a house off the market then put it back on as a rental.
adam smith called them "rentiers". you should too.
tax the unimproved value of land and this all stops.
this disaster could be solved tomorrow with a federal property tax offset by income tax cuts. would keep total cost of ownership flat, decrease home prices, and allow people who work for a living and rent a chance at a secure life. 
if we keep doing nothing we will be here in a decade and housing will have doubled again. canada has 2.3x the population growth of the next highest g7 country, the lowest housing stock per capita in the g7, and built more homes in absolute numbers in the 1970s. it’s a recipe for continued inflation
this will continue to happen so long as housing is treated like an investment instead of as a fundamental human right.
until cities un-bans denser development, housing prices will continue to rise. it's shocking that most land in canada's major cities still prohibits anything that's not a sfh.  
but also consider that the news article is clickbaiting. the source data is really ambiguous:  
the rate for first-time homebuyers has been relatively stable(23->22%). the major difference is "other" going down (26->18%) almost as much as "investors" went up (15->25%).  
what is this "other"? it was the largest segment 10 years ago, and yet we have no description of it, how come?
are the houses occupied?
if they are, and rent is still high in the area, then there isn't enough housing stock. doesn't matter who owns it
i am a pretty free market guy however if we are not gonna build a ton of housing to keep up with huge demand from immigration and increasing urbanization, then you need to control the speculation.
this is what happens when you make housing a commodity. housing needs to be de-commodified. all those investors should have their properties seized and redistributed (minus their primary one) as they do not provide an economic benefit to society. they are hoarding housing.
very easy to fix, simply forbid investors to own an investment property other than a principal residence, that will be the end of it..... people can then divert this money to do more meaningful investment while freeing up supply for those who needs a house to live.
literally blackrock, rbc and hsbc hedging against their massively bad bets in china.
we're truly fucked
google "dmsa research report evergrande" if you don't trust the below link:
("the great reset" - presents a thesis of massive economic losses due to credit default swaps and moronic banks giving hundreds of billions of dollars to the chinese real estate bubble. rip canada, us, uk, japan, china, netherlands, germany, et al's economies.)
(all of the research reports)
when you drop billions of dollars of free cash from the sky, this is exactly what will happen. investors don't want their dollars to be diluted and deflated with the rest of the free money floating  around so they shove their money in real estate while interest rates are low and affordable making for great investments. what needs to be done is to keep inflation at the 2% target, and balance the budget. then we might see some reprieve in the housing market for regular people, and the inflated housing prices will ultimately correct making things more affordable.
this creates a real problem for if/when prices one-day fall. home owners live in their homes and can't panic. investors will be trying to dump them all at once.
what do they classify as an investor? someone with a cottage for a second home? someone in between moving that still hasn't sold their first house?
the federal government can exert substantial pressure on provinces and municipalities by tying funding to zoning reform and other areas. the inaction of the feds is a lack of will, not a lack of policy tools.
capital gains from housing should have a 100% inclusion rate to discourage its use as an investment.  under the current tax laws only 50% of capital gains are even subject to taxes while the other 50% are yours to keep, tax free.  if this were increased to 100% for housing then housing becomes less attractive as an investment vehicle than stocks, bonds, or other non-critical assets.
just an fyi, lending rules are already tighter for investors buying homes.
> lending rules need to be tighter for investors
here let me fix this for you:
> we need to ban the ability of investors to buy existing residential homes.
agreed. i know people who are literally cash millionaires but still taking out mortgages to buy houses and turn them into rental properties. screw that. have the money? pay cash.
exactly. the only legitimate housing investors are those that put up money upfront to fund or finance new builds or improvements, therefore increasing or improving the stock of housing.

[removed]
this is definitely not a politically opportunistic decision for the conservatives.  but i think it's right to challenge this on the grounds of parliamentary privilege.
the board of internal economy was never given the authority to exclude mps from the house.  that power can only be exercised by the house of commons.  it has always been the case that someone who prevents an elected member of parliament from attending parliament is violating parliamentary privilege.  so from that logic, this vaccine mandate seems to be a violation of parliamentary privilege.
if a vaccine mandate among parliamentarians is truly a good idea, the house should have voted on that this week.  instead, a small committee of only a handful mps made the decision a few weeks ago on behalf of all the other mps.
whether or not the speaker will rule this as prima facie, is an entirely different question since he was part of making that decision. but i think it's clear that the board had no authority to do such a thing.
and for people saying that they shouldn't do this on the first day of parliament, they had no choice. claims of breached privilege must be brought before the house at the "earliest opportunity".
[removed]
[removed]
removed for rule 3.
[removed]
you'd think this would be self evident to people that our systems are designed so you can't arbitrarily rescind rights and privileges without a larger vote but i guess the past few years has dulled canadians to this reality considering the unlawful behaviours of the premiers that affect the average canadian with seemingly no recourse.
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
rule 3
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
rule 3
section 1 of the charter disagrees.
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]

the justice minister needs to overrule this and fast. imagine if the roles were reversed and it was a ucp minister and cbc reporter?? 
there shotbe zero tolerance for these actions.
regarding the threats, this is all i could find written in this article:
"not only do the anonymous communications lack specific information that definitively confirms they originate from lps [lethbridge police service] employees, the allegations contained in them lack any substantive supporting details," vanspronsen wrote."
does anyone know specifically what the allegation is, and why the mla believes it originated from lps?
if the mla has received random threats over text message, then i could understand why the police commission wouldn't investigate, as it isn't within their mandate; random criminal code investigations with an unknown suspect would be up to the police.
from a previous article on the alleged threats, [*lawyer wants inquiry into alleged threats of retaliation against mla and cbc journalist by lethbridge police
social sharing*](
> michael bates represents both phillips and a woman who accused a retired lps inspector of sexual assault. both of his clients received anonymous whistleblower letters in june regarding discussions within the service. 
> "in one of the disclosures, there is a suggestion of a potential plan of retaliation against a named member of the professional media as well as a sitting member of the legislative assembly of alberta for what can be inferred as [them] having sought public accountability of the lethbridge police service," bates said at a lethbridge police commission meeting on wednesday night.
thanks for the info. i'm assuming the issue here is the "whistleblowers" are completely anonymous. an investigation can't really occur if they can't source their suspicion. 
it would be like me writing to the mla that her neighbour wants to egg her house. that isn't enough authority for a search warrant or really anything.
if these "whistleblowers" have some conviction they need to make themselves known so the lps can be held accountable.
that certainly is a factor that the commission has voiced:
> the commission's statement said its members considered the nature of the allegations, **the anonymity**, suggestions of an unsafe work environment and the potential cost and benefit of holding an inquiry.
> **the commission asked police chief shahin mehdizadeh to ensure all employees are aware of whistleblower protections and respectful workplace policies already in place.**
whistleblower protections or not, i think it is a safe assumption that there will be some internal blowback from at least *a few* of their peers if the whistleblowers were to publicly come forward.
fundamentally, it is yet another discussion on the effects of police subculture. the job is stressful and potentially dangerous, thus having fellow officers to fall back on provides necessary support. on the other hand, that very support system also can be susceptible to corruption and injustice.
doing the right thing, in this case, means betraying the faith of fellow officers and could have a bunch of negative effects both to their careers and well as their personal lives if they piss off the wrong people.
to which, i can understand the sentiments behind wanting an inquiry. the whistleblowers are in a compromised position and an inquiry alleviates them of this pressure.

probably not. 'freedoms' or whatever. but it should be. it is a fact that it is harmful with no objective benefits, besides trying to fit in with a bigoted community.
they can probably restrict it in various ways, particularly going after advertising and monetization.  might be able to get fraud claims against anyone who makes claims of an effective therapy.  or go after them for unlicensed practice of medicine if they're claiming it's a therapy in the first place.  
but at the end of the day, if a consenting gay adult chooses to go to a meeting where a bunch of christians who are going to scream at them about their sinful ways and how they must change through the power of jesus christ, the charter will protect that.
adults have the freedom to harm themselves in many ways. if someone willingly, on their own, wants to subject themselves to conversion therapy and they are an adult, we really have no place to tell them no

i recently read kim stanley robinson's *the ministry for the future*, a novel set in the near future as the impacts of climate change become more severe. in a the novel, an massive heat wave kills hundreds of thousands in india, resulting in the radicalization of climate activists who, in some cases, use violence. the scenario is frighteningly plausible and morally murky. is it wrong to regard the burning of fossil fuels as a sort of violence when it knowingly causes damage and death? it's not hard to imagine that many will see it that way, particularly those in places like africa which will bear the human and economic costs of climate change, despite having almost none of the responsibility. suzuki's statement here might be upsetting, but it seems frighteningly plausible.
> “david suzuki has been predicting environmental consequences for decades. similarly, **this comment was a predictive reflection on the escalating stakes and potential for conflict** due to the effects of human-caused climate change” 
> 
> **asked whether or not he would support the bombing of pipelines, suzuki said, “of course not.”**
i mean, *obviously*. everyone actually knew this was the case, it was just bad faith actors who wanted to try to score points or whatever, because...i honestly don't know. inferiority complex? i honestly don't get the need to pretend you're upset about something like this. 
so, because of them, instead of talking about the substance of the statement by a celebrated lifelong eco-activist, we're pretending we're afraid of an 85 year old man with no criminal history turning into a terrorist.
i dunno he has a point that continued lack of action will lead to more radicalization. people won't keep doing peaceful protests. things could get violent. granted the way he said it is too easy to be taken out of context and used to his detriment.
i've been tuning out david suzuki for years. i just can't stand the guy anymore. he's basically misanthropic, at least that's the fundamental message he's sending. while i don't doubt the basic premise that some people harbor the desire to "blow up" things, not every catastrophe he predicts will happen. how could a guy who has been in the public eye for more than half a century, be so ignorant of the effect of his words? the only conclusion that makes sense to me is that he isn't. he just thinks his passion excuses him.
the only way violent acts would result in public support, which is the key to making progress,  is if the perpetrators are martyred by an excessive response from authorities, as happened in the easter uprising in 1916. it would be very surprising if any of our governments weren't mindful of that. not to mention most activists.
previously the consequences of climate change were only hypothetical. the people who would suffer either didn't exist yet, or at least weren't guaranteed any real hardship. now it is exceedingly obvious that the damage caused by climate change is here and now. that means that we are (in some cases literally) fighting for our own futures.
it's not just plausible, it's likely inevitable. unless we drastically change course it's absolutely going to happen at least in some places going forward. suzuki is right and it's honestly kind of funny that people are condemning him for saying the obvious. i assure you, the ecoterrorists making plans to blow up fossil fuel infrastructure haven't been waiting on suzuki's word.
i think it's definitely plausible. incremental change is no longer an option, we need to push hard and fast towards a greener economy. if it means sabotaging infrastructure then some may see it as a possible extreme but necessary option.
i foresee ecoauthoritarianism to be an increasingly popular appealing political thought for climate activists if democracies are too slow to move on climate change.
i don't think his statement is as plausible as you do. for one, it's a big step up from marching in the streets to planting bombs.  you'd be surprised how realistic people get about their futures before they cross that line.  
there's a calculus here that we can use to guess how likely a threat this is   with a country this small, the people who are ready and willing to plant  explosives on a pipeline are going to be few and far between. they're probably already in a  group calling for action, unsatisfied with results.  that's not rare, but to go that extra mile they have to be *dedicated*.  enough to risk spending the rest of their lives in prison, sacrificing everything else in their lives to accomplish this one thing.
 hypothetically we can imagine people like that.  in reality that's a big step. one that not many people are actually willing to take. 
another reason, that would kneecap the environmentalist movement in canada. the general public would see pictures of blown up pipelines spewing oil, feel the personal  impact as their fuel supply runs low (see bc right now with tm shut down), and the judicial backlash against the culprits.  escalation to violence will end horribly and the suzuki foundation knows it.
that would make a great movie.
the future has already past us by. our pipelines were targeted for bombings during the afghanistan war. just like the pickering nuclear plant was targeted by using aircraft. both were dealt with by csis, rcmp and the cse.  don't expect this country to succumb to eco-terrorism. our very canadian nature suggests that we would react in a brutal fashion if our livelihoods were put at risk.
except that climate related death has been precipitously falling.
[removed]
i don't think anyone for 1 minute think he will do anything.but group that for months who have wanted violence will see this as the green light.
if  people start attacking oil fields and pipelines it will lead to mass unrest.
> how could a guy who has been in the public eye for more than half a century, be so ignorant of the effect of his words?
what exactly are the effects of his words? so far it looks to me like he's warning that people will get more radical, likely dangerously, if we don't take climate action, which seems like a pretty likely prediction to me. and the effects so far seem to be... people are mad at him.
could you please specify what the dire, misanthropic consequences that you're warning about are?
everyone's the hero of their own story.
bombing a pipeline here and there won't save the world and would likely do more harm to the cause than good
suzuki is being condemned because he made a glib comment and refuses to add context or clarity.
he could have said it thoughtfully and carefully and nobody but a few wingnuts would have criticized him for it. even you and the other posters in this reddit thread explained it better than suzuki did.
instead he said, “there are going to be pipelines blowing up if our leaders don’t pay attention to what’s going on.” which sounds equally like a warning, a threat, or a call to action. which is it?
we called out donald trump for doing the same thing, and we should call out david suzuki. 
and suzuki's lazy response, which dismisses the question while sneeringly implying that the fault somehow lies with the questioner, is equally trumpian:
>asked whether or not he would support the bombing of pipelines, suzuki said, “of course not.”
it can't be done quickly, it has to be well thought out and measured, so that we don't completely destroy the economy and drop the standard of living into the stone ages. oil and gas will be essential in the transition to a greener economy. without oil, you couldn't have electric cars, roads, housing, the list goes on and on and on.

congratulations to nova scotia.  now i hope the province is working hard on new home construction... this is not an opportunity to pass up just to satisfy nimbys.
and to the surprise of no one who actually lives in nova scotia, the majority of newcomers are from west and central canada.
*”on top of record levels of immigration, there’s been a dramatic increase in interprovincial migration to nova scotia, particularly among people leaving ontario, quebec and the western provinces during the covid-19 pandemic.”*
*”between july 1, 2020, and june 30, 2021, nearly 10,000 more people came to nova scotia from other provinces or territories than left nova scotia – a dramatic shift in traditional population migration patterns in canada.”*
anyone who lives here can tell you about their new neighbours from ontario, or their new ontario landlord. i wish i was exaggerating. the rent in downtown halifax now starts at around $1200-$1500 for a one bedroom apartment, our minimum wage is $12.95, and we have 15% hst.
i know a lot of people who have sold their homes in ontario and have bought and moved to nova scotia and new brunswick
have the people of nova scotia been consulted on whether they’d have lower population growth but lower rents and real estate prices?
yea im gunna guess their cities are as dumb as the rest and view their goal as limiting development because change is bad. those evil developers trying to home people.
bring back the missing middle!!! medium density housing is much better than row after row of sfh. duplexes n triplexes!
ontario has single handily fucked the housing market here. this is not a happy milestone.  it just means young people that have lived here their entire lives will never afford a home.
they had that for 25 years - virtually zero population growth from 1991 (915k people) to 2016 (924k people).
on a side note, i was recently looking at a map of the population distribution in north america, and it's actually quite strange how canada doesn't have any major population centres on its atlantic coast (the biggest being halifax).  normally coastal regions are very desirable places to live, so it's interesting that ours aren't.
yeah it's called an election
the problem is that the vast majority of people coming here are actually from ontario and quebec, not immigrants.
there's unprecedented amounts of construction happening.  the issue is that it's taking the form of urban sprawl, and the geography of the region already had latent issues with bottle necks and clogged arteries
there are two “cities”, and everything is concentrated in one of them so take a wild guess what housing is like in halifax currently.
we have a lot of new buildings going up, but we also have this location in downtown halifax supposedly labeled as "historic schmidtville" which is just a bunch of nimby people refusing to sell
it's not ontario, it's immigration. the population grows more than we are willing or capable of building, at least at our suburban standard, and people drive till they can afford it. the ultimate conclusion being people pushed as far as nova scotia
i’ve known people, and heard twice as many stories about people leaving ontario for nova scotia. they’re usually back within the year.
lack of jobs, the weather, “poor” living conditions (in comparison to southern ontario), are all cited for their return.
as near as i understand it, the comparative sparseness of our east coast is because of the way confederation happened and the opening of the seaway. historically the maritimes did trade north-south with new england, whereas ontario & quebec did it east-west. after confederation, the maritimes lost their trade partners due to laws which promoted east-west trade, and subsequently lost their manufacturing base. then once the st lawrence seaway opened, it allowed shipping to bypass the maritimes, which further exasperated these issues. the result was that most of the east coast economy ended up based on primary industry, e.g. the fishery, and that hasn't exactly been a stable industry either.
usually, the coastal regions are driven by the economic activity from being a port city, but, because the best way to access canada from the east coast is to go all the way into the montreal ports, that's where economic growth occurred the most.
as for the issue of flat population growth for so long, it's a shame that we haven't found an in between from zero growth to rapid growth. i don't think it's a canadian phenomenon though. lots of countries and regions experience the same thing. slow steady economic growth is a tough nut to crack.
>it's actually quite strange how canada doesn't have any major population centres on its atlantic coast (the biggest being halifax).
it's because the main atlantic port is in montreal. the st. lawrence seaway makes us absolutely useless to central canada. 
it also doesn't help that we have limited land to use for resource extraction so we have little to provide anyone in bulk. 
we have a huge continental shelf that has a lot of potential for exploration but the feds own that. 
therefore... no need for a huge population when there is nothing to support it with. this however, is starting to change with tech and remote work. there's now a desire to live here because we can provide those things with a great quality of life.
the federal government went through decades of funnelling all industry into upper canada and quebec. this led to the maritimes basically getting fucked and ending up as a pure port instead of having a major powerhouse industrial center like new york


[removed]
rule 2

so can someone provide a translation of what this article is? google unfortunately doesn't currently have inuktitut syllabics as an option in its translation service.
see, i understand the idea and actually appreciate it.
if you look into my comment history you'd find out that i speak inuktitut (to a very casual degree) and support/encourage articles about the inuit or by the inuit...
however, the one problem with people using syllabics, be it in this instance, on gov buildings, and etc. is that they dont clarify what language or dialect they sre bloody using. 
this could be one of any inuktitut dialect or it could be ojibwe as far as the reader knows! for the most part, the syllabics in canada are universally used by natives but they have different meanings behind them.
prime example: the syllabic ᒋ means "gi" in north qikiqtaaluk (inuktitut) but means "chi" in anishinaabemowin.
for the sake of everyones sanity, just clarify what language and dialect is being used.
what does this say?
[removed]
[removed]
its about the governor generals throne speech address, which she gave in her native language inuktituk. this is the first time that's happened. 
 you can find her speech and its translation on the gg's website.
yeh that's true! if everyone uses the same alphabet, how would you tell the difference between languages !!
wait a minute...
irish people say hello
i asked my wife who is inuit but from nunavik not nunavut, so there's different dialects. she thinks it says mary simon is the first governor general, something like that.
it's the konami code
ᒪᓕᒐᖅ 3
[removed]
[removed]
removed
save for some opening and closing salutations in inuktitut and and a thank-you anishinaabemowin, it appears to be mostly english with significant passages also in french.
[
full transcript with languages marked (except for the four thank-yous at the end):
seriously?
sweet, thank you.
neat
lol, nice touch
so we are now at about 3 weeks of people camping out waiting for jfk’s return in texas? sigh..........
[parliamentary coalition chaos is afoot in sweden.](
[financial times] ( and other european media reporting that a german government coalition will be unveiled soon, with schulz as chancellor of an ampel coalition with the fdp and greens.
[3 white men guilty of murdering black man ahmaud arbery, georgia jury finds](
georgia is both a strong bastion of white supermacy and of strong black institutions to fight it. i hope that this as a sign that the needle has finally tilted the other way.
edit: complete verdicts from courtroom here:
[
[
"america's democracy is failing — and the world knows it"
for the hundredth time, social media was a mistake.
at first, the jfk thing seemed harmless and funny. [now, it's getting less so.](
i hadn't realized how strange the swedish system is with the opposition being able to propose a budget. it now makes more sense for the coalition to 'collapse' to allow them to propose a budget of their own. at least that's how i'm reading the situation; i don't know swedish parliamentary procedure.
highlights of the deal:
* germany will ideally phase out coal by 2030 and commit to 80% renewable energy
* increase rail freight transport by 25% and have at least 15 million electric cars on the roads by 2030
* push for a european air travel surcharge like the one that is already in place in germany
* immigrants able to apply for citizenship after five years and allowed dual citizenship, a potential big change for thousands of ethnic turks, many of whom remain foreign nationals after decades in germany
* increasing the minimum wage to €12
* plans to legalize the regulated sale of cannabis
* build 400,000 new apartments a year to fight a housing crisis
* lower the voting age to 16
*  create a points-based immigration system to draw in qualified workers
the fiscally cnservative, libertarian fdp is wierd fit for the  left-of-centre spd.
what is the us coming to when 3 armed white men can't hunt an unarmed black man through the streets, film themselves murdering him, and be found innocent? the old days were better, i tell ya.
/s
i lived there for nearly a decade, and still follow the states closely. it's scary there, and the impotence of their people is frustrating.
he says on a social media platform.... but yeah hard not to agree
jesus christ, it sounds like we are ramping up for jonestown 2.0, this time in the usa instead of a remote guyana village.
i won’t be shocked if they all commit mass suicide in the coming days.
> increase rail freight transport by 25% 
god. that's pretty amazing. -- it would be awesome if we had a party that even had that on their radar, let along as a policy proposal. 
> lower the voting age to 16
this i'm less thrilled about, tbh. given the actual voting turnout for that demographic, it's hard to get super-fussed about it, but still. that's still very much in the middle of adolescence and your brain figuring out long-term consequences.
but spd has been in coalition with cdu for the last 8 years
not really. scholz and the spd are not left of centre. unless half a step from merkel is left of centre.
they were in a federal coalition government together from 1969 to 1982, but it's been some time and even under schröder (1998-2005), the spd preferred the greens.
wish we hadn't pulled up so much of our shortline rail track through the 80s and 90s. be a lot easier to expand rail here if the lines just needed upgrading.
that argument about "adolescence" hurting voting is a fairly outdate ageist remark. by that logic, no one above 65 should be able to vote either because senility breaks the older mind and they become barely more functioning than a child's by 90. 16 is a perfectly fine time to vote, and since the brain doesn't stop until 25 to develop, there's nothing wrong in decreasing the vote even further since we already let people who are below 25 vote. no one should silence a person's inalienable right to vote.

this is the crux of the issue. i know a lot of conservatives who literally cannot understand why people vote for trudeau.
and the honest answer is there's no competition. trudeaumania has been over for years, and the cpc can't put forth anything that appeals to the people that they need to.
i see a lot of people acting like the liberals create these "wedge issues" so that the cpc ends up stuck talking about abortion and social issues.
but that is itself a failure of the cpc. if this tactic is being used every election, how can they not have a strategy to counter it? they've had the better part of a decade to figure it out and they haven't.
because they can't. the big-tent party is too big, stretched too thin between competing and vastly different ideologies. it's impossible to manage and the socons wield too much power in the leadership race and policy conventions.
what other parties do not understand is that majority of canadians are pragmatic. not beholden to a party but we do want things that the liberal party stand for.
say the cpc gets a new leader, maybe one more socon. would that actually get the party more seats? they might increase their voting margins in alberta and sk, pull back voters from ppc, but they still won't be owning the libs.
i love the media.
reporting on the liberals "mps act like trained seals and don't dare cross the pm.  this isn't how our system is supposed to work".
reporting on the conservatives "erin o'toole can't control his caucus.  this isn't how our system is supposed to work".
the "science says" that the vaccine protects us all.  yet people who seek to lead the country, my mp is robert kitchen sadly, cannot all get vaccinated.  this is an atrocity, simple as that.
[removed]
>i see a lot of people acting like the liberals create these "wedge issues" so that the cpc ends up stuck talking about abortion and social issues.
the lpc didn't have to bring up or create the wedge issues.  they just have to sit back and wait.  in 2015, 2019, and 2021 the cpc brought them up themselves.
abortion, flip flopping on guns, the coziness with white supremacist groups, pushing anti-vaxx conspiracies, and their inability to accept the reality of climate change are all unforced errors that the cpc commit themselves.
if they want to win, the cpc needs to muzzle their more extreme members, and start exhibiting some semblance of party discipline.  and not the current desperate attempt to hold his position that o'toole has found himself in.
make it clear that anyone who is dense enough to bring up abortion, lgbt rights, has photo ops with extremist groups, or pushes qanon type bs will be expelled from the party.
the bar is a tripping hazard in hell, yet the cpc keep limbo dancing under it.
i vote for the liberals because i can’t in good conscience vote conservative - absent the leaders, the two parties are very different and the lpc has on balance attracted far more competent, pragmatic people to its ranks. until the cpc is able to win moderate, competent star candidates, i’m out.
>cpc can't put forth anything that appeals to the people that they need to.
the fact they put a front desk coffee maker as pm candidate after saying a teacher wasn't enough qualification soured them to me and others, and that goes for their voters too as they gave "front desk and lied about qualifications" scheer huge popular vote numbers after making fun of the "substitute drama teacher". 
they bitch about divisiveness and then push pollivre, or ignore o'toole saying people who believe in a different political view are stupid. 
they mock education but celebrate, or at least used to, a philosophy dropout. 
apparently trudeau will always be racist but kenney doesn't hate gay people anymore.
its never about being a liberal fan boy, but don't expect me to vote conservative when  you're bringing more of the same, or less, in addition to belief systems within the party like religious fundamentalism, culture war screeching, and anti vaxers.
the comparison i use being a maritimer is that justin trudeau is a greco party pizza. you need to feed a lot of people, so you're going with pizza. nobody is going to be excited about a greco party pizza, but know what? nobody is going to particularly oppose it either. suddenly, it's the top choice.
agreed. it’s only possible for the liberals to make wedge issues out of abortion, if the cpc is problematic on the issue. if they weren’t, it wouldn’t even be a wedge issue.
liberal voters dont like trudeau nearly as much as conservative voters think they do. he's alright.
i really don’t know who these alleged ‘trudeau can do no wrong’ people are
> not beholden to a party
well we know that is literally not true, each party has die hards that will always vote for them, think the cpc having the highest floor.
scheer was more of a socon and that didn’t happen. if they get more seats in the next election with a socon leader, it’s more likely due to the electorate getting tired with the current government more than anything else.
they have a deeper issue that divides the party from within. a more moderate platform could do wonders if the entire party is all-in on it.
will that happen? can’t see it without a leader who has an iron grip on the party.
probably not. we already had a full fledged so-con leader in andrew scheer. that didn’t exactly work for them.
exactly, it is like salty food. no salt does not taste good but just eating a rock of salt is not good either. the goal is to find balance in the middle.
our leaders are all vaccinated - it’s a very select few cpc members who are not.
i don't think you can muzzle the more extreme members anymore. 
harper is lauded as having great control of the party, but he was also working in a different environment. he start as pm in 2006, which is the same year twitter was formed. social media just wasn't as much of a thing back then as it is today, and i would assume conservatives were slower to adopt it.

here is my responses summary:
leaders’ responses (so far):
o’toole: bad. nothing good. “trudeau caused inflation”. leaving people behind.
(aka: this was a pre-written response)
singh: doesn’t go far enough. words not actions.
(aka: we will support nonetheless).
blanchet: short. 24 pages of empty words. “i have no reason to vote for or against the throne speech”. “we will live with this empty piece of paper”.
(aka: classic yfb response with his theatrical orator skills haha)
edit: sounds like bq will support the throne speech. this admission gives the ndp room to vote against, but i don’t believe their supporters would like that. mostly takes away their leverage now.
no mention of pharmacare in the throne speech despite it supposedly being a huge priority when they were elected in 2019. just two years later you'd think they'd never said anything about it at all with the way they're acting. 
it does make me wonder, how many of the current promises in this one, some of which would be good things imo, will also not be mentioned in a few years?
so their plan on housing is to help more people buy;
"the government will also help families buy their first home sooner with a more flexible first-time home buyer’s incentive, a new rent-to-own program, and by reducing the closing costs for first-time buyers."
not sure i understand [this rent to own]( correctly. they want condo landlords to sell to the renter and it will cost the government $1b. so is the government subsidizing the purchase from the landlord?
[summary from global news:](
>social programs and benefits make up less of the speech this year compared to last, while broader pledges around tackling affordability and pursuing an “economy of the future” dominate.
 ... promising to go “further, faster” on the climate file, emphasizing promises like capping oil-and-gas sector emissions, accelerating the push towards net-zero emissions and investments in public transit.
 trudeau’s speech also put the focus on the need to tackle the cost of living amid concerns that have boiled up over recent months amid rampant inflation driving up the cost of groceries and daily essentials, and as housing prices remain out of reach for many canadians ... speech highlighted housing and child care plans as the main pillars of its affordability plan, with promises to ramp up supports on both fronts.
do we have information available about the _housing accelerator fund_? that sounds tantalizing:
> for example, the housing accelerator fund will help municipalities build more and better, faster.
although my kids are almost at the point of no longer needing it, for the sake of everyone else i hope that this commitment is true; i spent nearly 20k on child care last year:
> the government will also continue building the first-ever canada-wide early learning and child care system. by the end of 2022, average fees for regulated child care will be cut in half in most of the provinces and territories. and in some places, this will even happen as early as the start of the year. families will save thousands of dollars.
and what is this?! a new ministry or agency to safeguard fresh water?
> creating the canada water agency will safeguard that vital resource and support our farmers.
nothing else really stood out to me as new; there's a few mentions of increasing existing budget line items here and there, among all the platitudes.
edit:
found the [housing accelerator fund](
and the [canada water agency](
the plan also includes a fund that provides municipalities with a financial incentive to build more housing.
they have to increase supply and decrease demand.
increase supply - remove barriers that prevent or delay new builds.
decrease demand - crack down on foreign buyers who may be distorting the system, and (controversy alert) limit immigration.
making it easier to buy without addressing supply only increases demand and further drives up prices.  
we won't see a decrease in prices until supply exceeds demand and sellers have to decrease their prices in order to sell.
>the program will be designed based on three principles: the landlord must commit to charging a renter a lower-than-market rate to help canadians build up savings for a down payment; the landlord must commit to ownership in a five-year term or less; and proper safeguards will be in place to protect the future homeowner.
what's in it for the the landlord? why would a landlord agree to this?
also, what is with these convoluted schemes for trying to help people? why not just give renters money?
i'm very interested in this but i wanna see how it is laid out and how they can get landlords/builders/developers on board with this.
>trudeau’s speech also put the focus on the need to tackle the cost of living amid concerns that have boiled up over recent months amid rampant inflation driving up the cost of groceries and daily essentials, and as housing prices remain out of reach for many canadians ...
lol.  tackling inflation and housing is hard.  you can be sure nothing will be done about this.
> although my kids are almost at the point of no longer needing it, for the sake of everyone else i hope that this commitment is true
uh, they already have deals in place with most of the country on it.
they announced the canada water agency in the last throne speech i think. glad to see they still (hopefully) plan to do it.
i'm not expecting the government to do anything for housing beyond thinking up fancy names for initiatives or funds, but i'll be happy if i'm wrong obviously.
> do we have information available about the housing accelerator fund?
it is just a fancy name for mudslides and floods pushing houses around faster than in the past.
i am not sure exactly what that means or how it would work.
demand for housing is moreso a function of the amount of people looking to live in a home. investors may fund the construction to realize a return by renting it out, but the underlying demand is the end user. 
the main issue is we are rapidly increasing immigration and we do not have the capacity to build faster. every project in the country is already delayed, some for years. if you wanted to build more houses next year you could not just go out and hire those trades people.
the only way they would get onboard with it is i'd it's more profitable for them otherwise it's a non starter. given they are saying it will cost $1b i guess they are giving money.
seeing as how oil and gas is an integral part of the transition to a greener economy, capping the industry will lead to higher energy costs, and more inflation. if you think inflation is bad now, just wait till 2022.
transit projects will help. new housing projects should come with effective public transit and be dense enough to sustain it.
we've been through this before. i'll believe it when it happens.

and singh is absolutely right.
they are a goddamned embarrassment. 
but, as with so much of the right these days, they're shameless and incapable of embarrassment and thus the epic bed shitting we've seen in right wing governed jurisdictions all through the pandemic (manitoba, saskatchewan and alberta having to send  their covid patients out of country and out of province due to their epic fack ups in managing this crisis).
it's a disgrace, it's imcompetent, it's criminal and it ought to be condemned everywhere by everyone and punished severely at the ballot box.
they wont be. in politics conservatives don't feel shame, they do what they want and don't care how as long as it gets them what they want.
[removed]
[removed]
i feel like there's a never ending race to the bottom between conservative governments and mismanaging public services
you could just end that quote at “conservatives should be embarrassed”.
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
they do this to try and prove that public services shouldn't be managed by the government. it's part of the tactic to switch to private management.
i totally disagree with this, and can't stand the kenney government because they make it so obvious, but it's their mo.
[removed]
[removed]
removed for rule 3.
[removed]
[removed]
removed for rule 3.
removed for rule 2.
[removed]
[removed]

spokesperson to the solicitor general:
>"this investigation **confirmed that no personal health information was accessed**, and that ontario’s covid-19 vaccine booking system remains secure and continues to be a safe tool for ontarians to use."
ontario ndp critic for technology development and innovation chris glover:
>“premier doug ford must immediately tell people what actions he’s taking to **determine how many people’s personal health and contact information has been compromised**, what is now being done to inform and protect those people, and how the system is being changed to prevent further breaches,” the statement read.
i know there will always be an element of pomp and pageantry when playing the critic, but that statement was irresponsible.
government employee might be a bit exaggerated of a title to describe someone who seemingly worked as a temp at a temp agency
depends on the definition of personal health information, there's an overlap at play.  contact and identifying info isn't health info per se and vaccination scheduling or selected clinic location isn't part of the medical record, but could still be colloquially "health info".

hopefully enough to embarass her to not run again. super frustrated to be in her riding and seeing little in the way of progress.
[removed]
inb4 smitherman tries to challenge her again and the progressives in the riding are forced to hold their nose and re-elect wong-tam lest the vote be split
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
removed for rule 3.
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]

[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]

interesting analysis, thanks for sharing.
i think the author is on to something here, though i'm not sure i agree with the 'cultural conservatism' point - there is an assumption there that mainstream progressives are out of step with the majority of the population on issues of gender, race etc., which i'm not so sure is true.
that said, i think the pessimism is well-founded. from an electoral standpoint (which i know the article isn't about), we are definitely seeing the meme-driven reactionary side making renewed efforts to grab a foothold in canadian politics and starting to suck all the oxygen out of the room as far as conservatives are concerned. 
i can only expect that this will continue, and will continue to be something that's absolutely fatal to a substantive and serious conservative agenda. even if these people somehow get elected, they are politically and ideologically incapable of enacting anything approaching substantive policy, because their base and political style is so rooted in rage and victimhood.
i rather disliked the part where he spends 700 words to essentially say "our winning move, culturally, is to deny the previous and ongoing genocide against first nations people". very cool.
[removed]
i always find it difficult to read conservative thinkers whining about "the radical left". its such a weak and boring term that is part the kind of meme-driven reactionary movement that the author is pushing against. i did solider on and get through the piece and i believe that he does have a very apt take of the conservative movement, diagnosing it as trapped in a chronic state of opposition.
removed for rule 3.

i’ve never really understood why working in a restaurant is considered a low skill entry level job. i’ve been a cashier at a major grocery store and it doesn’t even come near the amount of work that working in a restaurant is. the stress of getting customer’s orders correct, running around managing several tables and dealing with any conflicts takes a toll on someone. yet they often get paid less than other minimum wage jobs in most provinces. it’s just mind blowing.
the only thing keeping them in place was tipping culture which made it a $25-30+/hr job once you considered the pitiful hourly wage and all the tips. now the pandemic has shifted consumer habits who are now ordering takeout and delivery more instead of eating in the restaurant. so the tips have dried up and it’s no longer worth the ~$12/hour that servers get. it’s about time they get paid for what they deserve without the need for tipping. it’s nice to see the media finally focusing on the real solution instead of writing another sympathy ploy from restaurant owners claiming that all their staff are sitting at home claiming crb (although that’s gone so can’t really blame that now) instead of working for wages you can’t even live on.
the confusing thing about all this to me is i work somewhere that's been "short staffed" for over a year with a big help wanted sign on the front. we even had somebody quit recently so we thought we'd definitely get someone new this summer. but it's almost december and they haven't even done one interview.
some people say the labor shortage is because wages aren't high enough. but why is every business getting flooded with applications? other people think it's because youngins are lazy and would rather be on welfare. but like, the phone book sized stacks of applications we got all summer?
also i'm still on the hunt for a single business anywhere in the world that died because it couldn't find workers. i'm on the verge of posting a $1,000 prize for anybody who can name one.
[deleted]
business owner has become synonymous with bigwig which is so unfortunate. most businesses put everything on the line, not to be rich but to express their own desire for “freedom” and flexibility. it’s very hard to make the profit vs expense formula work in this country. yes you have opportunity to do it, but the gov takes everything they can to make it hard. sorry it’s a bit ranty, there’s lots to be found but the number of failed businesses is astonishing, i have two.
servers out of anybody are not strapped for cash. most make great money, and often don’t report all of it.
it’s the back of the house that gets absolutely fucked. and nobody talks about them.
> i’ve never really understood why working in a restaurant is considered a low skill entry level job.
low skill is in reference to the barriers, or lack thereof, industry sets up in order to be hired. working in a restaurant is considered low skill because restaurants will hire any warm body willing to show up.
entry level refers to industry that is willing to hire young people; namely teenagers. restaurants are entry level as they hire people as soon as they are age-eligible to work.
it's not really a commentary on the work itself, but more about how desperate employers are to hire. industries that struggle to hire look to the younger and less experienced to cast a wider net.
i will genuinely never understand how so many people were okay with subsidizing restaurant employees.
servers must love reddit or something. no idea how i keep reading serving is this terrible job that is so hard. get over yourself. like it’s any easier running around a hot kitchen in summer dying of heat, getting things right, etc. every person thinks their job deserves more than min wage
the phrase “unskilled labour” is just a tool to make everyone feel like they don’t deserve more.
> but like, the phone book sized stacks of applications we got all summer?
i'd say 99% of the applications i see are from foreigners trying to get my business to sponsor them for residency into canada (think tfw and the like). they are not legally eligible to work in canada without a long and arduous process, including the requirement of finding them housing (good luck!), which is not realistic for a lot of businesses.
99% of the remaining 1% are legally able to work in canada, but still live afar. while they are not against moving, when they start to look for somewhere local to live they soon come back with a quick *"thanks for considering me but i can't find anywhere to live."* these never make it to any kind of interview process.
when the remaining unicorns who are legally able to work and live locally show up they are hired on the spot, no questions asked. perhaps your place of work just hasn't found the unicorn yet? a stack of applications doesn't tell us anything.
> i'm still on the hunt for a single business anywhere in the world that died because it couldn't find workers.
i'm more interested in the converse. there aren't that many businesses that are complete failures, just not successful enough that the founders want to keep working on it anymore. only when those last workers no longer want to work for the business that stopped finding workers does the business die.
yeah, i was applying to all sorts of bars all summer. most places didn't even call out and one didn't hire me because i don't drink -- and this is with almost seven years of restaurant experience. meanwhile, plenty of those places continued to post ads asking for help. what they had a problem with was me not being able to work full time for them at minimum wage.
lol, you'd be stupid to offer that prize.  i've seen multiple news articles about businesses that ended up shutting their doors because of lack of staff.
except if there is a labour "shortage", then perhaps businesses should raise wages to compensate for the scarcity that's literally how capitalism is said to be working, but does that not apply to business owners?   
>especially when it only affecting the minimum earners who are often either inexperienced or still making minimum wage for a reason.
maybe because businesses are choosing to not pay them a living wage? no business should ever underpay and treat their workers like they are slaves
i think its up to individual situations. most restaurant owners are greedy and whiny like when industry leaders cried foul in the 1900s when workers finally got weekends and standardized work weeks. "how can i run a business if i cant hire slaves !"
maybe instead of wasting your company time watching the kyle trials on your 2nd monitor you could be more productive...since your all about wages and output. cheers.
the local tim horton fired their most experienced/expensive staff to hire new workers at minimum wage. businesses have learned nothing.
edit:  the new workers are getting replaced every week or so. the order errors are piling up. we are now checking out mcdonald's that just opened up. the mcdonald's cannot hire enough staff to let customers dine in. not enough stupid people to go round.
yeah that doesn’t apply when we have 4 star fine dining restaurants charging $700 for a steak but paying their employees minimum wage (or $1-2 above minimum wage).
10%? restaurants typically spend around 25-30% on labour. even walmart spends about 20% of revenue on labour (and only gets a profit of 4.3%, which is why they're so scared of unions - increasing to a living wage would eat all their profit).
if you cant afford to pay your workers a living wage, then you should not run a business.
if you have 2 failed businesses, it doesnt sound like you put everything on the line. if you did, you couldnt afford to start a second. 
most people cant even afford to start a single business.
most workers, if they lose their job they miss out on rent and are homeless. most people who start a business have enough capital to still survive.

seems sort of obvious that merging the two biggest wireless providers in the country would be something the government would want to oppose. monopolies and all that. don't canadians already pay some of the highest wireless and home internet costs in the world?
seems like a pretty easy stance for the ndp. if the liberals allow the merger to go through, they can just beat trudeau over the head with his [trudeau's] promise to reduce cell phone bills.
supporting price-gouging companies at the expense of most canadians... might actually be the *most* lpc thing i've ever heard of.
i either completely forgot about this, or suppressed the memory. rogers and shaw are planning to merge? are you fucking kidding me?
the same rogers that actually came out today and said that its planned acquisitions were to make it more competitive internationally...lol. get f***ed rogers...and while you're at it take bell and telus too. 
as the leadership of a foreign telecoms company once said (paraphrasing) 'if rogers, bell and telus were so great, then why don't they have operations in other countries?' 
oh wait, they don't because other countries don't want them and robelus has it super-cushy in canada fleecing the public while hiding behind the crtc - the same crtc which is headed by a former telus lobbyist. lol.
considering shaw is offering one of the cheapest mobile data plan and is the only cable/internet alternative in many markets, a merger doesn't make sense for consumers
i wish the ndp would do something actually cool like promise to nationalize them if elected. we already paid for their infrastructure, may as well treat internet like the utility it is.
i just did an angus reid survey where they were either trying to sell the idea to the person filling out the survey or fishing for ideas why they could raise rates due to the merger.
the leading binary questions were by far the worst i’ve ever done on an angus reid survey.
shaw, cogeco and cable cable are huge out in the rurals where bell isn't the only game in town. even in the city shaw still has customers due to great deal is in the past. switching them over to rogers will be a huge boost in customers and profit for rogers even if shaw isn't one of the big 3.
look, everyone knows where this ends.  shaw and rogers get their approval, on the condition shaw sells freedom mobile.  since foreign ownership is still verboten, videotron is the only possible buyer.
fuck i just got off of rogers because of how garbage they were and now i’m gonna be roped back to them via shaw. hate to see it.
i think shaw - rogers merger would reduce choice but rogers is not really around in western canada, and shaw is trying to enter the fiber and mobile markets (with negligible success)   
but this is singh being correct 100%.
bell and telus need to join that combo, i have a feeling caring about canadians and giving them the best deals so people can save more,  is their number one priority.
both internet access and cell phone costs are manifestations of a peculiar canadian fetish: supply management .  dairy, eggs, poultry, maple syrup industries all pretend to support family farms but in reality have long been very very profitable corporate scams that cheat  every  consumer of basic food .  none of the telecoms pretend that, they just openly rape us with the approval of government. 
telecom has dropped the pretense  that they exist for any reason but to screw us. they control the government regulator crtc.  
the solution  is obvious: allow open competition by foreign investors - a very common situation in developed countries, and not coincidentally those countries have much lower telecom rates. .  so far, nobody in ottawa has the guts to simply  do the right thing.
lol! ndp is hypocrite. if they are sincere, they should arm twist trudeau. i guess the guy is just aiming for higher donation.
they could be higher though. think of all the telecom profits our gdp would see.
we're definitely one of the worst. this was years ago, but it still echos in my mind from time to time.
i went out with a woman from mexico and she still had her mexican phone number. she hadn't just arrived. she'd been here for months. maybe years. she'd had plenty of opportunity to shift to a canadian number but chose not to because it was actually cheaper for her to stay on her mexican plan and always be roaming than to get a canadian plan and pay our insane rates.
shaw isn't one of the big three wireless providers, that's rogers, bell, and telus.  the only wireless business shaw has come from its purchase of freedom - bell and telus each have about 6x as many subscribers.
merge them all. then surprise nationalize them.

>“other countries are launching ambitious plans to unleash innovation, lower taxes and slash red tape to get their economies surging and we see nothing from justin trudeau,” he said.
lowering taxes will not help me, nor would cutting red tape... what would actually improve my material conditions would be universal dental and pharmacare, mental health access and strong labour unions.    
but i know that's not what erin o'toole wants.
cancelling student loans would also do great things for the economy, and innovation.  instead of working at a minimum wage job to make payments on a student loan, graduates could be either saving money for their business, a car, a house, children, etc...we're talking hundreds of dollars a month going into the student loan program, for several years. 
also, it gives student-loan carriers more time and opportunity to pursue their passions instead of unprofitable expeditions.
when i hear conservatives repeat the exact same rhetoric, every, single,fucking time... it gets old and boring.
"cut red tape"... always ends up leading to de-regulations that benefit certain people over others and allowing businesses to take advantage of us all.
> lower taxes
typical conservative rhetoric completely based in populism. cutting taxes doesn't suddenly put more money in peoples pockets, especially when they end up having to spend more of their own money on things that social safety nets used to provide. when you cut taxes you have to cut social services as well. austerity doesn't work! 
when the cpc cut 1% from the gst, it decreased revenues by anywhere from 6 to 10 billion dollars from the government coffers to pay for services, infrastructure, military procurement and others needed spending.
> launching ambitious plans 
pure rhetoric though. usually boils down when conservatives (cpc) say that others plans aren't "innovative" or "ambitious" to "we don't like your ideology so we appose what you are building"
honestly, i don't like trudeau. but we dodged another bullet by keeping o'toole and the cpc out of power.
yup, currently still paying off my student loans, especially because the conservative government in manitoba eliminated am education rebate tax credit the year i graduated that would have given me thousands back :(
shouldn’t you pay for a service you’re provided with and from which you derived a material benefit?
... i've paid my taxes, and the credit was from the mb government for students who choose to remain in the province, so it's the province who is returning money to me for the material benefit of me remaining in the province and not moving elsewhere.

so if i understand correctly she did infact go to join isis?
"in an interview with cbc news last spring, the woman — who left canada at the age of 23 — described herself as naive and easily led by others. she insists she was a housewife, not a militant, and that she knew she'd made a mistake as soon as she'd crossed the border into syria."
just because you are not on the front lines does not mean you are not part of it and supporting the movement. i'm not saying she shouldn't be allowed back to raise her daughter, but let's be honest here and act accordingly. should be monitored very closely.
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
removed for rule 2.
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]

given it's been almost 7 years since the liberals nixed the f-35, and new procurement hasn't been decided yet, i'd say the government's been doing a good job of stopping it themselves
so it seems like the organization behind this is approaching the issue from an anti-nato/anti-us stance. assuming they are sincere in their beliefs (i can't find anything about who funds them), then this fundamentally clashes with an opposition to the purchase of air assets. we can not develop an independent foreign policy without the equipment to back it up. we have the largest reserves of fresh water in the world, and are sandwiched between two of the biggest and thirstiest countries in the world. either we bolster our severly underfunded and understaffed military, or we live with the idea of being a us puppet.
so we're down to the gripen e, super hornet and f-35.
iirc the operating costs were something like $30k/hr for the f-35 and under $10k/hr for the gripen, with the f-18 in the middle. 
with all the politics involved, i'm fairly sure we'll end up with f-35s and they'll end up hangar queens that the caf won't have the funding to operate.
i have a good deal on some ethiopian mig-21s, only a little sandy and i scared most of the nyalas off.
dammit, dale!

>the minority liberal government will need the support of at least one other major party to win votes on spending and legislation in the house of commons, and in the previous parliament, the ndp frequently provided that support.
this is a spending item so it's automatically a confidence motion.  if no one supports it we go back to the polls.  
but the government won't need  ndp support on this.  both the bloc and conservatives want to roll back covid benefits, and they'd cut even further given the opportunity. so the likelihood that this doesn't pass is slim to none.
really bad take on this and tone deaf. the vast majority of people are back at work, everything is open. letting some people stay home and get income for free while others work and get squeezed with huge inflation is a sure way to piss people off. our current budget is not sustainable, these benefits are not sustainable at all.
i support scaling back benefits personally. cases are flatlining, vaccinations are high and there is a labour shortage. we do already have a robust social safety net that exists and existed before covid, it’s not like we are leaving the unemployed out to dry if covid benefits are scaled back.
good, it's not time yet. liberals and conservatives are acting like the pandemic is over while most provinces case numbers are starting to sky rocket right now.
like government even need them, pretty sure conservative will support it. this minority government seems to be on a great start
a silly opportunity for the ndp to try and make itself look good while continuing to bow down to the liberals on everything they actually have leverage on.
move along.
yeah right. this is the same party during the last parliament that promised to hold justin trudeau accountable and guess what they didn't.
>“we’ve seen that this government’s taking an approach to cut help to people, and if they want to hurt people, and they’re going to bring in laws that will make it harder on folks, then they can go to the conservatives or to the bloc for support, but we’ll be voting against something that makes life worse for people,” he said
good for singh. this is the position i hope he'll continue to take. obviously i expect the ndp to help pass progressive things like childcare and banning conversion therapy but when it comes to cuts or anything that hurts workers, indigenous people, the environment, etc, let the liberals turn to the tories for that. the more it happens, the more people will realize how little daylight between the two parties there truly is.
of course, i hope it doesnt happen often because i prefer when the liberals don't act like they're simply tories who care a bit more about social issues, but i suppose that's their choice.
unfortunately correct. the bloc was asking for the end of benefits (legault whines and the bloc listens).
watch the thread, it'll play very well with the people whose votes the ndp is after.
especially since it's free with the other three parties implementing it anyhow.
inflation is due in no small measure to supply chains and corporate profits
>there is a labour shortage.
it's a wage shortage, employers need to treat, and pay their workers better.  
>we do already have a robust social safety net that exists and existed before covid, it’s not like we are leaving the unemployed out to dry if covid benefits are scaled back.
our social safety net is a means tested patch work of multiple social programs. we do not have many universal benefits, as our health care treats our dentals and eyes as luxury parts of our body, mental health is not covered, and neither are meds, we do not have employer paid sick/mat leave laws, our ei scheme has been gutted by multiple liberal-conservative governments...  
we are a liberal welfare state that means tests, and provides meagre benefits.
[removed]
agree, and continuing to pour money into businesses while giving the finger to individuals who are still struggling so tim hortons and the like can keep wages low is appalling.
so much for the pandemic being an opportunity to make bold changes. this government has made progress in some areas but failed spectacularly on addressing income inequality.
bro its fucking time, theres so many job opportunities its time for people to go back to work, the benefits were to good for too long, i work 2 jobs and had friends who were making more off cerb than i was making working my ass off and it really infuriated me and alot of other people i spoke to who worked through the pandemic in essential services. 
its time for the free rides to end and inflation is already rearing its ugly head. it's time to grow up and make the hard choices.
who fuckig cares about case numbers.
[removed]
i vote ndp but i don't support this. i have worked through this entire pandemic as an "essential" worker, and it is time for people to get back to work. but you know what? we should criticise the parties we support, it's politics and these people serve us.
yeah the ndp is a political party too. you can't blame them for pandering to their base especially when there is no risk.

well, the trudeau liberals have been around long enough to hopefully let the cream rise to the top. the new cabinet looks promising, but so did the old ones. let's hope that trudeau has acquired the experience and info it takes to do liberal things like child care, restricting carbon emissions, and transit projects.



>“a group of young black people gathered in a park at night are called: friends,” reads a narrator in one the videos as five people are seen mingling near a park bench after dusk. the video ends with the text: "put an end to prejudice." but in the french version of the same ad, “friends” was translated as “des amis québécois,” which, to some, implied that the people in the english video were not considered quebecers.
i actually like the english ad better. the person who translated it obviously understood that hard, blatant appeals to quebec nationalism don't go over well english-speaking quebec. it's a softer sell.
quebec government ads translated into english are awkward at the best of times, and generally inneffective. they come across as cloying , imperitive,  stilted and patronizing most of the time. they really should just play french ads becaue most anglophones understand french ans the translations are irritating. the imperitive voice in particular grates in english more than in french.  
these ads do nothing to fight racism. they are cringy. they are clearly aimed at white francophone queebcers who might find black people hanging around in a park threatening.  c'est claire que les minorites linguistiques et culturelles ne se voient pas dans ces publicites.
> quebec government ads translated into english are awkward at the best of times
i especially enjoy how, even after they've gotten through the whole thing in english, they still have to end it with "a message from le gouvernement du québec".

yeah, i'll see you all in the thread about this inevidably blowing up in their faces... at least one mp will inevidably brag about their bullshit exemption in some deranged anti-vax rant
the statistical probability is definitely quite low.
they very well may be an anomaly, but it’s fair that there is skepticism when it’s coming from the party that has been in a wild ride over mps and vaccinations.
if they have a valid vaccine exemption then they shouldn’t be anywhere near a large gathering. they can perform their duties from their home in their own riding like everyone has for a year now.
they might be able to get away with 2, even though i still wouldn't believe them personally. if it's 3 or more then no, we know they're lying.
this is frustrating for me because i cannot take the covid immunization. i'm one of "those rare people". however i have not been able to get an exemption to fly, meaning that after the 30th of this month, i will not be able to visit a family member dying of cancer.
i'm told there are exemptions, but it seems like only the political class can get them.
for all the fighting between the pro/anti-vax sides, the people who actually need help aren't getting it.
i really wish these people would get over themselves, so i don't have to suffer. i'm not interested in sides, or fighting. i want my basic freedom to live and travel respected. is that really asking for so much?
so other than mp's who can drive to ottawa, wouldn't all the exemptions have to be valid since all the airlines require proof of vaccination / exemption? 
i'm sure the exemptions are mostly (if not all) bogus from a medical perspective, but i would be pretty surprised if they were not issued by a doctor and totally fake.
[removed]
is there any particular reason why they made vaccines mandatory instead of having that in tandem to having negitive tests in lieu?
just make every mp and their staff do a daily covid test. it's safer and spares us all this nonsense grandstanding.
if lewis claims exemption my money would be on her. that lynching comparison suggests she isn't as savvy as she thinks.
the ones who might do that won't care. they're not going to be alledged moderates from swing districts... they're going to be a nut who is at most one step removed from posting q-anon memes, in a district that thinks o'toole and sheer lost by "running to the left". it will be loved by the anti-vaxxers and quite frankly, no one pro-vax who voted tory after the games they played will ever vote anything else.
that's the way it is at the company i work for. no vaccine but have a medical exemption? you work from home. the medical exemption just means you keep your job.
they're not allowed, though, as the hoc hasn't reinstituted the hybrid parliament. it wouldn't be fair if they couldn't debate in the house at all.
> from the chief medical officers of health, the likelihood that you have a medical exemption from a vaccination is one to five in 100,000. the conservative caucus is 119 people
taking the 5 in 100,000 (0.005%) chance, there's a 0.6% chance that one conservative mp would have one, or a 0.002% chance that 2 do, 0.000003% that there's 3 of them (thanks [binomial calculator](
i'd doubt them if there's even 1, if there's 2 they're almost certainly lying, 3 is just ridiculous. unless maybe there's significantly increased risk for old people
no we don't.
>  i cannot take the covid immunization. i'm one of "those rare people". however i have not been able to get an exemption to fly
explain. if you know you can't take it then surely a doctor has said so? but they won't put it in writing?
you should be able to fly because it’s a valid medical reason why you can’t get vaccinated. for people who simply choose to not get vaccinated, they can stay at home then
i don't understand why not getting the vaccine is shrouded in vagueness. if it is this rare and exceptional, why can't we talk about it? the only somewhat valid reason to not get it is some extremely rare allergies but as another poster said, there is still ways around this + the benefits outweigh the risk.
what's the exemption for?

the other (teaser?) headline on the cbc page read: climate change is happening now, but houses, roads and bridges aren't ready for it, experts say
and, uh -- yeah. the models we use for prediction for wear/tear and when to repair/rehab just don't take climate change into account very well right now (because we're still figuring out what that means on the ground).
that said, the idea of making a highway flood-resistant to the point they would deal with what we saw in bc, well. i'm sure it *could be done*, but c'mon. it's a lousy example for what's actually an important discussion.
sure seems like it would have been cheaper to just change our behaviour and reduce emissions. it would have been only a mild shift if we had started back in the 80's. even if we followed the kyoto protocol is 98 we would have been pretty okay.
instead, our politicians ignored it and kicked the can down the line, and we're looking at forest fires all summer and atmospheric rivers all winter. this will cost us much more than fighting climate change would have, but no one cared.
agree, how do you build infrastructure around 100 year storm landslides?
> that said, the idea of making a highway flood-resistant to the point they would deal with what we saw in bc, well. i'm sure it could be done, but c'mon. it's a lousy example for what's actually an important discussion.
yeah, there was a bit of chatter suggesting that there might have been engineering shortcomings and without much effort i found mudslides in 2017 that blocked the road but didn't do physical damage to it in the same way. we're just going to have to make peace with the fact that if we get a december worth of rain in 2-3 days stuff is going to break.
at that point you're modifying the environment around the infrastructure, not beefing up the highway. decrease the slope of the hills, improve drainage & plant more trees to help with slippage. taking that to it's extreme: you can't have a landslide if there's no hill next to the road. 
but as i said, it could likely be done but it would be quite a project (and excitingly expensive). the solutions here are probably more systems-level maybe-we-don't-build-here kind of analysis we're not great at. and sometimes our hand is forced and we just don't have options for where to put the highway (or whatever).
most infrastructure is built around 100yr, 200yr floods. it's 500yr floods that aren't really accounted for
i'm sure there is always *something* that wasn't done just so, which is usually source of the chatter. but having a slightly larger culvert in place wasn't going to be the solution that made all the difference here. 
yes, this really sucks -- but it's a lot of water and stuff moving around. at the end of the day, there just isn't a lot we can do for catastrophes like this that makes sense versus a lot of little improvements for houses, improving wetlands around cities, and so on. 
we should be encouraging canadians to get used to bad storms, and thinking about how to deal with loss of power & heat in case of weird shit.
yep, or focus on rapid response repairs and accept that a 100 year storm is now a 50 year storm.
most infrastructure is built around 500yr, 600yr floods. it's 1000yr floods that aren't really accounted for

the decision here is going to be very interesting. steve norn, the mla subject to a legislative inquiry after breaking covid-19 rules, has shown a pattern of issuing an apology followed by explanations of why circumstances led to his behaviour. he does not deny breaking the rules. to make matters worse, he has also threatened other mlas and legislative assembly staff. 
yet the question remains: what is the bar for removal? other mlas have broken the law or committed acts of abuse yet not been removed. but, to borrow a strategy used by norn, circumstances such as resignation and dissolution of the legislative assembly have stymied opportunities for mlas to remove one of their own.
another important speech from the liberals not mentioning pharmacare. i understand that it's not a priority for them, i get that. but why do partisans online keep insisting to me that the liberals are working on pharmacare when they give absolutely every indication that it's not a priority for them in the slightest?
leaders’ responses (so far):
o’toole: bad. nothing good. “trudeau caused inflation”. leaving people behind.
(aka: this was a pre-written response)
singh: doesn’t go far enough. words not actions.
(aka: we will support nonetheless).
blanchet: short. 24 pages of empty words. “i have no reason to vote for or against the throne speech”. “we will live with this empty piece of paper”.
(aka: classic yfb response with his theatrical orator skills haha)
edit: sounds like bq will support the throne speech. this admission gives the ndp room to vote against, but i don’t believe their supporters would like that. mostly takes away their leverage now.
> following this, speeches in reply to the throne speech commence. replies are typically moved, seconded, and given by backbench government mps (often rookie mps delivering their maiden speech).
the rookie government mp chosen to give the first reply: dr. brendan hanley of the yukon.
here’s how it will go:
- some will like the contents.
- some will not like the contents.
here’s how the eventual vote will go:
- the cpc will vote against knowing that it will pass nonetheless.
- the ndp & gpc & independent will vote in favour.
- bq will probably vote in favour, but you never know.
this speaker's prelude was probably a lot more intense hundreds of years ago
one of the more uneventful opening speeches in recent memory. no real takeaways or headline pledges, just status quo pledges on housing and childcare assistance. i wonder what it would've looked like if the liberals had won a majority.
[liberal government launching third term with a throne speech focused on lingering covid-19 crisis]( - cbc news
while these are important pieces of legislation, the government making them the focus of fall session feels completely out of touch with most canadians’ priorities.
[here's the text of the throne speech.](
[and in pdf form.](
this is painful. she has some work to do as an orator.
tonda maccharles, toronto star:
[throne speech a ‘vision statement’ of big priorities that need results delivered asap, government official says](
i'm not sure of singh: he's playing his cards very close to his chest.
blanchet: his comment about this throne speech reading like one written by some student in cégep. 😂😂😂 
or: "how do you vote against apple pie?"
he cracks me up!! he's always really good for entertaining sound bites.
>  “no clarity whether there will be a vote or not” (???).
there doesn't actually need to be a vote on the throne speech.
shh! no spoilers. you're 5 weeks ahead! don't ruin it for those who want to be surprised.
i caught a bit of it, for the first time ever, and i wasn't aware that the traditions of the speaker being worried about the monarch's anger were still respected.
correction i meant to say were so respected. all you usually hear about is the dragging to the chair.
just look down south for a taste of the possibility.
i’m of the opinion that the gg doesn’t need to be an exceptional orator.
we hardly ever hear from the gg - so long as she gets the point across in a reasonable manner (which i believe that she is doing so), then that’s fine with me.
yeah, singh is definitely keeping his cards close to his chest, however, that now no longer matters as yfb jus confirmed that the bq would support the throne speech. that admission has now taken away ndp leverage (unfortunately for singh).
edit: oh and yes, yfb is always fun to listen to haha
ah somehow i was not aware of that - thanks!
huh? it's a confidence measure, that leads off every legislative session. if it isn't voted on, it's saying that the government has no agenda.

i'm tired of hearing that my politician responded by twitter.  twitter is not public discourse.  it's what a specific company allows to be seen.
this is the definition of journalists embellishing something they have zero knowledge about.
prime is used to document all police files. it isn't "tracking" these journalists. it's a records management system. if you have ever called the police, or been involved where someone else called the police, had a traffic ticket etc then it is documented.
the alternative here is police interacting with the public,  concluding investigations, arresting people, and not documenting the incident. hmm i wonder what i would prefer...? 
furthermore the police can hold you up to 24 hours without being brought before a judge or jp. the fact these journalists were held for several days clearly shows they had legitimate charges put forward, and broke the law.
i don't know why being a journalists is supposed to place you above the law. i don't give a crap how good of a photographer you are. i find it hilarious a "scathing letter" signed by 40 journalists is somehow supposed to mean something, because it certainly does not. 
this type of clout chasing media is such a joke i don't understand why people even post it.
narwhal should be banned, they’re as much about journalism as the ”reporters” refusing to leave against court injunction. 
  then these same “journalists” refuse to corporate so they can get manufactured sympathy. all in the name of a cause that is completely manufactured by media to create discontent in the first nations. 
   it’s bad for the people, first nations want the protesters gone, media is making news not reporting it, and this highlights a ridiculous reality of 2020-2021. 
   glad they’re actually removing them but the protests across canada are incredibly misguided and just hurt more regular people. 
   there’s no honesty.
these journalists absolutely have the right to observe these protests and the rcmp, per usual, is abusing their power to suppress a legitimate dissent. tracking is also a violation of personal freedoms and the rcmp should automatically be forced to release the journalists by them violating their rights to convict them. it's critical canadians know first-hand what's going on there without big mountie trying to hide it all away behind a curtain.
>furthermore the police can hold you up to 24 hours without being brought before a judge or jp
rumor on the interwebs is that if they would have signed the release to abide by the injunction on friday night they would have been released then. i can't actually so for confirm it but if it is true this has been nothing but a publicity stunt.
the point is the rcmp is clearly doing revenge arrests after a legal dispute in another protest. they are not acting responsibly and the journalists haven't done any wrongdoing, all they are doing is attempting to demonstrate the on-ground footage of these protests and blockades. furthermore, just because you're held against your will for days at a time doesn't mean at all the charges are legitimate - would you say that being arbitrarily held in gulags indicated you broke the law?
came here to post this.
that you think journalists are glorified photographers informs me that you either don’t understand what a journalist is, or you’re trying to intentionally discredit the role that journalism plays in a functional democracy. i’m not particularly inclined to argue with you on either point, as it’s clear through your other comments that your stance is set in stone. 
i’m willing to accept that the charges being brought forth may have merit. however there’s a pretty firm line that exists between journalists and law enforcement agencies that has to be toed carefully. it is very understood, especially in countries where the rule of law is written with a chequebook that journalists are bad actors. who dictates that they are? [in some cases it’s the mining companies themselves who are dictating journalists as bad actors. ](
journalism and the journalists that work towards free and open journalism are extremely important to our country. that we may allow them to be charged while fulfilling their duties is understandable, but if those charges have no merit; we’ll then understand why they were charged. i suspect it’s not because of them breaking the law in this case as much as it is that their removal is beneficial to some party involved. the article i posted above showcases how common it can be for corporations under the scrutiny of journalists to retaliate. where they may not be able to physically retaliate here in canada, they can use the law to create pressure and actively censor journalists from reporting on important stories. 
it’s fine to be skeptical. i think skepticism is healthy. however, we should be aware of the other side of the aisle and the track record of resource extraction companies trying to strong-arm journalists one way or another.
> racking is also a violation of personal freedoms and the rcmp
i really hate defending the rcmp at all, but to be clear your position is that the rcmp shouldn't keep records of who they arrest etc.?  you don't think that's *more* problematic that they would just arrest random people nad not document it?
what charter rights did they infringe on? the whole thing is before the courts because it appears there is merit to the allegation that they went from observation to participation.
i wouldn't be surprised if those rumors are true. i actually don't really see another logical explanation at this time.
after being arrested and held they would need to agree to a set of conditions for bail. if they refuse to agree to the release conditions then they are held for court. 
i don't have knowledge of what occurred here. but i do have knowledge of how this component of the judicial system is supposed to operate.
i guess it's easier to act like a victim when you stand there flogging yourself.
do we have a gulag? 
the fact that they were held for days means a judge was informed of the arrest, and the circumstances surrounding it.
it means the reporters had access to a defence attorney  who argued on their behalf with crown counsel.
it means the judge, or justice heard the arguments, saw there were grounds for such, and ordered them back to court for trial.
they had a hearing, and the police were not arbitrarily detaining them for days. the courts would have been the ones detaining them as that goes beyond the police legal powers.
the fact we have also seen several videos where the police are observed arresting protesters, and the journalists were completely unmolested, suggests to me there was some other incident that occurred causing these journalists to get arrested this time. perhaps that "other incident" could be when the journalist themselves started operating as  protesters, and not strictly documenting the incident. everyone can't just grab a cell phone, call themselves a journalist, and do whatever they please.
i still don't get why you are referencing the gulag. we don't have slave camps either..
yes, i agree my comments regarding the journalists are not generous, and are quite flippant. 
i agree with you that journalism is very important, and we should have people there to accurately document and observe police interactions with the public.
unfortunately i feel like we are seeing an ever increasing lack of journalistic integrity. i admit i don't know what credentials, background chech, or credibility you require as a journalist to work for some of these news organizations, but by the hyperbole i see in their stories i'm guessing the answer is not much. 
like i.said elsewhere, i have seen videos of this incident, obviously recorded by journalists, that covered the arrest of protesters. the journalists remained out of the situation and were unmolested by the police. 
i think some of these journalists are losing there credibility by failing to remain as an observer, and are allowing their personal opinions and motives to cloud what there fundamental role is; to accurately present unbiased information to the public. 
i am not a supporter of ong companies, and i absolutely agree that private enterprises will attempt truly nefarious acts if provided the opportunity. none of that, however, changes the fact that if a journalist breaks the law, they are not above reproach simply because they do it under.the guise of journalism.
why they agree to abide by an injunction that doesn’t apply to them. the press have a right to be there.
insofar as their personal feelings towards their case, we have to cognizant that asking journalists to remain entirely neutral and free from bias is like asking a dog to watch your steak. 
it’s in our human nature to adopt positions, have opinions and to generally be for or against something. what we need to ask is that journalists follow something like the caj ethics guidelines, which basically dictate the ethics behind conflicts of interest wherein a journalist may complicate their credibility towards a subject. 
where the arrests are involved, the caj has spoken out in favour of two of the journalists. a stance from that organization isn’t one taken lightly in the journalism industry in canada. especially because the caj is a leading authority on journalism in canada. that they support those journalists means that they’ve assessed them by those core tenets and found that they weren’t in breach and that their involvement as protesters is extremely unlikely given their history in journalism. unlikely, but not impossible. 
the letter you reference is particularly interesting, and contains a lot if references (with links.) specifically to how the rcmp and law enforcement have treated members of the press with regards to land dispute issues. there’s an identified pattern of members of the media being arrested, charged but then later having them dropped. this in and of itself is damaging to those journalists because it costs them time, money and often it inserts a lot of doubt into their mind about whether or not they can continue to cover these types of events. it can, in some cases result in actions being taken against protestors, etc without media coverage present because of their forced removal by law enforcement. 
the letter further goes to discuss how being embedded with protestors isn’t illegal. justin brake was with protestors who broke into the nalcor energy facility; in the capacity of a journalist he was there reporting. he did not partake in the breaking and entering, he was there documenting. he was named on the injunction, but the fact he was a journalist and not involved in the movement was not mentioned. it started a battle that lasted from 2016 to 2019, ending with the decision that his role was one of importance and set an important legal precedent for freedom of press and the arbitrary use of injunctions against journalists. essentially what happened here kind seems to be mirroring what happened to justin brake, which went through the highest levels of appeal in that province, and later a charter challenge. 
we need to remain mindful that not every journalist is going to act in good faith towards the public. it’s why organizations like the caj and canadian press are so important. their codes of conduct and their standards set the bar. it’s up to us as consumers to decide whether or not that bar is met by those journalists through research and careful deliberation of what we take in. 
we also need to be aware that you and i as consumers have our own biases. if we read/consume things we don’t agree with, there’s a part of our brain that’ll interpret it as wrong. if it’s wrong, then by extension the journalist/reporter/talking head is wrong. in some cases we’re right, in other cases we’re not. we have to try as hard as we can to ensure that our own biases and worldview don’t colour what we consume so much that we alter the truth to match our perception as well.
the press have a right to document. why do you think they were charged? they obviously were doing something above and beyond what they were allowed to do.. hence the "journalists are not above the law". there have been several instances of "journalists" crossing the line and then attempting to rely on their journalism status to avoid consequences. 
were they arrested and charged for failing to abide by the injunction, or something else? did they even say?
i absolutely agree with everything written. i am also aware of the brake decision, although i havnt read it, and would like to see the judges reasons behind it.
in this case we don't know specifically why the journalists were arrested. they will have their opportunity to argue their actions in court.
i'm willing to believe their defence counsel, and the justice overseeing their bail hearings, is also aware of the brake decision. the fact there is a court date suggests the arrest was not unlawful, and it was not arbitrary. law is a slow moving process in canada, and unfortunately it isn't always "just". 
the facts will come out in trial. perhaps the rcmp did err in this situation, and more common-law could be established through the judges decision. 
i acknowledged i do not have the answer. none of us do. that is why i believe we should withhold judgement until a decision is made in court, and the facts about the event have been made public. 
this story is hyperbolic. the fact it suggests the reporters are "tracked" because of prime is a perfect example. i don't believe it is a good source to establish your beliefs on what occurred, and it not a good source of credible media.
 perhaps the journalists did absolutely nothing wrong, and when the rcmp learns they made a mistake, it will further direct their decision making. that judgement however still needs to be established. unfortunately when articles such as this are.written, it encourages people to make a decision without complete knowledge of the topic. 
this is, in my opinion, and increasing issue with media.
there were arrested for failing to abide by an injunction. but the injunction doesn’t apply to the press. the cops don’t want journalists there so they arrest them to intimidate and silence them. 
the entire media community is united in. ring against this. 
yes, and apparently the allegation is they didn't maintain a neutral position of simply documenting, and took up "the position of protesters", hence the arrest.
who cares what the "entire media community is united in". was the entire media community there? this is why we have judicial process. 
clearly if their actions did not warrant a charge or arrest a supreme court judge would not compel them back to court to face charges.

wel instead of being climate deniers canadians are more like climate settlers, accepting small changes but still opposed to necessary changes such as a green transition or stopping all oil and gas building immediately. i’ll believe this when i see concrete climate action aside from photo ops and reactive changes.
oil and gas will be an essential part of the transition. knee capping the oil and gas industry right now would be counterproductive in reducing emissions for the long term. the fact that our environment minister is equally anti nuclear as he is anti oil, means we will never actually hit our targets anyways.

this is unacceptable. we need a college of trades and more inspectors, not less. who benefits from this decision? those who wish to make worksites safer or those who wish to make them cheaper & faster?
if i understand correctly, "the ontario college of trades, the agency that licenses tradespeople such as electricians, plumbers, auto mechanics and hairstylists" has been dissolved.  the ministry of labour is taking over inspections, and "skilled trades ontario" has been created to handle apprenticeships.
managers and staff from the ontario college of trades were moved into jobs in the ministry of labour, but the thirty-odd inspectors have just all been fired.  also, this past spring a hundred inspectors were hired by the ministry of labour to do covid enforcement. 
i can see why the inspectors are angry when the government hired 100 people to do jobs that somewhat overlap with theirs, then turns around and tells the trades inspectors that they are all fired but their office-worker colleagues get to keep their jobs.
as someone with a background in infrastructure construction, less inspectors means redoing work, problems down the road, and overall much more expensive than the salary/benefits/pension those inspectors would otherwise make.
we will cut things  no jobs will be lost. 
its the conservative  way.
every single time  and people  still swallow  the bull conservatives sell.
since my previous admittedly stupid comment was downvoted into oblivion, i'm going to try again. (edit: i have not and will likely never vote for doug ford, as an ontarian). there should *probably* be less restrictive licensing in a variety of trades and it should definitely be easier to stay licensed when moving between provinces or countries. do a google scholar search for "occupational licensing and quality” or "occupational licensing and minorities" "and inequality" “and prices” and read through the results. generally, licensing restricts entry of workers into a trade. this results in fewer workers, less competition, higher wages for the workers that do get in. this increases prices for consumers and the lack of competition can actually have a negative effect on quality, possibly cancelling out the direct increase in quality from the regulations. 
so the workers that do get in receive higher wages, customers receive higher prices and ambiguous quality effects. workers that don’t get in are left worse off. higher prices negatively affect low income consumers. also true of the regulatory barriers to entry for workers - it’s much easier for higher income kids from educated families to take the additional time required to get in to the professions. this can result in poor kids staying poor as they choose not to pursue lengthy education because they need income sooner. the problem gets even worse considering the patchwork of licenses across north america and the world. a huge number of immigrants never work in the profession they were educated for at home, as canada makes it too difficult for them to catch up in time. 
here are some conclusions from google scholar:
less than 40 percent of immigrants have jobs similar in type and complexity to pre-immigration positions, according to the report. respondents cited a lack of professional connections, employers not accepting qualifications and experience, and a lack of recognition of international education as the top three reasons for the issue. (
whatever the causal nexus, the system showed significant decreases in the density of electricians to be associated significantly with several restrictive measures (tests, experience requirements) and in turn increases in accidental electrocutions are associated with lower per capita availability of electricians. results on plumbers seem to indicate that unionization and not licensing probably is the stronger restrictive vehicle in the plumbing trade. the familiar and very important statistically significant negative association between the quality measure and per capita number of plumbers in the occupation occurs once again. specifically, it is found that where plumbers are kept in short supply, retail sales of plumbing supplies soar, indicating substitution of do-it-yourself service for professional service. (carroll and gaston 1977)
for most forms of licensing studied, input and output quality improvements due to stricter licensing requirements occur in high-income rather than low-income school districts. (larsen 13, on teacher licensing and test scores)
by and large, optician licensing appears to be reducing consumer welfare by raising the earnings of opticians without enhancing the quality of services delivered to consumers. (timmons and mills 2018)
our analysis of insurance claims data shows that more rigid regulations increase the price of a well-child visit by 3–16 percent. however, we find no evidence that the changes in regulatory policy are reflected in outcomes that might be connected to the quality and safety of health services. (kleiner et al 16)
nearly all of these inspectors should be laid off and you shouldn't need a licence to practise many of these jobs, licence should be optional but well understood and advertised.
"the ford government is dissolving the agency, but all its duties continue. its inspection role is being shifted to the ministry of labour and its work related to apprenticeships goes to a new body called skilled trades ontario."
the college of trades was a highly ineffective body.  very few inspections were actually effective at making workplaces safer.  their only 'accomplishment' was siphoning money from hardworking individuals.
we had a college of trades, and they did jack shit.
i don't think anyone actually believed him
i prefer license trades. i’ve seen too much diy shit to trust anyone who doesn’t want to get licensed.
got some numbers to back this up or is this only anecdotal evidence from a 'hardworking' individual?
the efficacy of the (former) college of trades is *not* what is being discussed in this article. my understanding is that this article is discussing the clear deception being practiced by the ford government. while your point is well-taken and deserves discussion on its own merits, it isn't relevant to the issue of trust that is being raised.
edit: forgot a word
lots of people  belive  him its how w he got a majority  government.
note i do not want to get rid of licensing, only to make it optional. you would still be able to hire a government inspected plumber, i would have the option of finding one cheaper and faster. this shouldn’t harm you at all, and would benefit me.
every tradesperson in ontario knows this, the same way we know politicians lie.
i don't think they needed to believe he was honest to vote for them, when was the last time you felt like you voted for someone who was 100% honest?
yeah my reasoning is partly due to the fucked up nature of my house, who’s previous owner seemed to like dodgy contractors who were able to camouflage bad work. i don’t want substandard tradespeople to be allowed, especially when problems you create in your home can affect other people’s homes. you may think it doesn’t affect me for you to hire a plumbing hobbyist but if we live in an apartment building and he ends up flooding your apartment it definitely could affect me. 
people like to complain about regulations but things were a lot shittier before they existed.
this is an absolutely terrible idea. trade certification should be a requirement for working in skilled building trades for sure. paying “discount” plumbers or electricians can lead to severe property destruction or loss of life. those trades, and others like them, need to have a minimum standard for which you can work in those field. by getting certified, a tradesperson demonstrates a minimum level of knowledge and competency so that they can be trusted to do their work safely and effectively. 
there are some volunteer certifications for some trades. for example, you don’t have to be certified to be a carpenter or a mason. i think that is garbage. masons and carpenters build the structure of buildings. they absolutely should be certified also. again, property damage or loss of life is a very real consequence. 
would you go to a discount, unlicensed dentist? or surgeon? or therapist? tradespeople should need their licenses too.

wow, that article is just point after point of ways the auditor-general has found that the ford government is abandoning its responsibility to act as an environmental steward in favour of short-term gain for developers and industry.  it's very sad, and the damage being done to our environment cannot just be undone by the next government to come into power.
what an absolute kick in the dick for every aspect of environmental protection. while this report doesn't entirely blame ford (species at risk and the spills), everything else mentioned here is harm done under his supervision. physical damage done to the environment aside, his "legacy" leaves behind a regulatory clusterfuck. hopefully his successor has the foresight to start from the top by fixing the ebr, caa, and eaa.
i work in environmental consulting. seeing our work brushed off and ignored really sucks to see, not only because of the effort that went it to it, but because everyone actually cares about the environment to some degree. i know that we need more housing, but this isn't the way to do it. maybe instead of stamping everything as approved, we have larger teams to expedite the review process. maybe instead of an unlimited growth model, we slow down and pick a model based on sustainability.
[removed]
[removed]
as someone who applies for permits … they never get approved instantly nor on the first submittal. maybe i’m not working in big enough projects but it is a hassle to get permits from the province…
i don’t give a damn so long as it brings down cost of housing but i don’t see that happening and hence i am against cpc.
that was straight depressing to read. i knew the ford gov was shit but goddamn... they really don't care about anything or anyone but big business.
removed for rule 3.
removed for rule 3.
as always, small businesses don't get any of these rewards.
if you want to get the permits, you'll have to pay to play.


slam it all you want.
maybe writing some legislation to address it will be more helpful. but that would make too much sense…
(what i imagine probably took place.)
*ford, on the phone:* "hey developer buddy."
"dougie!!!!! how's it going? up for 18 holes at the magna this saturday?"
"actually i need to...need to talk to you about something. you know those condo deals you canceled with some people?
"yeah, screwed them over real good. it was time to upgrade the lambo."
"you sure did. that is awesome! but, uh, i'm gonna need to publicly slam you for that. but, no hard feelings, buddy, it's theater."
"sure, dougie, no problem."
too much talk and not enough action from conservatives.
i wish they were the exception not rule as far as politicians go.
theres plenty of action. hes been busy releasing dogs to attack little boys

am i the only one who thinks that emergency debates are completely useless?
i’ve never seen anything come of them and they often garner absolutely no attention for the issue at-hand.
emergencies almost always put the government in the driver’s seat… so long as they don’t fuck it up. an emergency debate is just a way for the opposition to signal that they care too… and to draw public attention to any government fuck up that has occurred by the time the debate is held.
its just politics, party leaders looking for good headlines.  it's all superficial
not going to happen. the pm and premier will soon be flying around the province delivering big, much-needed checks for infrastructure projects. any time you can put shovels in the ground, the politicians will be there, and the opposition will just have to watch until somne of that cash gets kicked back into party coffers.

not saying this is right or wrong but i have been waiting for this viewpoint to emerge. the constant inaction on imminent climate catastrophe can only last so long before people feel like they have no option but to act radically
in bc we have exactly the opposite problem right now: the trans mountain pipeline transports gasoline from alberta refineries to bc, right now it's out of service with no timeline for resuming operation, and gas stations are running out of gas.
if people start blowing up pipelines it will cause mass spills not to mention an unfair ruling of environmental activists as extremists, canada will revert to a hyper pro-oil sentiment for too long and next you’ll know, atlantic canada is sinking while b.c burns and crashes. best way is through peaceful protests and blockades. i wish the average day citizen cared about the environment as deeply as needed be, but moderates always turn to the right and never to the left. see - the united states, france, uk, etc..
i think a lot of people are really missing the point here. every year we're going to see more and more of the heat waves, forest fires and flooding that we saw this year and with it will come frustration. especially if the government continues to take half measures in addressing it. if people start to feel desperate, there will be a minority that will become desperate and radicalized, especially if they feel their quality of life is being threatened. i think it's a fair point and one we should at least be aware of.
i hope the people who are horrified at threats of  right wing violence(which ought to be all of us) are similarly against left wing violence.
this is one of those simple opportunities to denounce what, at best, can be called really sloppy attempt of warning by an influential environmentalist, and at worst threatening call to action.
using explosions to destroy oil & gas facilities and infrastructure is a monumentally stupid idea.  it puts nearby individuals in immediate, life threating risk.  it also will cause significant immediate local environmental harm and could cause significant regional harm.  physical sabotage of operating pipelines is a 100% stupid idea and if you think otherwise you are grossly underestimating the harm it will cause.
a normal person won't see what suzuki said as a call to action, but leaders in movements have the responsibility to know that not all people who share their ideology are fully sane.  look at the crazies that trump empowered over the last few years by dancing around calls to action.
so don't be like trump after charlotte nc and talk about there being bad people on both sides.  this is a simple case of a person being monumentally wrong and should apologizing and correcting himself posthaste.  be smart, denounce (internally is appropriate; no one cares about us normal folks' public denouncements) what suzuki said.
[removed]
its sad that critics are trying to say he is inciting violence when he simply warning everyone that anger is growing. always looking for a scape goat instead of making the hard choices.
well the dictionary says that terrorism is "the unlawful use of violence and intimidation in the pursuit of political aims"
i don’t understand the fixation that climate activists have with pipelines. stopping a pipeline doesn’t reduce the amount of oil the world consumes, only the supply- and in our world, there are more than enough countries who are happy to fill in the gap.
let’s rethink our car-centred infrastructure first, and make our cities livable and sustainable places.
[removed]
[removed]
so even if we as a country do everything in our power to use less fossil fuels, what will we do about the rest of the world that uses coal? what about the countries that dont have the resources for sustainable energy yet? what about developing nations that will inevitably rely on fossil fuels just to feed their population? how about instead of terrorizing your home land you go to school and start working towards solutions for the entire world if you actually care so much. in bc were 95% hydro electric for our power, and electric vehicles are becoming radically more popular. is this not measurable progress? stop scaring the shit out of people for gods sake its creating division and turning everyone against your cause.
maybe someone here can educate me a bit on something. i hear lots and lots of opposition to pipelines on environmental grounds but it seems to me that pipelines should be the safest way to transport oil. am i wrong about that? why would road, rail and ocean transport be safer environmentally?
i don't think anyone is anti-environment, there are different thoughts and strategies on how to transition and people have to be realistic about the current infrastructure and capacity of the various energy sources, requirements and what going, "all in" on another resource may result in. it should be clear that, "i'll blow it up if i don't get my way" is wrong.
this is a terrorism threat. should be fully investigated by the rcmp. failing to do would make this political, quickly.
a more practical way to  create an unjustifiable economic proposition would be to eliminate oil and gas subsidies and let them fend for themselves like other businesses. if they weren't so heavily subsidized or consistently allowed to externalize major costs (leaving environmental cleanup and remediation to municipalities) plenty of extraction projects wouldn't get off the ground.
but its a luddite viewpoint. blowing up pipelines to stop climate change is kinda like blowing up machinery to stop industrialization.
how bout when the average canadian becomes tired of eco terrorists? by the same logic these people should start getting strung up and quartered by people losing their jobs or unable to afford the cost of living.

“government house leader mark holland said in a news conference monday that immediate legislative priorities include implementing 10 days of paid sick leave, enacting a campaign pledge to protect health care workers from threats and intimidation, and reintroducing a bill that effectively bans the practice of conversion therapy.”
yawn.  we need something ground breakingly progressive: national pharmacare that includes dental, minimum income guarantee, a massive environmental program, etc.  
the things they’re talking about impact very few people.
ummm. what about daycare?
when my kids were in daycare in ottawa i paid 1400-1500 a month for a home care. in montreal i paid about 200 and i was in a private daycare and not a cpe. 
funding spaces and childcare is revolutionary for a slice of the middle class for about 5 years per kid . that’s not nothing. it’s also got enormous impacts for kids in low ses households, high quality childcare brings them up to the same levels of reading and soft skills as middle income families which leads them to have a much greater likelihood of graduating, getting a mortgage and not going to jail later in life (tons of studies on this here and in the usa). which is to say nothing of the effect on women who are more often than not the ones forced out of the labour force to care for kids (they make less so they’re the partner that volunteers for the care work, and employers know they might leave so, they pay them less and fast track them for promotion less). high quality childcare is good for the future, good for the economy of the present, good for women, and good for the pocketbooks of most families. it’s a signature progressive issue in every other country. 
but whatever it wasn’t what the ndp ran on last month so fuck the liberals amiright? what have you done for us lately you incrementalism shills!
we want a policy that shovels money out of canada’s economy and towards us big pharma!
i’m sorry but sick days and banning conversion therapy are very important
liberals under trudeau stand for incremental progressivism. it’ll never be anything splashy, since they’re determined to pursue projects with broadly popular support without bankrupting the country. if you want a more ambitious agenda, well, that’s why the ndp exists.
3 election wins, 6 years in power, and 1 good policy for thats in *most* provinces...... impressive.
they literally delayed the passage of banning conversion therapy multiple times
i think if you look at the major pillars of canadian progressive policies, they happened under liberal minority governments at the behest if the ndp/ccf.  so yes, that is indeed why we have the ndp, and what we should naturally expect with them as king makers.
well they did the childcare thing as their big project. probably because it's more tied to the economy.
>pursue projects with broadly popular support without bankrupting the country
pharmacare is extremely popular and would save canadians money.
a wealth tax is extremely popular and would *raise* a lot of money.
i don't know why the liberals reject these ideas, but it's not the financing or popularity.
i’m pretty sure 20+ years is incremental enough for pharmacare, saying it’s rushing to demand it now is ignoring prior liberal campaigns and promises.
idk how having actually universal health care, and taxing the rich would bankrupt the country. you know what does bankrupt the country though? giving handouts to rich people and corporations and keeping public services mismanaged, or working towards privatizing them.
they also legalized euthanasia, dumped dump trucks of money into lifting boil water advisories, banned single use plastics, created a bunch of new parks, put in place a carbon tax, legalized cannabis, extended parental leave, and made the ccb non taxable and so substantially generous for lower income families that it lifted a generation of kids out of poverty. 
but no let’s whine because they didn’t do the policy that shovels money into big pharma and out of the country.
how about the canada child benefit reform that lifted hundreds of thousands of children out of poverty. surely you partisanship can’t pretend that didn’t happen.
that's not all they've done...
yeah they delayed it. it has nothing to do with conservatives in commitee meetings. not at all.
yeah, a competent liberal government can usually manage one big project once a decade lol. i reckon we may have to wait until the next liberal cycle (and the usual conservative interregnum in between) for another one.
pharmacare saves canadians money, yes. but it costs the government bucket loads. balanced budgets, until recently, were a canadian orthodoxy broadly popular with the public. there is also the issue of upsetting big pharma at a time when the government’s entire political future is reliant on the timely acquisition of vaccines. as they say, when you got them by the balls, their minds will follow. 
a wealth tax, on the other hand, is certainly being proposed by the liberals. they proposed a 15% minimum tax on highest earners as a strategy to prevent the wealthy from offsetting their taxes in a such a way that they end up paying nothing. done properly, it should do some serious damage to wealthy tax dodgers and their army of clever accountants.
they also broke their promise on electoral reform, broke their promise on indigenous reconciliation (even their own established committee recognized a lack of progress), broke their promise on being an environmentally clean actor (in no scientific world can you be carbon neutral while building pipelines) and demanded an election in the middle of a pandemic, which they only survived because o'toole kept flip-flopping on vital issues.
>dumped dump trucks of money into lifting boil water advisories
lol, they spent like $2.1b over 5 years, just over 400 mill/year. if they actually dumped money into it maybe they would have ended the advisories when they said they would have. 
>banned single use plastics
no, he didn't. so far that's another broken promise - when he does, i'll be happy to give credit for it though. 
>created a bunch of new parks
i have no idea how many new parks were created so if you have a source i'd be interested. what i do know is that we missed our 2020 targets for protecting a certain amount of our land... by a long shot.
>put in place a carbon tax
a carbon tax that is currently capped at $50/tonne wont do anything. if they increase it to $180 like they said then they'll deserve credit for it, but i think its reasonable to be skeptical of liberal promises until they're actually done. not to mention he also bought pipelines, paid to clean up oil companies mess that they should be paying for, etc. etc.
>legalized cannabis, extended parental leave, and made the ccb non taxable
fair enough, those were good. i think lots of people are still having trouble with past cannabis charges on their record though so that needs to be taken care of. 
>but no let’s whine because they didn’t do the policy that shovels money into big pharma and out of the country.
please tell me how having purchasing power over prescription meds gives drug companies more money. who do you think the drug companies will charge more for medications, the person who buys 1 prescription per month, or the country that buys in bulk, and has the ability to decide to buy from a different manufacturer if the price is lower? why do you think the us pays more for health care than any other country? its definitely not because their healthcare is nationalized!! and thats disregarding the entire ethical dilemma where we have people who need meds they cant afford resulting in homelessness, crime, death, lower quality of life, less workers, more costs for healthcare, etc. etc. etc. my dads meds for his parkinson's are literally $8000/month now that it's progressed. that means in an entire year of disability payments he makes enough money for about a month and a half of his medication. but you're worried that people having access to meds will increase profits for pharma companies? that must be a joke

if the lpc can pull off both a childcare and paid sick leave deal successfully, i can confidently say that they have been the most beneficial govt. that i have experienced in my lifetime. (of course i am fairly young sooooo......)
it's only paid sick leave for federal workers, just in case you didn't know.
edit: apparently it's for "federally regulated workplaces" so it's more than just federal workers. still a good thing to specify so the average random person doesn't think we're getting paid sick leave.
i'm 30 and that bar is very low for me
can you buy a house?
i believe "federally regulated" not just federal government workers. federal government workers already have quite nice sick leave allotment.
pretty sure federal government workers already have paid sick leave as it is. i believe they’re working on paid sick leave for federally regulated industries, which includes airlines/airports, viarail/trains, banks, etc... 
it’s a fair bit more broad than just federal government employees.
no, but my long term goals did not involve that in the first place......
yes, but i also don’t live in vancouver or toronto lol
the existence of one issue, major though it is, does not dispute the claim that they've been the most beneficial in the op's life. they didn't say they were the best possible government (although given the flair it's safe to say they might), just that they're the best so far in the limited window of one young person's life. i also am fairly young and would have to agree with that.
boy do i have bad news for you about every major party currently & every past government.
nice isnt the word i would use for it. amazing is what i would use.
from family related days, appointment allotments, sick days, and vacation a federal government employee can work 4 day weeks all year.
what? that historically it has been unaffordable to buy a house under any previous government? or that historically speaking it's been unaffordable just to live because the value of our currency has been driven down through inflation above 2% from insane government spending while wages stagnate?
tell me again why every other party is the same.
to claim that the current government has not been the most beneficial of our lifetimes (unless you're going really far back, and i'd love to hear specifically which government you think did more for me & op) seems silly. i concur with their points re sick leave and childcare and add that finally having at least the base for pollution control measures, legislated net zero targets for the first time in canadian history, the ccb/lifting 400k kids out of poverty, and the various other shit is 'beneficial".
true housing affordability, and specifically lowering housing prices, has not been the focus of a government in a long time. the lpc and cpc have some ideas on how to address it without lowering prices for current homeowners. as does the ndp. no party is currently offering lowering prices, at least not with any credible plan. the ndp's amounted to $ to send to landlords last election and was panned by affordability experts as being worse than the tories', if memory serves.
with all of that said, no, lpc is not much better. banning blind bidding will help a bit. they've done a bit toward financial transparency of ownership but not enough. their rent to own scheme sounds good but still not sure how practically it could be implemented. there is no major party currently advocating for wholesale lowering prices because it would 1) tank the economy and 2) kill the savings of the majority of canadians and their families, specifically the ones who vote. even millennial homeownership has hit about 50%, which a lot of those buying in the last two years.
all of this also ignores 1) inflation is above 2% everywhere in the world and is widely thought to currently be transitory and related to shortages of supply rather than government spending, and that it is the case where government spending is not higher, and 2) the notion that government spending creates inflation is largely a misnomer, particularly when borrowing is kept well within an acceptable range of debt-to-gdp.

no one wants another blockade. bc is on the ropes from all the bad weather collapsing their transport infrastructure. supply lines from covid are making it hard to get regular stuff and prices for basic goods are going up. the protestors are demanding a moratorium on all fossil fuels or they'll shut down all of canada.  we could give them what they want and pray they don't ask for more.  or not and risk another shutdown.  why isn't there a middle ground here.
> singh said in ottawa. “you’ve seen indigenous people being arrested, and that’s never ... what we want to see. that’s not reconciliation.” 
this rubs me the wrong way.  singh's gotta do his show of being sad about it all.  not that he'll mention that the bc ndp  is in charge of this project.  taking him at face value here reconciliation means never arresting indigenous people?  all of this is a powder keg of demands and threats. i don't like where we're going.
why do we as a country tolerate illegal protests? not saying people cannot or shouldn't protest but blocking or destroying public infrastructure is against the law. i'm thinking back to when there were railway blockades.
paywalled article but i think that no matter who’s in the right or wrong on the coastal gaslink, it still symbolizes a extremely fragile federal-indigenous relationship that still faces ongoing struggles, whether territorial, legal or historical, and there have already been solidarity protests for the wet’suwet’en hereditary protestors before. unless if an agreement can be made i think it could cause another nationwide stalemate as other upset or ignored indigenous groups protest for proper recognition as well. you can look at the mikmaw fishing dispute as one potential resurgence of protests.
bc just had millions of dollars of damage done due to damage that can be directly traced to climate change. multiple localities had their highest recorded rainfall, and others exceeded their 200 year flood levels. this is all only 5 months after many of the same places set their highest ever temperatures and burned down.
how in the midst of all that we can still think it's a good idea to build more oil infrastructure is beyond me. i hope the protests do spread all across canada, and shut this down.
i assume everything singh says and does is only for political points and doesn't represent how he would actually enact policy.
>why do we as a country tolerate illegal protests? 
for a literal answer, it is due to oka and ipperwash. two protests ~~in ontario~~ that ended in bloodshed. because of this, any police action against native protests is basically seen as a pr nightmare, and the opp officially changed policy to not enforce the law against native protestors (as part of the ipperwash inquiry) ... the idea being that it's now the fed's problem. but of course, the fed can't enforce anything for the same reason (although i don't think there is a written policy of non-intervention like the opp have).
more recently, in ontario, we've started just paying them to stop. the caledonia protests basically ended after the province paid out $20mil rather than enforce removals. lately that protest has been regrowing though.
> i'm thinking back to when there were railway blockades.
quite literally the same conflict surrounding a natural gas pipeline in wetsuweten.
hilariously enough, pay them off seemed to be the solution here as well. trudeau basically offered to give them w/e they wanted. but they were unable to sort out their internal politics, so instead you see factionalized infighting. which is .... i mean, they could have asked for $10m a head and gotten it. fighting at this point is crazy.
when the legal method falls on deaf ears for decades, people give up faith that working within the system will affect real change. 
i draw my own line at violence against people being unacceptable in protests. destroying property is the better alternative, if it must come to that. but only after peaceful protest fails.
we live in a sheltered, comfortable society here in the west, and have for longer than anyone alive remembers. somehow i think the challenges of the 21st century will remind us that conflict, not peace, is how we have progressed throughout human history.
protesting by its very nature is often illegal. especially when what you are protesting is the actions of the government.
this is natural gas infrastructure, which will be exported to displace coal burning.
oka was quebec
ok so we have a group of people who are above the law? this is part of the reason we have disputes like this. normal citizens see that there are different sets of rules based on your ethnicity and become resentful. 
has anyone ever stopped to think that the treaties signed in the 1700s may actually be a part of the oppression of native people? what are native people fighting for? i only ever see them fighting against stuff in the news but admittedly this might be a misrepresentation.
did you ever consider that....you won't get your way? i mean, this is a democracy. people voted for the party that approved the pipeline and bought another one. you don't get to blow stuff up because you're unhappy and think you're right about what the future will look like.
there are legal ways to protest government actions. also they weren't protesting the railway they were blocking it was just a way to inflict pain in the "white man" (and all other non indigenous citizens).
which, when accounting for methane leaks, is often just as bad or worse than coal for short term greenhouse gas emissions.
true. sorry for the poor phrasing.
i mean, natives that lost status for w/e reason have basically the same standard of living as any other canadian. so yeah, the system is horrible for most. but the reserves benefit the chiefs. particularly the unelected ones. and there is nothing that normal natives can do to change the system. so long as the chiefs benefit from the system it'll be too politically risky to attempt to end it..... i mean, the liberals openly considered doing so once in the late 60s and the backlash was so intense that trudeau and chretien spent years distancing themselves from it.
>people voted for the party that approved the pipeline and bought another one.
this doesn't mean those people are happy about the pipelines.
oh i’ve never been to a protest in my life. i’m too pessimistic for that. but i understand the reasons why people do protest.
you’re right, of course, that the government was voted in with a known mandate supporting pipelines. but democracy, especially a polarized one, always leaves behind a minority of people who are dissatisfied or resentful. it’s naive to imagine that in today’s world where we’re all being forced into extremes against each other that nothing bad is coming. i don’t want it to, but then, i’m the exact demographic that benefits from the status quo so of course change sounds disruptive, no matter how necessary it ultimately is.
then you'll be glad to know that canada has the toughest standards in the world to prevent leaking. so at the very least, our lng will be displacing gas from qatar or texas.


canadians are more likely nowadays to be university educated and the trades pay well in the civilian world. make the "bottom" more appealing to new members and make it worth staying until retirement. or consider changing the whole structure
we need to correct this. we also need to start putting more funds into the caf. with water becoming an increasingly valuable asset and the arctic at risk we need to wake up and act now by being prepared and protecting our resources. we rely to much on big brother to the south. all the instability down there gives even more reason to become more self reliant when it comes to national security.
[removed]
not to mention the oppressive culture on a good day and abuse, sexism, racism on a bad day
both my brother and step-brother are in the forces, and i seriously considered joining myself, even went so far as to start the application. however, the work/life balance just seems awful. 
being forced to move to a part of the country that you may not want to live in is just something i can’t accept. my family is in ontario, i simply just can’t accept potentially being forced to move to a difference province.
removed for rule 3.
[removed]
don't forget reports of [training neo-nazis]( overseas and [military leaders fearing exposure of that news]( instead of ... you know, not training neo-nazis in the first place.
well, it's good you know that and aren't going to try and sign up and push through. i've heard stories of people who either deluded themselves they were going to get posted "home" or just over time stopped being okay with it -- and they're generally not very happy. 
i think the work/life thing does depend quite a lot on what you end up doing there.
i mean that's part of the job, unappealing as it may be, just like being in the rcmp.
removed for rule 3.
with that said, i might go the reserve route eventually. however, it mostly depends on my current job and its time commitment. while i have always wanted to serve, i have no intention of sacrifice my mental health by drastically over burdening myself by adding an officer job on top of my current career in banking.
generally speaking, we’re in a time of peace. i think the best direction for the the military would to provide more resources for the reserves, and make it much easier for reservists to transfer into a full-time role. as it stands, i haven’t met a single person who has considered joining the reserves post-university graduation. it seems to considered an opportunity exclusively for high school and university students.


i'm sure that more and more and more of this in the future will be just fine and dandy going forward.
i mean, insurance will just pay for it all right?
lol!
the time of consequences arriving indeed.

> it is not how many are vaccinated, but whom that matters.
no, how many is still very important. they reduce the spread.       
> for example, vaccinating 100 people over the age of 65 is likely to prevent 3 hospitalizations, while vaccinating a 2000 member high school or university class is unlikely to avoid any.
until those 2000 high school students infect others who are more likely to end up in hospital, since the vaccine is not perfect protection. and just because they're not hospitalized as much, doesn't mean they aren't affected. avoiding it or lessening symptoms with the vaccine still helps them too.         
> the next pivotal change is to stop counting cases and concentrate instead on outcomes with personal and social impact. testing everybody with a cold is expensive and ultimately futile if we all eventually end up infected. hospitalizations and deaths become the only metric that matters.
you know people can get infected again? it's not like immunity from catching it is one and done either. and every time we ease up and try to return to 'normal' the health system is overwhelmed.       
> much like the uk, norway and much of the rest of europe, we need to return to normal.
where the virus is now spiking again!?       
> society also needs to shift how it sees the unvaccinated. the prevailing opinion, including among many of my colleagues, is that the unvaccinated pose a threat to others.
they do. this is a fact.        
> since the vaccinated are still likely to be infected and transmit disease
much less likely.
> while vaccinating a 2000 member high school or university class is unlikely to avoid any
it only has to avoid *one* hospitalization to save us tens upon tens of thousands of dollars.
that pays for a *lot* of vaccinations. 
vaccinating everyone will ultimately save us *tons* of money. it would be stupid to not vaccinate everyone we can.
>canada’s unspoken strategy has been that of covid zero
except for maybe a few months in 2020 this was never true. travel is almost back to normal if you're fully vaccinated for instance, while australia and new zealand have no concrete timeline for introducing quarantine free travel. really the only country still trying for covid-zero is china, which is introducing purpose bult quarantine centres where even the staff work rotationally like in a mining camp.
completely agree, we need to stop the hate and get back to having fun. this has been horrible on everyone no matter what side of the fence your on
> much less likely.
have you not been paying attention to the research? delta has been a game changer, and since the summer, vaccines have not been having a significant impact on transmission. just a few days ago, a study funded by the u.s. centers for disease control and prevention found that in a prison population, there was no "statistically significant difference in transmission potential between completely vaccinated people and those who were not fully vaccinated."
granted, this particular study is in preprint but you will find papers with similar conclusions that have been peer-reviewed and published in journals including the bmj and nature. what is disconcerting to me is that hard pro-vaxxers will often cite research on transmission that is pre-delta, and ignore the latest evidence.
if somebody gets fully infected, they can pass it on, yes, vaccinated or no. but vaccinated people are less likely to get to that point.

here's some advice: in this day and age, if another canadian bases their entire identity off of the vague american concept of "freedom".....you know they are probably a fringe right winger.
the "voice of the people" is often idiotic and uninformed, because we "the people" have too much on our plates to also make well informed intelligent decisions about issues of the state. that's why we pick leaders whose job it is to deal with such group matters, while we deal with our own.
imagine if a pc candidate or a ppc split and started a center-right ontario party. he would steal a lot of the ford voting base considering so many ppl hate him. such as myself.
if that were true, constituent offices would be pointless. we elect *representatives* to travel to ottawa (or your respective provincial capital) to share the messages of the people after gathering them back home.
it’s to save you the travel time, not the engagement.
[removed]
lucky you, there are now 2 options
1. true blue
2. ontario first party
removed for rule 3.
it would be much better if there was only one option - unify the crazies and the hopefuls under one banner; otherwise they won't be "big enough" to split the right-wing vote.
in all likelihood, the true blue and ontario first parties will be as much an issue in the upcoming election as the christian heritage, libertarian and marxist-leninist parties were in the previous election.
pretty much. i’m sure the opc are actually happy that those two parties exist. they are going to be magnets for the far right voters and they don’t ever help the center right parties.

>if the pace of inflation continues, even many liberals will be uncomfortable with billions in increased spending, as outlined by our increasingly orange minority government
i don't think that's the threat the author thinks it is. 
despite the warnings of dire consequences, the  complaint the author has is to do with spending.  but he commends the liberals spending on things like housing prices and child care.  what spending specifically is the worry?
and what's the political consequences hes worried about.  trudeau just won an election and the odds that we see another one for at least a year is very minimal.
yes and rightly so. 
by not doing enough to lower house prices which is the single largest underlining reason as to why nobody wants to work a dead end job. 
raise wages and you impoverish retired and fix income people, you push people into living in forests. the only solution here is much house prices back down through a variety of initiatives like more housing, no foreign residential investment, no speculative residential investment, no airbnb in residential zones, higher property taxes, much higher property taxes on (like 500% more) on 3+ properties. and a wealth tax on owned property assets for those with a net worth of over $100 million. 
there’s not much room left in the forests around peterborough. officials will have to start asking for property tax in the more desirable city park locations.
[removed]
the 70% of canadians watching their mortgage debt evaporating while paying record low rates would be real mad at trudeau. for sure.
meh if parliament gets mad enough we can just have another election where they fearmonger about their ideological twins the conservatives getting power and win another minority government so they can do nothing that affects our daily lives other than arresting indeginous people on behalf of oil companies and suing survivors of residential schools.
> more housing
municipal responsibility. cities need to start densifying their neighborhoods, removing broken zoning regulations, and invest more into public transit.
>  no foreign residential investment
i'd argue to go further. no one can buy residential property if they are not either a permanent resident, or a canadian citizen. no company can buy residential property if they are not wholly owned by a pr/canadian citizen.
>  no speculative residential investment,
i don't think you can regulate this. but again, municipalities can do something about it through severe tax penalties. this is especially true for commercial real estate. streets are lined with empty store fronts because the realtors are holding out for a high paying customer. there should be severe taxes for leaving commercial properties empty and call it what it is, a blight tax.
> no airbnb in residential zones,
this is again, a municipal issue.
> higher property taxes
this is a municipal or perhaps provincial issue.
---
i realize this is /r/canadapolitics  so we talk about about federal issues here. but so many problems surrounding housing must be fixed at the municipal level first, not the federal level.
>by not doing enough to lower house prices which is the single largest underlining reason as to why nobody wants to work a dead end job.
what exactly do you want him to do here? seriously asking...
while i agree that house prices need to be lowered, i doubt that would change inflation rates much.
this is a worldwide issue rooted in more than any one cause or solution.
pretty much all of the things you are asking for are within the jurisdiction of the provinces. at best the feds can negotiate it, but the province can legislate/regulate it into existence tomorrow. 
you are barking up the wrong tree.
i think u should run for pm lol
>yes and rightly so. by not doing enough to lower house prices which is the single largest underlining reason as to why nobody wants to work a dead end job.
i don't see the housing issue sinking the liberals. in the areas where they're strongest politically, people are making a killing off of the housing market.
the poor and disadvantaged in those areas can typically be bribed with social programs for votes.
[removed]
are you suggesting canadian elections are rigged?
removed for rule 3.
the carbon tax, legal cannabis, and 10$ daycare are already policies the conservatives made very clear the wouldn't pass. there are also dozens of smaller policies in play, like the single use plastics ban, infrastructure bank, and clean fuel standard. 
the liberals are not progressive trail blazers, but it's absolutely naive to say they are the same as the conservatives.
i think we've learned very clearly that municipalities and the provinces aren't going to do anything. we're well past the point where the feds need to step in.
as i've stated to others, i live in nova scotia. the bubbles impacting our market started in bc and ontario. i can't exactly vote in a toronto municipal or ontario provincial election. my best bet is to vote for a federal party that will rein in those bubbles.
i've recently had a thought that why doesn't the federal government tax unused or underused property as investments. i know it would be difficult to do, but could you not charge a high capital gains tax on properties which are not occupied full time by a permanent resident (i do not mean this in the immigration sense but in the lives somewhere full time sense).
well said
municipalities get a pass because people think they’re insignificant.
i think its easier to motivate people to demand changes on the provincial and federal level than it would be to educate them about municipal issues.  its a top down approach. 
i’ve met too many people who votes for pm based on the cleanliness of the local city park.
inflation, he probably can't actually do much on.
house prices, he can tell any city that gets federal money for transit programmes they won't get any more money if they have zoning restrictions on residential properties, for instance.  maybe couple it with bribes for small cities (especially on non-agricultural land) if they go in for the same.

because the provincial government will, and i mean this literally, sell the province, save the parts that the first peoples reclaim as their own, to the highest corporate bidder. 
there are less than a million non-native citizens in saskatchewan. that's barely even the population of a large city. they'll be powerless to stop the sellout. heck, a billionaire could afford to purchase every house in saskatchewan.
you wouldn’t think there would it could  be different degrees of equality in a supposedly modern democracy like canada. but there are, and that support for that us typically and amply  demonstrated in the comments here. 
our country is seriously and probably irrevocably  divided .   too bad , it was once a great notion.
if quebec can do it, why can’t saskatchewan? saskatchewan has more people who believe in resource extraction, smaller government and personal responsibility. this is very different than what our federal government believes, and many in eastern provinces, including quebec. i believe that makes it unique and it should have more autonomy, equal to that of quebec.
> they'll be powerless to stop the sellout. heck, a billionaire could
> afford to purchase every house in saskatchewan.
yah, they wouldn't even be able to use adverse possession to get the land back as that legal principle has been abolished in saskatchewan.
you must be from another province or you live in regina or saskatoon. brad wall once tinkered with the idea of selling off one of the crown corporations and then promptly never discussed it again. at the most saskatchewan would take over the same responsibilities that quebec already has immigration, policing, & pension plan. at the worst they would make saskatchewan an english speaking only province
differences in political beliefs do not a nation make
> i believe that makes it unique and it should have more autonomy, equal to that of quebec.
what if i told you that saskatchewan and québec actually have an equal amount of autonomy under the constitution?
"i like resource extraction" is not a culturally distinct identity, no matter what moe says.
quebec has its special institution because britain conquered it and gave it autonomy to prevent the new territory of people with a different religion and ethnicity from revolting. it's historical.
definition of nation : a large body of people united by common descent, history, culture, or language, inhabiting a particular country or territory.  
your "nation" already exists and it's called (english) canada.  
you can't just be a nation if you want to. that's not how it works. words have definitions.
they did sell of a crown corp though, i mean it's not as significant as selling of sgi or sasktel but they did sell off potashcorp to make nutrien.
yes, i'm sure a few thousand rural farmers are going to absolutely convince politicians from accepting a few tens of millions of dollars as a bribe.
not really.  unlike other provinces quebec is responsible for pensions, employment, immigration, has its own legal system (civil law in place of common law) and is guaranteed 3 judges on the supreme court.  essentially the reason goes back to the union of canada, prior to confederation.  saskatchewan, like alberta, was never a self-governing colony.  it owes its existance to the federal government that created it out of the northwest territories in 1905.
that's more the french definition.
the websters describes the main definition of nation as :
"[a large area of land that is controlled by its own government](
saskatchewan therefore is as much as a nation as quebec by this definition. so if they really want it, why not?
they still have an equal amount of autonomy under the  constitution.
not sure about employment, but the quebec pension plan was set up at the same time as cpp, and so separating a given province’s pensions at this point would entail a lot more financial risk than it may be worth. the rrq was an integral part of the quiet revolution, along with the expansion of the state that occurred across canada in the 60s. and with respect to immigration, the feds agreed to share power with quebec so that it could maintain it’s own demographic weight of francophones, and that was only after the fraught period of the late 80s and early 90s when meech lake failed and quebec felt really alienated, in a non-partisan manner. i don’t see the imperative or the non-partisan alienation from anywhere else really, and so i have to admit these opinion pieces that complain about autonomy from ottawa always seem so disingenuous.
that's the definition from oxford languages (whatever googles gives you) and wikipedia and cambridge agrees. free to them to decide which one they like, but if anyone was to use that as an argument for more political autonomy from the federal, their argument would be weak.  
and i'm not here to say saskatchewan can't ask for whatever. just that "why can't we be one" doesn't work this way. either you are one, or you aren't.
saskatchewan likes the websters defintion, so they are one if that's their choice. it's completely a subjecive definition.
even frank legault says that membership in the quebecois nation is voluntary, so the actual definition changes whether english-speaking quebecers feel a part of it or not. it's all subjective and means nothing.

i know they are not the same, but the greens on the vancouver city council consistently votes against density rather than for density. and as a force for addressing the housing issue, what the vancouver green councillors have to say is far more important than what the leader of a provincial rump party has to say.
sonia furstenau is the leader of the bc green party and she outlines the party's position here. 
>the crisis in our housing market is the consequence of a multitude of factors, including population growth, speculation, global flows of capital, the financialization of real estate and limited supply. experts disagree on how influential each of these inputs are, but it is clear that a meaningful response must be multifaceted. we need more supply in both market and non-market housing options. we need housing initiatives that help build healthy communities: close to transportation and social infrastructure, accessible for the diverse needs of individuals. we especially need to decouple gdp growth from an unsustainable reliance on an overheated real estate market. government is overly reliant on housing revenue to display a “healthy” economy; but the economy isn’t healthy if it’s not working for the vast majority of people and businesses.
there's a lot to like here. the emphasis on supply of both market and non-market housing is key. but what i really like is the recognition that canada has become a housing economy, inextricably wound up with rising housing prices. to achieve affordability means housing prices must go down, and that's going to rock the boat for the most powerful political groups in society. but it must be done.
one thing i found sort of strangely absent was a mention of how our housing choices affect the environment. urban sprawl is horrifically bad for the environment. it produces immense carbon emissions due to its car dependence and inefficient layout, it gobbles up immense tracts of natural land and it leaves urban canadians farther and farther away from nature. i'd love to see the green party advocating for radical densification on environmental grounds, and even proposing a gradual return of some of urban land to nature.
the municipal greens are certainly a perennial disappointment.
i'm not sure it's fair to call the provincial greens a "rump party" though, they capture 15-20% of the vote and recently held the balance of power, winning some real concessions.
moreover, the provincial government is far more important for housing than the municipal. while the municipal governments control the two important levers of planning rules and a portion of the property tax rate, they do so entirely at the discretion of the provincial government. the fact is, municipalities are run by people who benefit from higher home values and don't really have any reason to *want* additional residents. it's a recipe for a housing crisis, and it really ought to be up to higher levels of government to assert the public interest here.
i've read a great deal about international housing systems. there are several models for a functional housing system, but one thing all the success stories have in common is a strong policy from the central government.
i can’t wait until politicians connect the dots with urban sprawl. 
politicians say they are going to fight climate change and yet they still allow cities to be designed around the automobile - which they have designated as one of the largest contributors to ghg’s.
bingo. the provinces should prevent the growth, in land size, of municipalities and forcibly convert all residential zoning to a single zone: any form of housing is allowed, so long as power, water, sewage, and emergency access needs can be met.

there may be value in keeping a record of little-used regional languages and of their past, but why artificially prop them up and keep them in use? most people can only speak one language because learning a second one is hard, so it's uncommon. this means that some people can only communicate within their smaller community. if you let such a language fall out of use naturally, the group can then communicate with a vastly larger group that speak a widely used language instead. i find greater value in that.
>most people can only speak one language ~~because learning a second one is hard, so it's uncommon,~~ in canada.  
this is not true for most other places in the world.  most immigrants can speak more than one language, most people in europe/south america/asia learn additional languages in school.
approaching languages from a purely utilitarian perspective is the privilege of those who know their language faces no risk where they live; as the saying goes, language is culture and culture is language
even then, there's worth in keeping all the languages around if you subscribe to any version of the sapir-whorf hypothesis.  
> most ~~people~~ anglo canadians can only speak one language 
anglo canadians are among the least bilingual/multilingual people on earth, even if we only consider the anglosphere. hell, a higher % of british people know french than anglo canadians and they don't have mandatory french classes or a french region in their country.
canada is uniquely lazy in that regard (which comes from a certain close mindness imo)
you're not an expert in linguistics and it shows. its critical for some first nations communities to keep their language, as a connection to their culture. i mean i could write all day about the benefits to their culture and to the individuals, how it improves mental health in communities at enormous risk for suicide, and about how important it is for reconciliation efforts, to how good it is for the humain brain to speak multiple languages, to how wrong you are when you say "most people speak one language". we owe this to the people who we tried to wipe out with residential schools. if you actually give a shit about our first nations, please educate yourself. some language revitalization projects are truly fascinating and having real positive effects. it goes far and beyond just offering another language option in the local high school.
that’s 100% what the residential schools were aimed at, to eradicate indigenous languages and  assimilate the students into only english and/or french, which consequentially removes them from their own identity and their communities. just because english is the language of the world now doesn’t mean we should purposely wipe out endangered languages, that’s erasing history and people.
i'm from québec and learning my third language right now. i'm having more fun than expected :)
my grandparents spoke 5 languages between them (english, french, russian, german, serbian/croatian, hungarian) my parents each have a second language, we never learned our familial languages, instead were enrolled in french immersion because they immigrated to canada and decided we should learn canadian languages. 
i think there's a couple factors, some people have natural talent for languages and the more you grow up hearing different languages the better off you are when it comes to learning them. i only speak english and french but i can understand and read german and have simple conversations but am by no means fluent, i get the jist of croatian, hungarian i know just enough to politely order dinner.
i feel it's our duty to preserve indigenous languages because colonisation, the government and church are the reason that these languages are now endangered without that intervention they would probably be thriving.
residential schools were not created to just let languages do whatever they may do organically. on the contrary, they were actively trying to erase them, and their culture along with that. it was a deliberate action. here now, the deliberate action is in the other direction, with another active attempt to interfere with whatever may happen if you just leave it alone. i'm sure both groups thought/think their intentions are noble, but they're interfering nonetheless.
all languages are artificial. all languages are made up. they are the result of intentional human decisions and interactions. so it's a question of adopting artificial policies that we know will kill the languages or adopting artificial policies that we know will preserve them. canada itself is an artificial  entity designed specifically to kill aboriginal cultures through the indian act. we artifically killed a lot of aboriginals and languages  to create canada.

striking line on lewis who was a top leadership contender last cpc race:
> haldimand-norfolk mp leslyn lewis is attractive to the socially conservative wing of the party, but she is unilingual, which makes her unelectable as prime minister, and her opposition to vaccine mandates is only slightly less politically suicidal than – oh, i don’t know, opposing abortion rights, perhaps. if she led the conservative party into the next election, the ndp would become the official opposition
this may sound like i'm trolling but i'm really not - in the us social conservatives probably would not take seriously a woman, especially a woman of colour, even if she's on their side. how true is that in canada?
it’s a true analysis of why she would be a disaster
danielle  smith was the leader of the wrp and as nutty as the day is long. if she hadn't stabbed her party in the back and crossed the floor she would have been premier. she still has a following because she believes that vaccines are like the holocaust. i imagine ll would have the same following.
to be honest, i have no idea. in the leadership race, she won the popular vote on the second ballot, beating erin o’toole and peter mackay. afaik, that’s the only evidence we have on the matter. but the sample size of a leadership race is so tiny, and those people are so hyper partisan (in all parties), that we probably can’t generalize to the overall population (or even to the conservative population).
lewis was their darling last time out, so it seems they're flexible on colour if you agree with them on god stuff here.
i'd argue your premise here.
> in the us social conservatives probably would not take seriously a woman, especially a woman of colour, even if she's on their side ...
alaska gov. & later vp candidate sarah palin was a favourite of the religious right.
gov. nimrata "nikki" randhawa haley, the daughter of punjabi immigrants who was raised as a sikh, won two terms in south carolina.
although it depends what you mean by "social conservative" - the term is often used for two distinct groups, a) people who think abortion is heinously wrong and should at least be restricted, if not banned, and b) people who think multiculturalism is bad and it's important to restrict immigration in order to defend "western values" or (in some cases) to preserve the white majority in the population.
i'd consider:
- kenney and lewis as social conservatives in sense a) but not in sense b).
- gallant a social conservative in both senses a) and b).
- legault and bernier as social conservatives in sense b) but not in sense a).
- o'toole to not be a social conservative in either sense.
in fptp systems they often end up supporting the same parties because both are opposed to progressive/liberal policies, but they shouldn't be conflated.
social conservatives and authoritarians always accept someone who is on their side even if they are the wrong gender or color, *as long as* that person generally agrees with their views and advances their cause. they're happy to confer honorary maleness on sarah palin, honorary christian morality (arguably the only kind there is anyway) on trump, or honorary whiteness on clarence thomas. the proud boys' leaders were/are a canadian and a cuban-american. there were several high ranking jewish nazis. 
this hypocrisy is part and parcel with that they do, because being intellectually consistent is not their thing. what they actually want is power over the oppressed group.
less so, but still generally would probably be true for those in mono-ethnic rural areas.
such as the cpcs ab/sk base for instance....
> in the us social conservatives probably would not take seriously a woman, especially a woman of colour, even if she's on their side.
i would highly doubt that. personally i think the mostly likely candidate for first female president is a socially conservative republican evangelical woman.
are you basing this on a gut feeling and stereotypes or actual data?
because lewis did better than otoole in the cpc leadership election in alberta and i believe saskatchewan as well
the most likely candidate for first female president is 100% kamala harris.  she is vp under a president that will be 82 years old before the next election, which means he likely either isn't running again - making her the favorite to win the 2024 democratic nomination, or has a very high chance of dying in office making her president.
yes she may get literally grandfathered in upon biden's death, but she won't be winning any elections.
unless biden dies in office, she'll never be president.
her run for president was a disaster.
idk, if biden doesn't run again and she wins the nomination, i could see her winning an election over a cataclysmically terrible gop candidate like trump or desantis.
i mean yes - but so were biden's first 2 presidential campaigns.  entirely possible that more experience plus the gravitas that comes with serving as vp changes that.
kamala harris currently has a 25% approval rating or so. she'd likely lose in a landslide to even the worst the republicans have to offer because she's deeply unpopular and also because a decent chunk of the us actually likes these terrible gop candidates
* it will likely be a tough nomination battle as the dems are already beginning to knife her on behalf of mayor pete
* even if she does get nominated she would have a terribly tough time against either of those candidates in a non-stacked election
* republicans are already continuing to tilt the playing field in their advantage for next time, and will move even faster after the 2022 midterm wave when they take back over pretty much everything aside from the presidency

i guess the key takeaway of this article is that the ucp board will decide which leadership review date will prevail by sometime after their december 7th meeting. if the earlier date prevails, it’ll be a win for kenny’s enemies since it will allow all ucp members, not just those in attendance, to vote on kenny’s leadership.

and before you ask, yes it was an employee clicking on a phishing email that caused the breach. an ooof moment to be sure.

a boycott doesn’t put athletes in danger.  athletes who attend with no diplomatic support put themselves in danger.
then don't send the athletes... it's that simple. don't send a team! boycotting the beijing olympics is the right thing to do even if they hadn't abducted pen shuai.
> half a provocation is a provocation still. think of our young people in the place of the two michaels and ask whether the risk to them is worth it. when observers are beginning to wonder increasingly whether travel to china is safe, we should not take the risk of shovelling canadian athletes into the wolf warrior’s maw.
above this the author outlines that the michaels were in retaliation. is canada and the us planning to detain chinese people during the olympics? if so, i agree that it is probably a bad idea to send hostage collateral over if that's the plan again. seemingly this author is unaware that thousands of canadians appear to live in china and hong kong currently, but they aren't at risk?
> ioc member in canada dick pound, who also went through the events of 1980, has noted that the current situation could spin out of control very easily. if anything, he’s understating.
understating on what grounds? because ourselves then china took hostages now anyone sent to china is a potential hostage waiting to be taken? does this author know that there are canadians in china now? that people travel, work, and live in china who are canadians? are they all hostages?
from this article last year there at least 12,000 voluntarily registered (with a canadian agency) canadians living in china. some of these are detained for what sounds like regular charges, fraud or drug offences. a 2010 source shows the number at 300,000 between china and hong kong. should we consider each of these hostages? since we detained meng first, could the 1.8 million chinese people here be considered in the beavers incisors?
for the peng shuai situation, if i'm following correctly she raised sexual assault allegations towards a senior government official, was inaccessible for a few weeks and now has appeared again. but it's questionable if she is "free", whatever that means in this context.
i guess i'm wondering if this is the actual catalyst for people, a high profile athlete making sexual assault allegations against a powerful figure and being potentially retaliated against. i mean, could you imagine if women and girls were being abused in well known industries such as sports, or acting, or literally anywhere women work. 
what next a story about chinese companies polluting their surrounding areas and exposing communities to environmental hazards to protect their profits as a cause for boycott?
there are plenty of reasons to actually boycott the olympics, in all countries, and it likely won't happen, spinning any human interest story into an international incident is not going to achieve that. we literally watch each olympics as people are displaced from their homes, for sports, and we still don't boycott or change anything.
by eric morse. he points out that sending athletes without government participation would be putting them at risk of hostage-taking. it's either all or nothing: if we're going to boycott the beijing olympics, canadian athletes shouldn't be going at all.

well i mean to be fair we've also been told vancouver is going to slip into the sea eventually, but that doesn't stop any of the officials involved from pumping vancouver real estate values like their property owes them money.
why would one ever expect a more serious response from those same individuals about flooding risk in the fraser valley?
> mr. horgan said last week the latest disaster could not have been forecast or averted. “there was nothing – nothing – that could have been done [for] a three-times-the-historic-high volume of water travelling through merritt in one day,” he said. 
this is just brazen. he knows that we've been warned of this very sort of outcome for years. we've _had_ similar flooding in the past, in the same areas that were effected. hell, the vancouver island highway developed a sink hole in a spot where one developed _a few years prior_.
> b.c.’s auditor-general, carol bellringer, cautioned in a february, 2018, report that the provincial government “may not be able to manage flood risks given a number of factors including a lack of staffing and technical capacity, outdated flood-plain maps, and roles and responsibilities that are spread out across many agencies and levels of government. similarly, government’s wildfire prevention activities are not sufficient, and to date, have not substantially reduced the risk.”
maybe horgan just doesn't speak to his own auditor-general?
> mr. horgan was once one of the critics calling for action. “i remember talking, as an opposition member, to the local mayors in the [fraser river] region about the need to invest billions of dollars in diking and other remediation efforts in the event of such an event as we’ve just had,” he said in an interview, just hours after signing off on the latest state-of-emergency order.
or maybe he's just lying when he said no one could've predicted it or prepared for it.
this is scandalous. flat out scandal; _*people are dead*_ and thousands of livestock along with them. and there's a good chance that the damage could have been mitigated, if not avoided. 
the ndp, in their usual fashion, are denying any responsibility. i expect if that tactic fails, they'll pivot to blaming the bc liberals. it'll work, too, because ndp supporters are like tory voters: enough of them simply will not waver in their support of the party.
**edit: wow, look at this link yo-yo in votes. i bet it's getting ratio'd, hard, by folks not wanting to hear what it has to say**.
that characterization is off. if anything, vancouver will rise higher out of the ocean.
the megathrust will be from the pacific plate slipping north/south as the juan de fuca plate pushes towards the continental plate.
thing is how many coastline cities like vancouver ever last long term? like worldwide how many thousand year old coastal cities are around? not many. 
history has shown coastlines change and living along them can be very risky at times....then people act shocked when change finally comes knocking at their doorstep and this i find is hilarious.
to be fair to horgan he’s also being treated for cancer right now. agree the government should have done more but i will give the rhetoric a pass at least.
melting ice caps racing slow and steady plate subduction.
my understanding has been that the megathrust you refer to would occur beneath the ocean floor, and the reason people say vancouver will slip into the sea is because the immediate quake effect could very likely simply see richmond and much of the fraser delta disappear as a result of liquifaction, leaving vancouver pretty much unguarded against a tsunami wavefront that will wash effectively the entire gvrd into the straight of georgia.
but i'm just a hobbyist.
the mediterranean has quite a number of them.
minoan civilization that inspired atlantis legends after volcanic eruption caused tsunamis that inudated their coastal towns: "we left our legends behind to warn you, you imbeciles!!"
the report from the ag was from nearly 4 years ago.
oh yeah, richmond will turn into a liquid and swallow all the buildings not built on a floating slab.
and?
and so the ndp did not do enough on this in the interim; horgan isn't lying, or confused, either. he did raise the issue while in opposition.
so we can add disaster preparedness to the list of ndp abject failures; alongside housing, homelessness, addiction, drug poisoning, forestry reform, and so forth.
right. my comment didn't excuse the inaction, just the recent words.

so this comment isn't about the doctor's overall thesis, that's a complex issue.
but we should stop romanticizing medicine, the hippocratic oath, and the doctrine of 'do no harm'.
the hippocratic oath is bupkis. ancient religious pro-life medical texts should have no bearing on modern practice. that's so obvious i won't even argue it further. modern physicians aren't required to recite it.
do no harm is bullshit. we do harm to patients all the time. all medical practice is calculated risk. do you give the patient extremely harmful drugs to cure their cancer? do you amputate the limb that could have been saved to prevent the spread of infection? do you help someone who is dying do so with dignity? to refuse places your personal ideals over what's best for your patient. to argue "that's not harm because it's for the overall good" proves that 'do no harm' is so vague and meaningless that it's essentially useless.
romanticizing medicine is a bad idea. making doctors out to be some sacred profession puts unrealistic pressure on them, makes it harder to hold them accountable, and reduces our ability to think logically about medicine.
the doctor in this article seems to realize this. their arguments are based in reason, not romanticism. i just get tired of hearing these medical cliches repeated.
this is a really interesting issue and i'd love for someone really qualified to weigh in. why does dr. lam have such a different view than public health authorities like bc's provincial health officer, [dr. bonnie henry](
the intuition for safe supply makes a lot of sense to me - the product dealt by illegal drug dealers is often of low quality, if not outright poisoned. this causes a huge number of deaths. a pure, reliable dose of medical-grade drugs is vastly safer for the user than whatever they find on the street. 
the case against is more confusing to me. while dr. lam is certainly correctly that regularly using large doses of opioids is not 'safe' in any conventional sense, surely it's better than the alternative? perhaps the worry is that providing a safe supply will allow the government to walk away and not provide the necessary, and more expensive, addiction and mental health treatment. either way, it seems like it's a few logical jumps before a safe supply is really worse than the status quo here.
[removed]
prohibition harms more people than harm reduction. half of those people are probably in shelters because they had no safety net to catch them before it got that far. or because they were previously incarcerated (for what is basically a mental health problem, making it that much worse) and can't find an apartment or a job anymore because of discrimination. and while you might consider a shelter a safety net, false solutions harm. canada has this attitude where people should be thankful for what the government gives them no matter how small. but when you raise someone's expectations only to shove them into a room with a dozen other people peddling drugs, clearly to some that's worse than sleeping on a street. 
our safety nets aren't adequately catching these people. or any people. they need to be able to meet basic needs, like access to housing. i'm trapped in a very similar situation right now and i don't even do drugs. our political class views these people as an underclass, but they're also kids that have been kicked out of their homes or people that have lost their jobs and need a little support to get back to working and renting again. only to find that they're actually trapped instead. i haven't been able to work in 6 years because of inadequate and unsafe housing. i want to go to school. but following a third building fire, i'm homeless now. i can't go back to that building. and i can't afford any other. i'm completely trapped and i've spent the last 6 years looking for something else in this country and i can't find anything. i can't afford to survive in canada. 
half if not most of the people in those shelters were created by a terrible system. and nanny state laws and regulations don't do anything other than to placate religious and conservative misinformation believers that only need hearsay to be convinced.
the thing about safe supply is your giving them the supply the users want so they don't use a potentially dangerous supply. hydromorphone is not safe supply, if they are hooked on iv heroin give them iv heroin or something very similar. at the very least don't give them any opioid that's going to cause damage if they decide to iv it. if your looking for proof safe supply works it's not hard to find. 
his point is that there's not enough clarity around the end goal. he doesn't think that giving patients a supply of regulated opioids is going to be any better if there isn't a plan to address the underlying addiction.
> the case against is more confusing to me. while dr. lam is certainly correctly that regularly using large doses of opioids is not 'safe' in any conventional sense, surely it's better than the alternative?
i thought it was a really interesting article as well. i think the key challenge is diversion: people receiving drugs and reselling them, making them more available and thus aggravating the opioid problem. so then the question is whether the drugs can only be used under supervision, or whether clients can take the drugs off-site.
as i understand it, until about three decades ago, opioids were considered to be highly addictive, and could only be used on an in-patient basis, e.g. at a hospital. the hospital couldn't discharge a patient who was still on opioids. purdue had some phony research claiming that opioids weren't addictive and could be used on an outpatient basis. now we have a huge number of addicts. 
rule 9
of course i agree that there should be investment to address the more fundamental issues here. where i get lost is how this point leads to saying 'no' to a safe supply. it seems like leaving drug users to rely on the illegal, poisoned drug supply has some pretty clear harm.
i think there definitely needs to be plans to help people further coupled with this, but even without, it's definitely better than people taking the very significant risk of fentanyl od every day. leaving people in that situation is leaving them in massive risk.
which is foolishness. 
giving people access to regulated supplies of drugs is a major step toward reducing their risk level, building trust before treatments, and starting conversations that will lead to better plans for lowering addiction levels in our communities.
at some point we need to learn from the ending of alcohol prohibition and advance our drug policies to reduce harms that are associated with a drug prohibitions.
>i thought it was a really interesting article as well. i think the key challenge is diversion: people receiving drugs and reselling them, making them more available and thus aggravating the opioid problem
i think it's interesting that safe supply requires the highest possible standard of evidence, but then claims like this can pass without the slightest bit of scrutiny. does this have a significant effect on the opioid supply? is demand for these substances driven by their supply at all? this view seems to double down on the ideas that drove 40 years of failed drug policy. imo, there is little reason to care if some of the safe supply makes its way to black market. in fact, it may be a positive. it means less money for organized crime and a higher quality supply. i'm skeptical that addiction is driven by availability. particularly in a context where availability is incredibly high anyway.
*note that this so quite different than what happens with purdue, where non-drug-users were prescribed opioids and unsurprisingly some of them developed a dependency.
as the article says, there's very little evidence showing that providing a safe supply of drugs for unsupervised actually reduces harm. contaminated supply is a very small issue compared to overdosing on the drugs they intended to use, infections from needle sharing and externalities.
prescribing opioids to addicts for unsupervised use does reduce the risk of harm from a contaminated supply, but it also increases the availability of drugs out in the streets. at best, it's a small band-aid on a huge problem that reduces short-term harm. at worst, it could make the opioid crisis a lot bigger in the long term.
even with a safe supply of doses, drug users can easily overdose. that's part of what the article is saying -- contamination is a problem, but a lot of overdosing is just drug users taking too much of the drug they wanted. if the safe supply is added into the drug market without doing anything to remove the unsafe supply, it could easily increase the number of users who are overdosing.
the article claims that prices for street hydromorphone have fallen dramatically in vancouver and ontario, to the point where savvy dealers are buying it cheaply and selling it elsewhere in the country where there is no safe supply.
and it’s not just asking for “the highest possible standard of evidence”, people might not realize this but there is actually almost no evidence for the efficacy of safe supply. in vancouver it was literally started (as in, officially incorporated into guidelines) because patients had significantly less access to physicians in march 2020 due to covid. the max safe supply indicated in the article of 112 mg, or 8 mg x 14, is a completely arbitrary number with no basis in any evidence, aside from the gestalt of the physicians who came up with the guidelines. source: i worked with one of the physicians who came up with the guidelines (she’s writing me a reference letter for residency applications).
> i'm skeptical that addiction is driven by availability. particularly in a context where availability is incredibly high anyway.
part of the problem is that as patients use larger doses, their tolerance for the drug goes up. if the safe supply is removing unsafe supply from the market, it's working fine. but it could just be increasing the general supply of opioids, which means that users will need to keep receiving that larger supply in the future as long as they continue to be addicted.
dr. lam makes this claim, but i'm wondering why his interpretation of the evidence is [so different]( than the bc public health authorities. i'm certainly not qualified to read these journals myself, but when successive provincial health officers, dr. bonnie henry and [dr. perry kendall]( both strongly believe that a safe supply would save lives, i'm inclined to believe them.
yes definitely you can still overdose, but the scale is completely different with fentanyl, which is [up to 50 times stronger than heroin]( and can turn what someone thinks is a reasonable or routine relatively "safe" dose into something that kills them very very easily. and if you don't know how potent something is and potency varies depending on what you get, you have very little ability to protect yourself or decide how much to take and it's extraordinarily dangerous — and people who are addicted *will* be taking these drugs one way or another. asking people to point the russian roulette fentanyl revolver at their head every day is simply killing people.
edit: fentanyl is also unknowingly added into other drugs besides opioids leading to even more unexpectedly dangerous situations.
there are [several]( [detailed]( reports from the provincial health officer comprehensively detailing the evidence on opioids and [rationale]( for safe supply strategies. these were widely covered by media and easily google-able. i don't understand how anyone interested in this problem can be ignorant of these recommendations from our public health authorities, which have been repeated for years.



"conservative leader erin o’toole’s pretentiously named “shadow cabinet” last week only feeds dismay." lol, what? shadow cabinet has been used by the opposition at both federal and provincial levels for decades. is this writer new or something?
out of all our pretentious historic commonwealth conventions, “shadow cabinet” ranks really low on the offensiveness scale
lol
yes, this is hilarious.  it's always been called that; it's a group of critics who "shadow" the ministers of the cabinet.  i think somebody needs to learn about the conventions of parliament in canada.
hill times has always been a bit of a joke. not entirely their fault, i'm sure they don't have the biggest budget, but stay tuned for abbas rana's cabinet leaks (always wrong), stories about discontent among lpc/cpc/ndp staff (from a constit caseworker who didn't like a comma in an email), and articles like these that fundamentally misunderstand canadian political systems. kinda tabloid-y while trying to present as real news.

[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
removed for rule 3.
[removed]


a great day for canada and therefore the world, next are the little mushroom people of nova scotia, followed by the duke and duchess of calgary.

[removed]
the pc's are pretty good at getting around the rules when it comes to partisan government advertising so as not to draw the attention of the auditor general. 
for instance, before they bungled the roll-out, the pc's planned to make every license plate pc-blue. however, because it's not technically government advertising, it didn't matter. 
the pc's also flooded the airwaves during the darkest depths of the pandemic with government ads touting their support for people and business when in fact a vast majority of financial assistance was paid for by the federal government. not mentioning that fact was not considered partisan.  
it should also be noted that the auditor general doesn't have the greatest reputation for being good at her job. her office has been described as a [terrible place to work]( and policy and political experts have stated that [she is biased and routinely gets things wrong]( so the pc assertion that they have a good relationship with the ag should raise eyebrows.
i honestly thought they mostly ran on no platform at all.   i didn’t realize they made any promises.  
well, buck a beer i guess.  that was awesome for a week or so.
[removed]
that's a dangerous slippery slope. i hope he and his party remembers this when the ndp win power. they might decide to do the same as him.
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
removed for rule 2.
the license plate thing was hilariously bad. they were incredibly ugly plates and the rollout was, as you say, bungled.
what really got me was the carbon tax ads. online, on tv, on the radio, on gas pumps, all talking about how much the "carbon tax costs canadians", even though the average canadian gets more back in tax rebates than they pay in carbon pricing.
the fact that tax dollars are funding those ads that are both false and essentially just campaign ads, is truly frustrating.
if they're so worried about the cost to us, maybe stop throwing so much money into the ridiculous and questionably-legal ad campaign.
[removed]
you clearly didn't drink the buck-a-beer, did you?
pay a buck a beer, get $1 beer quality.
i'd rather drink "recycled" corona.
rule 3
[removed]
>	when the ndp win power.
i don’t think anybody is worried about that
not a fan of dougie but i don't think he's worried about an ndp government. it's straight up not gonna happen
removed for rules 2 and 3.
[removed]



i understand those with concerns about government trying to regulate hate-speech and disinformation online but on the other hand what the hell are we supposed to do?  
if we do nothing and let it spread it'll fester and lead to more damage to society. the paradox of intolerance demonstrates that we as a society and therefore the government have to be proactive in the digital world when it comes to this.  
it'll only get worse if we somehow think the media companies themselves will ever take control of the situation.
"demonstrators at the anti-trudeau protests shouted slogans imported   
directly from disinformation channels online, rife with conspiracy   
theories on vaccines and the government. "  
brought to you by the internet.
it's is kind of like the paradox of tolerating intolerance... 
the fact if the matter is "hate speech" is against the law whether it is online or not. the reason it does not go beyond that currently, is because those who made the laws lived in a time where many countries did not have free speech...

it's good to know that the border restrictions can be waived in an emergency situation.
but how much would this actually help? to my knowledge, greater vancouver and coastal washington state have access to the same gasoline sources - the trans mountain pipeline delivering oil from alberta, and shipments by sea from alaska. wouldn't a shortage here also mean a shortage south of the border?
that's good, though i don't know why they're waiting so long to implement the 3 day rule in general. oh, waiting til after us thanksgiving i guess.
cherry point is very close to the border, and i don't think they are supplied by trans mountain.
the canadian government can't let those retail dollars flow south on black friday! 
the workaround is to order online and pick it up at a [package delivery place]( after november 30.
they are, though most comes from alaska.
my bet is that rota retains the speakership.  in a ranked ballot, rota will rate high enough on the opposition ballots to ensure he makes it through the first couple rounds. and the liberals would rather him than any of the cpc choices. 
may would be the most chaotic choice though.
elizabeth may? really? hmmm. i always wonder about her sense of gravitas, especially after having seen her on tv give a speech (more like a rant) when she had had a tad too much tipple during some event a few years ago. i think it was lisa raitt who had kindly redirected her to her seat, if i recall correctly? 
anyway, i'm just not too sure about her sometimes. :/
>the successful candidate is (reluctantly) led to the chair  
just curious, but why "reluctantly"? is that part a ceremonial thing or something?
may? is that a real attempt to become speaker, or a not so subtle signal to the gpc that she isn't interested in taking a leadership role in the party anymore, because of how big the mess is for the gpc leadership to clean up.
very happy with the re-election of rota. one of the better (and non-partisan) speakers i can remember, and navigated an incredibly difficult pandemic. he deserved to be rewarded with another term. 
i’m glad the rumours weren’t true (or they were unsuccessful) that the pmo was trying to push him out in favour of mendes as punishment for the ruling on the national microbiology laboratory documents.
what reason did the liberal give to start parliament so late?
honestly, it's a bit of a shame that elizabeth may seems only to be running to make a statement. perhaps this is a controversial opinion, but i actually think elizabeth may would make for a pretty solid speaker; her reputation as a fountain of knowledge on parliamentary procedure was on full display in her speech, and it would position her well in the speaker's chair, not to mention that you can apply essentially all of the same arguments that carol hughes made in her speech in favor of may's nomination.
with rota re-elected nothing surprising or exciting happens.   waiting to see what the final tally is, but i'm guessing it wasn't too close, fourth ballot maybe.
dragging the speaker to the chair is a weird tradition.
rota re-elected!
does that mean no parliamentary choir? :(
what are the chances a non-liberal speaker gets picked? has this ever happened before where a different party has a speaker in another party’s government?
plamondon is delightful!
oh wow! i love carol hughes' speech!
i fully support the idea of a parliamentary choir.
any fireworks expected?
do mps from a party that doesn’t have official party status and/or independents get the same office budget as those who are party of an official party?
[deleted]
huzzah!!  
talk about suspense, though.  louis plamondon was great!
i love how raucous it sounds at the beginning.
[in addition to empty seats assigned to strahl and lehoux, empty seats for #cpc mps 
@arnoldviersen
 and robert kitchen.](
update: [arnold viersen: i'm in transit to ottawa and expect to be in my seat tomorrow for the throne speech.
](

the old, "do you know who i am?" line. 
someone's restaurant is going to experience a more heavy-than-usual inspection from the provincial regulatory bodies.
she probably had the shared health site that lits your vaccines and dates instead of the digital vaccine card printed out. i don't see why that other paper wouldn't be accepted. the app is a bit confusing. not that i want to defend her.
first time i was asked for the qr code only was this past weekend. i had it on me as well as the other print out. it went fine. there was a family behind us that were asked, it seemed like they were complying, and then all of a sudden left. the people seemed really put off by it. the restaurant even had a qr code posted to make it easy to get the required documentation. 
truly i believe that they probably had fake documents.
i did exactly same thing as her last week. she probably simply forgot and/or didnt have the time to print or order yet another piece of paper. same as everyone else.
i also have an old variant of vaccine doc in my wallet, and only when i was asked a few times for the new qr code stuff i went and downloaded it (alberta). didnt even know we had a new doc variant. 
yes people should do it at some point, but it's not exactly a priority. she had proof, so what if it's old style. restaurant owner being a dick.
so few things
1) we have literal plastic cards in manitoba with the qr code.  it was as simple as calling the health line or typing a couple words on a form.  any responsible adult has had them since summer.  
2) we also have an app. 
3) it can be generated from the website portal for the qr code to be scanned. 
but mainly 1.  i can’t stress enough; every single responsible manitoban has one.  other things can be forged.  it was the government (that she is part of) that decided what was acceptable!!!
be that as it may here in manitoba we can:
1. get a physical card with a qr code
2. download an official app from the mb gov't - for which this person works for - and get it digitally
3. she could have also requested the federal qr code, again, digital or print the pdf.
also, it's not like she couldn't get her qr code well ahead of time.  she posted her response on twitter using a smartphone.  this person simply just did not want to for... reasons?
nah, us here in manitoba have had qr codes for months and months, and the government (of which she is a part of) have made it explicitly clear that you need to have your qr code on you to dine in. this has been the norm here for a long time at this point. you don't need a card on hand, you can get a pdf of your qr code, or take a screenshot of the website that generates them for you.
a printout with no qr code is not acceptable, and she should have known that.
sounds like manitoba's done it right. most other provinces, not so much.
soso.
we did absolutely terrible at enforcement. so even with the strictest rules, the willfully ignorant just flaunt every health order. 
so the struggle is real.   the qe codes however and the vaccine rollout once supply and sites were up, was a dream.   could book easily, call or web.  and it was efficient.  had my second dose and my vaccination card about 16 days later.  
testing right now is about a one day turn around for results, the healthcare team here has been phenomenal with few resources.   political masters however pander to the small unvaccinated minority:(.


interesting.
you don't often see this (namely another minister criticizing another jurisdiction's failures).
that's noteworthy.
also, seems bad that the cops get away with their criminal activity despite video. i guess the law is only for us little people in canada or something.
it is not another *current* minister, it is a former minister (2009-2010).  he spent three decades prior to that as a cop in vancouver including briefly being the chief of police for west vancouver.
you're correct.
i really think that the decision of the author to highlight his history as a minister does a disservice in contextualizing his intervention.  although a minister criticizing another province is rare, i think the fact that he was a cop for 30 years who had risen to be chief of an affluent city makes his intervention much more impactful than the fact that he was a minister.

> "i know some of you guys were hoping for a fight yesterday, but it didn't happen," kenney said to reporters. 
if you listen to him saying this, he is so smug and condescending, it would be insulting if it wasn't so undeserved. does he not know that we know he paid a bunch of people to shout down his detractors?
> "i think it was an incredible expression of unity. i feel more confident about my leadership today than frankly i have in a very long time."
implying that wasn't confident about his leadership before? i know he thinks this is something to boast about, but he's really just admitting weakness.
this was never going to be the place where this is decided for the majority of the ucp crowd, not unless he well and truly fucked up. kenney has until the leadership review to get those numbers up otherwise he's out.
it is insulting
my in-laws went to the agm, they're both ucp members but hadn't done more than door knocking before.  they were invited by their calgary mla, i suspect to up the numbers of kenney supporters.


he's an inspiration. him, and mp leah gazan in winnipeg centre, are both strong indigenous voices on the canadian political stage. seeing them succeed in these spaces is awesome to me.
oh am i forever triggered by how our last name is pronounced. i'm pretty sure the way i say it is on the "wrong" side.
desjarlais is prounced day-jhar-leh.
yeah exactly. you have people hard pronouncing day and jar

personally i'd prefer to see the cpp replaced with a guaranteed/basic income transfer to low  & middle income individuals/households and some sort of birthright savings fund based off what was [proposed]( by bill ackman. it would be more progressive since it would translate to an elimination of federal payroll taxes for low and middle income earners, which combined with more direct federal transfers to them would boost their disposable income in and outside of retirement.
[removed]
this is ordinary people paying into a pension, with their employer matching it. there is no public money involved. zero. most working people in this country 75% do not have a pension. so you want to take their hard earnings and give it to people who don’t work? nice try
[removed]
removed for rule 3.
>so you want to take their hard earnings and give it to people who don’t work? nice try
you are aware that to sustain itself the cpp requires a payroll tax that takes money from working people to subsidize people who don't work (retirees). the fund requires contributions from the working age population in the form of payroll taxes to keep the fund solvent so that recipients benefits are adequate. you're attacking one form of redistribution while defending the other solely based on whether the recipients are employed.
whether people work or not is redundant to how welfare and social transfers work. if anything, arbitrary stipulations and a myriad of programs that differentiate between those who work, those who don't, the elderly and disabled etc. is unnecessarily punitive and complicated.
likewise, you've gloss over the regressive aspects of a program like the cpp. if you're lower income, you pay a higher percentage of your total income into the cpp and you're statistically more likely to work longer and die younger while the payroll tax takes a more noticeable chunk out of your disposable income. if you chose to keep working past the age of the retirement, you're  also penalized by having your savings withheld etc. it doesn't mean that the program is all bad (it's clearly better than nothing and our fund is well managed), but in practice it's mainly a policy designed to serve the middle  and upper middle classes.
the other thing to consider is if benefits are equal or higher under the new system, then your argument that retirees are operating at a loss under the new system is unfounded since their benefits are being raised/maintained and the only change is that the tax system itself is more progressive and low/middle income people have more disposable income and more savings per capita. that's hardly a negative.
> so you want to take their hard earnings and give it to people who don’t work? nice try
i don't understand this comment. /u/godzilla52 clearly said low / middle income earners. if they are earning income, then surely they must be working? can you clarify?
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
"whether people work or not....is punitive and complicated." 
elderly, and diverse ability people can still contribute. however thee questions/concerns are
1) people who can and are able to work don't and yet are supported by the taxes that we are asked to pay and get increased.  where does the guaranteed income money come from?  is it $500 - $1000 a month cash deposit? why not just lower income-tax so people end up with more money in hand? 
2) cpp has been rumored to be in trouble for decades.  that with the aging popuation less people to contribute to the fund where will the increase in benefits to those who have supported us come from? 
it is and will forever be a balance of, if we paid less in taxes we would be able to have funds for rsp, and investing in our own retirement, while still tring to help those who need help. 
cerb seems to have shown that people (generalizing) would be content to just collect basic income and then do whatever the want all day.
yes you are right, i misread that part. he is still advocating for upping the pensions for those who earn less by transferring money to them from other sources. there are already two programs in place to meet that end. one being the old age security program and the guaranteed income supplement. the first being universal with a claw back mechanism and the second having a means test and only paid to those who qualify.
[removed]
please [message the moderators](/message/compose?to=%2fr%2fcanadapolitics) in order to discuss or dispute moderation actions -- in-thread replies will be removed.  this both avoids clutter and helps receive a prompt and considered response, since your message will be seen by all moderators rather than just ones viewing [this particular thread](
\--  
/u/joe_canadian
[removed]
removed for rule 2.
there have always been and always will be people content to do nothing, both rich and poor. if anything cerb has shown that 
a) if given the choice people would rather not work themselves to death 16 hours a day for little reward and that having some time for themselves is actually better for our health. 
b) minimum wage jobs are a joke and not nearly enough to live off. when 2k a month is enough to make people refuse to return then your pay structure might just be flawed.
biggest issue here is that you’re working under the assumption that there will always be more work available than the labour pool, specifically the unskilled labour pool, which is probably the most vulnerable. 
we’re constantly seeking ways to make our workforce more efficient, in low skilled positions we automate them away entirely. i wouldn’t be too surprised if in the coming decades we see a whole decline of low skilled workers in places like fast food, grocery stores, manufacturing, etc. we’ve seen it most commonly in manufacturing, but can also see it in grocery stores and fast food places with self check outs, etc. 
we have to be cognizant of the fact that employment for non skilled workers may not actually exist for the masses. this will both effect how cpp is handled and will also dictate a hell of a lot on how we need to handle ei or something like ubi. 
i’m right on board with you insofar as the rrsps are concerned; but they’re also contingent on people having work that pays them well enough to support an rrsp; or if you’re lucky work for a company that has matching plans. there’s been a huge issue with wage stagnation the past few decades and the result has been that a lot of people straight up can’t afford to contribute to an rrsp at all, or cannot contribute enough. 
i have a tfsa with private investments and two rrsps. one is sitting and growing with no further investment and the other in actively putting into; but i haven’t been able to really address my tfsa and those investments since july, and with the col increases it’s looking like i’ll have to start peeling back from my rrsp as well since my company has decided nobody needs raises this year. 
i suspect that in the next few decades we’re going to need a massive overhaul to every system where taxpayer money is involved in assisting people. covid has shown us a lot about the vulnerability of people across the board, and we’ve been going through decades of stagnant wage growth. something will give sooner or later, and if we aren’t ready to pivot on it we’re going to see a lot of social and civil unrest as a result, i suspect.
>**1-** people who can and are able to work don't and yet are supported by the taxes that we are asked to pay and get increased. where does the guaranteed income money come from? is it $500 - $1000 a month cash deposit? why not just lower income-tax so people end up with more money in hand?  
>  
>**2-** cpp has been rumored to be in trouble for decades. that with the aging popuation less people to contribute to the fund where will the increase in benefits to those who have supported us come from?
1. depends on the program. it could be anything from marginally revenue saving, to revenue neutral, to being slightly higher than what it would be accompanying/replacing.  the best place to start with such a program would likely be reforming and expanding something like canada workers benefit (which is basically a bastardized version of a [negative income tax - nit]( to function as a proper guaranteed/basic income scheme. this could be used to create anything from a ubi, a negative income tax, to something like the guaranteed income schemes that exist in france & germany etc. (though some of the smaller options might not be large/comprehensive enough on their own to justify replacing the cpp with them, though in that case they would still likely replace various smaller programs).
my preference would be a high end nit that would replace the majority of federal social transfers outside of the canada child benefit. it would have a $58,000 cad threshold adjusted for inflation and a 50% tax/benefit rate. how that would work is that everyone of working age and older below the nit threshold is exempt from tax and instead receives a monthly subsidy that's  combined annual value is half the threshold ($29,000 cad), effectively creating a set income floor for everyone in the country.
employed people below the threshold then pay an effective tax on their subsidy (their new new subsidy is the value of 50% of their income minus the full value of the subsidy) until they hit the $58,000 cad threshold and become effective taxpayers who pay a flat 50% tax on their income earned over the threshold (basically the same as the tax they were paying on their subsidy, which is 50% of their income minus a $29,000 exemption). the flat tax simplifies the income tax system lowering the administrative cost and cutting back on loopholes, but the threshold and exemption built into it makes the rate effectively progressive and makes the changes between effective rates virtually automatic, offering the best of both worlds in regards to both flat and progressive taxation.  how this looks in practice for effective rates is:
* someone who earns $0 receives $29,000 in benefits and pays no tax
* someone who earns $35,000 would receive $11,500 and pay no tax
* someone who earns $40,000 would receive $9,000 and pay no tax
* someone who earns $50,000 would receive $4,000 and pay no tax
* someone who earns $55,000 would receive $1,500 and pay no tax
* someone who just hits the $58,000 threshold or is slightly below it would receive no money from the government and pay no tax. (0%)
* someone who earns $65,000 pays $3,500 in tax (5.38%)
* someone who earns $70,000 pays $6,000 (8.57%)
* someone who earns $80,000 pays $11,000 (13.75%)
* someone who earns $90,000 pays $16,000 (17.7%)
* someone who earns $100,000 pays $21,000 (21%)
* someone who earns $120,000 pays $31,000 (25.8%)
* someone who earns $200,000 pays $71,000 (35.5%)
* someone who earns $250,000 pays $96,000 (38.4%)
* someone who earns $300,000 pays $121,000 (40.3%)
* someone who earns $350,000 pays $146,000 (41.7%)
* someone who earns $400,000 pays $171,000 (42.75%)
* someone who earns $450,000 pays $196,000 (43.55%)
though for canada, you'd likely have to tweak this slightly to adjust for higher top provincial tax rates, so there'd likely be a flat 21-27.7% cap placed on income over $100,000-130,000 cad so that the top marginal federal rates would remain about the same etc. the majority of canadians under this system would pay significantly less income tax, while people earning between $80,000-130,000 cad would be paying about the same that they're currently paying in combined federal income and payroll taxes.
>that with the aging popuation less people to contribute to the fund where will the increase in benefits to those who have supported us come from?
looking at federal expenditures  2019/20, the nit itself would cost around $240-270 billion cad and would replace between $225-260 billion in federal expenditures during that fiscal year, making total annual federal expenditures under the new program somewhere between $383-418 billion per year, or 16.6 to 18% of gdp in 2019/20, pre-covid (compared to the $373.5 billion/16.16% of gdp spent in 2019/20) depending on overall spending preferences.
for revenues, the government would loose a maximum of around $50-70 billion in income tax revenue  for a high end nit, but a federal land value tax, that collected the total value of 3-5% of the total value of land in canada (around 4.2 trillion in 2019 and would generate between $126-210 billion in revenue for the federal government, meaning that the government would generate between  $394.8-478.8 billion baring tax reductions in other areas (which would likely occur in this case due to the overly large surplus). likewise, if revenue cuts in other areas still resulted in marginal deficits, that could be covered by eliminating gst exemptions, which would generate another $23 billion.
though keep in mind that this is the most extreme/comprehensive version that would greatly overhaul the federal welfare system as whole. there's less ambitious forms of this that would keep the majority of programs intact (including cpp) with a smaller guaranteed/basic income program that would replace fewer federal programs.



for you ontario dwellers, i like to use the example of the trent-severn canal. a lot of people know it exists, but few people know its troubled construction history. it had been a project long on the cards, first proposed after american independence and then had its strategic importance reconfirmed during the war of 1812. but when construction started in 1833, it was obsolete before it began. three years previous george stephenson had built the first intercity railway between liverpool and manchester. the canal builders had not realized the world had already left them behind. various issues delayed construction, and construction lapsed into a seemingly-permanent
hiatus.
it eventually got finished during world war i because of all the convict labour we had lying around, but it never truly served its purpose for military or commercial navigation. ultimately it functioned better as electricity generation and for recreational boaters.
is the 413 and other planned highways our generation's trent-severn? are we going to commit so much money and despoil so much of our prime farmland for something that father time may have already passed by?
i think, in politics especially, we need to understand that it is difficult to get a man to understand when his future consulting/board seat job salary depends on him not understanding. 
politicians have cultivated an image of stupidity which allows them to escape financial scrutiny
[removed]
auto-generated, non-mobile link: 
*i am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/canadapolitics) if you have any questions or concerns.*
false choice. roads are a provincial responsibility. they move goods and services and people. by all means plan the superbus that levitates and runs on atmospheric carbon but in the meantime, it’s fine to invest billions in local construction, most of which will return to the local economy. imo
[removed]
yeah i think we're gonna build that highway anyway. surely this will fix congestion once and for all... wait hold on that was what i had written down for the 407.
*ahem* yeah i think we're gonna build that highway anyway. surely this will fix congestion once and for all.
removed for rule 3.
> it’s fine to invest billions in local construction, most of which will return to the local economy.
[citation needed]
really. roads are super-duper expensive over their lifetime, especially roads built to that kind of spec. it's actually shockingingly difficult to estimate how much economic impact a highway like that would have (especially if you're not an economist and care about how this works in the real world). 
if we want to move goods & people around, let's build more rail.
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
i’d love to live in a canada where people and business embrace rail and that the rail is competitive with driving yourself.
oh come on. 
oh fine. 
“the meta-analysis confirms that broad measures of public infrastructure have a positive and significant effect on economic outcomes, and that highways have such an effect on productivity and
output specifically.” 
highway infrastructure and the economy: implications for federal policy
howard j. shatz
karin e. kitchens
sandra rosenbloom
martin wachs
now, are there other factors to consider? sure. is this the right use of these resources at this time? maybe not. 
but are good roadways in general helpful to people and economies? i think so
[removed]
the long investment money is on rail, and has been for some time. gates didn't go into rail by accident.
i'm not saying they are a net drag on the economy -- they've been a technology we've been leaning on for some time. there *is* a reason why i've tried to carve out a career in the area. 
my immediate pushback is that the billions will immediately go back to "local economies". it's lazy as hell and totally obscures the entire point of the discussion: whether or not *this* highway is worth building on *that* route at this time. some of that money will certainly be spread around differently -- who owns what property along these proposed routes? how much of that money actually goes back to the locals? 
using folksy "local economy" pleas is just so grating for me in this context. we're subsidizing development projects for some very elite people in the province.
[removed]
like i said, it would be great to invent and adopt some maglev snowpiercer
1.)  very bold choice of adjective there.
2.) i was wondering if any one had any recommendations for books, papers about canadian national identity. i posted a question about this in askhistorians but it appears that it will be washed away by the tide.
[
3.) what is the reaction in canada to the queckers that are complaining that a native american gg doesn't know french? i feel like this shouldn't be to surprising. coming from the us, i can't imagine of anyone saying "well why doesn't that cherokee person know english?! they have plenty of time to" in a public forum---internet or irl---without it being really controversial, if not it be a really awkward line  to walk. like "native-descent women criticized for not speaking european language" just...yeah...
3.5) does has this discourse caused any discussion about the nature of the canadian government's bilingual policy, i.e. expanding it to maybe include some native languages (and maybe to even support them a lot more)?
can anybody tell me what the deal with thehub.ca is, and where their bias seems to be? 
a friend sent me an opinion piece from them yesterday and i was wondering what their bias is, but google didn’t have an easily available answer and i don’t feel like doing a deep dive into their articles just to check.
"two solitudes" by hugh maclennan would be the classic answer to the canadian identity question, but it's over 50 years old, so maybe there's something new out there.
anglo canada has basically ignored the inability of our current gg to speak french, in part due to her history, and lack of access to learning resources as a kid, as well as her promise to remedy the problem.
expanding the official languages policy to fn would be a challenge. the nwt has 14 official languages, and that's rather unwieldy, and only a slice of what it would talk to replicate at the national level.
re 2), misconceiving canada by kenneth mcroberts is one of the classics, at least in a poli sci perspective.
the last question and a half are way too complex to wade into in a reddit comment, but as far as book recommendations go, i highly recommend [the strange demise of british canada]( an excellent and comprehensive look at how canadian identity shifted in the 20th century. peter brimelow's [the patriot game]( was also very influential among members of the canadian right wing in the 1980s, notably stephen harper.
given the backgrounds of [their editors]( you could safely assume they have a center-right perspective on canadian politics.
i have no clue about their bias but this line "the hub’s mission is to create and curate news" has me not trusting them one bit. journalists are supposed to report the news not create it. yes, i get that choosing what to report, does in effect, create what is news, but the way it's written here, i don't trust them to not just decided "x will be the story" and to then start creating news about it. kinda like elliot carver in tomorrow never dies.
the hub provides commentary from the perspective of conservative intellectuals.

i wonder where pspp will run next year. it seems like his safest bet is if berube steps down in gaspésie and makes way which he made clear he will never do. and some people are saying gaspésie being a safe pq riding is not because of the pq but because they like bérubé, just like how alexandre boulerice hangs on to rosemont despite the ndp collapse
[sort of rene levesques old riding. closest thing to a safe seat for the pq]( which is not very safe considering they won with  only 30% of the vote. the caq and qs has slowly been eating into the pq vote from the right  and left. the caq came within a few hundred votes of taking it last time. it's the last seat in the montreal for the pq. the pq mna jumped ship and ran for mayor of longueil and won recently. this seems like a hail mary  for both the pq and nantel. if the qs takes this riding next election you can kiss the pq good bye.
rimouski would be the most logical riding if he goes the eastern/northern quebec route. 
or maybe he could stand a chance in a three-way race in [bourget]( richard campeau isn't exactly a pillar of the caq.
that sounds consistent for gaspésie. they grow attached to charismatic local elected officials rather than partisan affiliation.
you can see this at the federal level with diane lebouthillier winning three times in a riding that the liberals really have little business winning once. but they love her there.
100% true for bérubé, he is only holding on due to his name and not for party appeal
the party has been losing touch of it’s identity since parizeau
as long that the liberal doesn’t win, it doesn’t matter in the end.
unlike other areas of quebec that are quite smitten by caq, gaspésie is still pq vs liberal
it's lost its identity since levesque. it came with the boomers and it will go with them.

> meanwhile, lukashenko has sowed mayhem beyond belarus’s borders. he recently allowed thousands of middle east migrants into the country and directed them towards the borders with poland, lithuania and latvia
weaponization of migrants.  that’s wild. 
it’s good that belarus has since sent everyone back to syrian and iraq, but i doubt we’ve heard the end of this.
he does this stuff all the time. next time he feels slighted by his neighbours it'll be some other petty fuck-game played with human lives.
>weaponization of migrants. that’s wild.
i think turkey does this too. it's worrying that it's starting to become "a thing".
yes turkey has threatened to open the flood gates to migrants. human traffickers and turkey make good money off migrants and their end goal is to destabilize europe.
its quite breathtaking how belarus and turkey see migration as a tool to destabilize europe yet the left tells us mass migration enriches us.



this article offers literally no solutions other than the nonsensical suggestion to allow reformation of a lake. we could actually have infrastructure to maintain this important agricultural land without frequent flood risks instead of opting for a lake that would prevent developments in a _massve_ area around it. one of the major reasons sumas lake was drained was because of just how much suface area it would cover after heavy rainfall.
why not point at governments and municipalities failing to address the risks instead of platforming this inane suggestion? i'm honestly tired of seeing support for such a blatant fallacious appeal to nature that would destroy a lot of people's lives.
another problem is that this farmland is among some of the best in the country.  the land in such areas is often more suitable for growing fruits and vegetables compared to the prairies.  the same could be said of very fertile farmlands such as the holland marsh area of southern ontario too which has flooded in the past.
we can't really replace this farmland with other land and we've developed the vast majority of land that's easily suitable for farming.  much to my dismay we're not decreasing the amount of people we'll need to feed.
>  i'm honestly tired of seeing support for such a blatant fallacious appeal to nature that would destroy a lot of people's lives.
it's not nice to say, but unfortunately the modern environmentalist movement contains a pretty significant luddite element that is often its own worst enemy.
immigration will be up to 400k plus yearly... definitely the number of mouths to feed is growing

>but former montreal canadiens enforcer georges laraque said the province missed the mark with the committee's make-up, which he said works against its goals.  "how could you be attracting minorities to come and play hockey if there's no representation of them in the group that's trying to do so?" laraque asked. "if there's no representation, it's not going to change anything."  laraque said convincing more kids to play hockey won't be achieved through attracting more quebecers — "hockey is always going to be in their genes," he said — but rather through enticing new immigrants. he said newcomers are currently deterred from picking up the sport due to lack of representation and longstanding issues with racism in hockey.
what laracque is saying is  true, but the main problem is expense. the equipment is expensive, and icetime is rare, especially in dense  urban immigrant neighbourhoods where one rink serves thousands of children. even there, prime icetime is dominated by elite teams.
also, try schlepping equipment and kids on public transit if you can't  afford a car. it's not happening.
at the mcgill rink in montreal, the university rents  equipment (except sticks and skates) and washes it at the rink for people in the intramurals  programs so everyone can play. this is for adults. why isn't this done for kids who outgrow their equipment quickly? if the government is going to subsidize hockey, this is where it should be done.
[legaults plan to subsidize the salaries of millionaire nhl players for a team in quebec  is disgusting.](
>"the premier talked about soliciting quebec investors to form a consortium so it's not just one group that would bring the nordiques back, and they also discussed how the government may consider investing their own capital in the project as well, this probably in the neighbourhood of a billion dollars."
we went throught his with harper a decade ago. no way people will accept taxpayers subsidizing millionaires.
>they also discussed how the government may consider investing their own capital in the project as well, this probably in the neighbourhood of a billion dollars."
so then the province will own a billion worth of the team and project right? 
if not get out of here with that garbage, millionaires/billionaires can fund their own toys as even with taxes provinces don't make that money back.
i think the better question is whether the quebec government—or *any* government—should be investing public resources into trying to engineer the composition of the workforce in a non-essential, private, for-profit industry.
hockey is fun to play and watch, but the nhl exists to sell beer and trucks and viagra, not to serve as the foundation for a civic religion.
[removed]
so what's the argument? that a token person from every imaginable minority group be part of every committee? this narrowminded attitude is destroying society. 
this group is made up of québecois pro hockey players, male and female. they were chosen because of their experience, not because of their colour. they should have the ability to come up with an inclusive strategy to attract more youth to the sport.
if your parents didn't grow up playing hockey and came from a country where hockey isn't really played then they're probably not watching the nhl on tv so that means the young kids probably aren't watching it either. so first off they don't have nearly the interest that a child who are a couple generations into being canadian. then you have the cost factor. hockey is expensive. also i have no stats to back this up but i'm going to guess more kids get hurt playing hockey than soccer so it's probably in the parents eyes a lot more dangerous. then we have the getting up at 3:30 am to get your kid to the rink at 5am so they can play before the bigger kids play. hockey has a lot of barriers to entry. i've never personally played it because i grew up dirt poor and i'm pretty sure my race had nothing to do with it since i'm white af. though go ahead and beat the diversity drum about something that isn't remotely racist. it'll just make hockey worse for everyone.
why is the government studying this? do they also study other sports? this should be under hockey canada or it’s branch hockey quebec. hockey as a whole needs reform, the idea that teams own kids playing rights is absolutely crazy.
it's just to most caq thing to make a committee of 15 people and not include a single non-white person. 
they'll play the victim card when the news hits them and deplore all the "wokes", when they are just the ones really out of touch.
i'm not sure if you have ever watched french quebec tv, but there is no diversity. what makes this any different? that's just how it is.
on the other hand, look at the men's national soccer team - tons of 1st and 2nd generation canadians, many having roots in caribbean countries that aren't known for their success in the sport. but soccer is dirt cheap for kids to play casually, and it's still way cheaper to get kids into leagues than ice hockey. for immigrants soccer is outright the better, and occasionally the only viable sports choice for their kids. 
also understated is that ice hockey not only is low-profile in most of the world, but also pretty appalling for people not used to physical team sports. the concept of paying out of your ass only to have your kids get their asses kicked day in and out... isn't very appealing if you don't grow with, or into it.
pretty fucking ironic, considering the caq wouldn't exist if it wasn't for the then's pq blatant corruption in trying to get a hockey stadium built in quebec city.
how quick the tables turn. :/
the sport of hockey is the *de facto* national sport of canada though. i don't see it as any more objectionable than, say, the crtc subsidizing canadian music and film and setting francophone, female, gay/lesbian, indigenous, or visible-minority representation as grounds for greater funding. (there is a case that none of these should be subsidized, and that the government shouldn't be concerned with the composition of the workforce in them even if they are subsidized, of course ... but this just seems like the extension of the canadian heritage system to sport)
there is the business, and then there is the game.
the game of hockey will grow (minorities included) when kids participate, learn to skate, become involved in minor hockey, and realize how much fun it is. that is how each and every one of us older-generation folks became interested/involved in the game, and i am willing to bet that not a single one of us cared a whit about the colour of the skin of the senior people that were running hockey canada at the time. there is nothing about this current controversy that is any different from that.
want to get more minorities involved in hockey? then introduce them to the folks running minor hockey in your community, maybe take some of their kids to learn to skate, and show their parents where they can get some good second-hand equipment. that will make a real difference in who plays the game going forward.
[removed]
removed for rule 3.
your argument lacks substance and doesn't really adress the issue.
structural racism is a huge problem in qubec hockey, in particular anti-black and anti-indigenous racism:
* [
* [
* [
* [
which one of legault's hand-picked committee members has experience and expertise in  adressing this issue? which one of these members has more experience and expertise in the issue, say, than georges laracque, who i quoted above?
that "token" person is going to have experience that no other white person can have. to know why immigrant communities don't like hockey as much it kind of helps to have someone who's actually experienced it.
the argument is that non-white people are, because of their own experiences, more knowledgeable about the barriers that non-white people face in society; and therefore, for a committee whose mission includes improving minority representation in sports, being a member of a minority group is actually a legitimate asset that qualifies you do the job better. it's not just doing affirmative action for show to fill a quota instead of picking the most qualified people.
the idea is that canada is becoming more diverse. however many new immigrants are not interested in hockey. as canada becomes more diverse, interest in hockey will continue to decline and if the trend continues, one day it may no longer be the most popular sport in canada or in quebec. so the quebec government is trying to generate interest in hockey from the immigrant community.
this is not so much about helping minorities as it is about ensuring that quebec and white canadian culture continues to persist. it is a form of cultural protectionism. 
the problem is how can you market something to a group if you have no one at the table from that group? it would be like if a group of men tried to market a product to women without consulting them. inevitably they would have to lean on stereotypes and it probably would not end well. so ensuring a diverse committee would probably help the committee reach their goals more so than an all-white committee.

we should monitor and be very interested in any arrest of a journalist by police as freedom of the press is important for a healthy democracy.
that said the article and report itself is a bit confused - they claim the police are refusing to release the individuals and it's a violation of their rights.
yet the article clearly also states they have been detained by a judge.  so the police held a bail hearing as required where the accused had legal counsel and   went before a judge.  it was a judge who ordered them to stay behind bars, which itself is also very notable since one would assume their counsel would have made a point of them being journalists.
so, them being remanded over till monday is a decision by the courts, not the police.
i’ve been trying to follow this as best as i am able.  i’m not going to go into my views on the issue or who’s right or wrong. 
i will say that regardless of that, i am troubled by the lack of media coverage. 
i find myself asking why we don’t have more on-site coverage from larger media publications such as the cbc, the globe and mail, etc.
it’s seems like it’s always reporters from smaller outlets that are up there and being arrested.
this is a total gift to all the countries canada tries to lecture on freedom of the press, freedom of expression, etc. and for what? so the government doesn't have to deal with another [photo like this?]( so canadians don't have to be uncomfortable with the idea that a pipeline is being built at gunpoint in their name?
regardless of how you feel about wet'suwet'en or even pipelines in general, we should be appalled that we are a country that arrests journalists to prevent coverage that makes the government look bad. canada is not the country we portray it to be.
two things
1. regardless of the what your opinion of the either side of the issue, or the conduct of the protests, the rcmp is pretty well known for being heavy handed and have a very liberal interpretation of their ability to detain journalists.
2. i'm fairly skeptical of how complete a picture of this matter we get from journalism that's very close to  the protesters and the hereditary tribal leadership, while comparatively little attention is being given to the elected leadership and the views of the wider tribal population. i'm not questioning the objectivity of professional journalists on what they are looking at directly, but the objectivity on focusing on one to the exclusion of the other suggests we get a skewed perspective. the peril of this is we get takes like "stand with the wet'suwet'en" and i have to wonder, which ones in particular, because it seems like you are actually standing with one group of wet'suwet'en that disagree with another set.
it's extremely difficult to sympathize with the pipeline workers when the rcmp goes out and does things like these, restricting the press' right to cover events freely and without worry of censorship. to be fair, the rcmp has always had a cruddy history with (non-indian act established communities of) indigenous people and they probably don't want too many "nosey" journalists investigating what's going on behind the curtains. still, the rcmp is responsible for being clear and accountable.
it's a bit complicated as people were ordered out. if everyone, including journalists are ordered to leave, they must go. the line has to be drawn somewhere as to where it's reasonable to cover news. look at rebel news in montreal, they were blatantly violated covid lockdown rules in the guise of journalism and we're arrested. if you defend these journalists, you must defend them as well.
if the journalists are independent of the protesters, why are they being represented by the same legal counsel?
[deleted]
[removed]
it's a growing issue.  when we ignore state action like these it emboldens the state to misuse its power in other ways.  the article below is worth review.
[removed]
they may have updated the article since you read it, but it says they are being transported to prince george for a bail hearing on monday. 
i didn’t see anywhere that it says they are being detained by a judge.
this is intresting i cant wait to hear more. hopefully we do hear more... there needs to be more transparency.
the fact a judge signed off is meaningless.
[removed]
i am going to try and say this very carefully as i am asking a question not trying to start a fight. what are the actual rules for journalists when covering something like this? do they have to be at a distance? what if they are standing in the crowd of protesters? if they are adding to a situation instead of simply reporting and fail to follow rcmp direction should they be arrested?  i don’t imagine being a journalist is a get out of jail free card. oh the other side what recourse do these journalists have if they can prove they were acting in good faith and the rcmp were overstepping. the rcmp are enforcing a court order, but that isn’t a get out of jail free card either.  and even then the rcmp are following orders made by someone who isn’t actually there and that can’t be easy either…. what a mess.
>i am troubled by the lack of media coverage
huh? this story has been reaching the top of the news cycle once every for weeks for a couple years now. it is getting lots of coverage.
because cbc is corrupt and journalism is dead
edit: i have since learned that the person i saw in the video is **not** likely to be one of the two media arrested.    
i may be wrong about this but...     
in the video i watched of this incident at least one journalist (it seemed) was actively involved with the protest; even speaking for/representing the protesters.     
it is entirely possible for a journalist to be a protester and it would be entirely wrong for said protester to claim journalistic freedom **in that case**.     
again, **i am not sure this was the case** as the video was vague about it.    
the better question however, is "is it right to arrest the protesters?".

a full article comprised of an ad hominem attack.  they don't dispute anything we has said, just that they received complaints before it aired.
sounds like they know they were wrong but don't want to have to put out a retraction.
this article seems a bit weird. 
like we’re supposed to be upset that supporters of we sent their own letters asking them not to publish or saying that as donors they don’t think they’ve been wronged. 
the only concerning letter was from kenya having we cc’d but seeing as that was from the government and was related to trespassing on we property it kinda makes sense. 
and the fact that this was sent before it was published doesn’t mean much either. it’s not like the investigation was unknown.

local ndp-liberal-green candidates actually influence my vote, but my vote is usually strategic given that the bloc and conservatives  are both strong in my riding.  a lot francophone ridings are like this in quebec. 
in quebec, the vote is regionalized. in montreal, it's mostly the ndp and liberals fighting for the centre-left vote and the bloc and conservatives try to come up the middle in specific ridings where they have some concentrated support. near quebec city, the conservatives are strong and fight it out with the liberals and bloc for that centre right-vote.   
in rural areas, the vote is so fragmented that i'd say the bandwagon effect is huge and decisive. a lot of more ideological people might find this sad, but a lot of people vote for the pork a candidate can bring in, so the local candidate is important. it's more important on the provincial level becasue ridings correspond provincially to local county governments  (i.e. mrc), and they are responsible for distributing povincial money to municipalities.
to me this is perfectly legitimate though, because the main job of an mp is to take care of their constituents
this is a topic near and dear to my heart. i like to go to my local all candidates meetings. this is not always easy. they are written about afterwards but not so much advertised.  just like the article said hardly anybody shows up and they are all committed voters. i don't even know how they knew. nothing on the candidates websites, no adverts, really annoying. i want to see who these people are, how they handle themselves, how well they speak, what they think we want to know and being able to answer a few questions is good too.  knocking on apartment doors is all very nice but for those of us in houses who have never (exception lincoln alexander in about 1971) had a candidate at their door, the all candidates may be the only time we can see them in action.
if you look at municipal politics, less then half of potential voters turn up to the polls. in suburban areas it's more like one quarter. canadians are showing that they feel there is little they can do or change in their local communities, so there are no real local bases of power.
who is actually being sent to these parliaments? political lackeys, not community leaders. the power they hold is because of their status in the party. a recipe for exile to the back benches if you rock the boat. making these local debates an utter waste of time.
the constituency system was designed around candidates having to trek to ottawa/their provincial capital via horse and buggy. no phones, no e-mail. our society has changed significantly since then. it's time we moved to a system that is more modern and more representative of what politics actually is in this country.
i would have assumed it was to get to know our local representatives and ask them tough questions, but the title of this article raises another question - why do we still bother with local representatives?  after all, the most significant thing they will do in parliament is vote how the party whip tells them to.
such as?
because local candidates enables accountability in ways that party-list systems do not. bad politicians can be targeted by specific campaigns to defeat them, thus removing their influence from government; eg: as stephen lecce is now fearing in the next election from his terrible handling of the education file.
in a party-list system, you can't make an argument against a single candidate, you must make an argument against an entire party to defeat bad politicians. bad politicians like lecce for example, are often political cronies who receive support from the highest levels of the party. 
with a party list system, cronies like lecce have free reign as they are always put at the top of the list. 
with a regional system, sure, they can be parachuted into safe ridings, but there is a limited number of safe ridings available to a party and that can cause internal strife when other members are displaced.
tl;dr the accountability advantages from localized politicians are huge and we would be well-advised to not discard them.
the liberal mp for orleans lobbies the lpc to pay 50% the extension of ottawa’s stage 2 lrt from place d’orleans station to trim station (1 extra station and 4 km more rail, linking to a massive park and ride). an opc mpp lobbied the ford government to pay 50% of the cost to extend stage 2 of ottawa’s lrt to riverside south and the ottawa airport. 
while it’s true that back benchers typically vote along party lines, they’re also the ones who help define what the party line is in the first place. it’s not like trudeau or o’toole can say and do whatever they want, and their parties must bend the knee and kiss the ring. it doesn’t work like that. 
leadership and backbenchers discuss what they want in private, and there are often compromises made. once that’s done, they come out to the public with a unified position. it gives the appearance that the leader simply dictates what they want, and everyone else does that they want, but that’s not the reality.
the votes get a lot media attention because they're easy to report on if you're lazy/busy, but they're not very important within the role of mps.
honestly the rooms where debates are had, from my 10+ years of campaign exp, are 90% partisans who already know who they're voting for who've been asked to come to stack the room. then you've got like 5 in the audience who are trying to make up their minds. 
contrast that with my ability to hit more than 5 doors in 2 hours and answer lots of tough questions... the math just doesn't work. it's less democratic as you talk to fewer people and can't have those conversations. or this is the conclusion i've come to anyways.
open party list proportional representation
i mean, this cuts both ways. "bad politicians" can remain in office long past their sell-by date because they remain locally popular. (see, e.g., brad trost).
also, i don't think place of residence defines our identities to anywhere the same extent today as it did when our democratic institutions were created. so, even if we accept that maintaining constituencies is still important for accountability purposes, it is not at all clear that these constituencies should continue to be geographically defined.
i'd argue an open list system allows these bad mps/candidates to be ousted better especially when they are ministers making decisions for the whole country/province.
in the current only that local riding's voters can affect this minister's ability to be an mp.
an open system can be designed to allow voters to give a negative or positive rating to the candidates they prefer.
i'm not aware of a country as diverse and decentralized as ours, including those with pr systems, that has done away with local representation, and i think you'd find a ton of resistance to that idea among the general populace
ok, then if i need someone to help me with dealing with the federal government, who do i talk to? with an open party list, there is no way to point to an mp, and say "they're mine, they have to help me" nor for an mp to say "yes you're my constituent, i must help you." with mps tied to ridings, like they are now, that link is indisputable, and can't be dodged.
> i'd argue an open list system allows these bad mps/candidates to be ousted better
how? does a party list system mean that they pick who gets a seat based on their position on the list, so if they're someone like lecce, they're going to be high up, and the only way to boot them would be to ensure the entire party does poorly? the way it is now, we only need about 100k (or fewer) people to make the call.
that’s true, and when people offer pr they aren’t suggesting eliminating local representation. you can be like ireland where you can have 3-5 representatives per riding, or chile where you have 3-8
you just fend for yourself or hope a bureaucracy can save you, of course.
… you just contact one of the mp’s for your riding, except you’ll have more than 1 to choose from. so it would be the same except you have more choice as to which representative you feel like would take your concern more seriously
no, an open list system is where you vote for candidates and how many votes they receive determine how high or low they are on the list when seats are distributed. so in lecce’s case if he gets few votes on the list he ends up lower and can be denied a seat. if he gets enough votes to get a seat he has actual support in his riding, same as he would now. no system is better or worse at removing “bad” politicians, it all comes down to the voters who more often than not do not care of a politician is “bad” (which is subjective anyway) but instead on what party label they have or what ideology they profess in the case on non-partisan elections
edit: a good example of this is finland which uses a open list system and throws out politicians all the time

as the article mentions - big data is key in politics these days.
the cpc used to have an advantage in this area for many years while they were in government. once trudeau, and more specifically katie telford, came along, the lpc took massive leaps in the data game (liberalist) and the cpc slowly started to neglect their data software (cims).
this really shows in those close ridings - where accurate data used properly can give you that tiny advantage to win over enough voters to claim the victory.
it’s one of the aspects of politics in the 21st century that i very much enjoy.
local elections aren't making a "comeback", they never left in the first place. yes, liberalist definitely makes our organizing a lot more targeted and efficient, but the liberals were still doing doorknocking and phone-banking and lawn signs on local campaigns before that.
i don't know that there's ever been an election where it was solely the central headquarters and no offices for the individual candidates, it honestly would sound a bit absurd as someone who's worked on local liberal campaigns for 6 years now.
where in the article did they ever claim there was a time where there was no offices for candidates....
by definition, a comeback implies that something was gone.

if you put these numbers in the 338canada simulator you get- 
47 pc
47 lib 
29 ndp
top-line numbers:
* 34% - pc
* 31% - liberal
* 26% - ndp
* ??% - green
* ??% - other
> the online poll surveyed 1,001 ontarians aged 18 and over through leger’s online panel between nov. 12 and 14 [...] margin of error of plus or minus 3.1 per cent.
this doesn't account for ontario's version of the ppc party that was newly formed. even if they siphon 2-3% votes from the conservatives, they're in serious trouble with how close the margins are.
i don't even have children and i will say that if ford wants my vote he'd better sign a childcare deal with the feds. enough posturing. 
he knows he needs more votes if he wants a majority, well he'd better earn them
i think the pcs can still form a slim majority at 34%, maybe even 33.5%, as they can win off of vote splitting in crucial areas and the 905 like last time. i think they will win between 55-65 seats honestly.
these are good numbers for the olp, the abc effect can easily put them in the 34%-35%. 34-35% should be enough for a liberal government
if the pcs actually form a government again i will have lost all hope in the ontario electorate. ford's lack of leadership during the worst days of the covid pandemic was beyond pathetic.
i don't understand why the liberals given how irrelevant they are right now; are going up the polls.  is it really just blind popularity?
i align as a centrist as well but i wish people weren't so blind with their votes.
[removed]
the pcs have a very efficient vote - in reality, the topline numbers in this poll likely put the pcs close to a majority.
this isn't accounting for the massive pc lead in the gta. it could be a lot closer to 60 pc and 34 lib because of the pc's lead in the gta.
if it ends up like that, we get a ford minority government (existing government gets first crack at reforming a government first before the opposition can elect to try)... so that would be really interesting to see who the ndp supports in that case.
> ??% - ndp
ndp numbers are included as well:
> the poll found that 39 per cent of people had a favourable impression of ndp leader andrea horwath, but that only translated to 26 per cent of the vote, which is down from 28 per cent in march 2021.
i love that the margin of error is exactly the amount needed to put the second-place party ahead.
that segment of voter might also be split between the oppc and the new blue party. that being said, the oppc might have to get creative with a new name - the [peoples political party]( is already registered as a party name, and has been since 2011.
maybe in the cities. rural areas can afford to shed some voters and still trounce the liberals.
[removed]
he'll eventually take the money, he just wants to show he's "fighting for ontarians". parents will have to wait until his poll numbers show that posturing working, though.
no way ford forms a majority with these numbers. people keep going on about how the opc’s have an efficient vote, but you’re forgetting that the olp has an even more efficient vote than both the ondp and opc. an efficient vote is great when you’re winning, tying or slightly losing the popular vote, but if you get absolutely slaughtered in the popular vote, you lose even more seats than usual with an efficient vote. that’s why the olp was completely gutted in 2018, their vote efficiency is off the charts!
now if the olp is down by 3%, they could easily win the same amount of seats as ford, even as much as 5-10 seats more than ford.

lmao..... *snorts*
there are so many reasons this is guaranteed to be a car crash that i just can't even begin to list them all. she's a mess.
delusion.... thy name be danielle smith.
hopefully she learned from her mistakes in 2012 and puts her picture somewhere else on her campaign bus.
i'm actually a bit surprised by this. she strikes me as being more concerned with easy money these days, and pontificating from the sidelines and getting paid for it seems more her style. unless of course that this is just a way to raise her profile as leverage for a higher paying gig.
from another [news article yesterday](
>former wildrose leader danielle smith was among those pushing to bring the j&j vaccine to alberta. in september, smith flew to phoenix, ariz., to get the one-dose vaccine there, as it was not available in canada at the time.
>"it just seemed to make the most sense for me to have a single shot, so that i'd be able to get back to my life very quickly," she said.
wow! she is just dumb with a capitol d.
she actually verbalized the idea that flying to another country for a vaccine was somehow easier and less disruptive to her life than 2 15 minute visits to her local pharmacy.
she sounds like a walking beaverton article. how could anyone decide to vote for this person?
a lot of what she said in recent years plus her political past is going to be used against her if she is the ucp leader in the next election. it might even be used against her in a ucp leadership race.
"i would feel like that if the position was open i would have to run,"
her statement isn't as explicit as the title suggests. i suspect she's just floating the idea for now to see if it gets a positive response.
after the debacle in 2015, i am surprised to hear she will run.  i thought she had moved on from politics permanently.
having said that, smith and jean aren't exactly mainstream improvements from kenney and, at this point, i hope he can win the leadership review and continue as premier.
i have never voted for him and despise his politics but at least he believes in vaccines and, hesitantly, restrictions to keep the pandemic under control.
crap. between her and jean, now i actually have to hope that kenney gets to keep his job. being an albertan can be so damn frustrating.
i fee like smith's burnt a lot of bridge across multiple bases. she was completely inaccessible to the centrist/urban wings of conservative voters in alberta in the 2012 election while the socon elements view her as a traitor  after her defection to prentice pc's in 2015. so she's basically in a position where both of the party's bases are going to simultaneously view her with distain for different reasons.
probably the best leadership option the upc could hope for right now is jean since he was generally popular and well respected by both wings of the party, while his decision to abandon socially conservative policies and talking points  as wrp gave him more centrist appeal. the ucp basically needs to nullify it's hardline wrp elements and maintain a liberal stance on social issues like the pc's before them to maintain urban support, without which it likely won't win the next election.
they potentially have the ability to de-kenny/wrp themselves by 2023-24, but the window on that gets smaller the longer that kenny or hardline wrp style candidate stays in power.
wow.  she worships christy clark from bc.  she takes her orders,  and pushes the talking points all day on the worst version of talk radio, just like christy.
shes female, attractive,  can tow the line and speak in political gobblygook and make money doing it.
wolf in sheeps clothing, except its her backers that are the wolf and she has no teeth.
xd  oh, wow. that... that just sums it up perfectly.
lol. i forgot all about that.
ill advised political ventures is kind of her brand.
our government went to lengths to have the j&j shot available here since they said people who were vaccine hesitant would take this one. well they got it, but: [despite alberta's pleas for single-dose johnson & johnson vaccine, uptake is slow](

> “today, out of an abundance of caution and transparency, we are informing the public that our team was made aware that richard lehoux, a member of the conservative caucus tested positive for covid-19,” conservative opposition whip blake richards said in a statement.
isn't the "abundance of caution" line for when you're isolating after being exposed to covid, not when you're symptomatic and positive? it's not really an abundance of caution at this point, it's the bare minimum.
hope he makes a full recovery!
[removed]
[removed]
removed for rule 3.
removed for rule 3.

clickbait much... the only time the article mentions the $80b is in this paragraph:
“in 2019, the last year for which the oecd has published full data, rich countries raised nearly $80 billion as part of their climate financing pledge. most of this was either in the form of bilateral funds—loans or grants from one government to another—or multilateral public funds, whereby developed countries channeled their money through international banks or climate funds. the money is intended to help developing countries both mitigate the effects of climate change—including investing in cleaner energy sources—as well as adapt to a harsher climate.
 even many multilateral funding efforts can only be slotted into broad categories: agricultural development, for example, or disaster risk reduction. as a result, schalatek said, “there’s less data accuracy, more guesswork.”
see how it all plays out over the next 5 years, there should be an oversight committee on how these funds are spent and where they go. there are always criminals looking to profit, protection from that is warranted.
obviously not enough was spent on crisis prevention and response preparation for climate change related extreme weather events, and infrastructure upgrades for the same.
[removed]
billions of dollars evaporating into a vast network of ngos whose sole function is as a jobs program for overproduced elites… who could have seen this coming?!
i know exactly where it went.
into the pockets of corrupt leaders, politicians, their cronies. 
now can i have some of that $80 billion to keep my mouf shut?
[deleted]
> see how it all plays out over the next 5 years
lets give the fraudsters another 5 years of freeplay and hope for the best?
> obviously not enough was spent
what is the solution? shovel more money down the black accounting hole and hope for the best?
[removed]
rule 3
reading the article is free you know.
read the article.
oh look another armchair transhumanist who can't read the article
what amazes me is that so many people think that the carbon tax is the singular, best solution. how did so many people blindly come to that conclusion? how come i haven't heard a single person run the actual numbers of col increases with respect to carbon taxes? i don't think the rebate is substantial compared to the col increases. ironically the staunch supporters of this tax are often simultaneously screaming about cost of living. i am open to change my mind about it but i haven't heard convincing arguments about how the carbon tax is the most effective approach. why are people celebrating 1,000% increases of carbon taxes over this decade?
may as well wait 5 years, if we are nowhere near a greener future we know it was just another massive transfer of wealth. a lot of these green projects are being met with huge delays and over budget. seems throwing money around is the best option these days goc & boc go brrrrrrrrr
[removed]
nope. it would cost me my time.
. . . are there really that many of them

she died of covid, which i think is the first time a politician has died of the disease in canada. 
>a statement from her staff last week advised that forest-niesing had been fully vaccinated, but had an autoimmune condition that affected her lungs for more than 15 years. 
truly tragic and a reason for everyone else to get vaccinated and reduce the spread by following health guidelines.
this is very sad.
i knew her from when i used to work on parliament hill. she was very friendly and kind, and she was very involved in the community in the sudbury area.
a tragic loss.
very sad. rip.
this is why ever single anti vax moron needs to be reminded at every opportunity that there is a tree somewhere making oxygen for them and they need to go apologize to it.
the problem is that anti-vaxx also use this to show the vaccines don't work anyway so it doesn't matter what info you put in front of them.
which is still easily disproven, as she had an autoimmune disorder.
an old friend of mine died last week from covid. he was fully vaccinated but he had ms, which is an immune disorder treated in part by drugs that tell the immune system to stand down. it doesn't matter how full of vaccines you pump someone if you're also giving them drugs to stop the immune system doing anything with the information provided by the vaccines.
my wife was diagnosed with ms 6 months ago. it's an awful disease. the treatments work for her but covid is a threat to her and because she's post treatment she can't get her booster. 
so we rely on others to do the right thing, which is like asking the scorpion not to sting the frog as they cross the river.

tyler bertuzzi and kyrie irving are the only publically major non vaccinated athlete so it's not gonna have a huge affect for major sports.

the antivaxx were just using the lack of the jandj vaccine as an excuse not to get vaccinated. they probably never intended to get vaccinated in the first place!
>former wildrose leader danielle smith was among those pushing to bring the j&j vaccine to alberta. in september, smith flew to phoenix, ariz., to get the one-dose vaccine there, as it was not available in canada at the time.
>"it just seemed to make the most sense for me to have a single shot, so that i'd be able to get back to my life very quickly," she said.
lol! because flying to another country is so much more convenient then 2 15 minute visits to the local pharmacy down the street.
how is it possible to be this frigging stupid?
i have no criticisms for kenney regarding this.  he said at the time that j&j vaccine requests were circumstantial but coming from a variety of sources and it was worth looking into.
that is why they only ordered a small amount.
when it comes to people who have not been vaccinated, it is difficult to know the reasons why.  it seems some just use whatever excuse is available to avoid vaccinations and the consequences of not getting one.
don't worry, she is saying she may run for premier now as well......


targeting the olympics of all things seems performative. if we're going to boycott china, let's actually boycott china, not make a sanctimonious statement about it.
the same experts that said we should be the us's lap dog in every case.
the us just kicked our auto industry in the teeth and violates every wto ruling that canada wins and we're supposed to thank them and beg for more.
this is such weak sauce but even this we aren't doing with enthusiasm. no announcement on huawei either. why do we remain so afraid of offending china??? the hostage situation they've used to justify their weak stance is over so it clearly never was that. they just don't care as long as businesses continue to rake in money from china just like the deals they continue to make with saudi arabia.
on the olympics i would personally like to see a full boycott along with a law to provide cbc legal protection to cancel the broadcasting contract for this olympics.
these threads always bring in the inevitable "but waddabout the united $tates of amerikkka!" comments.
maybe you should appreciate that unlike in china, it's not a crime for you to criticize the government here or down south. you have the right to protest, advocate for a different political/economic system etc. 
you have the right to browse reddit, read about tennis, winnie the pooh, all of chinese history the good and bad, play video games etc. not to mention if you want china as a leading superpower don't call yourself an lgbt ally again.
literally don't give a damn what crimes the us has done, any attempt to equivalise the two nations falls flat on its face right there.
this sounds like it will accomplish nothing and be just enough for china to decide to retaliate...possibly in a more meaningful way.
since it has become blatantly obvious that we are going to continue doing business with china, pretty much no matter what they do, we need a thoughtful, pragmatic and comprehensive policy on how we are going to deal with them.
these kinds of stunts to appease human rights activists are not necessarily in our best interests.
i feel as though people take their america hatred just a wee bit too far. perhaps the has done questionable things but it doesn't compare to active genocide of their ethnic minorities. it's also not a crime to criticise the us government unlike in china, the us regularly holds non fraudulent elections, and the us doesn't support nuke brandishing régimes like north korea
no fan of china but i don't think we should be fighting the us's battles if they're gonna try and screw our industry. the more we diversify our trading partners the better, especially with the desperate protectionist turn the us is taking.
after the two michaels saga... i doubt the liberal party of canada has the backbone. 100% should not engage with the ccp unless absolutely necessary.
we should follow if we apply this impartial to all countries. 
boycotting china but ignoring us and us allies reeks of geopolitics and hypocrisy.
we'd be better off witha diplomatic boycott of the united states. us vs china one has caused terror and destruction around the world, countless genocides and millions of starving people living in poverty, the other country is china the biggest economy in the world.
that’s the whole point,  it is a pretty strong response but does little to further compound the global economic situation
the real question is, why is it in canada's interest to join a us cold war against china?  how does that benefit us or anyone else in any way?
warning: a user below this comment regularly posts on /r/genzedong, a subreddit that denies the uyghur genocide and apologizes for other atrocities perpetrated by china.
wholly agree on the fuck china mentality. but we can't ban huawei due to fipa which was signed in harper's era. a diplomatic boycott of the olympics would be a great idea though, if the us and the eu was on board as well. i'm hopeful that eventually once covid is over and supply chain issues get sorted out we see more chinese manufacturing moved to india.
they are probably paid agents from the chinese government
why isn't george w bush in jail then?? a war criminal.
depends what you classify as “best interest”
short term financial interests, yes i agree with you it wouldn’t be in our best interest.
long-term humanitarian and moral reasons, & fighting off the tide of authoritarianism?  yes, it would be in our best interest.
china is genociding uyghurs , cracking down on hong kong democracy and threatening to invade democratic taiwan
a country that kills children for fun using drones. a country that lies to invade iraq and kill 1 million innocent people. a country that arrests journalists who leak all these war crimes. a country that has torture camps all over the world. a country that has so many scandals like abu ghraib prison, cia overthrowing democracies. a country that starves nations through sanctions. a country that covers up rape crimes committed by us soldiers in foreign territory. a country that has blackwater murderers who killed 14 iraqi children living a peaceful life. a country where a war criminal like bush is never brought to justice. a country that funds israel's illegal crimes. a country that destroyed libya for oil. us is far worse.

maybe, and this is just my opinion, they would do better if they had some position on an issue - any issue - aside from ‘trudeau suxxx!’
conservatives are just liberals with a speed limit, they’re all just the crony corporatist “uni-party” 
until people realize that and see that the only left-wing option is the ndp and the only right-wing option is ppc (even though they’re centre right libertarian) and either of them would be better than what we have.
until then the country is screwed it’s just a matter of how long it will take.
exactly. what “course” is he referring to?
their distaste of the liberals is perhaps the only ideological position that the entire cpc can stand behind
aw, come on now, that's not fair. the conservatives have plenty of positions! like being pro-torturing children and anti-service workers living through the pandemic.
*confused albertan sounds*
trudeau does suck but he has nice hair and otool looks like a tool.
i didnt vote for the man, i voted for his hairline. 
i'd eat a bag of festering severed dicks than vote for the conservatives.
they had some fantastic labour policies last election tbh, and their housing policy was also reslly interesting with some great ideas
you could also read their platform.
>trudeau suxxx!’
that's what the opposition do. whats the problem? if liberals are opposition they gonna say the same but it's "otoole sucks"
i’d say it’s kind of the opposite -  the liberals are conservatives who know some key words to use to attract, or at least not repel, progressives.  the lpc of today is very similar to the pc party pre 1993.
this has obviously put the cpc into a tough position as the ‘moderate conservative’ real estate on the political spectrum is occupied, and they can’t exactly focus on lpc ethical breaches with a straight face because of the chicanery of the harper years and all the fuckery of their more recent leadership campaigns, and they can’t focus on issues of leadership because of the inept mismanagement of the conservative run provinces of ab sk and on, so they are left with trying to attract the more extreme right wingers who might tend to follow bernier’s ppc, but going too far in that direction will scare off any moderates they have left.
anyhoo, i feel that the lpc corporate shills are far preferable to the cpc corporate shills.  i didn’t vote for them but they are the lesser of the two evils.
what course?  o'toole's pro/anti vaccine mandate and conservative but liberal but actually conservative platform, of course.  it couldn't be more clear!
unfortunately, swing voters need a little more.  most non-cpc supporters (~70% of canadians) vastly prefer the corporate shill lpc, who at least pays lip service to causes they support, over the corporate shill cpc who wouldn’t spit in their mouths if they were dying of thirst.
i agree the cpc has done a shit job of convincing anyone not already convinced.  the flip-flops were problematic, not because changing one’s opinion is bad, but because it happened so many times that it was obvious o’toole was lying half the time, most likely to attract moderates or left leaning people like me.  they were hoping that their base understood he was just saying those lies to defeat the liberals, and if elected they would be governing from the far right.
they were saying some surprising things on those topics.  i didn’t believe a word of it.
which one?  the one they were talking about in the first week of the election, the opposite position they were promoting the second week of the election, or any contradictory things they promoted after that?  we can’t elect a clown show to run canada.
they are supposed to oppose them, but there needs to be some substance to the opposition, as well as some alternative plan.  blaming him for changes in the world economy, for instance, is as effective as blaming for the direction the wind is blowing.  only the already convinced will be listening.
as for the alternative plans they are putting forth, o’toole shit the bed during the election by contradicting himself multiple times, day after day, to try to win over moderates and not piss of the wexiteers and extremists.
people are sick of trudeau and the liberals all over the country.  the election was, again, the cpc’s to lose, and they managed to do just that, by pretending to support moderately progressive policies on day a, but scurrying back to regressive policies on day a+1 out of fear of chasing people to the ppc.   a fellow redditor earlier commented that it was the liberal’s fault that o’toole was doing this, which is a great example of the cpc’s thinking that blaming everything on trudeau is a winning strategy.
edit:  compare the cpc plan of talking out of both sides of their mouth to trudeau - he disingenuously speaks in favour of progressive policies but is basically selling the country out to commercial interests.  the only difference, and the reason he is successful is that he keeps spouting the same message rather than bouncing erratically back and forth from day to day.
[removed]
maybe the course of having the party vote to agree that human-caused climate change isn’t real, then pretending that they have some sort of plan to stop this thing they said they thought wasn’t real.
the problem is that a very large swath of cpc voters are angry ignorant extremists, and the party knows they can’t win an election without them, so they are afraid to say anything that will make them seem like they are not extremists too.

how is it that sex work at what $100 an hour *minimum*? is exploitative but teen girls working long hours for pennies at fast food outlets is just good business?
feminism or prissy prudery?
[removed]
funny how the star is still calling it "the harper government's legislation", even though trudeau's been in office for six years and has taken no steps to repeal or amend it.  
and i say this as someone who hopes the legislation is overturned.
because some people still want to use sex to control the community and this undermines that
i obviously don't speak for people that describe themselves as feminists, but i've observed sex workers have been embraced and supported more and more in the philosophy.
because using sex in a transactional way dehumanizes everyone involved, even more so if there are minors involved. it is illegal because sex work  is controlled everywhere by pimps and organized crime.
since 1982 
rule 3 though.
probably because it was the harper government who brought in the legislation…
it was passed while harper was pm, so unless there's been some amendments to it since, it belongs to him. we talk about the maple leaf being our flag as a pearsonion thing, despite how many pms since, who could have changed it if they wanted.
[removed]
> and has taken no steps to repeal or amend it.
regardless of what he thinks about the fairness of the current legislation, it is a political minefield and he knows it. even the different camps within his own party would be at each other's throats over this, and that is before the other parties and various interest groups weighed in.
no politicians have unlimited political capital, and trudeau, his advisors, and other ministers have made a decision, perhaps consciously, perhaps just tacitly, to ignore it and focus on things like universal childcare which get buy-in from all his factions, other parties, and a good chunk of the public.
a comparison would be harper shutting down any discussion of reopening abortion debates. regardless of what he thought personally, he knew it would be a messy scene no matter what and moved on.
hey you can't blame the new guy for everything the old boss did on his first day......
i agree with you. the tone is to automatically generate resentment. i haven’t read the bill or the issues that it affects but the title definitely makes it seem like it’s trying to stir up controversy.
other way around. it's controlled by organized crime and pimps because it's illegal.
>is controlled everywhere by pimps and organized crime.
when something is outlawed bit remains in high demand, it is obviously going to be controlled by organized crime. the legal prohibition causes this to be the case.
yet so many sex workers lobby for legalisation. intelligent, well-educated women have chosen sex work as a life style preferred to the dehumanising and intrusive requirements of much 'legitimate' employment.  
there is not much more dehumanising than imprisonment, a strategy that has proven to be as useless in its purported objective as the drug war. so hat is the actual objective of the war on sex work? given its tactics it is clearly not a war on dehumanisation. 
what is it trying to do?
so how is sex used in a transactional manner, any different from labour being used transactionally?  
as to the organised crime bit, they’re involved because it’s criminal. you have cause and effect backwards.
lol yeah, by the above posters logic every single law and government enaction would be trudeau's. "you should respect trudeaus' national anthem", "trudeau's charter protects my freedoms" and i'm sure glad trudeaus law kept slavery out of canada
> pearsonion
it took me a few reads to get past “pears onion.”

i did not vote for jason kenney and i do not like his politics, however, i am pulling for him in this leadership review.
danielle smith and brian jean are already preparing to run to replace kenney.  it isn't so much that they are further right of kenney...right/left is no longer the metric at this point...it is that they are more deferential to the reality denying members of the grassroots, they might even be a part of that wing themselves.
yesterday, the health minister had to answer a question about why the government is pursuing ineffective vaccine mandates instead of using ivermectin.
[
the health minister replied that they are relying on the advice of doctors.
i can see a future alberta where the vaccine mandate is pulled in favour of setting up ivermectin vending machines in each store.
the rural part of alberta is lost to reason.  the only hope for this province is for calgarians to stop mindlessly checking the conservative option during elections.  we've shown we can do that at the municipal level.

this seems like bad advice. he is leader until he voted out. the onus is on his critics with in the party. if they don’t think he should be leader than they should publicly and clearly states their opinions, push for a leadership review be ready to accept consequences. 
and using the example of jody and philbot shows exactly why o’toole shouldn’t hesitate to throw out people who vocally question his leadership. trudeau got not benefit or credit for tolerating such vocal critics in his caucus. the presence of jrw and philbot in caucus gave the opposition more talking points. but once both were kicked out the bleeding stopped.
while i believe o'toole has enough support to survive a leadership vote, he obviously won't get unanimous support.
this can also backfire. let's say he got 60-70% support. it's enough to say he has strong support, but it's quite clear that a significant minority is against him which may embolden the group even more.
i think o'toole needs to go for a variety of different reasons but it seems he currently has enough support within their party to ride this out and remain leader through till the next election. so i don't think he sees any need to "put his leadership to the test" right now
"even mps who don’t like him wonder who would replace him. pierre poilievre?"
if i'm pierre poilievre, don't i just wait it out for a death by a thousand papercuts? isn't \*he\* the most high-profile conservative to have the bonafides to likely win a leadership race and improve the conservative vote in an election? he's mean enough and anti-trudeau enough to appease the conservative base, he's got years of finance critic behind his belt, and he's a french-speaking mp who can likely dice anyone not named blanchet in the french debate. 
i don't think o'toole will be able to get it done in the next election, if he survives til then. outside of brad wall swooping in, isn't poilevre at least a likely next choice for leader?
> o’toole shouldn’t hesitate to throw out people who vocally question his leadership.
since the conservative caucus voted in favour of all four reform act provisions, o'toole can't unilaterally kick out a conservative mp.
and they will have another loss on their hands.
leslyn lewis is also a major contender. no idea who’s more likely to win, but they’re both up there.
indeed. i can't see them winning with o'toole in the future, ever. i think he had his shot and he blew it.
true, but let’s be honest. replacing o’toole won’t change that. especially considering who the most likely candidates are to replace him, people like leslyn lewis and pierre pollievre.
i think the media really really wanted him to have a shot and people bought that he did. i don't think he really did.

most world leaders don't care what canada is saying.
they only pay attention when we read from the scripts they hand to us.
if all of canada was another us state, it wouldn't even be the top in population, lol
wouldn’t even be the second largest state either.
edit: nevermind, it actually would be the second largest state. texas is much smaller than i thought.
ah, no. canada is a fair bit higher in population that texas. it's behind california but not by a lot.
its also not much of a knock to be behind california or texas in wealth. that's most of the world.
most people get this all wrong. its not that canada is small. we're pretty big, but next to a colossus. we're a 6'3 man standing next to an elephant. most states of our economic weight have their own sphere of economic and political influence while we are within someone else's.
or by economic strength. entire canada is like another texas.
slightly tangential, but an interesting statistic for me is how canada is set to have a population of just reaching 50 million in the next 20 to 25 years. yet for the reasons you mention, i anticipate that canada would still feel like a pretty damn small country.
so fourth highest in the states by gdp?
canada is the only member of the g7 to experience the rates of sustained population growth that we are, and its even conceivable that within my lifetime we'll have equivalent economic/demographic heft to the likes of france/gb.
but your also right, that even if that came to pass, we won't "feel" as big as they do, because they'll still be some of the biggest players in their neighbourhood and we'll be a smaller one in our own with nobody smaller around.
there's also an interesting development that s.korea's productivity is rapidly catching up to the top developed countries but they're also set for massive demographic decline.
yep, just behind ny and ahead of fl.
if you wanna go into comparable sizes, then ontario is just above ohio and below penn, while quebec is lower than arizona and just above wisconsin...
canada has a tiny economy and most canadians think we're an economic power lol
canada’s six largest cities have also all experienced explosive growth in recent years. canada doesn’t have large cities like detroit.
isn't our economy like 9th or 10th largest in the world? i know canadians like to overestimate our importance but i find that an equal number of us love to talk about how irrelevant we are when its not even remotely true.
we are an economic power. the position within the g7 isn't just because we're pals with washington, canada is the 7th largest advanced economy, as large as russia or india and not that far behind #6 in italy either.
what we aren't is large compared to our neighbour. but that's a comparison that distorts as much as it illuminates.
so we have both the traits of a major economy and a small, open economy. neither story is complete on its own.
america is a sui generis outlier amoung states. if its your only point of comparison, you will be wrong.
detroit isn't exactly a large cities these days.
yep 9th largest economy, 19th gdp per capita, 37th by population. 
we're definitely not "irrelevant"
we’re the 37th largest country by population, but we’re also the 9th largest economy in the world. we’re punching way above our weight and that’s an amazing accomplishment. the fact that we’re not a super power like the us or china is immaterial. also fun fact, canada has a larger economy than russia, despite the fact that we have 38 million people and they have over 150 million.
canada is by all definitions a middle power. we're pretty squared away in that category.
what i'm really referring to are the people who thinks we can take on china in a trade war lol. the rhetoric cannot be more pronounced over the last three years since meng. you know, the pissing contest nationalistic fuck everyone else maga (or mcga) people.
>large as russia or india
half the size of india and the delta is growing.
russia is a vastly more influential state than canada. there's more to it than just gdp numbers.
>we are an economic power
we're not an economic power of relevance. we are wealthy as a country, but that number is very inflated. though we are not irrelevant, but we're definitely not at the front of the pack.
i'll give you an example. for a decent quality of life that i had while living in manila, i paid $1500 usd a month. for roughly the same qol back in van, i was paying $3000 usd a month. all while enjoying the same things.
the point is that while it may be true that we have a "large economy" by the numbers, the reality is that no, we're not that economically significant.
greater detroit has 4.3 million people. if it was a canadian city, it would be larger than every metropolitan area except for the gta.

it's extremely disappointing to see unions fighting against what is effectively a safety policy for their members. instead of supporting the rights of the vast majority of their members to have health risks minimized in their workplace, they're supporting a tiny minority of their members who decide to increase the risk for everyone. it's completely antithetical to the principles of labour organizing. 
a union that was in touch with its purpose would have been far readier to strike for safe conditions pre-vaccine, and would fully support vaccine mandates now. their priorities are clearly backwards, and membership should turf the leaders making these calls asap.
they have a responsibility under the law to represent their members. this responsibility is know as the "duty to fair representation." until rulings like this are made creating case law they don't know the likely outcome. meaning they need to push for and defend their members as far as reasonably possible. even if the leaders of the union support vaccinations personally. 
once case law is establish against workers who refuse vaccination then the unions can refuse to take the cases. but until that's solidified they're just doing what's legally required of them.
edit: to be clear unions are bound by this duty of fair representation by provincial labour law.
the duty of fair representation doesn't obligate a union to advance every grievance. the union's own governing documents might require that, but the law does not. moreover, duty of fair representation complaints are very rarely successful. the labour relations board understands that unions are often required to balance competing interests, so the responding union gets a lot of deference.
theres also the fact that they're under negotiation for a new contract right now (iirc) so they need to go this extra mile

"restrictions". they are asking you, not telling you, to not fill more than 30l of fuel. no one needs to pay attention to this, there is no penalty to not following these.... suggestions.
i think the restrictions are great for southwestern bc and should be kept permanently. this will take thousands of cars off the road and ultimately make metro vancouver and vancouver island the greenest place in canada.
edit: why the downvotes? this is exactly what a carbon tax is designed to do, prevent people from consuming carbon. perhaps maybe the radicals will accept that we can't stop oil production overnight and that a carbon tax is not the way forward? maybe allowing oil production and green tech to develop is a more suitable choice?
they're *orders* under the bc emergency programs act. so no these are not "suggestions," not optional, and as seen with police checkpoints being setup preventing travel, enforced. 
i also would encourage you to consider not making insinuations that encourage people to do things that negatively impact the broader community. these measures were put on place for a reason.
whoever was at the pump before me wasn't following the restriction, filled up to 50 liters. there was a sign on the pump saying 30 liters max but really no enforcement, just the attendant saying 30 liters max.
saying you are essential service gets you past this. no one is stopping you when you fill up. just did so and not even a sign there. this half measures the ndp loves are getting silly.
had a similar experience but a employee came out and was quickly told to fuck off by the customer.
gas attendants didn't sign on to be the gas-ration-police. some will comply, some won't. i think the bc government made things worse.
they did. they could have said nothing and we'd more than likely be okay until the start of december. but that would most likely require lying to the public.

here's the more precise , less click-baity  headline:
> rem route up to 30% of parking spaces will be chargeable
>  
>up to 30% of rem parking will be paid-parking
good idea. if people have to take their cars to  the train, there is something wrong with the transit system. we need to build dense comminities and eliminate single-family dwelling zones, and build more small houses, triplexes, and lowrise appartments, around the rem so that people can go from their houses to downtown on public transit within 30 minutes. we need more [streetcar suburbs]( in brossard (montreal), burnaby (vancouver), and mississauga (toronto). think ndg (montreal), rosedale (toronto), new westminster (vancouver); that's what people want.  we stopped building streetcars. we need to start again. it will solve the housing crisis.
yeah sorry about the title, i put the jdm title because that's what i wanted to put, but apparently i linked lp here? their title is better. my bad!
in any case, i feel like this is their plan to make the users more accepting of paid spots until they're fully paid, then as people start taking transit instead, start converting the parking to mixed use buildings. it's in their financial interests to do so, but the west island lost its mind about parking. this seems like the cdpq long gaming that people will get used to it.
streetcar suburbs would be awesome, but nimbys reign supreme and as long as we let people have an unlimited say in what is built in their neighborhood, we won't move forward. my parents have people begging them to go to city hall over some townhouses being built on a vacant lot down the street. townhouses....

>	and that will only expose the 2003 merger of the canadian alliance and progressive conservative party for the fraud that many centrist tories have always believed it to be. after all, mr. harper managed to maintain the illusion of a united canadian right – until he indulged his worst reformist instincts after winning a majority government in 2011.
and that’s all that needs to be said about the state of the cpc. the party is impotent. i question the long term viability of the cpc as the views of the hard-right wing of the party drift ever further away from that of the centrist “red tory” faction. this big tent is stretched thin. 
even if the cpc won an election (which is a real possibility), i question their ability to govern effectively with so much infighting. it would be a repeat of what we see with alberta’s ucp, except that a cpc government would quickly fall, unless they won an *unlikely* majority mandate. 
at some point you’d have to think that the centrist wing of the party will split. i’d give it another two elections or so. they’d struggle to form a majority government, but they could form minority governments while also effectively collaborating with liberal minority governments. this centrist tory party could also be occasionally poised to win majority governments when the public sours of the liberals.
anything that prevents the current cpc from gaining power is “for the best.” conservatism needs to step into the 21st century, and start *actually* governing for canadians, instead of bending over for corporate interests (and to be fair, liberals are also guilty of this, but at least they shut down backbenchers before they start opening up abortion debates for the umpteenth time).
>the problem is, most canadians still have no idea what “today’s conservative party” stands for
i think the problem for the cpc is that most canadians do know what they stand for, and they're demonstrating with every headline that it's not what erin o'toole says the party stands for.
we need a competent opposition for our government to function properly. we don't need social conservatives trying to revisit some imagined theocratic past. conservatives can very well win on issues like immigration and fiscal responsibility (if they were actually serious about these things) but their most active members are socons and far-right types; they cannot upset these people or else they lose their foot soldiers.
>the conservatives failed to win more seats in urban canada not because mr. o’toole reversed the party’s position on carbon taxes, firearms or conscience rights, but rather because voters suspected that tories of ms. batters’s ilk would inevitably prevent him from staying the centrist course.
earlier in the article it literally points out that o'toole won leadership by pandering to social conservatives:
>he won the tory leadership on false pretenses, pandering to social conservatives and gun owners only to disown them as he pivoted to the centre for the federal election campaign.
the author contradicts himself. why would someone who advertised himself to his own party as a socon gun guy *not* behave like a socon gun guy once elected? voters weren't worried about "tories of ms. batters's ilk", they were worried that o'toole *is* a tory of "ms. batter's ilk"
had peter mackay waited *just* a little longer for the sponsorship scandal to play out, he would have been a pm of a minority pc government in an alternate timeline
by konrad yakabuski. the headline is really strange - the column describes the latest infighting, but  i'm not seeing anything which suggests "maybe that's for the best."
[removed]
what conservatives need to do is support proportional representation (specifically mixed member proportional -- mmp).  if they do so, then splitting would, between the two parties (reform and tory) get them more seats.  reform would get the much of the west while tory would get much of the east (including the atlantic).  this would allow them to attract more blue-libs and gain seats in the greater toronto area.  and since all (or at least most) votes would count, there wouldn't be vote splitting between the two parties.  then, after an election, if between the two they get a majority of seats, they could form a right-leaning coalition and govern.
yeah i think the red tory's in the party could potentially win an election. low spending, controlling the deficit, and reining in inflation are all winning policies. abortion, freedom of religion, gun rights, vaccination debate etc. are all massive losers.
well, the canadian tradition is to vote them out, not in. when the time comes, and liberals, it will come, voters will switch to the blue machine
[removed]
huh. i seem to remember a conservative government that was in power for ten years led by a leader who consistently shut down any attempt to open up an abortion debate.
i’m unsure o’tool knows what he stands for.
[deleted]
>the author contradicts himself. why would someone who advertised himself to his own party as a socon gun guy not behave like a socon gun guy once elected?
isn't the most cliché political move in the world to appeal to the party's base during the primary and then swing to the middle during the election? the problem here being that the middle suspected he was at heart a socon gun guy during the election and the base now suspects he's a centrist.
i honestly don't think that would have been the case. 
had mackay been leader, he most likely wouldn't have even pandered to the socials, and that would have driven up the ppc/other vote in the west, further splitting the vote. 
we still would have ended up with a strong liberal minority and maybe some ppc seats.
my take on the title was: the author was making the case that the conservative's self sabotage should give them the impetus to figure out what they really want to stand for.
personally, i don't think they're going to be able to do it.  their *real* problem isn't - as the article profiles - infighting on vaccines, or o'toole's leadership.  their real problem is economic policy.  key parts of what it means to be a conservative - tight fiscal policy, smaller government, de-regulation, and to a lesser degree tax cuts - now seem like bad ideas to both experts and much of the public.  it gets worse: it seems very unlikely that the tories will think if new economic approaches to re-invent themselves.  instead, they'll likely talk less about economics and - maybe - lean into social conservativism or rural populism.  or both.
and *that's* my biggest worry.  when the conservatives are motivated to talk about social identify rather than economics, and they also know that they're not going to win many seats in urban canada or in places like quebec, some dark ideas could come out of the woodwork.
classic clickbait.

canada closed the passport office for like 6 months at the beginning of covid and held the passports of canadians who had an application in progress. so this is not at all surprising. i sent an email about a pr card to the immigration info service, for my mother in law who needs to replace hers and they responded with "we are only responding to priority issues at this time". unacceptable, it is a priority to not have any identification or proof of residence and thus no means to leave the country. since covid i've applied for visas in two different eu countries with no issues or delays.

as someone who was on the vaccination team in ottawa (checking people in and out), i still get city of ottawa emails, and had to confirm my vax status. city of ottawa staff are somewhere in the same region of 97%. i'm assuming there are a few people with health issues who aren't able to get vaccinated because afaik it's mandatory to have the vaccine if you're able to have it.
would be interesting what the excuse for that 3% is, definitely not all going to be health reasons (that should be less than 1% iirc)
it wouldn't 100% surprise me to see people with health conditions overrepresented in public service employment? 
but yes, 3% seems high.



you know who has huge piles of money that can be removed from the economy? the rich. tax them and then take that money out of circulation and you cause deflation.
so --- the cause of inflation is that the poor have too much money.  always a bad thing for globe & mail business. 
not mentioned is the significant growth of corporate profit-taking behind the smoke-screen.
i keep an eye on this but i believe the current spike is transitory due to the pandemic.  more like what happened in the late 40s than the 70s. 
still, there is a lot of pent up demand for things and many people have saved a lot of money during the pandemic to spend on them. because of that, i think the bank of canada and the government need to be careful how much they juice the economy through low interest rates and government spending.
this is about the us but it applies to canada too i think:
[inflation is bad. killing jobs is worse.](
[removed]
canada's inflation rate (annualized) is something clearly under 5% (4.7% in august, 21). the usa's current inflation rate is something clearly over 6% (6.2% in november/21).
both are bad, but theirs is about 1/3 higher than ours.
china's inflation during the pandemic = 1.5% 
india: 5.3% (down from 6.5 pre pandemic)
germany: 3%
uk: 4.2% (a "ten year high")
obviously it was something our government did or didn't do.
how have they gone on so long carrying none of the blame on this? i know there's a pandemic going on, but [the consumer price index just posted its largest year-over-year gain in 18 years](
[removed]
taxing the rich would require a government that isn’t beholden to them. no such government exists.
the rich tend to sit on money, or invest it in long term ventures, or spend it on luxuries. none of those move money to the same degree as mass consumer spending. so while i like the idea of a wealth tax, it won’t do what you want.
taxing them would redistribute the income to places that it’s more likely to be spent, no?
limiting tax deductions would have the same effect. but if you want to get aggressive you could tax international money transfers over a certain amount.
climate change is not transitory and it is already driving droughts and massive reductions in crop yields.  our oat harvest in canada was what, 50% lower this year.  that's pretty huge, we produce 80% of the world's oats, and contrary to popular belief, most oat production goes to feed livestock, so that drives the price of meat up.  
that's one example.  california, which is our biggest fruit and veg exporter, has a historic mega drought.  it's been a bad year for tomatoes. etc etc  
unless you have some information about climate change we don't, how is any of this going to get better?
rule 3
fun fact. us doesn't report core inflation. they include things like used cars in their inflation number (canada doesn't). if you want to do a true comparison, use core inflation numbers.
your comment is the equivalent of watching two homes burn down, and saying the one on the right is burning fast.
we don't live in a bubble. inflation is happening globally. dame with rising housing costs. our problems aren't unique to canada.
supply woes are global. demand is huge right now which is typically a positive.

it snuck up slowly behind you, leaned closely into your ear and the words barely escaped its lips, “don’t build in flood plains or lake bottoms”
hopefully bc will rethink flood infrastructure across the province before it’s too late next time, a large part of communities are built on such plains
most ancient civilizations started in flood plains, and most experienced catastrophic floods. noah's ark (and its precursor in the epic of gilgamesh) is a story of human ingenuity and leadership overcoming disasters. the floodwaters will recede. the religious (whether established or indigenous) will make the usual noises about angering the god(s) while not contributing in any constructive fashion. and the rest of us learn some lessons and find a way to build a little better.
but you know, maybe we should put our farms in the flood plains and our homes and industries on higher ground.
the [netherlands]( lol
just a thought, but *maybe* there is a reason to build in such areas? nah that can't be it, it was just for shits and giggles.
or is this some kind of attempt to dismiss any connection of catastrophic events to climate change?
... and leaves to guess how much higher those might go.
[deleted]
[here is a history of flood events for the nooksack river since the early 1800s.]( it's happened before.
yes i agree.
if memory serves sumas lake was a shallow lake filled with malaria mosquitos, so good that it is gone. added bonus is over 30,000 acres of agricultural land to feed people. they need to bump up the height of the dikes though.

devils advocate:
this article should not be in this sub. vaccination is a health topic, not a political one. we should minimize any attempt to politicize it.
covid is slowly running out of hosts, due to vaccines and covid survivors with antibodies. can we expect a new variant to develop soon to assault  the remaining vulnerable groups : anti vaxxers  and children? 
get vaccinated.
awesome. now the guy on facebook who owns a landscaping company can try and sounds like a doctor and tell everyone how unsafe and wrong is.
does anyone know what the definition of 5 is? like if a kid is turning 5 in december are they eligible? on january 1st, will all kids with 2017 birthdays be eligible?
why not send those vaccines to countries that have not yet been vaccinated due to limited access in order for further variants mutating instead of vaccinating a group which has such a small chance of being affected
i think by virtue of the fact that it's an ongoing major news piece piece in the much broader saga that is covid, which has crossed health, economic & politic spheres makes it relevant. there's potential political ramifications for the end of covid & how it affects our policy making going forward, and often large news pieces that aren't strictly political in nature are still relevant to the sub. 
in the end the ability to vaccinate elementary school kids will have effects on our numbers coming from schools, the accomodations required in the education system, and the potential lifting in a few months of covid mandates like masks etc.
it shouldn’t be, but it has turned out to be.
… as an individual that will be vaccinating his five year old child in the coming weeks, i think you’re totally right.
this is a health news story, not politics.
although now you’re making me wade into /r/canada…
devils advocate:
this lost should not be a devils advocate.  it is saying something entirely reasonable and accurate, not something that should be politicized or controversial.
it's a decision made by a government agency, and it will likely have an impact on public policy going forward. i think it's appropriate for a political discussion, even though i agree that the decision itself shouldn't be politicized.
you’re right and i like how you’re thinking. as a counter point though, health canada is a government agency.
inflation should be an economic topic not a political one but it affects politics and it's affected by it too.
the problem is when the underlying science of vaccines is questioned on a political basis.  this article isn't doing that as far as i can tell.
so why is there a health minister?
it shouldn't be political. you are 110% right. but somehow  the right has decided to make it one unfortunately.
it's baffling. but hey, it's in the sphere as abortion rights as a heart related matter that is viewed politically.
no it isn't.
with much less cases there is less chance of variation
england had near 100% antibody coverage in adults back in july. iran had multiple provinces with over a 100% attack rate. reinfections and breakthroughs quite possible especially as immunity wanes. 
this isn’t a disease which runs out of hosts in the same way, say, chicken pox does.
um... what?
thats funny that you bring this ro light... noted.  
i have a question...  if you dont mind me asking?
vaccines and post infection antibodies have waning efficiency. covid zero was the only correct approach and it is gone

it was a liberal riding since it was created and the conservatives are in a majority government with high polling numbers. the fact that the greens came 3rd is not that surprising.      
> meanwhile, the liberals were able to pull off a strong second-place result on monday, even though the party was relegated to third party status after the 2019 election, even though they hold just four seats in the p.e.i. legislature and even though they have no permanent leader.
because it was their riding! the author said it themselves, they'd held the area for like 40 years or something. how is a decent showing a surprise?
the byelection result says more about the jump in support for the conservatives than anything else. if you compare this with the 2019 election, the proportion between the liberals and greens remained the same so neither opposition party has lost ground relative to each other.
the bigger issue for the liberals/greens is that the conservatives are currently in a position to sweep the entire island if an election were to be held today.
yeah, electing a government party candidate is an interesting signal in a by-election, but generally by-election results are very wonky and shouldn't be taken too seriously.

this is ridiculous. nunavut is what self government should look like (i.e. an indigenous majority area is given provincial level authority but must also treat it's non-indigenous residents equally).
if nunavut as a self government model is not working then the area is not economically viable enough to be self governing and keep the same standard of living as the rest of the country or the leadership (elected by that indigenous majority) is not running the government properly.
ancestry based government only for certain people is not something that should exist in a modern country. even if it should, i don't see how it would make a difference since it would only reduce the tax base and would compete for sovereignty with the nunavut government which will result in people falling through the cracks.
i’m confused.  do the inuit not have territorial self government of nunavut?
isn’t that what the [nunavut land claims agreement]( did?
> an agreement between:
>the inuit of the nunavut settlement area as represented by the tungavik federation of nunavut
and:
>her majesty the queen in right of canada.
>whereas the inuit represented by the tungavik federation of nunavut assert an aboriginal title to the nunavut settlement area, more particularly described in article 3, based on their traditional and current use and occupation of the lands, waters and land-fast ice therein in accordance with their own customs and usages;
>and whereas the constitution act, 1982 recognizes and affirms the existing aboriginal and treaty rights of the aboriginal peoples of canada, and treaty rights includes rights that may be acquired by way of land claims agreements;
>and whereas the parties agree on the desirability of negotiating a land claims agreement through which inuit shall receive defined rights and benefits in exchange for surrender of any claims, rights, title and interests based on their assertion of an aboriginal title;
>and whereas the parties have negotiated this land claims agreement based on and reflecting the following objectives:
>to provide for certainty and clarity of rights to ownership and use of lands and resources, and of rights for inuit to participate in decision-making concerning the use, management and conservation of land, water and resources, including the offshore;
to provide inuit with wildlife harvesting rights and rights to participate in decision- making concerning wildlife harvesting;
>to provide inuit with financial compensation and means of participating in economic opportunities;
to encourage self-reliance and the cultural and social well-being of inuit;
i'm not clear what they're asking for. it sounds like they want government for and by inuit, to the exclusion of all other citizens.
> if nunavut as a self government model is not working then the area is not economically viable enough to be self governing and keep the same standard of living as the rest of the country or the leadership (elected by that indigenous majority) is not running the government properly.
this is the truth, but for political reasons it can never be accepted. the second things move in that direction, cries of 'colonialism!' would never cease. 
anyways, this is an elephant in the room when it comes to indigenous politics in this country: the strong desire for segregation at every conceivable level. as shown in this article, the inuit desire to cut ties even with non-inuit people living right beside them.
i mean i'd argue that this could also be resolved, in part, by the federal government giving more money to both nunavut, and to the other provinces and territories in canada too for that matter (as this seems to be chronic issue with every sub-federal level of government). but i couldn't agree more with your last sentence. the current "woke" solution to these sorts of problems, by atomizing people into ever smaller and specific groups, and assuming that "recognition" is what is needed to solve inequities, is incredibly reductive, and yet also seems to be becoming increasingly popular at a lightning fast pace. there really needs to be a movement to focus on material conditions again as the primary issue in political discourse, not withstanding the real impacts that identity can have on how one's life is shaped.
> ancestry based government only for certain people is not something that should exist in a modern country
it's in tons of modern government, what do you mean? but the big issue is that since they don't really have their own land as it's largely controlled by the government who does treaties on a whim, that the biggest measure of a nation that you have is by ethnicity. if there's nobody in the ethnic group, you have no claim.
it would seem so. nunavut is majority inuit and as a result most of the mlas in its legislature are inuit already. but that doesn't mean the other 20% of the population shouldn't have a right to also cast a ballot as well. 
in the south that would be like saying aboriginal people still aren't allowed to vote for an ontario mpp. which would be equally unacceptable. (flipping the minority/majority dynamic around)
what they should probably instead do is lobby that majority inuit legislature to continue to work on improving the situation. improving access to education is a big one. they note a lot of senior roles within the civil service aren't being filled by inuit. the way to fix that is providing education so people can attain those roles. 
having worked in nunavut within government that's the issue holding things back. hiring managers for the most part aren't being racist. (there's always someone somewhere of course, but overall). it's that the applicants don't have the required skill or education base which forces them to fill roles with out of territory candidates.
so based on what alethea arnaquq-basil has written on twitter([relevant thread]( the main complaint is that the nunavut government doesn't take inuit issues seriously enough and disproportionally serves the interests of the non-inuit minority.
my commentary as an outsider, is that seems like all of these issues could still be solved by their current public government, almost of all the politicians running nunavut are inuit(possibly all of them?), a lot of the civil service jobs are held by inuit(although, perhaps not as many as people would like). seems like inuit in nunavut have all of the tools at their disposal to focus on inuit-specific issues.
disenfranchising non-inuit citizens of nunavut would be racist af, if that is the goal i don't see how singh can justify supporting it.
it's because the inuit population is disproportionately poor and deprived of the access to education and opportunities that money provides. here, race stands in for class as the primary unit of analysis, and thus, instead of discussing how it's a lack of financial resources or deep poverty that hurts the inuit people of nunavut, we get solutions like this. this is not to say that race and racial identity play no role in this poverty, but again the primary issue here is class and poverty. if you want to solve this issue, spend more money on poverty-relief, education, etc. in nunavut. atomizing governance further will simply not solve this, all while alienating the 20% of non-inuit citizens from the 80% of inuit citizens.

i'm all for immigration but we need somewhere for them to live first. housing is not keeping up! also doctor shortages.
i want to see a massive national programme of housing construction to accommodate these immigrants. the private sector alone clearly has bee unable to accommodate the record housing demand.
comes across as extremely tone deaf in the face of the increasing anger and pain due to canada's astronomical housing costs. even if immigration doesn't impact housing severely, they have to realize most people assume it does and realize how bad this comes off as.
also this line felt a bit beyond the pale:
"high levels of foreign-born workers, for example, have helped to mitigate wage pressures in canada in recent months at a time when inflation has been surging."
housing prices at unaffordable levels due to low supply and rampant speculation.
solution: 
1. reduce speculation
2. increase supply
3. do nothing and increase demand and then pretend to care about the avg person.
[removed]
corporations: damn these canadians don't want to work for unliveable wages, zero benefits during peak inflation! trudeau, we paid for your entire campaign,  help us.
trudeau: how about some more immigrants? they'll surely work for nothing!
i will never understand why a country that has an unemployment issue and a housing issue would allow immigrants into the country. there should be no immigration until we have full employment (less than 2%$ ue) and affordable housing. lets look our for our own citizens first.
“high levels of foreign-born workers, for example, have helped to mitigate wage pressures in canada in recent months at a time when inflation has been surging.”
i know this is bnn but how do they slip this in here as a positive thing?
“the price of living has gone up but fortunately because we have a lot of immigration, wages aren’t going up.”
the most offensive part of this is that indicates that the liberal party really has no new ideas. the answer to everything is raise immigration rates it would seem
canada should be looking to ramp up immigration - but we should be doing so via standard immigration channels, and not just to feed our diploma mills.
we can accommodate many more immigrants - if we were able to deal with our housing issues. it will take a lot of political capital and some wide reaching legislation to ensure that we actually have the housing supply brought online to be able to house all these future immigrants.
what should ramp up is immigration of doctors and then recognizing their credentials, maybe that way we can actually get a family doctor
good grief. 
housing shortage. beef shortage. fish shortages in lake erie and ontario. electronics shortages, vehicle shortages.....
and now our government thinks its a great time to flood the country with millions more people. seems like they want conflict between new residents and existing. math dont add up. 
before the urban economists jumps in and gdp blah blah blah - nature does not care about your stock portfolio and at the end of the day - me finding a house to live in for cheap outweighs any benefit rogers ceo's get when they sign new customers.
we don't need immigrants we need settelers.  
adding to the sprawl and price of to doesn't help anyone, let's have a small town outside of to,van and mtl grow instead.
i am not against immigration, but this is absolutely brain dead policy right now.
wages are suppressed, housing supply is limited, and the cost of living is insane. having more people in this country will make things worse.
if the government can solve some of these issues, then sure, bring them in. right now though, absolutely not.
so why did the kfc, wendys and changeover to circle ks here go language barrier overnight if immigration is for skilled workers? bullshit l-i-a-r-s, they want wage slaves and no raises for anyone trying to stuff the inflation genie back in the bottle.
you can get away with that shit in the diverse south, but in the north it's pretty bald faced.
migrants should be insulted being used like this. fucking corporate politcians.
what the government really needs to do re: immigration is *fix the immigration system*.
right now ircc is in a state of absolute crisis. applications are taking months and years longer than they're supposed to. people are waiting months for things that shouldn't even require a wait at all — for example people who have already passed the citizenship test are left in the lurch waiting to actually get a citizenship ceremony.
i don't particularly care if the government wants to increase immigration targets, but i find it completely offensive that they're talking about this while continuing to completely disregard the tragic state of ircc right now.
this is literally just a counter to the gains labor has made during the pandemic. no one wants to work for slave wages anymore? flood the market with people who will and the rest can starve. from a humanitarian perspective i'm for immigration, but not when it's used to suppress the working class.
broadly, canada is too poor and and low in production to survive the coming disaster that is climate change and mass migration. 
we have the ability to decide who can move into canada today, we can choose to bring hard working, well educated, and capable people into our nation. 
when the mass migrations start, we will not have this option.
[deleted]

is the "emergency" that they are running out of jail-space for environmental protesters?     
[remember when...](



o'toole can say whatever he wants about whether or not his party members are vaccinated, what matters, is if they've shown proof to the speaker/board of internal economy.
assuming o'toole is correct and all exemptions are legit, good.  finally.  why did it take the conservatives so long to establish this?   i've been fully vaccinated since june, we're well into november. it should not have taken this long for o'toole to get here.  
it doesn't look like there is a way to confirm this yet so mps are taken at their word.  maybe the house will vote on needing proof of vaccination, which seems fair. i need to do that to go to the movies they can show it once to get into the house.
i still don't understand why he can't say how many are unvaccinated. i have a hard time believing the ones that aren't have a valid exemption. going to be fun watching this play out
i called this, this was literally my comment a day ago:
> what's really funny is that a lot of the cpc mps who are not revealing their vaccinated status are quite likely to be vaccinated! but they just don't want their constituents to lose it and accuse them of being part of the global covid conspiracy so instead they proclaim and say "look it's a medical secret because trudeau is turning canada into nazi germany! just slap a star of pfizer on my arm and separate me from society why don'tcha! us unvaccinated need to be able to go to restaurants and possibly increase the infection rates because freedum!" so it'll be interesting to see how this plays out. will their supporters be shocked when it turns out they are vaccinated? will it encourage them to get vaccinated? or will they feel betrayed?
the fact they haven’t revealed it even though they are vaccinated shows they’re just trying to please the anti-vaxxers. they were giving hope to these antivaxxers. but now the tide is going out and everyone can see. absolutely ridiculous.
better be vaccinated then. if not, tough shit. if its good enough for our armed forces it is good enough for our elected officials.
i wouldn't be shocked if the likes of lewis and gladu are vaccinated, they just don't want to say they are to keep up the charade and/or appeal to that "it's the principle of the thing!" base.
there is almost no reason to get an exemption for the vaccines.. the only one of anaphylaxis even then you can get it in the hospital in other ways like a woman who got a whole bunch of small doses.
> and all exemptions are legit
extremely unlikely. the other parties combined have, what, 1 exemption? i doubt any of these conservatives have a valid medical excuse.
some of them are vaccinated, but represent ridings where saying so could be electoral suicide. they've been playing both sides but the lpc has called their bluff.
the valid exemption is the right to be there.
you can't grift people if you are dead
neither me.  at a guess i'd say the people who have raised a fuss about it thus far are probably not going to be happy about having it revealed for them.  
whether they're vaccinated or not, i wonder if they'll contradict o'toole
i’m not sure that’s really the case at all, in terms of admitting being vaccinated = electoral suicide.  first off, those tidings are conservative strongholds in the first place.   secondly, i’m from the riding of a prominent anti-vac cpc mp  and they won despite being a parachute candidate and can’t see them being vaccinated as being an issue for their electability.
but they definitely have a base they are playing up to, and even if it doesn’t affect their electability (at least as mp) it certain may affect the soap box they want to climb on top of
no that would be against the rules the parties set for in person parliament
that is neither law nor do parliamentary rules trump constitutional law.
1: he never claimed it was a law, that’s a strawman you just invented. 
2: no one claimed that parliamentary rules trump constitutional law.
3: there is no constitutional law that prevents vaccine mandates during a global pandemic. 
4: erin o’toole has agreed to follow the rules, as will his party. if you were right, he would be fighting this using your argument “constitutional laws cannot be trumped by parliamentary rules. 
all in all, you’re incorrect.
3. yes, there is. any law or rule that contests someone's right to freedom of assembly is illegal. that's how constitutional law works.
the rest of your points are irrelevant in light of the above. it doesn't matter what you said, what o'toole agreed to, or what the security at parliament end up doing. it is illegal, immoral and unconstitutional for the federal government to bar a politician in this manner.
that us canadians are allowing the western founding principles and legal basis for a functional moral society degenerate in such a manner is sickening, as the cretinous who know nothing about principled application of founding principles erode our rights in the name of expediency and expect everyone else to be okay with it. no, some of us understand why these rules were put in place and clearly see your inferior methodology and ignorance to the wider history of things.
so that's not really how freedom of assembly works. what it's primarily for is protesting, not just going wherever you want. with what you're describing, i could assemble in your house with friends because that's my absolute, inalienable right under all circumstances. 
there are always limits on freedoms when they're reasonable and in the interest of public safety. it's illegal for me to shout "fire!" in a crowded building, or murder in the name of belphegor, despite my freedom of expression. it's illegal for me to trespass in someone's home, despite my freedom of movement. 
tl;dr freedom of assembly does not trump "follow these rules to enter this building".
no, that is not how freedom of assembly works. you cannot impune on people's freedom of movement in public places, nor in private places where the owner of said private property consents. the government can't just make a law like "no blacks in the building" whereas if you wanted to you could do so in your home. "follow these rules to enter the building" is not a law abiding standard in government if said rules are not themselves law. as well as the previous example with blacks, you could conceivably have a situation such as "dont let the other party into the building" when your standards aren't based on constitutional principle. no one voted into law that you're not allowed in if you're not vaccinated, the government has no legal authority to remove anyone from the premise or disallow them entry on that premise. if they could, then the floodgates are open to any arbitrary ruling, now guys with glasses are not allowed on the perimeter, now no one taller than 6 feet is allowed in the building, now if you're not wearing your clown nose you are disbarred from entry. the prior ludicrous rules are just as valid when you don't apply concepts lawfully or on a principled basis.

summary of interview copied over from thread in r/toronto:
* vuong says he was "naive" and thought he didn't need to disclose the dropped charge because it had been withdrawn.
* apologized to his constituents for not disclosing the withdrawn charge. says he regrets not disclosing.
* also apologized to his supporters for embarassing them.
* says he was "too eager" to become the first vietnamese-canadian to be a liberal mp
* confirms he will take his seat in the house of commons on monday.
* refused to discuss the alleged sexual assault.
absolutely shameless tbh. confirms what i suspected, that he’s just gonna brazen it out and pick up a salary for as long as this parliament lasts.
i don't see why he should even have to comment on it. people are wrongly accused at times and there should be no stigma around someone who has not been convicted of a crime. imagine if we started applying this to everyone, you apply for a job and you are rejected because you were arrested one time. yea i am sure people would love that.
written article here, the audio version came up first which is why i posted it first. i also posted the text version but it was removed for rule 6:
kevin vuong says he was 'naive' not to disclose withdrawn sex assault charge, but will continue as mp:
[removed]
why does this guy not just become the ~~first~~  edit: *second* ppc mp
he is missing an opportunity to complete the most hilarious political trolling move in canadian history
it is right in front of him, all he has to do is reach out and take it
is that too eager part a direct quote? what a poor choice of wording given what his accusers and the police report has released regarding the dropped charge.
its on the voters. people need to stop pretending that our electoral system is something else because they wish it were so. you elect a person to represemt your region. you may not like it but those are the rules we play by in this country, and have for over a century.
dropped charges still restrict you from employment security clearance etc. its not considered a motif of discrimination under article 10.
have charges dropped does not mean your innocent it means it could not be proven beyond a reasonable doubt.
some people have been acquitted on criminal charges but found guilty in civil courts and forced to pay the accuser.
government officials are held to a higher standard than the average citizen, and there are good justifications for that. (conflict of interest is a good example)
[removed]
> why does this guy not just become the first ppc mp
he wouldn't be the first, bernier was the first, but lost his seat after making the change.
i would also not expect someone who's political ideology aligns with the lpc, to be comfortable with the ppc. vuong's issues have to do with his personal history, not his politics.
[removed]
because he's not a troll. he's an extremely opportunistic guy trying way too hard to achieve his lofty goals with dubious ethics. he's not in politics just to troll constituents.
the real hilarious troll move would be to declare himself bloc québécois despite being from ontario.
i think that distinction will forever belong to [richard holden](
> second ppc mp
because it might hurt his future employment opportunities. he can still write mp on his resume and after he loses/not runs for his position again he can talk about what he learnt about his experience and how he's grown.
if he switches to ppc he's going to have to switch ridings next election and then hope he wins
> is that too eager part a direct quote?
it is.
it really isn’t on the voters? half the votes were cast by early votes or by mail before the rape case was revealed. that’s the issue - most of vuong’s voters didn’t know what they were voting for. iirc if only the votes on the day were counted vuong would’ve lost.


for context, earlier today the toronto sun published a piece by popular toronto city counsellor kristyn wong-tam. in the piece, she wrote:
>"we know from recent public health statements that those who are vaccinated can still get covid-19 and can still transmit it to others just as easily as those who are unvaccinated."
wong-tam is the vice-chair of toronto public health.
what an idiotic, unhelpful and frankly damaging thing to say
yeah i was really surprised when i read that paragraph in the article, i'm pretty impressed that in only a few hours a counter-article was published condemning it. i think next week we'll see her correct that part of it.
[removed]

isn't there also the issue of if we cancel the contract we will have billions in penalty fees as well for backing out on top of the job loss? i was more familiar with hearing about the penalty fees being an issue and less about the job loss.
maybe the first step is to stop oil imports from saudi arabia. that's a lot of money. in 2020 canada imported 3.7 million tons from them. that's a lot of money. ~$1.2 billion usd. 
the right thing to do would be to cancel the contract. saudi arabia is responsible for one of the worst humanitarian crises in recent history and anyone selling them weapons also has blood on their hands.
officeholders don't care about the jobs. they care about the financial interests of general dynamics's owners and investors.
you can thank former pm harper and his conservative government for the boondoggle that is the saudi arms contact.
maybe the first step is to stop oil imports from saudi arabia. that's a lot of money. in 2020 canada imported 3.7 million tons from them. that's a lot of money. ~$1.2 billion usd. 
chrystia freeland gave a radio interview a few years ago on the cbc where she was confronted about canada's arms being used by saudi arabia to commit genocide in yemen and she fully defended it saying how lucrative it was for canadian corporations. she's an utter sociopath.
i don't love this article as far as i can tell, it focuses on a "jobs" which is a secondary component of [arms-sales-to-saudi arabia], the more interesting component, given that 'human-rights' are the main issue with [arms-sales-to-saudi-arabia] is: "is principled neutrality, manifested by canada's boycotts, likely to promote human rights in the region". the writer, and i guess, some commenters, seem to either i) presume it does, or ii) don't care (not getting involved is a good-unto-itself). 
there are specific situations where boycotts contribute to improved human rights (1980-90s south africa?), but skipping over the argument completely makes me skeptical that there is a genuine interest in promoting human rights in the arabian peninsula.
if we don't sell the arms, someone else will. 
the only thing this would do is clean canada's hands, but the result stays the same.
they'll just buy them from another country that general dynamics  operates in. what exactly are you hoping to do by having the federal government intervene with the sales contract?
the people calling what's happening in yemen a genocide have lost the plot. the saudi's are there to support the yemeni government against a group of absolute lunatics.
why don't we just sell them the fire arms from the 2020 oic, we can switch those jobs to admin jobs, get money into citizens hands and give the saudi's the weapons they want without any impact to the bottom line, and a reduction in the carbon footprint.
saudi can always buy from their friend china. makes absolutely no sense in reneging except to prove moral superiority
[removed]
what too many don't understand is that in the real world a state sometimes has to support financially, diplomatically and yes militarily unsavoury regimes and actors in order to achieve equilibrium in the system. even structural constructivists understand this on some level. but no, most have never taken an ir course, have no depth to their understanding of state power yet everyone's an expert five miles away from home.
a constitutional monarchy is closer to an absolutist monarchy like saudi arabia than is to a republic, like yemen. as some say, ravens don't pick each other's eyes...
more frequently, i heard the argument that it is bad for the national brand image to renege on a contract. the contract should never have been made, but once it was made, stopping it was worse.
now, coming from the liberal government - in the field of defense procurement no less - that's laughable. but it was their line, anyway.
i'm not sure how much water that excuse holds considering this government signed [the export permit for $74 million in explosive weapons to the saudis.](
clearly there's a willingness to export arms to the saudis despite what some might say.
> isn't there also the issue of if we cancel the contract we will have billions in penalty fees
it's ["as much as" $1 billion]( according to trudeau himself, so we can assume that's the absolute ceiling. also known as 2/3 of the price alberta spent to get absolutely nothing for the keystone pipeline, or 1/17th of the price for the federal government to buy and build the trans mountain pipeline. it's chump change in the big scheme of things, especially when the return is a clear conscience and no more complicity in the yemeni genocide.

the bc liberals put in place a big chunk of spending to upgrade infrastructure for climate change related risks, but tied it to municipalities sharing the cost. of course, they did not, and so not much was spent.
afaik, the ndp haven't accomplished much of anything in this regard; even the emergency warning system to push alerts to cellular phones is still in testing.
it's troubling, but both major parties are fumbling.
i am increasingly of the view that we need to shift some attention and resources away from 'fighting' climate change—so far, a losing battle that is being half-heartedly fought—and toward mitigation/adaptation.
nope. trillion dollar question. the longee the world waits the more expensive it becomes, no matter how cheap oil is over renewables
do you know what else is troubling? draining a giant lake, filling it with houses and farms, then complaining when it fills back up with water. 
climate change is only amplified by 2 reasons:
1: over population
2: further expansion of infrastructure in high risk areas ie. flood plain.
good idea- close down vancouver and make them all move to calgary.
flood plains happen to be the best place to grow many crops. particularly berries and leafy greens.
if you like to eat food then thank farmers who live and work on flood plains and river deltas.
abbotsford? sumas lake?
yea because calgary has never had a massive flood lol.
there are stone age techniques for mitigating floods like this. basically canals and irrigation. there are parts of southern bc and alberta that are starving for water. 
i'm sure we can figure out a way to move the water instead of moving the people.
it never floods in calgary.
sounds fine. the big one is going to shake vancouver apart eventually anyway.
the future is in vertical farming.
a flood plain floods. has little to do with climate change, and everything to do with geography. that area was once a huge, relatively shallow "lake" connected to the fraser river, and was a big support network of what were once epic salmons runs on the river. the lake should actually be restored, with the dairy, chicken and corn farmers bought out.
lake abbotsford
only once every hundred years and we fixed that problem already
short term memory?
agreed. you don't need prime agricultural land for a chicken and dairy farm. not sure how much of the prairie is used for that but the impression i'm getting is a lot. 
in fact, wouldn't a large chicken farm on poor soil actually make the soil better over time?
how did we fix it? i am from calgary but i haven't heard about this. genuinely curious
yolk
>in fact, wouldn't a large chicken farm on poor soil actually make the soil better over time?
the soil is very good (same with a field used for dairy cows), however the runoff into the local water table/rivers/streams is ghastly. that is another reason why that land shouldn't be used for dairy/chicken operations.
the use of that land for cornfields is also a ridiculously poor utilization, in terms of the value derived from it. restoring that land to salmon-bearing lake would be a huge boon to the economy, would revive the moribund salmon runs, and would also provide effective flood control going forward.


hm.  this is interesting, coming from an outlet of postmedia, which always endorses cpc.  the tone here of accusing only the liberal party of always wanting absolute power is really something.  i wonder if this is a sign of something happening.... are endorsers of cpc joining the electoral reform bandwagon?  traditionally it's them that are most staunchly against the idea.  this might become something interesting to watch.... and if the party itself gets in on it, the gears might start turning toward something actually *happening.*
>in canada, our minority governments last only two years because one party, usually the liberals, want absolute power. since 1990, we have had five early elections
this seems like an odd point.  i don't know why they go back to 1990, since we didn't have any minorities in the 90's. further,  of the minorities that ended early, as far as i know, only two were dissolved by the party in power, and one of those times it was the cpc.
but to the actual point of the article, i'm a big fan of mmp but i find myself increasingly bored by the discourse.  i've pointed this out before, but while people seem happy to pledge support to pr in the abstract to a pollster, there's no evidence that it ranks as a critical issue to voters, that it moves votes in either direction, or that they're particularly inclined to come out and vote in favour given the chance.
in that context, all of these articles making the exact same arguments for pr feel like wasted ink.
> even though the vast majority of canadians did not vote for him. 
that's the norm. only the people in his riding, get to vote for him.
yes, i know what the author actually means, but ignoring the fact that we vote for local candidates, is something i will always call out, as it distorts people's understanding of how our system works.
> in canada, our minority governments last only two years because one party, usually the liberals, want absolute power.
ok, that's bs. harper was angling for the same when his two minority governments fell, he was just better at setting up the opposition to take the blame for the election call.
> exit polls conducted immediately after the election showed that 49 per cent of voters were voting to stop a party they disliked rather than to elect a party they support.
we have similar voting patterns, so i don't get how this is an argument for pr.
> 91.4 per cent of votes went towards electing an mp a
i hate this argument. just because your vote didn't go to someone who didn't win, shouldn't matter, unless we decide that everyone on the ballot(s) should get to win.
> voters got what they voted for.
so do we.
> ray martin was the leader of the alberta ndp 
i was trying to understand why an argument for pr was coming out of the conservative, anti pr supporting prairies.
i think it's important to note that these articles are always "why we should ditch fptp" and never "*how we can* ditch fptp".
has anyone ever proposed a realistic way to make this happen?
**edit:** should note here, i'm not asking this in a flippant way to try to demean the idea of pr, i'm seriously wondering what viable paths we have to make this happen.
good old ray is promoting the same old ndp dog  and pony show , it gets trotted out regularly.  but importantly , this ‘policy ‘ item appears only when it might benefit ndp electoral  fortunes in tough times but never when the ndp can actually implement through reform legislation .
there have been ndp majority governments in bc, ab, sk, mb and on - and none  have implemented prop rep to back their mouths up with action .  why not? it’s simple- they did not want to lose their majority power. 
rachel notley , ray martins  close friend and confidant, just had an opportunity as premier to implement this ndp policy and and ….. crickets. clickbait sideshow.  move on.
this is how i explain it to people who are against electoral reform...
"we don't use computers from 20 years ago now, so why do we use an election method from 200 years ago? "
and usually they say if it ain't broke don't  fix it.
and then i trot out-  we have studied election systems. we know more than our ancestors did 200 years ago. we have done lots of research and data shows the flaws of fptp.  given enough time any fptp whittles down to a two party duopoly.   worse, if left to linger,  the socio political divide you see in the us is the result of the two part duopoly.
im always glad to see a minority government.  it forces parties to compromise and be pragmatic. stv or any other alternative electoral system promotes that   we need more of that, not less.
i am growing into desiring jurisdiction voting. i growing into being convinced that any level of government should be limited in influence to one level above, and one level below. translating this means federal should only manage provinces and international.....and should not be managing ei, courts, cerb, taxes, etc of the citizen or municipal government. instead of taxes up and then back down. citizens vote in municipal  and regional, regions vote in provincial and federal. provinces and federal vote in courts and senate. bottom up democracy instead of jurisdictional mess. decentralize the active back down, while higher authority proposes the bills. ie. feds dish out 500 billion in ei relief for cerb to provinces with strings attached. some provinces are not satisfied and increase the amount. some regions are not satisfied and increase the amount. others keep it all since their citizens disagree with the concept.  no jurisdiction jumping.
look at who wrote this. it makes more sense when you understand the history of the author. though it is still odd for a prairie paper to print this.
> traditionally it's them that are most staunchly against the idea.
that's not really true. conservatives are on-again-off-again with the idea depending on the particular electoral dynamics and prospects of unending liberal hegemony. 
the liberals are the ones who are really most steadfast against any move towards a proportional system (stephane dion the exception) and will only consider reform if it means ranked voting which is even more tilted towards them than fptp.
or their intent is to sow dissent against the lpc.
it's probably aimed at ndp-liberal swing voters.  
if you have someone whose preference goes ndp then liberal then cpc, in a riding where the race is tight between the liberal and cpc candidate, that person might think that a vote for the liberals will at least see their second-choice party in power over the one they dislike the most.  if the conservatives can convince that voter to be angry with the liberals and vote for the ndp instead, even though the ndp don't have enough support in that riding to win, then it's a gain for the cpc candidate as their real opposition - the liberal candidate - gets fewer votes.
the bc referenda have been pretty heartbreaking in that regard.
i think the only way electoral reform is going to happen is from the bottom up. deploy these systems at the municipal, then provincial level and show that they actually give better outcomes.
> i don't know why they go back to 1990
i would say it's because chretien twice called an election about 3.5 years since the previous one.
> only two were dissolved by the party in power, and one of those times it was the cpc.
when was that?
> i've pointed this out before, but while people seem happy to pledge support to pr in the abstract to a pollster, there's no evidence that it ranks as a critical issue to voters, that it moves votes in either direction, or that they're particularly inclined to come out and vote in favour given the chance.
the majority of voters support the lpc and cpc who are fine with the current system. the only people who have any real motivation to support change are die hard ndp and fringe party voters who are perpetually shut out of power.
> i hate this argument. just because your vote didn't go to someone who didn't win, shouldn't matter, unless we decide that everyone on the ballot(s) should get to win.
a good proportional system would be effective in making every vote relevant though. dismiss the claim that those votes don't "count" if you want, but you can't deny that they're largely irrelevant
i want germanys mixed member proportional representation. you vote twice, a local candidate and a national party. two birds one stone. everyone’s happy.
table legislation in parliament, pass it. instruct elections canada to follow the new legislation once passed.
adopting the recommendation of a national citizens’ assembly is how we move forward: 
the prairie papers owned by postmedia are finally experiencing the feeling of their choice being under-represented in parliament.  this is.... well, it's a new level of "we have no voice, no one cares about us, only central canada matters in federal politics" for them.

gentle persuasion has done nothing to convince these very selfish people to do the right thing for the sake of others, so there's not many other choices.
then they should be fine with raising taxes and expanding our medical system. we will likely need to bring in nurses and doctors through increased immigration and possibly need to raise wages since this isn't a desirable situation.
agreed, which is only to say that we *definitely* shouldn't put them in pillories.
in comparison, "removing them from roles where they're likely to get the public sick through in-person contact" isn't remotely an "extreme measure."
well in good ol' ontario, you just need to wait till dougie relaxes all restrictions because his base and his own daughter is anti-vaxx.


i really hope i’m not the only one scared at the ucps attempt to destroy democracy. the ucp members had enough signatures to call kenneys leadership into review. yet kenney loyalists have put forward a resolution to increase the number of votes needed to call a reviews from 1/4 to 1/3. holy hell! if this is not another way the ucp shows their disdain for democracy i don’t know what is.
electoral committee is investigating and fining ucp mlas for violations. no problem, the ucp closed this position and the person to take over the investigation just stopped investigating allowing the statute of limitations to pass.
oh no, the rcmp are investigating the ucp for election fraud. not to worry, kenney has a plan to implement its own police force and get rid of the rcmp.
kenney took the teachers pensions and gave it to aimco. aimco took over the pension november 2019 and lost 4 billion dollars by april 2020. can’t listen to the majority of teachers saying that they did not want this.
kenney and the ucp are over riding laws and breaking them with no qualms at all. the ucp are a danger to democracy as they will do whatever they have to to avoid prosecution for their crimes.
>ucp mla peter guthrie has alleged that kenney-friendly political action committees (also called third-party advertisers) are paying the way for kenney-friendly members to stack this weekend's debates in favour of the premier.
this sounds very familiar. it reminds me of how he cheated brian jean out of the party leadership. the classic rat f#cking techniques never really die.
the wheel of time turns, and ages come and pass leaving memories that become legend. there are neither beginnings nor endings to the wheel of time. but it was a beginning.
i don't see him surviving past the spring with the party intact. it sounds like the only way he's going to survive a leadership review is by gaming the system, and if he successfully does so, i think a significant chunk of wildrosish mlas are ready to jump ship. 
it would be an amazing (but at this point kinda plausible) outcome if brian jean successfully wins the fort mac seat for the ucp in late march, and three weeks later quits the party to become leader of a reformed wpa.
it really is unbelievable that they can do all this crazy and get away with it. not just teacher's pensions, they also took nurses and city workers lapp pension.
someone watched the show
haha, haven’t had a chance yet, but i have read the books a few times. hopefully it is good and doesn’t get too many unnecessary comparisons to game  of thrones.
> but i have read the books a few times.
dude.

will likely get worse as the seniors flee toronto and ontario to the east coast ~ and they will demand extraordinary care !
this shouldn't be a surprise to anyone.  nova scotia has been shipping off its future (young people) for the last 50+ years to other provinces/countries who are paying for the healthcare of the retiring people in that province. 
there are substantially less people paying taxes here than needed to survive.  there are small towns here where you can drive "downtown" and not see a single person under the age of 40 years old.  and those that do work, pay more in taxes than other provinces.
the only financial benefit we had was a low cost of housing but thats gone out the window as well.
well, guess i can cross off ns as a potential retirement location.   my body is off warranty and needs replacement parts...
i don't know how many people i've mentioned this to.  everyone wants to move there but when i tell them about the doc situation they all respond with, "never thought of that".
why do no doctors move there?
the pay is low compared to other places
some do but more either retire, move away or become hospitalists where they don't have any overhead costs (no office, no staff to pay, no equipment to buy and maintain).  apparently the pay is less than elsewhere as well.  then the  schools only pop out so many and the regulators have strict certification requirements for foreign trained applicants.
the newly elected guv'ment has apparently made this issue a priority (along with other issues that are also priorities).
income taxes are ridiculously high as well, which is extra punishing to doctors. about half of their income is lost to taxes.
[deleted]
add to that the relatively higher cost of living in the maritimes, too. food, transportation (gas prices), heating costs, all are quite a bit higher. travel elsewhere is more complicated because of the lack of connections to most places other than toronto, montreal and ottawa, and more expensive as well due to that. the winters can be harsh, and summer can take seemingly forever to show up every year.
all of those headaches disappear, or are at least reduced, by leaving, particularly to the usa where they practically trip over themselves to get a visa for you if you're a fully-trained doctor. much lower taxes, houses cost a song even in most metro areas (compared to canada, anyways), warm weather most of the year, even cities like austin and charlotte have nonstop flights to europe, and the place you live is likely not a seasonal economy that shuts down (ie, all the fun is closed) for half the year.
not a hard decision to make for most.
most physicians are incorporated making their tax situation dependent on how much income they choose to draw.

surprised about the cabinet composition one given how much media attention it’s got but maybe that was a bigger deal in 2015. also nearly 1/3 of people believing the ndp has formed government at the federal level seems concerning, wonder if it’s people from provinces where the ndp has getting things mixed up
a few interesting tidbits in here, some more embarrassing than others.  a quarter of people think the gg is responsible for the direction of the government and the pm follows that. 
>1 in 3 people (32%) believe the ndp has formed government in ottawa at some point in the past, and 11% think this has happened more than once.
i'm chalking this one up to voters being confused about levels of government since most provinces have had an ndp government at some point.  still not a great showing. 
at the bottom they threw in voter accessibility. 40% would consider voting conservative, 49% would consider voting ndp, and 57% would consider voting liberal.  not surprising really that the liberals have the largest  voting pool, being closer to the centre.  that the cpc are at 40 puts them in a bind though.
those were pretty shallow questions, and while i'd have preferred a larger proportion of correct answers, the actual data doesn't show any huge concerns.
now if they'd asked how the pm was chosen, or who was responsible for (pick a topic that the feds get blamed for, but the province is responsible for), then we'd see why politics in this country are a bit of a  mess.
i recall bruce anderson (of abacus) mentioning recently on a podcast that the number is even higher among ndp supporters themselves haha
could also be people confused about the pearson minority and whether that constituted the ndp forming a government in coalition.
> also nearly 1/3 of people believing the ndp has formed government at the federal level seems concerning
the number might be different if they had been asked about forming government "at the federal level" instead of "in ottawa".
while the prime minister does choose cabinet ministers, the governor general appoints them (on the prime minister's advice). there's usually a big ceremony at rideau hall where they're sworn in. could just be people hyper-correcting in a way that ends up being wrong based on how the question was asked.
i believe the voter accessibility numbers are only for the group of respondents who answered the most questions correctly - i had to read it a few times to be sure, though
>not surprising really that the liberals have the largest  voting pool, being closer to the centre.  that the cpc are at 40 puts them in a bind though.
i read it differently -- that of those *who got all the questions right,* 57% would consider voting liberal, etc. 
it would have been more interesting for them to have directly asked "did you vote in the most recent election" and "who did you vote for".
i'm curious about the wording about the government direction question. the slide only shows the question "who sets the direction for the government in ottawa?". there's no context provided on the "which the prime minister must follow" in terms of whether or how that part was presented to respondents. the governor general reads the speech from the throne, which sets out the direction of the federal government for the session. the speech is mostly written by the prime minister, so it is the prime minister who is in fact directing the government, but this is one of those cases where the form and practice of government contradict each other.
hmmm, don't like that. do hope that's just people who've had ndp gov's they like at the provincial level getting confused
feel like the pearson government was probably too long ago for most people to remember though
i don't know that it'd change that significantly, but canada does have this issue of naming a city, meaning the federal government, and assuming they're interchangeable. at least in the us washington dc is federally administered, and in the uk there aren't provincial governments so if you say parliament nobody thinks queens park. 
it's just a weird and bad media crutch. nobody would ever refer to ontario's provincial government as toronto, it'd be confusing.
that could make sense but it still got a lot of media attention with trudeau being attributed so i'd still be surprised if that was the case
it gets tricky if you consider the gg a part of the government because they do have their own initiatives they pursue (johnson encouraging volunteering for instance).
the "which the prime minister must follow" part is correct in the most obtuse way possible though; if a pm doesn't have the confidence of the gg they must resign. we really only see this in confidence scenarios where the pm wants an election and the gg tells him "lol, no". at which point the pm must resign according to convention. if you squint that matches up with the question.
still, that is probably giving people way too much credit for their institutional knowledge.
scotland and wales have parliaments, and there's also the northern ireland assembly. there's a london assembly as well, but that's getting closer to what we'd see as a "municipal" government.
the people i'm referring to would know that the prime minister was the one deciding who to appoint, they might simply have tripped themselves up by saying "well technically it's the governor general making the appointment" and answered that way instead. though i suppose people who headline surf might see "governor general swears in new cabinet in ceremony at rideau hall" or something like that as well.
that makes sense, there was a surprising amount of people who thought the queen/gg directed the country so maybe that’s related



i would bet that 100% are vaccinated because they are aging and afraid, but would say otherwise to pander to the vocal fringe that makes up their base.

>when former leader andrew scheer kicked sen. lynn beyak out of the national caucus in 2018, the conservative senate caucus immediately followed suit.
important contrast here.  batters is sticking around for awhile, she'll be in the senate for decades yet.  with the senate shake up the cpc group is shrinking fast.  it makes sense to keep her. 
this puts o'toole in a tight spot.  how does he address it now?  kick all the senators out of caucus maybe?
the only way these people will be happy is if the can get mad max back to lead their party or someone just like him. they act like a bunch of spoiled children when they can’t get their own way. if they want to get rid of o’toole then follow the proper procedures and protocols the party has put in place. they show a total lack of respect for everything and everybody.
it is time…never a better time…for the pcs to rise from this slag heap and reclaim the right of centre.  leave this collection of losers like batters behind and fight tooth and nail in bc and east of saskatchewan to win power.  this is no longer the harper era.  two rump right wing whacko parties will do little to sway the vote on the same way that the ndp and greens do on the left.
o'toole seems to have really misplayed his hand here... to quell dissent you need the vast majority on your side, instead he's put himself in a position where he either has to kick out a healthy chunk of his party or back down. 
his only saving grace might be if nobody else seems like a good alternative. but even then, he's basically a lame duck being allowed to stay in charge until someone better comes along and/or a winnable election looks like it's on the horizon.
if he did, he’d basically be saying: what trudeau did was right. we should have an independent senate not tied to partisan politics.
lack of respect goes both ways in this case.  why hold a policy convention only to have the leader go his own way?  the conservatives have made a big deal of keeping promises made during a campaign.  this only applies to the liberals, not o'toole's leadership campaign?  
at the end of the day the conservatives are trying to cover a huge part of the political spectrum in order to win power.  herding cats is real hard.
i thought that batters endorsed peter mackay for the conservative leadership? i think this might be infighting between red tories and "red tories".
that's the challenge with leadership reviews. every different faction within the party will have their own candidate in mind for who the ideal next leader will or can be, while o'toole doesn't have an opponent to run against.
flip flopping like a fish is something he does well. he has no issue saying one thing one day to one set of people and another thing entirely to another set of people on another day. 
i don’t know how anyone can trust this guy. he never takes a stand for anything but what the hard right want. on guns, he flopped. on housing, he stopped talking about it. on vaccines, he promised 90 percent for canadians while he can’t even get his own members vaccinated. and the list goes on and on and on.
now that would be a bold move, and i hope he does it. won't hold my breath though
>herding cats is real hard. 
how did harper do it? you'll never catch me saying anything nice about the guy or time in office, but the more the cpc acts like siamese twins who hate each other the more i'm in awe that he kept everyone pointing in the same direction for over a decade. i'm guessing part of it was simply winning (easier to be quiet and get half of what you want than be quiet when you're getting nothing), but surely he must've done something else right that o'toole and scheer couldn't figure out.
a lot of peter mackay supporters are equally as angry at erin o'toole as the social conservatives and hardliners in the party. "true blue" erin o'toole smeared peter mackay that entire campaign by calling him "liberal-lite" and a "red tory" only to turn around and run as one right after the leadership. the red tories all believe they could have had a better and more credible red tory if they had just elected mackay in the first place.
she did, she also supported andrew scheer. she is an old school small c conservative. i think her biggest issue was what o’toole did to win the cpc leadership (true blue conservative) and then ran as a red tory during the election. the only thing conservatives hate more than trudeau is conservatives that lie to win. o’toole insinuated during the leadership race that mackay would introduce a carbon tax. the irony
[removed]
i was under the impression he had already done that back in 2014.
[justin trudeau removes senators from liberal caucus](
he can't stop any group of senators from organizing themselves into a group, but there are no lpc senators.
it was just a good time to be harper.  he focused on the issues that were common to the whole party, which were their biggest issues at the time.  it's just been a while and there's more drift now.  the common causes aren't holding the party together anymore.
> but surely he must've done something else right that o'toole and scheer couldn't figure out
he's not afraid to have people not like him.
hard to compare.  harper went hard on the message of what it would take to win, and he did win.  this got him respect from the party.  otoole simply flips the message to suit the situation.  this flip flopping is weak.  now he is trying for some discipline.
for all his political strategizing - and he did do quite a lot - the most important thing he did was win.
the cpc were willing to live under the iron fist if they were winning. under scheer, and o'toole, they haven't been winning, and that makes people start to look for convenient solutions.

only bc and nova scotia even have data residency baked into legislation. that's for a very good reason - a blanket requirement that all personal information always be stored within canada is onerous as fuck and it's led a lot of it companies with perfectly acceptable im and infosec practices to avoid working with the province, while others have had to incur extra costs just to operate in bc. in the age of cloud computing and saas - yes, if you want to be up to date in technology you will need to work with foreign companies who will occasionally need to access production environments from outside canada to fix shit. or data will need to be in transit in servers located outside the country before their final resting place. and software companies aren't going to set up alert systems just for bc because there's a chance in hell there could be some information about a bc resident when the us government has a lawful demand for information from them. the proposed changes is bringing in line what the rest of the provinces already do, which is to regulate disclosure and storage instead of prohibiting them outright.
then the hub-hub over foi fees... you aren't going to be charged for requesting your own information. and for recuperating costs from the small minority that takes up nearly all the foi request volume - it has to be a blanket charge because foi requestors need to have the option to remain anonymous. the government could just eat the cost sure, but then the complaint would be that it costs too much to run the office and it's back to square one.
data is very portable, where the data is stored is somewhat irrelevant as who controls/maintans that data and the oversight around it.
a hard disk with the data backups can be in bc and it could be said to be stored in country.  but that's meaningless if the corporation is foreign owned or makes further backups outside the country.
yeah, the increasingly international nature of data means that we all have to accept the privacy standards offered by the least-privacy-protecting nations out there. after all, there's shareholder value to consider!
as for foi fees - rather than demanding that governments structure their data so that it can be readily disclosed to the public as required by law, why not instead add fees to the system to deter the peons from even asking for such important information. don't you know that governments need to be able to keep secrets? especially when the things they're hiding are embarrassing or politically harmful! didn't those peasants get the hint when we continually failed to meet legally mandated service standards for disclosure? no matter what any 'law' says - you're not entitled to the data you paid to create - that belongs to your betters.
/s - obviously.
imagine if we had a system that just classified all information as *de facto* disclosable and automatically disclosed it upon request. bureaucrats or politicians might then have to <shudder> actually justify their desire to hide information from the public. instead of having to pay an office full of bureaucrats to manually review every part of each document requested, those few genuine important secrets that should actually be withheld should be flagged at the time a document is created.
every project i've done with ontario and canadian public entities has mandated cast iron data sovereignty for all data at rest, and all the major cloud providers have ring fenced canadian data centers that guarantee that data doesn't leave the borders.
> only bc and nova scotia even have data residency baked into legislation.
ok, that doesn't make me happy. i would expect all provinces to have that on the books.
> is onerous as fuck 
so? just because something is difficult, isn't an automatic reason to not do it. when it comes to ensuring information that the province has a responsibility to keep private, if that requires having the servers that store that info in the province, than i'm all for it. other nations don't have the same privacy requirements we do, and may not ensure that our info, stored in servers in their country, is protected to our standards.
which regulation contains data residency in ns?
i was pretty sure pipeda required at rest personal health information to be stored on canadian soil; could have sworn aws’s page on pipeda mentions that and that ca-central-1 needs those requirements.
can’t imagine that anything in ns regulations require you to keep data specifically in ns.
[edit] ah, i see. yeah, ns includes *all* public sector data as well as health care data to be stored in canada. i guess i should also note that pipeda requires you to store data in canada unless you have a good reason not to, but that applies to health care data in all provinces.
again, the amendments aren't about making data residency requirements nonexistent. it's about replacing "prohibited except in x scenarios" with "allowed in y scenarios, then controlled by z regulations" which is how the rest of the country operates.
sure. i was mostly disagreeing with your statement that "a blanket requirement that all personal information always be stored within canada is onerous as fuck" - the majority of vendors use the three major clouds and they all offer canadian sovereignty as standard, and if you're big enough to be standing up your own iron then doing it in canadian locations as well is just part of the cost of doing business. i'm not aware of a single vendor that canadian public entities are excluded from that represents a net loss for us (recognising that while i work in tech i am like most in a specific field, and there are all sorts of areas in which i'm admittedly ignorant).

we just need to hold on until the republicans sweep the midterms, and this proposal will be killed by a return of the full-scale complete gridlock in washington that will cripple the rest of the biden presidency.
if we have a supply of critical minerals, could we not insist that they be used in canadian made cars before they're exported to the us?
yup. biden was a terrible pick and he pulled an obama by not just jamming shit through and now the country will pay for it. if you thought trump was bad he was just the tip of the ice berg.
idk how that is going to help. there are not going to be canadian made evs to use such materials in, with biden's protectionism policy. what could actually work is price fixing the ev materials sold to the us, so that canadian manufacturers get a cost advantage to balance out the tax credit for american manufacturers.  still, it will raise prices everywhere and become a horrible drag on the overall market.
most of canada's resources get exported because we have a small population and customer base that will never use it all. the best way to use more resources domestically is to massively boost canada's population, boosting labour and consumer demand. but then people complain about too much growth and act like it's a bad thing. now cue the replies here that tell you immigration is just done for wage supression. i am not going to waste time debunking that  theory.
your right. the world will need these minerals and you don't need a pipeline to ship them. we need to start thinking global and pumping millions into r&d. make the best battery in the world and eat the supply.
the proposed ev credit is actually a collection of credits, and one is requiring us made batteries. so even if we can make a great battery, it will still be facing a protectionism problem. 
i think you are suggesting "best battery" as in best for performance and not price,  which could work as a way to play to our advantage instead of playing to overcome a disadvantage. that's a good idea and it is similar to how western manufacturing evolved after a lot of production moved to low cost sources in asia. the problem is that the us can also compete on tech & performance if us companies take the technology south to use in their us factories. or the us companies could simply go crazy on r&d and figure it out on their own. that is what many us automakers are doing now. it's getting very competitive. 
so ultimately i still think an export tarriff or quota is needed to put the pressure on the us. they want to find non-china suppliers for their industry, but canada has no reason to be a partner in that effort with biden's tilted playing field.
we stopped a take over bid on a mining company in the north for national security reasons. the company name escapes me at the moment. the usa has earned a spot on the list. the same should be done for our tech companies.

they were selling the same water wells and same schools over and over to donors, then they would do trips down there with big donors and have to swap all the plaques over with correct donors name to show them the "donation" went to a good cause etc. what a wild time we live in. just help people if that's your goal.
mark and craig kielberger's \*mom\* is suing canadaland for the investigative journalism they did on we's various businesses and charities. the story is nuts. i enjoyed listening to "the white saviors" and i found it informative. if this topic interests you, check out the canadaland podcast to hear what all the lawsuits are about.
edit: and if you can, subscribe and become a patron! support news media in canada because we are sorely lacking!
as difficult this is to accept, when charities step in and deliver necessities, what we are seeing is a complete failure of policy, philanthropy to launder images of the wealthy (who have the greatest influence at creating and fixing problems), and mechanisms to shelter and control wealth outside of taxes.
charities are structured to not solve problems, but to maintain and put a nicer veneer on the failures of policy and our own communities. it's another instance of offloading responsibility, creating an entity to accumulate wealth at the expense of others while giving the illusion that enough is being done.
similar to police funding to solve problems relating to crime, if the money is going to just control and maintenance then we essentially create an incentive to not solve the problem. for another example, we still haven't solved issues of hunger in canada, it's an absolute joke that we can't run food banks that cover for nutritional needs regardless of wealth as a matter of policy.
what would make sense for charities is if they were to form locally, set a clear goal, meet that goal, and go through the process of disbanding until another cause comes up that the community wishes to tackle. not these globe spanning charities that step in to cover for the harmful longterm effects of colonialism or imperialism, while at home trying to cover for the complete stagnation of wages and creeping austerity.
how else do we get we? a massive charity founded in the mid 90s extremely active throughout the 2000's within schools, who's purpose seems to have been giving people the experience of being saviours of people in poor countries while buying real estate at home. it's also why we have charities that market awareness for diseases and donate a fraction of money raised to research or to help patients.
in the charitable sector this has long been known. we charity has been a bad faith player. our collective silence is now coming back to haunt us as all our donors are extra cautious.
their mom is suing canadaland for a podcast.  they are so f-ing corrupt and it looks really bad that the liberals are so close to them.
i dedicate this to the cohort of liberal partisans on twitter who bizarrely still insist that all of the coverage of we is somehow a hit job hurting a perfectly good charity. yes there was significant and misleading hyperbole about trudeau/the liberals' involvement with we, but no it's not true that the government's proposed program was terrible, and it's definitely not true that we was a good charity doing good work.
that we is useless is new info for the public, but for those involved in the international development sector it's always been clear that they aren't accomplishing anything. their model of volunteerism was always entirely centered on making donors and volunteers feel good about themselves, not about actually producing results.
i don't approve of the deception at all, but it would be helpful to know the details. are they being accused of collecting enough money to build 900 schools and only building 360 (misappropriating the other money)? or about lying about how much it actually costs to build a school in kenya, so every donor could think they single-handedly "built" a school?
that was wild to read. 
im glad i made the decision to focus my donations to salvation army and local food banks.
another marketing scam is their conflation of a classroom and a school. they'll say they built four schools, when in reality they just built one school with four classrooms, all in the same location serving the same community.
many charities are reasonable with how they operate.  but many are not.  one of the reasons i do not give to any big charities anymore, but only to smaller, local groups for specific fundraisers.
ever since we hit the fan i think back to that huge shindig on parliament hill a few years back and think how things have changed.
everyone is/was involved with we.
trudeau is involved with them. trudeau's wife got covid when she travelled to the uk for a we event. mark carney's wife was on the board. even pinball clemsons was involved.
and now that the cards are out in the open, it's really just a sletchy-ass real estate corporation and travel agency with poor accounting that sometimes spent money for charitable causes, although not for what they said it was for.
newsflash for people who need it i guess. especially after reading through some of these comments left by people here... (yeeesh)
how about you all just start pooling your money together via a cooperative, and form a charity that way instead. you'll actually end up helping more people here where we live, and the money might actually end up being used for good. instead of being used to fill some motherfuckers pockets.
i know, i know. this won't be easy since you're all redditors, so each of you will want to be the boss somehow. i get it. but you'll actually be doing some good for once in your lives, and not be wasting your money giving it to yet another fucking crook. just some food for thought. the only obstacle is you all working with each other.
have fun, and try to not become the next fucking scandal we all get to deal with.
[removed]
what a meandering, throw-everything-at-the-wall article. i guess that's what you get when an organization is this much of a target. mushing all those individual points together, in no particular order, will produce a compelling read simply because "we charity" is a headline thing.
some accusations are serious, even if they may be understandable from a utilitarian perspective (the general subject of overstating and oversimplifying the impact of individual donations). 
other accusations are absolute non-issues (a donor who wanted to defend the organization asked for fact checking and was 100% transparent about having done so). 
some accusations are the kind of scandalous email that is pretty much inevitable on a sufficient timescale (project delays could be dependent on how much project oversight was present from big donors). something to be concerned about, but any sufficient closet-cleaning will identify skeletons on this scale.
other accusations are preliminary and vague, even though they're part of a massive article and dealing with the biggest questions at hand. note how the final paragraph about money is the most exciting, but also incomplete, and is based on data from *yesterday afternoon*.
[removed]
“we communicated to donors as best as we could” yikes
the first i heard of “me to we” made me immediately suspicious.
[removed]
you seem to believe that giving to charities is somehow at odds with advocating for proper governance. even though charities are the strongest voices for proper governance. 
every year there is a report that generates buzz about how the global 1% own more wealth than the bottom x%. where do you think that report comes from? oxfam. a charity.
where do you think the "carbon majors report" comes from? climate accountability. a charity.  
your position seems to be that we must choose between helping starving people today and engaging in a multi-century utopian project and we should choose the latter over the former.  
and my question is, why should a society that can afford yachts and cruise ships and space ships need to choose between feeding people today and improving global geopolitics over the next several hundred years. why shouldn't we do both?
my charity is specifically helping individual afghans to not get shot by the taliban. tell me how i could better spend my time to help those people. and if the answer is "get involved in politics", then i'll respond: "i already do that too." because it turns out that i can do two things at once, just as a society as a whole can.

i don't see a way this isn't a solid w for the liberals. the options for it going are:
1. the bill passes easily. they hold this as a victory whenever the next election is, and use it as evidence the previous election was necessary and had positive impact.
2. the bill passes, but with cpc mps in opposition. they hold this as a victory, and can point to the cpc opposition in the next election.
3. the bill stalls, putting the bill in the news cycle for a long period of time in which the cpc will have to continue to justify torturing gay kids.
the only way this comes out as an l, is if it does not pass prior to the next election making the liberals seem ineffectual. however, that would require the ndp to not support passing the bill... which seems exceedingly unlikely.
basically every party used the conversion therapy bill in their campaigns.  the opposition parties used it to show the government sacrificed good legislation so they could call  an election.   the liberals used it to show that opposition parties were stalling good legislation and parliament wasn't working.  
based on that, this bill should have unanimous consent from all parties to zip through the house in a week. unless parties weren't being sincere or something
well this will be a caucus management nightmare for erin o'toole who is already having a very bad month. 62 members of the conservative caucus voted against the bill in the last parliament.
maybe the liberals will actually pass it this time, instead of letting the 
conservatives stall endlessly so they can use their intransigence in the next election campaign.
i can't wait to see what disaster the tories create for themselves on this one! maybe o'toole whips the vote and fully splits the party? maybe a majority of conservatives vote against it "beucase it's not absolutely perfect by our arbitrary definition that will never apply again!"? or maybe, they'll blindside trudeau by forcing this through quickly so he can't use this as a hammer against them!  
who am i kidding, that last one will never happen. sledgehammer says smash!
this bill had a hard time largely because they tried to include gender therapy with this to only allow gender affirming therapies. there's a lot going on in that regard and we can't afford to make therapies illegal when the medical community is barely keeping up with the current social trends surrounding gender.
is talking with a medical professional about transitioning defined as conversion therapy by this bill? that is a life changing procedure that should not be taken lightly in the regards of children. 
i did not like how the article portrayed a medical field with an example of them being a religious nut job. i have gone for multiple different different mental health appointments with different levels if clinicians and have a hard time believing this field is full of the roll back to religion type.
i don't know everything and am not here to start a fight just worried if talking to people in a professional manner with licensed professionals gets lumped in with other good parts of this bill.
thanks.
[removed]
the liberals love banning stuff that already isn't a problem in canada. i think they should roll out a bill to protect our children from grenade launchers next, take a good two-month press tour on the release of it. there won't be any more grenade launcher deaths in canada under our watch!
"the new bill is expected to have a broader scope, making using coercion or persuasive techniques to change a person’s sexual orientation or gender identity illegal throughout canada." at this point they are just cracking down on people's freedoms. i don't support conversion therapy but these liberals are just being way too authoritarian. hope this bill either does not pass or gets removed by the next non liberal government.
much like harper did when the liberals were self-destructing in opposition, get ready for trdueau to govern as a majority and just dare the conservatives to force an election.
depends on the bill, doesn't it? i'd it's "much stronger" than the previous bill, there's a lot of room for some other narrative to take hold depending on the content of the bill.  if it's strong enough a charter challenge succeds and cuts a hole in it, that'd be a bad narrative for the liberals come next election.
> and use it as evidence the previous election was necessary and had positive impact.
they had the votes to pass a bill like this before they stuffed campaign teams and voters into crowded spaces and wasted hundreds of millions of dollars that could've gone into something that helped people.
let's call it what it is: justin didn't like having to negotiate with progressives. that's it. that's why we were forced into an election that the majority of canadians didn't want.
> use it as evidence the previous election was necessary 
really? wasn't the previous version not passing, due to the fact that the election was called before the lpc, with ndp support, had forces this through? that the lpc chose to let this fail?
cpc wouldn't all be for the bill. i bet at least half the party is going to vote against it. i remember o'toole said the cpc would pass this bill but i am not sure they could do it on their own if they even won a majority. the cpc as a lot more social conservatives than the general public realizes.
[deleted]
> based on that, this bill should have unanimous consent from all parties to zip through the house in a week.
come on, be serious. the cpc was always in opposition to this bill, and would never have used it being stalled, as an argument that the lpc sacrificed good legislation to get a majority.
not the strengthened one.
it is a violation of parental authority over their children.  it is a violation of the charter right of freedom of conscience and religion.
i'm all for banning forcible conversion therapy inflicted on adults, and any assault or confinement involved program.
however, the liberals simply want control of all things, your parental and charter rights be damned.
...and generally the cpc lost moderates in tight races and picked up hardliners.

everyone forgets about new brunswick. 
the ontario provincial election is on june 2.  i'm guessing he signs it sometime in april to maximize political impact.  horwath and del duca should be reminding voters right now that he's delaying a reduction in child care payments.
it's nowhere;  they bring out excuses where they claim they are being short changed by 3.5 billion.
but at the same time ignores the mail sent by gould to them to engage in talks
well hopefully it's on the way...
ford is posturing rn to try and look tough but he will sign a deal with the government for $10 childcare soon enough, i think. if not, he's going to suffer politically and i think he knows that. he just needs to do his little song and dance of playing to his base and trying to look defiant.
[removed]
>i'm guessing he signs it sometime in april to maximize political impact
this is my thinking too. he's making a political play and is going to try to make it look like he's a hard negotiator but in the end he'll sign a deal.
actually nb is in talks/negotiations with the feds now to bring in the deal.
do you know the details of the funding?
i really curious to know how much the feds are offering?
for example if child currently cost 2000/mth in toronto. the parent pays 200 do the feds pay 900 and ontario pay 900. or are the using the cost in thunder bay where cost are much lower?
removed for rule 2.
>do you know the details of the funding? i really curious to know how much the feds are offering? for example if child currently cost 2000/mth in toronto. the parent pays 200 do the feds pay 900 and ontario pay 900. or are the using the cost in thunder bay where cost are much lower?
the provinces and territories were each offered a slice of $27.2 billion, based on their share of canada’s population of children age 0 to 12, **meaning ontario was offered $10.2 billion over five years. (ipolitics)**
ford wants a similar "no strings attached" deal like quebec.  if you go by the funding models.. 
lecce says ontario is being short-changed 3.5 billion
i believe the funding is only available for parents of a certain income level, and spaces will be limited, with a wait list of a year or more - just like in quebec.
so the ontario tax payers picked up slack in funding and it’s not 50/50 split in funding.

i honestly can’t wait to see how this internal palace infighting plays out. 
kenney is not the type to allow himself to be forced out and go quietly. this man will cheat, backstab, and rig his way to staying on. *especially* if it means keeping his arch-nemesis brian jean out of the premier’s chair. 
this is going to get ugly fast.  i feel bad for alberta, but hopefully the ucp’s civil war is so distracting to them that alberta doesn’t have more awful policy forced on them by these clowns. 
in the meantime, grab your popcorn and watch the fireworks.
well, i had been wondering how kenney was intending to stay in power after a leadership review. i suppose stacking the deck would be a fairly effective way of doing that.
just think, by selling new memberships to loyalists for the agm, kenney gets their votes not only for the agm, but also vote in support of him at a leadership review, and, if they're willing to take a bus to ft. mcmurray, vote for not-brian jean at the candidate nomination. three votes for the price of one! what value! those conservatives sure are good with money, right folks?
absolutely none of this is a surprise to me, it's exactly what i expected. although i maybe expected them to be a little more subtle about it.
[removed]
[removed]
don’t feel too bad. albertans keep voting in conservatives against their better interests. it’s frustrating being a huge leftist here but after two decades i’m kinda used to it.
just like he did to get elected in the first place and then buried any attempts at a proper investigation.
as kenny said....."it's not illegal"
strange that... the people who make the laws actually using that as a defence.
selling memberships only goes so far.  at some point he is going to run out of people that are not members and would support him.
i guess he could go to the disengaged unaffiliated and sign them up and vote on their behalf (and hope really hard they don't check) but that is illegal if an investigation was completed on that.
removed for rule 3.
removed for rule 3.
and if he did that, it's not like he'd turf the elections commissioner for looking into it, either. because that would be a bad look.
oh, wait...
[removed]
please [message the moderators](/message/compose?to=%2fr%2fcanadapolitics) in order to discuss or dispute moderation actions -- in-thread replies will be removed.  this both avoids clutter and helps receive a prompt and considered response, since your message will be seen by all moderators rather than just ones viewing [this particular thread](
\--  
/ u / tealswinglinestapler


seems like the guy should get a ticket - vacating his elected seat for a ticketable offence doesn't make sense to me
norn initiated a covid outbreak by breaking self-isolation rules and made it worse by being dishonest about it, despite having admitted so to the media. this isn't merely a ticketable offense, but rather poor conduct on the part of a mla that has resulted in community spread of a disease during a pandemic and multiple investigations at the cost of taxpayers.
if this buffoon doesn’t get ousted i’ll be very disappointed in the assembly; i’ve already said as much to my local mla.
if the rest of us peons have to submit to mandatory isolation and all the restrictions, mlas should be setting the example.

i'm not even confident dead canadians will shock us out of complacency. people do not want tax increases and are willing to see their fellow canadians die because of it. what can one do?
no. not even that works these days. people have become desensitized to most forms of shock in society in general.
seeing how completely ford botched ltcs during the pandemic and the likelihood of him cruising to reelection, i'm not convinced even 10,000 dead canadians would do it. we'll say the usual sorrowful things and move on without taking action to prevent future tragedy, same as we always do.
there's literally nothing i can do as a citizen. i'm not incharge. our elected officials and political groups are the ones in power. and they don't care about dead canadians.
>now-former defence minister harjit sajjan announced in 2019 that canada would spend more than a billion bucks on a modernization of the existing 14 choppers, plus the delivery of two new ones.
>[...]
>the air force also uses fixed-wing aircraft for some search-and-rescue missions, and our current fleet of cc-115 buffalo planes dates back to the 1960s ... a contract to replace those has been signed; indeed, the first aircraft has been delivered. it took four years to deliver the first plane after the deal was sealed
i am genuinely perplexed by the cost and time involved with these procurements. i am one man who can barely assemble a piece of ikea furniture, but if you gave me $1,000,000,000 and four years, i feel like i could deliver at least a many aircraft as the government of canada seems capable of procuring.
tbf it took europe how many centuries before they realized constant war (at home) wasn't a great idea. north america won't be any smarter here, we've enjoyed a beautiful life bubble for too long.
lots of the comments here are very focused on procurement and it's issues, and while i don't disagree that that's a mess, it's not the root of the problem being discussed here imo. even if procurement was working perfectly smoothly, the article argues that we still under-fund the military for the amount we expect them to do. 
i agree with the author that canadians are cheap when it comes to defence spending. for a very long time, we have been content to essentially say "the americans will protect us", but the short-comings of this approach become stark and obvious when it comes to issues like natural disasters, where it is no longer reasonable to expect the americans to step up for us. even if they were willing to handle search and rescue for us, is that really the canada that we want, one where our government can't be bothered to spend enough to save it's own citizens in it's own territory? is that really the actions of a sovereign nation? 
people are right to be skeptical of the recent history of western armed conflict overseas, and they are also right to be weary of a military-industrial complex. but there are legitimate functions of the military that should be defensible to the canadian public, such as search and rescue as discussed by this article, and it is debatable whether we even can meet those with our current level of spending.
it will take a lot of dead canadians to shake people out of apathy. either that, or something that causes everyone to suddenly lose their comforts.
if it doesn't somehow directly impact almost everyone in a serious way, then nothing will change.
if it can be ignored, then we will ignore and distract ourselves from almost any suffering that isn't our own. we've become very good at it.
many of the problems could be solved without increasing the budget by a single dollar. military procurement is fucked at essentially all levels and we spend outrageous amounts of money for equipment that doesn't work.
maybe don't waste the money you have?
people can not afford tax increases and will do anything else to avoid dying of poverty over their fellow canadians.. ftfy. 
the climate crisis is an economic crisis. most canadians are doing whatever it takes for themselves and their family to survive, the rest of the country and world be damned.
there's a whole lot more shocks in society coming. becoming desensitized is the only way to survive without going nuts.
it was pretty interesting seeing people in the bc subreddit wanting to talk more about the trailer dealership that was on fire than the people imacted or thousands of animals that were dead/dying.
the ltc disaster was 30 years in the making.
[removed]
it’s not much but writing to your elected officials and to ministers to express your concerns *can* help.
our elected officials are a reflection of us, as much as we would try to deny it. they are not the problem, we are.
you don't become a leader by being elected; you become a leader by leading. that takes courage because it often means telling people something that they might not want to hear and repeating it over and over even when everyone tells you to stfu because you're bumming them out and ruining their chill.
so yes you can be a leader anytime you chose to be, but you have to be willing to put yourself out there and take hits because when you say shit people don't want to hear and are actively trying to ignore, you will be disliked by some. sometimes hated.
there's a lot we can change, if we all do it. you've heard it before: drive less, never fly, eat less or no meat, get a home energy assessment, work from home if you can, and so on.
this isn't a case where the military can just say "i want this" and get it.  that practically never happens these days.
many canadians overestimate the power that the military has in terms of their procurement.  it is no different than any other department in that regard, and if anything, even more criticized because every military purchase is a political football.
the only things in recent history where it wasn't a complete shitshow were during the afghanistan campaign, when slow procurement meant dead canadians on the news.  politicians do not that on their watch, especially during an election year.

this may end up benefitting the lpc to vote in the speaker that they actually want.
rota wasn’t their first choice last time but the cpc helped drive him into the position with their votes.
what's really funny is that a lot of the cpc mps who are not revealing their vaccinated status are quite likely to be vaccinated! but they just don't want their constituents to lose it and accuse them of being part of the global covid conspiracy so instead they proclaim and say "look it's a medical secret because trudeau is turning canada into nazi germany! just slap a star of pfizer on my arm and separate me from society why don'tcha! us unvaccinated need to be able to go to restaurants and possibly increase the infection rates because freedum!" 
so it'll be interesting to see how this plays out. will their supporters be shocked when it turns out they are vaccinated? will it encourage them to get vaccinated? or will they feel betrayed?
what makes you think rita isn't their first choice?
i find this argument rather silly.  sure rita was involved in that court thing that was dropped but he was just doing his job.
"well he has to because he's/she's a public figure. i'm a private citizen!"
that.
these are the little tidbits you gather when you work on parliament hill.
the cpc saw rota as being less partisan than geoff regan - the lpc agreed with that.
in a minority, these are the little opposition actions that keep a government on its toes.
of course, the lpc is happy to have an lpc speaker, but they preferred regan.
there was actually an article on this when it came out - headlined something like “conservatives make their mark early in new minority”. i’d have to dig to find it.
[removed]
>there was actually an article on this when it came out - headlined something like “conservatives make their mark early in new minority”. i’d have to dig to find it.
i know the news swirling around that time that the cpc were saying that rota has to "thank them for being elected".
either way.. it was a secret ballot anyway so we really don't know for sure.
[removed]
rule 2

there better be a damned good reason for this shooting. otherwise, all cops involved with the shooting need to serve a lengthy prison sentence.
the government should be disarmed and the citizens armed the government has proven time and time again they can not be trusted with guns.
don’t worry they’ll investigate themselves
morgan freeman voice: "there wasn't, and they didn't."
our system is good at many things, but holding its own agents accountable for their behavior (or their managers) is something we seem fundamentally incapable of doing, and are unwilling to improve on.
you ever wonder what porn would be for other animals? would salmon get off to a picture of eggs?
finally saw dune and am still speechless. the direction and cinemaphotography is going to make the imagery stick with me for a while.
i finished reading children of dune recently and am curious how far down the mysticism rabbit hole they will take this.
covid world vaccination tracker - new york times
interesting info. stumbled over this while trying to understand covid patterns in germany and austria.
okay, so are the patriots good again? or is it still too early to tell? 
my god it's gonna be frustrating if they begin dominating for another decade or more...
a few weeks ago i was asking for tips on helping a fussy baby to sleep.  /u/joe_canadian suggested simethicone, and i'm happy to report that it's making for a much happier baby (and happier parents!) -- she's now sleeping 3-4 hours at a time at night instead of 1-2 hours.
formula 1 is in qatar this week. 
new track, title battle heating up. 
it's gonna be a good one.
anyone watched amazons wheel of time yet? i am trying to go into it optimistically, but from the tid bits i have heard, it seems like they are making a lot of substantial changes which could hurt the story in later seasons.
what if we forgot about selling the cars to you-know-who, and turned that gm plant into making solar panels, or wind turbines or anything at all that canadians need?  robots don't care what they manufacture.  i'm betting those gm  workers don't care either - as long as they have a job.  it isn't like the old days when everything had to be retooled.  weren't those guys making respirators recently?
without any guarantee carey price will be ready in time, who is going to be team canada's starting goalie for the olympics? fleury has had an awful year. binnington has a cup ring but is still inconsistent. carter hart is far from ready. darcy kuemper hasn't looked good despite having a good defensive core in front of him.
this is the freest of speech
i have never wondered that.  but now i wonder if porn for species other than homo sapiens is an un-tapped internet market for me to make billions on.
femalespermwhalesshowingtheirflukes.com etc.
i’m sure dolphins have some kink regarding hitting sharks since that’s a common activity between them
whut.
it's a thing: 
how is children of dune? i just finished reading messiah earlier today, and i felt it was a big step down compared to the first book. too much fluff and flowery words that never amounted to much. not bad overall, but below expectations.
i've been deep into warhammer 40,000 books, i keep meaning to pick up dune (as 40k is heavily influenced on dune). i've got the movie but want to read the book first. how was it, and it's sequels?
they're in a weak division and conference, so they have that going for them. still not convinced mac jones can move the ball that well deeply down field to go deep in the playoffs. but that was also a knock on brady early in his career.
they're good again. and i say that as a bills fan. if the bills can get their mojo back consistently like last season, it'll be a battle, the bills are the more complete team. otherwise they'll be top of the division. give it two more years of the bills playing this caliber and it'll remain a battle. if the bills drop off, the pats are undeniably at the top. 
going into thursday night, the pats were tied with the cards at #2 in points differential, at +98. the bills were sitting in at +134. in the pats last 2 games they've outscored their opponents 68-3. the bills have to absolutely manhandle the colts. 
dec 6 and dec 26 are the two most important games of the afce, possibly the afc as a whole, depending on what happens with the titans. going into this week, tractorito is still out (i've had a jones fracture. you don't rush those) and have used 82 personnel. current record is 84 *in a season*. 
with that all said... who knows wtf is going to happen. the afc is a complete mess.
happy to help!
hamilton's wearing a rainbow-painted noggin, as well. should add a little pizzazz to the occasion...


i don’t know maybe building a city in a flood plain/drained lake bed isn’t the smartest idea either. same thing happened in 2003 in pemberton / squamish. if it hit slightly further north then no one would have noticed.
i mean, yeah sure, climate change is playing a role, but building towns on flood plains or the bottom of drained lakes is probably also an issue in some way. 
the only way that town survives is with constant pumping out even at the best of times, so maybe building in environmentally precarious locations is part of the issue as well.
but yeah, it's totally climate change.
penticton has left the chat


i've worked with nti in the private sector and my experience with them makes me think that kotierk is being disingenuous. nti was outrageously stingy and if your program isn't glamorous enough then they can make it really complicated to get any funding in the territory.
i really hope this doesn't come to fruition. i actually think it's the opposite of what we need. nti already controls the vast majority of the land and reaps the vast majority of the revenue produced. where have they been? and now they want full control. the government of nunavut should be given those revenue streams so our openly elected representatives can govern. 
**i** can't vote in an nti election. this would be ethno-nationalism
> i can't vote in an nti election. this would be ethno-nationalism
yeah that is explicitly what the indigenous movement is in most cases.  i find it bonkers that anyone is supportive of those kinds of asks
why isn't the territory's government doing these things and a corporation is? i checked out their website, and while they say they represent all inuit, they're still a corporation. i probably just don't understand the relationship that well.
corporations don't exactly have a good history of doing good things for people who aren't shareholders in the company. is nti like a crown corp? i don't much like the idea of a corporation being considered a nation.
admittedly i don't follow a lot of the news around indigenous issues in nunavut, so i'm probably missing a lot, but the legitimate territorial government would seem to be a better organization for improving the lives of all inuit in the territory, no?
control of the inuit owned land in nunavut is vested in a representative corporate body by the nunavut land claims agreement. so nti gets revenue from land rentals and extraction royalties while the publicly elected territorial government can only rely on income tax among some other minutiae. so we're publicly strapped for cash while an ethnically exclusive corporation sits on a dragon's hoard.
>so we're publicly strapped for cash while an ethnically exclusive corporation sits on a dragon's hoard.
so that seems like an issue.
especially considering the fact that i can't drink my tap water. in a canadian capitol city.

> mr. haqmal and his extended family of 12 have been living since late august in a trio of kyiv hotel rooms paid for by the globe, which helped organize their evacuation from kabul. after the military’s decision this week to stop buying groceries for the family, the globe sent money to help the haqmals purchase food and other necessities.
notwithstanding the issue of the canadian government leaving this guy for worse while his application is processed, why is a canadian newspaper funding the evacuation and housing of afghan citizens who aided and translated for the canadian government? am i missing something or is it not really weird for a media company to be involved?
iirc this was a story at the height of the crisis. apparently he did some work for the globe, and the story was very focused on "the government failed him but *we* got him out".
i’d guess he also did translation work for the paper? but it’s a good question that the article doesn’t address. 
if you feel strongly about it, or think it might breach ethical standards, you could always raise it with the public editor (publiceditor@globeandmail.com).
as i recall from the newscast, the family was not able to get onto an airplane to canada at all!  but these people happened to be interviewed by canadian reporters from global news. those reporters used their own connections to get the family out of this dangerous situation and onto the next plane.  that airplane actually belonged to one of canada's allies - the ukraine.  so they are safe with one of canada's allies.  i would expect they could claim refugee status in the ukraine, because it might take awhile for things to settle.  there are still lots of people caught in afghanistan, who will likely be killed if the taliban find them.  afghanistan had twenty years to learn how to stand on their own and fight the taliban.  it didn't take more than one day for them to hand the whole thing back over to them.  the majority of the people got the government they wanted - the taliban.

that was a given when they trapped 500 people on the middle of nowhere with limited food, water, and heating fuel.  destroying the bridge and blocking it with wrecked cars adds more delays to how fast the rcmp can reestablish supply lines. 
but they got a show out of it at least.  they're trying to get shutdown canada trending on twitter.  not sure people will be receptive to it the second time around, in the middle of everything else that's going on.  plus the fact that the elected band council is telling the protestors to stop speaking for the wetswetsen people.  weird that this article didn't mention that part of the story.
"*land defenders*" lol, what a fucking joke. these people are criminals is what they are, their own elected band council disagrees with them and t ells them to stop purporting to speak for their tribe.
does anyone have a source for commentary by the elected officials? or maybe by some of the local folks who got jobs working on the line?
totally get why these actions are getting all the attention today, but shouldn’t the elected chief be out there trying to calm things down?
> plus the fact that the elected band council is telling the protestors to stop speaking for the wetswetsen people.
to be fair, they'd probably tell the band council not to speak for them either since i guess only those born into the position count (or not, didn't some hereditary chiefs like strip the position of some dissenters once?)
yes i'm sure the benevolent rcmp are doing this to help people. 
in the middle of massive flooding across bc, the rcmp have the resources to dedicate to a pipeline injunction. give me a break
edit:
> that was a given when they trapped 500 people on the middle of nowhere with limited food, water, and heating fuel.
you mean when they gave notice to cgl to evacuate its camps and then an extension to which cgl didnt bother to tell its employees? weird you leave that part out but would rather frame it like the mean old indigenous are intentionally trapping people on their land.
do you mean the provincial ndp who have been entirely mute on the subject?
[here’s a statement]( from the wet’suwet’en elected chief and council
>or not, didn't some hereditary chiefs like strip the position of some dissenters once?
yep. if you are bored google these women
not sure what benevolence has to do with it. their job is to enforce the law and that is what they are doing. good for them.
>in the middle of massive flooding across bc, the rcmp have the resources to dedicate to a pipeline injunction
apparently they do.
weird that you think their self-proclaimed authority to hand out eviction notices trumps an actual court order.
no i mean the elected chief and band councillors.
thank you :)
yeah that is such a red flag
[removed]
whos land are they on? whos land are we on? 
canada is exercising self proclaimed authority you get that right?
[removed]
[removed]
removed for rule 2.
>whos land are they on? whos land are we on? 
it's all canada and subject to canadian law.  that's never not going to be the case.

>however, the wet’suwet’en first nation, which is one of several elected councils in the area, issued a statement wednesday saying those clan members do not speak for everyone and its people are among the workers.
it's been three days since the workers were blocked off by the protests, 500 people go through supplies fast.  the protestors used a stolen backhoe to destroy the bridge and block the road so it will take awhile to get them help. especially with the other challenges bc is facing eight now
>the statement says elected wet’suwet’en councils support the project and the first nation calls for an immediate end to the escalating conflict.
>“even though we are also members of the gidimt’en clan, the protesters at the ‘coyote camp’ and other protest sites have never consulted us about their actions and cannot claim to represent us or any other members of the first nation,” the statement says.
this is a marked difference from the last time this group made the news.   the elected council for the region is speaking out against the protestors which makes it harder for people to claim the project is going against the wet’suwet’en people.
it comes down to a question: will the government and its enforcement  agents, the police, enforce the rule of law ? destroying cgl property, stealing equipment and defying court decisions about the legality of the project are all criminal acts. 
governments are sometimes obliged to stop waffling and  make  difficult choices.  this project and another divisive one , the tmx expansion, are going to face continuous disruption and collateral mayhem across the country until they are either halted or the government of canada takes a stand on rule of law. there’s no middle ground left. 
oh, and the position  of the elected wet’su’weten  council is nothing new. they - and all the other fn elected councils along the route- support the project .
resolution of what, they had their day in court. these are people who side with the court when it suits them and ignore the court when it doesn't suit them. arrest them and don't release the same day like they do with most protesters. the project will continue, that's for sure.
[removed]
[removed]
with no opinion on the cgl, the elected vs. hereditary councils or the territorial issues:
forcibly confining 500 people by destroying the only road access is a very poor way of making your point.  i feel that will cause much larger effects then anyone planned.
> which makes it harder for people to claim the project is going against the wet’suwet’en people.
haven't you heard? the elected representatives of the band are an illegitimate authority, because democracy is a colonialist construct forced upon the indigenous people to wipe out their culture.
see? that was easy.
this is an example of the indian act's impact on such groups - it put in place "elected" chief systems on indigenous communities in order to ensure a complete subduing of non-westminister-type of governments in indigenous communities and to impose what the british considered mode at the time, patriarchy, unrestrained capitalism, and imperialism. they may have legitimate concerns, but either way this division of wet'suwet'en perspectives has only one place to blame - ottawa.
rule of law was enforced yesterday and gaslink is throwing their employees under the bus. 
road is blocked by rcmp. 
colonial puppet governments are just that and nothing more.
but wouldn't that be cast as a 'stifing of indiginous self government' ? the band needs to determine: whom is the bands leaders ! nothing will be solved before that happens.
personally, i agree with you. holding "hostages" and destroying bridges is veering perilously close to domestic terrorism.
removed for rule 2.
[removed]
removed for rule 3.
destroying the access road is a significant escalation to this situation.  
escalating these sorts of things rarely ends well for people involved.
exactly. its an escalation that puts a time limit on how long negotiating can go on before the workers need to be rescued.
i truly disagree with that as a concept.  from what i've heard, some of these hereditary leaders tried running for elected council and lost.  
this really is an internal problem within the community, but one that so far hasn't been resolved.  partially because how do they decide who represents them when some people have decided they were born to lead.
there was someone in a thread recently that was going on about how because the majority just peacefully went along and participated in the elections and voted for who they wanted to represent them that wasn't good enough.  the majority can only establish that they really did want democracy over monarchy by violently overthrowing and arresting/killing the hereditary cheifs.
meanwhile i just got straight up perma banned from ogft because i said democracy is better than monarchy.
/s right?
>	the elected representatives of the band are an illegitimate authority, because democracy is a colonialist construct forced upon the indigenous people to wipe out their culture.
i mean, you say that sarcastically, but these band councils *were* foisted upon them by the canadian government rather than something the bands arrived at naturally.
like if these hereditary chiefs are saying they, at the very least, should have the same kind of veto power that the queen/governor general has in the canadian government, our government doesn’t really have a leg to stand on to argue against them. we also have that level of monarchy baked into our own system of government, and from what i understand canada never technically signed any treaties with these particular nations.

"there were 503 industry lobbyists at the glasgow conference—but they were tucked inside national delegations (including canada's), where they were largely invisible."
i guess our government has to ask oil companies for permission when making deals with other countries. what a joke


i know the usa buys 75% of the cars made here in canada - but who needs more cars right now, other than the second biggest polluter in the world?! (not meaning to throw shade on biden.  i really do think he's one of their better presidents).  but they want to build their own electric cars...ok, whatever.  we are going green!  we need more environmentally friendly infrastructure!  what about getting that robotic plant to build all the metal stuff that needs to be replaced here, after the bc flooding - like girders for bridges and roads and train tracks?  we need to build more bikes, solar panels, wind turbines etc.    robots don't care what they build!  they just need to be reprogrammed - and we need to learn to be nimble!  as long as the materials, and robots are there, i'm sure we could easily program the robots to build something else, and its still a production line - i'm sure the workers will be able to adapt very quickly.  i think we can do this, and not keep of having a car centered society!  i'm so hoping for more pedestrian friendly spaces....  we can do this!  we can reach canada's environmental goals!!!
[removed]
yeah the patriot act has nothing to do with his presidency....
being old is irrelevant too.
removed for rule 2.
as opposed to trump pitting his own people against eachother, using his role as president to profit himself, and trying to destroy his own country.  i think we both would agree on one thing though - i'm glad he's over there!

>saint john's boundaries remain unchanged and moncton gains a small part of one local service district but not dieppe or riverview.
this is my big problem. 
saint john has several communities within less than a 20 minute drive (rothesay, quispamsis, lorneville, grandbay-westfield, and more). it really should be a regional municipality. 
same goes for moncton. moncton, dieppe, and riverview are so close together that they are basically 1 big city now. it should be a regional municipality as well.
i think many people would agree with you - but some would vehemently oppose. resistance to amalgamation in dieppe ( who do not want to lose their francophone majority) ; riverview (who do not want to become bilingual)  and rothesay is fierce and has likely been blocking province wide reform for decades .  taking them out of the equation likely made this possible in the first place, even if it comes short of true optimization of services.


building permits per person seems like a dodgy metric.  a place with a shrinking population should issue a lot fewer building permits than a place with a growing population.
building permits issued per existing population is not a good metric. the appropriate comparison is to compare between building permits issued and population *growth*.
that said, there's another issue here. california is one of the most nimby places on the continent. being more yimby than california is not much of an accomplishment.
thanks, it's an interesting analysis. california and new york really stand out as places where housing is likely to be scarce.
normally you would expect the most building to happen where housing is most expensive, i.e. bc and ontario, not alberta. it's also surprising to see that quebec is a bit ahead of ontario.
as i mentioned in another thread, we recently moved from ontario to vancouver island. the one thing i've noticed here is that the nimbyism is way off the charts. i'm not saying there wasn't pushback to projects in toronto, but it's nothing like it seems to be here on the island. everything gets protested in some way or another.
it has some flaws, particularly that it doesn't tell you what the net increase in units is - often old buildings are demolished to make way for new ones. nonetheless, it's really the only systematic way to make these international comparisons and i think it gives a reasonable approximation, at least.
it’s really not telling the story when the issue is supply and demand. one of the reasons housing in montreal/quebec is more reasonable is that supply keeps up better with demand, and part of that is impact taxes developers pay in some other provinces (and in the us, like in california). it makes it cheaper to build, so there are still a lot of mid-size construction companies and less building of expensive homes to make up for impact taxes.
there isn’t a lot of pushback here on social housing - the builds are good quality and low rise, fitting in with the neighborhoods, and montreal is not a city of detached houses and high rises, but of row housing of mostly triplexes, duplexes, and also the quadraplex, along with low rise apartment buildings. even in westmount, the most expensive area, there are far more semi-detached and row houses than detached homes. 
there is also a higher percentage of renters, and renters don’t get so worked up about social housing.
i thought some of the places i have lived were rather painfully nimby, that is until i went to california. the grotesque sense of entitlement by homeowners there is a whole new level. the attitude there is: sorry, we're full, even though the very land their home is on had to be rezoned less than 30 years ago. new housing always happens out on the fringes, and is low density, producing more and more sprawl, traffic, and mixed use is an anathema in so many municipalities, only found in downtown areas. let alone the burden that prop 13 has imposed on newer/younger families, while enriching older families who can grandfather in low property tax rates to themselves or their children or grandchildren through arcane legal structures, while claiming their primary residence is in a no-tax state. basically: want a home in california but pay nothing.
i could keep going. it's truly baffling. it would be almost comical if it wasn't for the very real human and financial cost that these nimby policies are putting on new residence and young people who grew up and want to stay there but all the ladders have been lifted. it's sad. the silver lining to the situation is the state of california has taken notice and seems to realize this trajectory is not sustainable. hence all the initiatives to close the tax loopholes and suing municipalities that do not build housing.
say what you will about alberta, but when it comes to building things and getting shit done, they are far more proactive culturally than bc. (and i assume parts of ontario)
everytime a housing development is announced in vancouver the shreiks of “muh character muh culture muh quiet neighborhood” are deafening and it grinds development to a halt.
> normally you would expect the most building to happen where housing is most expensive, i.e. bc and ontario, not alberta.
toronto and vancouver are more supply constrained, both in terms of geography and regulation (zoning, community opposition, uncertain approval timelines, etc.). edmonton and to a lesser extent calgary have housing markets that are much more responsive to demand.
stats can also records demolitions and deconversions from multiple to single residence, and residential to non-residential.
might be harder to get matching us data though.
>it has some flaws, particularly that it doesn't tell you what the net increase in units is - often old buildings are demolished to make way for new ones.
and that's why the analysis is, frankly, worthless when it comes to answering the question posed. the vancouver area is notorious for large-scale teardowns of older sfhs to accommodate newer, bigger ones. and it's way faster to get a permit to replace an sfh with another one than to do something else.
thanks, i hadn't seen this report before! that figure on page 7, comparing supply responsiveness in edmonton to vancouver and toronto, is pretty crazy.
i also found this snippet from the executive summary quite interesting, describing the interaction between weak supply responsiveness and speculation:
> supply constraints are not only important in determining the types of homes on the market, but can also influence
expectations of future price gains. weaker supply responses mean that strengthening demand will be met by expectations
of further appreciation in house prices rather than by a supply response to accommodate that increased demand and
bring prices back down. as such, the supply responsiveness found here is highly correlated with the finding of price
acceleration in cmhc’s housing market assessment, indicating the presence of speculative activity.


>what will it take to future proof bc?
investing more money and government resources into the fossil fuel industry? perhaps that will help lessen the effects of weather disasters? what does alberta think?
flying cars. 
the roads are in one of the most ever-changing environments on earth and it is only going to get worse with climate change. 
the low level farmlands can’t really be fixed and these huge floods will be a constant threat.
right, the disasters were because of government investment in albertan fossil fuels
i heard that it's either denmark or norway where they build there roads with recycled plastic bottles and that they don't see the flooding that we just saw.

greater fines seem to be a very popular solution to people not following covid restriction, second only perhaps to greater enforcement of the current restrictions. it makes sense; clearly the problems stem from a small set of individuals, so why punish society at large for those acts. i would say that provinces need to be careful about pushing punishments too hard as they can both stretch the limits of provincial authority and instill greater distrust in government from those people (regardless what you think of rule breakers, we don't want that). 
up to a $57k fine is, to me, pushing what envelope of a proportionate response and one that is within the provincial authority. *r v. morgentaler* was a clear ruling that fines imposed by, ironically, nova scotia on a doctor running an abortion clinic were high enough that they were essentially criminal penalties. the amounts that the doctor was fined? ~20k - 100k (adjusted for inflation from 1998). so in an attempt to rein in restriction breakers, the nova scotia government, the very entity that caused the ruling around criminal fines, is repeating the same punishment that resulted in *morgentaler* being fought in the first place.

> o'toole can unilaterally expel a senator from the caucus but removal of an elected member would require a majority vote by mps. 
well he can’t expel them unilaterally. so this seems like an empty threat. 
also party leaders shouldn’t require unquestioning loyalty from their caucus.
beatings will continue until morale improves!
o'toole coming out firm for the first time in his leadership. notice that this heavy hand was absent during all the talks about his mps who haven't been vaccinated yet or just refuse to tell him their status.  he avoided the heavy hand before now for a reason, and that hes breaking out the big guns now speaks to how precarious his position is.
huh. it’s a 2 day caucus retreat. i wonder how many will be using the opportunity to plot o’toole’s political assassination. image, they could be meeting in little groups, in little rooms, as i write this!
exciting times for poli nerds!
just earlier today the message was that he has strong caucus support and that senator batters was the exception. now he’s leveling threats at caucus.
doesn’t exactly scream confidence.
and then you get expelled mp’s joining the ppc or maverick parties, splitting the right and letting the lunatic fringe of the cpc finally go masks off.
only will happen if he has the necessary votes in caucus on a secret ballot though....so i wonder how he can be so sure that they will, in face, actually be expelled! he's thrown down the gauntlet now, one way or the other.
can someone explain to me how o’toole can expel people from his caucus? for the past decade i’ve had conservatives tell me o’toole would love to get rid of the crazies/anti-vaxxers in his caucus but he can’t because that would require a majority of the caucus. so we mustn’t blame dear leader o’toole for allowing the antivax sentiment to grow because he can’t get rid of them. 
now people are saying o’toole can expel them but can’t “remove” them? what??? 
if he can expel them, why hasn’t he expelled the anti vaxxors yet?
if he’s got the nerve to get rid of anyone who doesn’t agree with him when he has no results, imagine if he gets elected. oh yeah i know.
[removed]
harper didn't tolerate any deviance from his orders.
> well he can’t expel them unilaterally. so this seems like an empty threat.
reporting yesterday suggested he thought he had enough votes behind him to quell any dissent.
authoritarian party admires authoritarian leader.
that's not how the conservative leaning parties roll tho.
sure, but they need his approval to run as a conservative in the next election.
perhaps, or it demonstrates he cares more about protecting his own position over increasing vaccinations.
i'm sure gatherings of 3 or more have been prohibited.
it could also mean he has enough support that he could have them expelled.
it's all a little bit stockwell day. without the jet ski, of course.
remains to be seen if there's a harper figure in the wings who can put humpty dumpty together again.
until the next "unite the right" crusade to combine incompatible splinter groups into a new bickering party.

finally. the majority of cases now are coming through schools and we have enough teacher shortage problems without having them needless drop dead.
fantastic news. with them vaccinated it obviously means less of them will get it and almost more importantly they will spread it less too because they won't get it in the first place.
queue more vax/anti-vaxx nonsense starting friday.  
it will be interesting to see if any school boards start requiring vaccination status for students.
i expect the uptake to be low and slow.
can't blame the parents, i've talked to quite a few different ones i know about this and the consensus is clear.  they are all vaxxed but are much less eager to jab their 6  year old.
anyone know why they wait to announce it? this not an album release schedule lol you don't have to hype it up first... if you know you're going to approve it in a few days just approve it already
so what version of the vax will they get? does it make sense to give them the booster rather than the original that is currently waning in efficacny?
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
i think that's the key. it's not about hospitalization for them. it's about just not getting sick, so not getting others sick, and with less sick people, we get less sick people and on and on. 
the smaller the active pool of sick folks the better. asymptomatic spread be damned, even that's lower with vaccines. 
can't wait for the "vaccinated people still spread and can be sick" folks though. they like to ignore that lower incidence is still good.
[removed]
i hope not. the more vaccinated people, the less of a pool of folks who can spread it, and the quicker this ends.
why? did they not just have their kids jabbed for all the standard stuff in the last few years?
i am eager to get my 10 year old vaccinated.  every day is another risk of it mutating to a form that is more dangerous to kids.  i will feel better when she is protected as much as she can be.
interesting. my wife and i are fully vaxxed, and also eager to jab our (almost) 6-year old.
the booster is the same vaccine as the original. it's a booster *dose* not a separate thing.
removed; rule 3
please do not spread misinformation
[removed]

for how long the article is it doesnt explain why this man is being deported. i'm assuming his refugee claim must've been denied.
these activist sites are always interesting to read as theyll go off the deep end like they did here talking about how us being a country with borders is a problem. essentially we would need to just not have a border and controls on who can enter the country to make the author happy?
> to demand the immediate status for all is to underline that non-status people are rendered non-status as a product of state policies. these violent legal systems are enforced through dehumanizing immigration controls, detention practices, and national borders, which render illegal and criminalize human beings and their movement.
lol "criminalize human beings and their movement"
sir, you can't be back here, the door says 'employees only'
what?! this is violence! you're criminalizing my movement
and this guy is a professor


i recently moved to the island from ontario and, i have to admit, the nimbyism i've seen here is off the charts. i'm not at all surprised that the government might have to resort to some sort of coercion to get anything done.
look at the power of municipalities. the provinces has to "hint" to cities not to screw over future generations with lack of supply of housing. bc, out of all the provinces, should be railroading cities given the urgency of housing in that province. bc shouldn't be hinting, they should be opening declaring full throated and on paper; letting there be no grey space, if you don't come on board, we will dump you in the ocean. if the best bc can do is "hint" it's no surprise other provinces like ontario put out toothless "growth" plans that municipalities will just ignore or will eventually handwave away.
if that includes zoning & land use restrictions as well, it might actually lead to something, but at the moment i'm skeptical, but intrigued. vancouver and toronto are the nimby meccas of canada. while most other canadian cities have affordability issues due to nimbyism, none can compete with those two. you'd really need the municipal governments there to spearhead the changes since provincial pressure on it's own probably wouldn't be enough.
i'm hoping that this includes preventing zoning from restricting middle-density housing, and then i'm hoping that ontario follows suit.
there's a whole lot of nimby boomers turning a buck off the misery and privation of other canadians.
this comes in the the context of a [report]( earlier this year that provided a pretty comprehensive summary of the issues driving housing unaffordability. the report identified provincial and federal tax subsidies as major drivers of unaffordability, unfortunately those ideas [were quickly shot down]( but, the report also identified many barriers to getting more housing built, principally the complex urban planning rules enforced by municipalities. it's since become something of an open secret that eby is leaning hard on bc's municipalities to permit more housing. this applies above all to affordable housing, which faces all the same barriers as the market-rate stuff.
while urban planning has typically been left to municipalities in canada, i think it's pretty clear what the outcome of that is. across the country, in small towns and big cities, in conservative calgary and in liberal toronto, cut councils are apparently united by their love of restrictive planning which prevents additional housing from being constructed. it is not enough to stay that cities should do something different - they won't. if we want different outcomes here, we must see action from the provincial and federal governments.
[deleted]
let's goooooooooooooo~
finally, some leverage from the higher levels of government. i'm no expert, but this seems looonnnng overdue.
good. the rcmp should make polite visits to particularly annoying nimbys to advise them that if they continue being dumb they may see the wrong side of a jail cell.
here's the problem....
let's my smaller town decides that we have a bunch of homeless and want to build a homeless shelter. we build it and the homeless have a decent place to live. great right?
not so fast....
let's say we build 20 spots but currently only have 15 local homeless. guess what? they'll ship in 5 people from elsewhere in the province to fill those spots... seems reasonable on the surface.
but now one local person moves out but still lives in the area - they'll ship in another and another. next thing you know the town instead of have 15 people who need real help now have 30 or 40 in a few years. crimes go up and other societal problems increase.
the local area since it's small doesn't have the resources both monetary and things like police, fire, ambulance, hospital staff to deal with this increase as the tax base isn't there.
and for those of you that don't think it happens it does. there has been areas that closed down their homeless shelters because the government was shipping people in and displacing locals and overwhelming the area with crime.
penticton is suing the government for extending a homeless shelter.
bc is the rich, entitled boomer retirement capital of canada. "fuck you, got mine" is the slogan.
having moved from vancouver to toronto yeah, vancouver's similar. although the city has a mix of older-gen folk who love that their shitty property is worth millions, and younger-gen folks who are stuck renting basement suites, so there's a lot more clash there.
the island is where all the older-gen folk move after they sell their shitty mainland property, so of course they're also terrible nimbys.
also from the island to toronto. agreed 100%. i've enjoyed the "just build it" ethos here. nimbyism exists in toronto too and there is concerns about gentrification but it's exciting to see a city respond to housing needs, to say the least.
[the new york times put out an interesting opinion video]( on nimbyism that made me immediately think of the island. left-wing on paper but nimby as fuck.
i moved from new west to the central island; i'd say it's about the same for nimbyism. which is to say, there's a lot of it and it often hides behind concerns of gentrification, heritage and similar.
perhaps it's a bc thing?
it's about time honestly. you cannot expect private entities to do the right thing unless it benefits their profit margins. we need to be tough on them or they will continue to do what they want.
>look at the power of municipalities
provinces have the power over cities.  if they really wanted to they could fix it, but its easier to blame cities.
home owners vote reliably and in large numbers, renters do not. that's why they're hinting and not demanding, they know that unless municipalities get on board, which also means getting home owners to accept revised ocps, then it will burn them in the next election. when city councils fight the province it tends to sway elections, here.
>dump you in the ocean
more like the ocean will dump on you
yeah, this is a step in the right direction, but you need a tunneling electron microscope to confirm a step is being taken.
so ...
>vancouver and toronto are the nimby meccas of canada.
in fact, vancouver and toronto are some of the least nimby cities in canada. what makes them unique is that rules banning additional density are controversial at all. in the suburban areas where the vast majority of canadians live, these rules simply go unchallenged. if you compare what is allowed to be built in vancouver to say, calgary, far more density is permitted.

>the backroom people who prep a leader for an election campaign have a bag of tricks they use. in o’toole’s case he looked trimmer than before, wore a casual suit, often without a necktie, or no suit, and wore sneakers a lot. the idea was to make him suburban dad-like, relaxed and man-of-the-people. on the cover of “canada’s recovery plan” o’toole posed in a t-shirt with muscled arms folded, trying to suggest a mike holmes type. nice try, but mike holmes has presence and charisma.
harsh and true.  also funny that after years of complaining about trudeau's selfies and star power they put together a [platform cover that looks like you'd find it in the magazine section of a grocery store checkout.]( 
o'toole doesn't need to be charismatic though. and trying to compete with trudeau on that front is a losing battle.  
>when you lack charisma, change positions and talk gibberish you are not an electable leader. 
this is the key.  o'toole tried to be everything to everyone all at once and fumbled.  the biggest criticism he's getting from all sides is that he flip flops, there isn't any substance to him.  to be fair to eot, scheer also had the charisma of... well scheer, and he had principles that he stuck to.  they were just principles that a lot of canadians find off putting.
harper won a couple elections with less than zero charisma and virtually no appeal (at least to me lol).  
come on erin, keep fighting!!!  gotta be a couple more ungrateful stuffed shirts you can give the boot to and it's entertaining as hell to watch.
what conservatives bring home to mom are leaders that are safe to be with in sunday school, not in the political alleyways where an equal measure of tactician and charmer are required.  they have this curious mix of puerile safeness and predictable non-riskiness you'd find in someone running the equivalent of a 1911 newspaper in saskatoon, and it's been so ever since preston manning.  
harper looked like someone who ran the high school accounting club and drank ovaltine.
and the polices. his stance on guns is the reason the pcp got any votes at all lol.
it’s the everything. the conservative party is a fucking mess
i think it is more conservatives in general that people are done with. blaming this guy is is a bit of a red herring.
egads at this point i’d vote for a pickled eggplant if it had good policies and any intention to fulfill it’s campaign promises.
or uh, maybe it’s that he ran his leadership campaign on being a hardcore conservative and  then immediately ran a federal campaign as a moderate.  and neither the centre nor the right fully trusted him as a result.
but yeah maybe it’s his clothes.
ok, his problem isn’t charisma. it is lack of visibility. he needs to get off his ass an on to tv. 
when harper was opposition leader, he was on tv constantly. as a result, the public became much more comfortable with him. 
on the campaign trail, he was obviously visible and many people said to me that they had not heard him actually speak before and they liked what he had to say.
he is a likeable guy, speaks well and is a true everyperson canadian, he just needs to get on tv outside of question period.
> he biggest criticism he's getting from all sides is that he flip flops, there isn't any substance to him. to be fair to eot, scheer also had the charisma of... well scheer, and he had principles that he stuck to. they were just principles that a lot of canadians find off putting.
while erin o'toole has no charisma, andrew scheer has anti-charisma much like a ted cruz type. also scheer did waffle on stuff to a lesser extent causing confusion regarding socially conservative positions by telling certain groups things behind closed doors, then seeming to water down those positions in public. while he didn't anger them as much as o'toole did, his communication style left them unsure where he really stood.
exactly. i think if he'd actually leaned into the fact that he looks way, way older than either trudeau or singh, instead of going for "hot dad bod", he could have made more headway with voters looking for a "steady hand" like harper did in 2011 (though that would have also required o'toole to be consistent and straightforward with his messaging).
aesthetic seems minuscule within the grand scale of things, but i actually thought it was a huge mistake at first for trudeau to shave his beard after the writ drop. it instantly took years off of him, and i thought it would revert people's image of him away from the mature, steady covid hand and back to the clumsy, gaffe-prone youthful persona he had before, whose shine had worn off.
he's just bland which is bad for the opposition
even trudeau only qualifies as charismatic by the exceptionally low standards of canadian politics. 
but is everyone here sure this isn't wildly revisionist history? 
o'toole blasted out of the gate after the writ dropped exactly because his image people were pretty good at their jobs and he came off as normal. it was when he started getting tripped up on issues like guns that the campaign faltered.
mostly he won by masterfully tying together the opposing factions of the party, sometimes through outright aggression/coercive tactics i believe. so perhaps his two successors just were not willing to go so far in exerting control as harper? because you kind of have to be a control freak to keep the cpc alive at this point in its present form.
>harper won a couple elections with less than zero charisma and virtually no appeal (at least to me lol). 
remember when he shook his kid's hand? i also remember him wearing more sweaters was a conscious attempt to make him less stiff. 
but yeah it almost gave him more appeal, because he stood in contrast to how sleazy the government looked after the sponsorship scandal.
since before preston manning.  joe clark, god bless him, in his younger days wasn't exactly mr. charisma. 
in my lifetime the only exception was brian mulroney, but mulroney was unique in that he assembled a different coalition from the normal conservative one, with a large percentage of his support being in quebec, rather than only in the west.
>i wouldn't let harper or sheer near my kids.
no anti vaxxers were the reason the ppc got any votes lol. bernier was able to run as the only party that was anti lockdown and anti vax which consolidated a certain type of vote. 
that, and more of the far right of the conservative party jumped ship because they didn't like o'toole's more progressive stances and had a more established far - right party to flee to. it wasn't guns per se but the general feeling that o'toole wasn't a "true blue conservative."
>a true everyperson canadian
otoole is a former bay street corporate lawyer and second generation politician, the son of an ontario mpp, cabinet minister and auto executive. he's as far from an everyman as it gets - maybe that's why the shtick doesn't connect.
"he is a likeable guy, speaks well and is a true everyperson canadian"
he isn't any of those things, if he was at least he'd have a edge over trudeau.

i can already hear the liberal and ndp fundraising machines revving their engines.
o'toole must be sweating to hire a professional astroturfer.
imagine looking at ballingall and thinking "yes, that's what the political discourse in this country needs more of". 
hiring a guy like him says so much about where the modern conservative movement is right now and none of it is good.
[removed]
ah, so that's why the post millennial and canada proud ran a hit piece against sen. batters's petition this week.
there's an old saying in politics: better to have your rivals inside the tent pissing out, than outside of the tent pissing in. o'toole and ballingall both have something to gain from a partnership - o'toole knows he can't afford to have the proud groups against him, and ballingall knows the cpc has a better chance of winning with a more moderate leader.
jeff balingall is the worst thing to happen to canadian politics in the last decade. that picture of him celebrating o'tooles leadership victory is the epitome of cringe. he adds no value to the political discourse and only serves to take money from the most desperate politicians. i try not to hate people i don't actually know but he tests my ability to adhere to that maxim.
but ballingall has been on o'toole's payroll all along? he's been managing o'toole's campaigns since 2020.
and yeah, aside from the greasy social media he runs he also did a lot of shady shit during the cpc leadership race. aside from the whole lawsuit stuff vs mackay, he also used the cpc's mailing list to surreptitiously collect data from members through a survey that made it seem like it was being done by the party, but in reality was ran by ballingall's group.
my take on o'toole is that he's read the way the wind is blowing internally, and as such enlisted the pied piper to pre-empt his opponents from doing the same. but he hasn't quite been able to "co-opt" the whackjobs ballingall has created and struggled to control them.
i wonder what the canada proud people see in o'toole? cp is far right garbage. i would have thought they would be calling for his head for not being "true blue" enough. is it a matter of ballingall having a personal relationship with him? just hatred for trudeau?
[removed]
it is desperation. but i cannot wait to watch the outcome. either way they are without strong, rational leadership.
tbf ballingall was his chief digital officer during the leadership race
it's even more hilarious when you consider how the party got railed during the election for the willy wonka-trudeau video.
this just shows how big of a bullet we dodged by choosing not to gamble on which side of o'toole would ultimately show itself if he became pm. this action shows that the "true blue" o'toole would have won out, because if he wanted to shed the label that vaulted him to the leadership, he would have blocked ballingall's number, not had him on fucking speed dial.
but hey, if hamish marshall can lose his spot in the cpc's inner circle and go crawling back to rebel-land, there is hope that ballingall will lose his too
it basically says : "the ends justify the means"
otoole is feeling the pressure and is now willing to sell out to stay in power.
his choices after the last election were to either hold true to real conservative ideals or to sell out to the extremists and populists who are eating away at his votes. he chose the extremists.
ballingall was his chief digital officer for leadership. not sure how everyone in this thread forgot.
see: [the victory party photo](
[removed]
[removed]
removed for rule 3.
also they literally just worked together on his leadership campaign…
*nick kouvalis has entered the chat*


at this point, anyone hosting a large gathering of unvaccinated people should face charges of manslaughter if people die as a result of said gathering.  
laws are in place. the knowledge is there. ignorance is no excuse.
> in a recent sermon, smith said it was a "hard" and "unfortunate"  incident that was in the hands of god, not people.
it would be interesting to know more about the meaning and implications of the phrase "...in the hands of god, not people."
i'm pleased that the premier expressed the sentiment that i felt hearing this 'pastor' and his cavalier and self indulgent attitude towards causing death.
i would fine him for every single penny it costs their health care system to treat those who contracted covid at this gathering. if anyone dies due to people going to this event then the church should be held liable and open to civil
suits. no one gaf about other peoples lives or well-being but they all care about money.
[removed]
[removed]
i don't know if i agree. we are coming up on 2 years now and virtually everyone who is willing to be vaccinated is vaccinated i'd imagine. i think it's time for life to carry on, we can't lock down people forever. i also don't think it's going to be realistically possible to just say from now on unvaccinated people are not permitted to congregate. what kind of weird dystopian future is that.
for your information, 3 deaths have been linked to this outbreak
[removed]
removed for rule 3.
the lockdowns will continue to varying degrees until one of several things happen:
1) we can automate 90% of healthcare, meaning less manpower required, and staffing levels can catch up. 
2) covid disappears
3) between the survivors and innoculated the hospitalization rates drop to 1% or less.
4) we develop a quicker methodology of determining with 99% accuracy, people who have and don't have covid.  
outside of these, we're in for a bumpy ride.
i definitely don't agree. we will continue until spring and then they will remove all restrictions and carry on with life. at this point the consequences of lockdowns are worse than covid with so many vaccinated. the only thing they are waiting for is kids to be vaccinated too, not the things you listed. covid is never going to disappear and the test you list is not possible.
it all comes down to healthcare resource availability.  if hospitals are crowded, and elective surgeries continually cancelled because of outbreaks, then, lockdowns will continue.  the only other alternative is covid patients be refused service, unless vaccinated.  because, 70% of hospitalization of covid patients are attributed to the unvaccinated.  30% are just extremely immunocompromised individuals, or sometimes just plain bad luck.  
hey, i want to get back to planning trips to europe and australia, but i don't want to be the guy responsible for bringing back a new strain, and undoing the vaccination efforts.
what lock downs? besides at the very start there hasn't really been lock downs in canada. restrictions yes, but we aren't talking about italy here.
you realize people are presently traveling to europe right?
yes. good for them. but, if they bring back a vaccine-proof strain, and we have to start again, i'm going to be extremely pissed off. as will all of us. like i said, i don't want to be that guy. kinda like the guy who walks around the office with the flu, and toughs it out like he's a hero, then infects everyone with it...but instead of it being a mild flu, a deadly virus that hospitalizes people at a rate of 20%.

i get that this is supposed to be a feel good story but why in the hell is an 85 year old allowed to serve in government? i'm not going to speak about his character or anything but i don't think that someone who has 5-10 years alive isn't going to represent the interests of the future that well
i've been his constituent for almost my whole life.
in his career:
- possibly ran as an "independent" federal liberal candidate
- maybe also as an independent provincial liberal candidate when our olp incumbent vacated his seat
- under the rob ford mayoralty, supported the sheppard east lrt versus a subway extension
- but then reversed a pro-lrt stance and endorsed the now-underway line 2 extension (to be fair, so did the other scarborough councillors)
- ran for the opc when the vacancy opened up. when i asked him why he changed political allegiances, he claimed "oh i thought i could get things done better with the opc"
- no surprise, but my emails to him as a mpp have gone ignored. but his office did respond while he was a councillor, probably because our positions aligned back then
tl;dr - very much an opportunist
granted in the past 10 years, where i live has jostled from being part of scarborough-rouge river to scarborough north, so there is a shift in political allegiances. under srr we elected our first and only ndp mp, but otherwise it's one of the strongest federal liberal ridings in the province since 2015. this guy coasted into his position under name recognition. i only hope the past 4 years angers people enough to be strategic next year, but who knows.
am i supposed feel good about this? this guy has spent 30 years in various elected positions and even more outside of office representing multiple different parties. strikes me as someone in politics for the wrong reasons.
[didn't this dude hit a middle school student while campaigning in 2018?](
100%. i’d go a step further and say we should mandate that governing positions only be held by people between 30-60 years old. then have youth and senior councils that act as advisory boards to the governing body to include them in the process without concentrating power in the hands of the elderly.
this is an absurd, bigoted position. would you ban all cancer patients from running for parliament too?
then people who care about the interests of the future are free to vote for a candidate who, in their opinion, will do that
what is the general perception of him in your neighbourhood?
yes
canadians don't vote for candidates they vote for parties
i don’t hear much political talk from neighbours so i can’t say to how they feel.
although, while hanging in the vaccine hunters discord back in the spring, i heard an amusing anecdote about the quality of help from our representatives. while our mp has been nothing but helpful (from personal experience, his office helped clarify cerb questions and also secured a care package for my senior dad back when ppe was hard to find), mr. cho on the other hand told a fellow constituent seeking help to “pray to jesus.” ¯\\\_(ツ)\_/¯
what a cruel and irrational position. 
would you take away their rights to vote as well? i imagine you would, since they're going to die anyway.
voting isn't a full time job an usually takes an hour every few years
plus if someone is going thru cancer treatment, they should be focused on healing not working

well, if it is anything like child care, it will be a stunning success and take 25 years to be adopted by the remainder of canada.
good, this country needs universal dental care, and it's good to see that provinces are taking initiative. hope the federal government works to incentivize provinces to integrate dental care into their public systems.
people often dump on qc, but they often have much more progressive social services than the rest of canada.  we should be learning from them rather than bashing them all the time.
“no dates have been given for further phases.”
uh, the article doesn’t give any dates for the first phase either. 
promising news, though
awesome news.  quebec is once again leading the way
glad that the universal healthcare system in qc can now begin to provide care for what has apaprently not been so far considered to be a bodily organ, the mouth/teeth
hope the rest of the country jumps on this
free dental services?  are dentists and technicians working for nothing now ?
or do they mean taxpayers are now paying for the same services indirectly for the same costs as they used to pay for directly.
this is from a centre-right party, the current legacy party of blue tories in quebec! cpc should take note!
the reality is you can't do this overnight. look at covid pets, in ottawa i'm at emergency and several times they stop taking emergency pets, regular vets are also not taking new patients. regular doctor offices aren't taking patients. if i have a dentist and it takes months to see one, add another 30% more new clients will overload the whole system. now everyone has to wait 6-12 months for service. this needs to be done over time with an emphasis on pumping out more dentist.
do you also harangue the clerks at your local supermarket when they advertise a bogo sale on canned tuna instead of the *vastly* less misleading bogoanioopetytip (buy-one-get-one-at-no-immediate-out-of-pocket-expense-to-you-the-individual-purchaser)?
i'd rather my taxes that get deducted from my paychecks pay for dental then go to a dentists office and get robbed with their insane pricing.
what do you think it means lol
free for the end user.  just like the rest of healthcare in canada.  idk why the mouth should be excluded.  or maybe we should also exclude all healthcare of the knees and that should be out of pocket?
they're economically left, socially conservative
there is an actual right wing conservative party in quebec, but it has never gotten a single seat.
do you also get free health care ?  try not to employ another tortuous and incomprehensible analogy in your response. thanks in advance.
you do realize that you are paying more when it's done through taxes than directly at source. just because you don't take it out of your bank account does not mean it's somehow cheaper.
i don’t live in an imaginary world where universal health care - medical or dental - is ‘free’.  i live in ca nada.
the caq is a weird beast that doesn't really fit nicely on 2 axis, especially not if you approach it with the anglo canadian overton windows.  
they certainly have a reactionary edge, but they're not positioning themselves against the lgbt community (their latest gaffe aside), their immigration rethoric is not especially conservatives (and they've raised immigration rates since they took power), they wouldn't touch the abortion question with a 10 foot pole, they're expanding states programs which is usually a socially left field, etc etc  
but then they won't shut up about the wokes and id pol, except when it's about us dear quebecois. imo, they're quebec flavored red tories
free ~~dental services~~ health care?  are ~~dentists~~ doctors and technicians working for nothing now ? or do they mean taxpayers are now paying for the same services indirectly for the same costs as they used to pay for directly.
what point are you trying to make?
what was your comment trying to convey then?  a reminder that in fact govt funded care even if free for the end user still must be funded by the govt?
if that was your comments intention then i believe it was previously very well understood but thank you for your participation in this discussion
good points. on a libertarian vs authoritarian axis they are certainly more towards authority with a high government control with the recent bills and covid handling. 
on a left/right axis they're certainly leaning left with the dentalcare plan, hard positions against the oil&gas industry, etc. 
but on a social axis they're all over the place. conservative about weed, culture, but progressive about immigration, women's right, etc.
even the federalist/sovereignist axis is blurred.

it's starting to sound like the cpc is suffering from the same problem as the ucp. trying to unite hard right conservatives like the reform party with progressive conservatives is not going to work and they're just going to fight and fight and fight. meanwhile in alberta the infighting has led to an inability to govern.
i wonder if this will end up being a return to 'normal': a populist, alberta based party like the socreds ('30s - '70s) and reform ('80s - '00s) , and a mainstream pc party for everyone else.
i, for one, would be all for it.
it looks like the tories missing what was looking like a decent win ended up hurting then even months after the election they are unable to keep any of the election steam they picked up. still a ways to go as i doubt we’ll get any election news before 2024, late 2023 at the bare earliest, but if this pushes into a series of expulsions it’ll push the party to a level of divisions unseen before
i'm more impressed with how badly kenney has done.  harper gets credit for keeping the party together, but the vast majority of that was done while he was pm.  it's harder for a coup to gain support when you're in power.  
kenney has that advantage, o'toole doesn't.  both are most likely done being leader, but kenney messed the bed worse.  w
more like they have two incompetent leaders that drifted right to become leader then abandoned those same supporters. if kenney and o'toole wanted to govern as centrists that's fine, but at least have the guts campaign for the leadership that way.
i hope so.
roughly every 30 years, the conservative party of the day splits into 2. it happened in the 1930s, the 1960s, the 1990s, and we’re right on schedule for it to happen again in the 2020’s. not saying it definitely will happen, but there’s precedent for it. apparently the conservatives have been doing this for a long time.
i would support this. i’ve flirted with the idea of voting cpc but the crazies and the far right fringe spook me every time.
> harper gets credit for keeping the party together, but the vast majority of that was done while he was pm. it's harder for a coup to gain support when you're in power.
it's also easier to win when the opposition is in shambles. harper ran against lpc's that were embroiled in scandal (martin), or weak and vulnerable to attacks (dion and ignatieff). the ndp then even more than now were unlikely to be a threat to any seats the cpc was targeting, and their main win eventually came at the backs of the disintegrating bq. 
this is to say, i don't think harper is half the political mastermind some chalk him up to be. he was particularly vulnerable in the 2008 election given the economic meltdown and his last minute about-face to it.
that's sort of the problem though isn't it? they drifted right and tried to find a middle ground but the hard right doesn't want a middle ground they only want power. so you drift right and abandon the centrists and progressives and then when you try to realign you lose the hard right social conservatives. no offense to conservatives but the crazies and fanatic religious element of hard right social conservatives will destroy them. they can't even accept basic science like vaccinations. how are you going to get them to accept more complex sociological concepts?  better that they should split and then at least canadians could have  more honest options in their political parties. maybe then we wouldn't see the rise of maxime bernie and his fascist peoples party of canada.
you are mostly correct about o'toole. kenney has definitely tried to play on both sides a lot more than o'toole.
harper did it, so other leaders think they can make it work. the difference is that the rapid demographic change in the toronto/vancouver  'burbs and downtown calgary/edmonton are rapidly changing the viability of this strategy. fewer and fewer people are willing to put up with hard-right trump fringe except those within the party trying to create this coalition. 
also, harper had 10 years of the sponsorship scandal in the news reminding everyone how corrupt the liberals had become under chretien. trudeau simply hasn't fallen below this very low bar yet. if he does, i can see a massive swing to the ndp rather than another conservative government unless o'toole wins this battle. people will tire of the liberals and eventually shop for another party, and it won't be the conservatives unless they jettison some right-wing baggage.
the other issue most people have is that they think the social conservatives are a tiny minority of the party that holds too much sway. but the most recent poll i saw reports that 40% of the cpc are social conservatives. they’re not a small group, they’re very representative of the party.
>they drifted right and tried to find a middle ground but the hard right doesn't want a middle ground they only want power
just my opinion, but after observing far right political culture over the last 5 years or so, both here and south of the border, i would argue that they don't even want power- they just want to campaign and complain. 
look at what happened with trump. he campaigned on "locking her up" and "draining the swamp". once he won, what did he do? nothing really- he just kept campaigning, reciting the same slogans, and so did his supporters. we saw similar things when the ucp ousted the "socialist" ndp in alberta. they have a strong majority, but still everything is "socialism, trudeau, etc etc"
i think that's the real issue with far right politics. they want to campaign, they don't actually want to govern. their power is derived from their victimhood. even when they win, they're still "oppressed". like a dog chasing a car, they don't know what to do with power once they have it.
i tend to think it was because harper was actually one of the social conservatives as well. he just knew how to pick his battles better. it was easier to appease the reform remnants because he was one of them.
harper did it by producing results. he also answered questions. for some reason the communications staff that work for the cpc are useless. they try and have the leaders give non sensical answers to questions. the best example was o’toole on gun control. i mean who edits their platform after it’s released 🤦‍♂️ i honestly am bewildered at how the cpc think they’ll win with someone that can’t answer tough questions and flip flops on his position(s). at least people understood where scheer stood.
huh.
i already jettisoned the liberals. 
they won't be an option for me for a good long while yet.
that's what happened with kenny and the ucp. the 2 conservative parties merged but now the social conservative wildrose party has essential taken over leaving any progressive conservatives in alberta out in the cold.
i disagree with you. social conservatives in the us are well on their way to ending abortion. the first thing trump did when he got in power was to ban immigration and travel from certain countries. he instituted a huge tax break for the rich and loosened rules about around using the pulpit as a campaign tool. betsy devos invested resources away from public education into charter schools making it easier for christian's to educate children in what they wanted them to learn here in alberta the education  minister is taking steps to ensure the next generation  generations thinks like them. the far right is very active in maintaining and propagating their culture.

he can't actually believe trudeau would give ontario a bad deal. this has to be election posturing. the lpc voter base is here, if anything ontario should expect the best possible deal from the feds.
doug ford continues to drag his heels on signing the agreement until it’s politically advantageous for him to do so. while i don’t agree with the strategy i do understand it, but you know what would help the economy? having more people in it working instead of staying home, and spending their disposable income on things other than child care. studies have shown again and again that for every $1 you spend on early childhood care you gain it back in spades (i’d read $2 for every $1, but [this cbc article]( suggests as high as $6).
we know it’s going to get signed when even jason kenney is on board; let’s get it done so things can move forward.
ford is unreal, first he hides during the election season so o’toole looks good, ontarians be damned; now he’s gonna wait to accept right before and election so he looks good. just unbelievable.
yea...he saves signing bad deals for companies like: the one who made the now defunct "new" license plates....the gas pump stickers that fell off....the covid distance bracelet scheme that resulted in exactly 0 bracelets ever being used by anybody.....
in the conservative world, bad deals are meant to deliver tax dollars to private businesses.  signing a deal that lowers the price of a commodity like child care only reduces the opportunity for private sector to make money off that commodity.
i can’t read the article unfortunately, but in [at 2:55 in this interview from yesterday, the minister in charge of childcare]( makes it sound like the ontario government hasn’t even started negotiating with the federal government yet. sure ford  won’t accept bad deals, but is he even trying to get a better one?
can someone without an axe to grind explain what (real or otherwise) the issue that ford has with it?
i heard something on the news about ontario paying for full day jk & sk whereas other provinces don't, but it's never been really explained anywhere how that impacts things?
i hear about it being 'unfair' or 'imbalanced' but no-one ever explains why.
ford some 80s leadership conference success bullshit - “always say no to the first offer, that way they know you’re a serious businessman”
who is this posturing for? is there someone out there who is deeply concerned about the breakdown between province and feds on this?
just get the deal done.
[removed]
can’t imagine him going into an election and maybe by that time being the only province in the country without signing. the longer he waits the worse it will get for him. time is on the federal gov. side.
like who is even bothering to pay him off over this?  daycares want it.  families want it.  i don't get who's the criminal stopping this?
i support doug ford for trying to get the federal gov to put more money into the program so that ontario can put less in.
> the lpc voter base is here, if anything ontario should expect the best possible deal from the feds.
the feds don't have to cater to him at all. there's no world where ford can point at a federal government that just struck a deal with jason kenney and say that it's ottawa that's being unreasonable. he's holding off for a bit so it gets signed closer to the election, that's it that's all.
just like sick-days and vaccine-mandates, ford needs to pretend everything the feds do is somehow bad for ontario and that he is the man who will "fight for us" and "make it right".
the pcs want the feds to count full day kindergarten for 4 and 5 year olds as part of the child care founding forumla. which would mean another 3.6b for ontario.
they basically want the feds to pay for the regular education budget so they can cut the province responsibility. 
youre pretty much right.
if i were tying to optimize "vote efficiency", i would reserve the best deals for swing regions, rather than solidly supporting ones. obviously ontario isn't a monolith, but it's something to consider.
>this has to be election posturing. the lpc voter base is here, if anything ontario should expect the best possible deal from the feds.
still surprised he didn't sign on during the federal election. i see the strategy of signing it just before your own election, but it takes time to get it moving and ontario keeps trudeau in power with quite the efficient grasp i might add along with quebec. those two provinces would never get a bad deal even though ford will present it this way in hopes to score his second majority. had he secured the deal during the federal election there's a mindset i could see working with good guy ford worked it out with trudeau not trying to secure brownie points for his own election but just the goodness of the people of ontario but politics. this is probably the play for him all things considered even if it's a migraine knowing ontario easily could have been the first to sign on and not the last.
wait, alberta’s premier is part of the kennedy conspiracy too? the horror :)
[removed]

i'm surprised people are not rioting in the streets. but on the other hand we are offered just enough so that we don't lose our shit on the companies that take advantage of us. looking at the big picture and the direction we are going in, it's time to start losing our shit as a collected population.
yes, a noted economist calls this the "rise of the super manager", where higher ups get huge pay raises for no reason. this is probably just the mechanics of politics with a conservative in power; sadly.
see:
piketty, t. (2018). capital in the twenty-first century. harvard university press.
de mesquita, b. b., & smith, a. (2011). the dictator's handbook: why bad behavior is almost always good politics. publicaffairs.
what a shame when governments work for the interest of businesses over the interest of people.  i wonder which companies will get the "kickbacks" of excess money in the fund? the author suggests it won't be re-distributed equally but given to specific companies.
[removed]
nobody notices until they need it.  one of those problems.
this ain't the uk. we will never see a **poll tax type riot** in canada like across the pond back in the day. canadians are very passive and seem to take as many pokes the government will give them.
almost as if this is what happens when you elect a government that claims to be pro business.
now that you mention it, maybe it's time we started designing roadways and communities to be less car dependent and fund mass transit to ensure that fewer people die from car accidents (along with all of the other very obvious benefits of mass transit). good thinking!
> if you're high school math teacher was correct, everytime you recieved a booster, the chances of having a severe complication multiplies exponentially. 
my high school math teacher didn't actually say all that much about vaccines. did yours? that might explain a bit about your posting style here.
i might actually agree with you about a lot of your points, but the anti-vaxx ranting in a thread about workers compensation policy makes you hard to take seriously.
[removed]
removed; rule 3
everything we have and value can be taken away, nothing is sacred.
i hate specific statements like this.  there are so many problems with the current political system and public engagement and this just cheapens all of that discussion down to "don't vote for party x, vote for party y" without looking at the fundamentally broken aspects of the system and the challenges of globalization.
yes!! make them so that businesses are at street level with housing above. (with balconies pls) unfortunately so many townships have new developments like that banned 😔
i fully agree.
[removed]
[removed]
as opposed to the gem you just offered up?
it's not that complicated.  this government is in the pocket of specific business interests and doesn't give a damn about anything else.  the system, engagement, and the "challenges of globalization" really don't enter into that at all.
but if you have something actual to say about any of those things, by all means do so.

>hold off on the hectoring “we told you so” global-warming taunts
this makes me so furiously angry. this guy thinks the people who care about the climate and have for years been talking about the serious nature of what is to come want to taunt him for our own hubris. peoples lives have been ruined. this will end up costing the province and country a massive sum of money. i don't want to say i told you so. i want to scream "learn from what has happened and change. if we don't, this will continue to get worse and worse and worse."
>this isn’t any november. the world has changed. the climate has changed. there are things we can do, and there are things beyond our control. one thing we can do is hold off on the hectoring “we told you so” global-warming taunts, and spend more time focusing on how to take care of one another. we should be getting ready for the worse that’s bound to come.
oh really now?  this from a newspaper that has regularly and unwaveringly supported pro-fossil fuel conservative politicians and extractive fossil fuel industry at every possible opportunity.
well well well, if it isn't the consequences of our own actions now isn't it np?
>the fact remains that canada’s contribution to the loading of greenhouse gases in the upper atmosphere is less than two per cent, and while we owe it to the planet, to humanity and to ourselves to scale back the damage we’re doing, what is needed more than anything is preparedness, armouring, hunkering down a bit. and canada is doing a lousy job of that. british columbia is clearly doing a lousy job of that. canada is warming at twice the global rate, and in the interior and the north, it’s more like three times the global rate. bicycle lanes and electric cars aren’t going to do much about that.
i wouldn't argue that we shouldn't be doing more in the preparedness category. climate change is happening, and we need to correspondingly adjust and prepare. but it's aggravating what he decided to sandwich this statement with. first, he states 'the fact' that our contribution is less than two percent. now, that's a true statement, but it glosses over the fact a country of our population outputting 2% of all greenhouse gasses in world is actually a big deal. and while he's correct that changing our transportation habits alone isn't going to solve global warming, it is still a necessary step.
changing our habits and lifestyles to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions while preparing for climate change related events in the future are things that should be done in parallel - they are not either/or items.
this is why climate change deniers make me so angry.  we're literally living in it, and they'll still feign ignorance.
[deleted]
i hear ya.
even today, i continue to argue with people about reducing emissions to fight climate change because "canada's contribution makes no difference."
ffs people. that's not how reality works you idiots. 
anyways, whatever...
why i bother, i'm not entirely sure. stupid i guess... sigh... so much stupid.
i wonder what would happen if we populated flood plains? hmmm
will you go vegan to make a difference? very simple to do, and has a massive impact on our resources and our environment. plus cute innocent animals won’t be bread just to he mutilated. 
but really will you, or anyone here? or is the taste pleasure worth more than survival on this planet.
this is a freak weather event. extremely unlikely to happen again. has nothing to do with climate change. climate change is not weather and weather is not climate change.
edit: for all you morons saying this is due to climate change go back and look up what happened in 1894. unless you think climate change was a problem then too.
not to mention the obvious obfuscation of blaming this on global warming.........  no doubt it's a factor but clearcutting is a much faster acting and predictable cause of both forest fire and flash flooding
these comments were i’m sure very emotionally satisfying to type out but are more likely to repel rather than attract new supporters to the cause of taking serious action on climate change.
there are no consequences to our actions. canada's contribution to either problem or solution is minuscule. nothing we could have done or can do is going to have any noticeable impact on global warming. china and russia weren't even at the summit, and india has grandly promised to be carbon neutral by uh.... well, 2070, but only if the west pays for it. global warming is going to continue because the developing world continues to develop and wants more cheap power. nothing we do is going to matter compared to that. so just as he says, we need to prepare for a world with more difficult weather patterns, with things like irrigation systems and flood control. not to mention better building codes.
what pisses me off most about this is that canada only representing 2% of greenhouse gases makes becoming a climate change leader one of the biggest economic opportunities in the world over the next century. places like europe, america and asia are going to spend *trillions* on this issue, and if we can create some world leading businesses in the sector, we could see huge benefits as a country. 
rather than just saying, "we shouldn't do anything, we only represent 2% of emissions" we should be looking at it as, "if we can create a world leading climate change business, the potential for growth is almost limitless". 
it is just a short-sighted comment to make.
not to mention that something like 40-45% of total global emissions comes from countries who individually only make up less than 2%. so if every <2% emitting country said “nah we too small”, a massive amount of emissions would go unchecked. it’s nothing more than a bullshit talking point.
we need to do both. the world still needs to work towards minimizing the damage, but damage has been done and we need to live with the consequences. and they'll be expensive consequences to try and mitigate, which has been said for decades. dealing with the fallout was always going to be harder and more expensive than doing something about it sooner.
we have some of the highest per capita emissions on the planet.  if we start making "we don't have to try as hard because x" excuses, then every country will be able to find an equally flimsy cop out and nothing will get done.
we should lead by example to do everything we can to pull down our emissions, and then work with our allies to pressure the countries who aren't.
this area experiences flooding on a regular basis.
when people would rather leap into an alternate reality than suffer even the most minor lifestyle changes to fight the issue, you know we are in trouble.
yes, it actually is how reality works. desperately emptying the tub with our thimble while the faucet is going full steam is a waste of time and effort. oh, turn off the faucet? india says no. china says no. russia says no. indonesia says no. the third world says no. sorry. no.


i doubt that it’s going to be removed since it’s all but 1 of a few flimsy climate suggestions left in their proposed bill, so i don’t think they’re going to feel happy about conceding yet another climate act, as protectionist as it is, for the sake of ending up with no climate provisional
the us and canadian auto industry might be ‘joined at the hip’ now, but never doubt the willingness of us politicians to perform separation surgery with a chainsaw.  america first is a non partisan meme  that resonates in approximately 50 states. 
a ‘warning’ from trudeau and his contingent of ministers is not going to influence any american votes.   i’m sure the deliberate loss of the auto industry, oil and gas industry, and resource development in canada is all easily replaced by a great plan we will hear about soon.
why use the capacity now building cars for export to build electric cars for sale in the canadian market - in canada. target a price that canadians can afford - 25k?
trudeau’s on the wrong side of battling climate change yet again.   i’m so tired of his double-speak.  here everyone was singing his praises for his latest speech, and what does he do?  opposes the us implementing tax credits and rebates for electric vehicles.  what a buffoon.
you don't have to get rid of the rebate (which is the climate friendly provision).  you just have to get rid of the "you only get the rebate if you buy an ev that was x% built in the usa". or at least, make that provision nafta compliant to include canada and mexico.
>i’m sure the deliberate loss of the auto industry,
i don't think trudeau has anything to do with american protectionist policies.  in fact he is doing what he can to counter it.
wow gee, nobody has thought about that!
um, because we're a hell of a lot smaller than the us?
i'm sure tesla will get right in designing that!
but he's not battling climate change. he's battling protectionist "made in america" requirements that were tacked onto an environmental subsidy.
or maybe this is actually just a us protectionism policy greenwashed as climate policy because it targets evs. if the biden really wants americans to switch to evs, then why is this credit only for us made or us union made evs? why are canadian or mexican made evs being excluded? more people could buy evs if the credit applies to any ev on the market, allowing people to find the most affordable option, not just a subset of cars from areas with the right political connections.
this is the answer. 
ev rebate = good. 
applicable to only made in usa = bad. 
rebate on ev made within na = good. 
rebate on ev made anywhere = best.
i don’t understand .  mr trudeau has long expressed his desire for direct action against high carbon industry. surely production of automobiles in any form- ice or ev- is directly opposite the priority  of protecting the environment? evs are made from thousands of kilos of high carbon plastics and metal, including toxic materials.  why would canada want to remain in that business at all?
agreed he’s not battling climate change.  he should be.
lol - dumb logic.
taxpayer giveaway is for his own people. makes perfect sense.
are you advocating the complete shutdown of all industry in canada?  trudeau has never argued for that.  
are you arguing in bad faith?
a problem like climate change is multi-faceted and complex.  we must work with our allies especially ones right next to us who are orders magnitude bigger, and more polluting.   
advocating for canadian industry to be allowed to participate in american green policies,  is in fact fighting climate change.  without the economic incentive of being able to sell to the american market canada will never get the green investments it needs to fight climate change.  
the reason we will fail at fighting climate change is that it is such a big problem that needs to be fought on so many fronts.
who me?  no, i’m all for the promised massive  green transition.  surely you cannot support the ongoing production of an auto industry  in any form as part of a low carbon future? you know that cars are filled with  hydrocarbon based plastic?  and that batteries are made from materials/processes  that are carbon intensive?
are you actually arguing for the continuation of the auto industry in canada?

inflation thread reminders!
1) cpi is not calculated using your personal expenses
2) the boc targets 2% and has suggested that inflation above 2% is okay following years with inflation below 2% (evens out)
3) low interest rates and qe are not the only causes of inflation -- supply chain disruptions, unstable demand patterns, and resource shortages drive inflation too
4) boc monetary policy can neither decrease global commodity prices, nor speed cargo ships
5) our monetary authorities find deflation scarier than inflation
inflation was that high in 2003, and aside from a few blurbs about it in the financial sections wasn't met with the sort of pearl clutching if not outright hysteria we're seeing now.
also the world didn't end, inflation didn't spiral out of control but slowed subsequently, and life moved on.
some perspective:
> but from a broader historical perspective, 4.1 per cent is, comparatively, nothing. inflation was north of 10 per cent in the mid-1970s and again in the early 1980s. in the early 1990s, when the bank of canada formally adopted maintaining low and steady inflation as its primary monetary policy objective, inflation still hovered around 5 per cent. but since the central bank set its inflation target at 2 per cent in 1995 – using interest rates to help steer inflation toward that rate – inflation has averaged very close to that target.
inflationary pressures can also be self fulfilling prophecies. that's when things can really get out of control.
we really have to stop comparing things to last year. 2020 wasn't your regular year. it was the middle of the pandemic prior to vaccinations and shutdowns were common. comparing 2019 to 2021 we get a value of 3.5% per year, or 2018 to 2021 we get a value of 2.6% per year.
also, the rounding from 4.65 to 4.7 makes it look even worse.
and in quebec rents are set by cpi so as everyone's shopping bill goes up the poor landlords will get the boost they need as the economy gets harder for people who actually work for a living.
good luck getting a 4.7% raise. raises should be mandatory on an annual basis and be forced to be, at minimum, some figure based on inflation/ cpi.
and was 0.7 yoy last year. the equivilent of 2.68% for both years. just a bit high, but in a global supply shortage, not surprising.
turns out mass money printing has consequences. i don't disagree with the decision but at least lets be honest that it caused inflation which is not transitory. everything cost more and those prices aren't going down.
edit: there are obviously multiple factors, monetary policy is a big one. don't need everyone to repeat that there are other issues like supply chain.
the boc doesnt give a shit. they've been printing hundreds of billions over the last year and kept interest rates as low as they go.  meanwhile, they've been saying again and again that this is just temporary and that they'll actually accept this.   complete bs. it's criminal what they're doing.  most can barely afford groceries or houses now.  maybe it's time to stop the printing press? who would have thought that inventing monet out of thin air would drive up prices?
deflation is a killer! everyone would simply stop buying and wait, if they can. technology causes deflation and technology is getting better at a scary rate. 
then we have inflation caused by scarcity and disruption. climate change is very good at both those things.
interesting times.
[removed]
for (3), the pandemic disrupted logistics something terrible; deliveries that took weeks now take months, and so every step of the product chain has slowed. now is not the time to be buying custom windows.
and for vancouver there's now a special case with the only land route being the interstate through the usa and a few two lane rural roads.
> 3) low interest rates and qe are not the only causes of inflation -- supply chain disruptions, unstable demand patterns, and resource shortages drive inflation too
this is a very important point, especially because this inflation is not happening in a vacuum in canada. its a worldwide phenomena. if boc goes ahead and raises rates while the us, uk, eu keep it low, it will massively fuck over canadian businesses.
> 1) cpi is not calculated using your personal expenses
they're not calculated on any accurate representation of expenses based on what i can see. 
oct 2000-oct 2020
**statcan rented accommodation index:**
- vancouver: 33.16%
- calgary: 33.93%
- toronto: 36.80%
- capital region: 35.92%
- montreal: 28.12%
**cmhc 2 bedroom:**
- vancouver: 101.46%
- calgary: 74%
- toronto: 67.14%
- ottawa: 72%
- gatineau: 74%
- montreal: 77%
so tell me, what is statcan attempting to calculate when they're calculating rent if it is not the price of rent over time? if they are attempting to calculate the price of rent over time how is it that they have understated the cmhc average over two decades by 1.8-3.1x?
problem is that the inflation was also a lot closer to actual interest rates, so the markets actually responded in a coherent way to inflation (with returns on savings accounts being much higher, lending rates being higher, etc.).
right now, however, we still have interest rates that are encouraging people not to save at all, but rather keep buying, while inflation is rising.
2003 was a radically different environment, gdp and the prime rate were both up over 3%, and the boc had raised interest rates five times in the previous twelve months to keep inflation within the target range and was prepared to keep raising rates. so the idea that there was no concern is just false.
[
[
the 1970s and early 80s were a bad time; we should be fearful of stagflation and careful not to repeat it.
so much this. ideal inflation is ~1.8 - 2.3% and we're actually not far off from that. given the insane supply issues (some of which is just temporary), this feels not unexpected.
things could start getting ineresting when the boc starts raising rates however.
it's bad regardless.
also don't forget cpi is only a snapshot of what's actually going on out there. as in, cpi really only tracks the price of flat screen tv's at walmart lol

>“we’re probably making them nervous as fuck,” dean said when the vehicle pulled up alongside the alleged motorcade. “don’t worry guys, we’re harmless, we just want to cause a little bit of upset for you guys.”
so he wants to make them nervous, but tells them they're harmless, but also that they want to upset them.
way to make your intentions clear.
i think what's really motivating these people to do things like "chase" the pm through the streets of edmonton isn't their hateful ideology... but rather the money that promoting that ideology on social media brings them through the alt-right grift machine... no doubt he was doing some kind of live-stream or live commentary as he was following jt around.
whereas before people like this might go to a protest to promote their views, now they are encouraged to cause a ruckus because conflict and drama drive the online views/likes.
be sure to keep an eye on these ones.
they've shown themselves for what they are and there's no need to let them off any leashes.
i dont understand how this was remotely permitted. how does a car follow the pm for so long without the rcmp at least pulling them over and asking what they're doing? you cant walk around a nice neighbourhood while black without the police checking in on your activities, but this loon can follow the pm? great job guys.
some bad apples out there, this is pretty disturbing. i’m not at all fond of jt, this sort of action is not good for the image of alberta. should lock these whackos up
the intentions are clear they want to intimidating the pm while still being able to justify to themselves that they are not intimidating and that it is just the pm who is soft.
the whole brand is how they are everyday people doing everyday things and everyone else is too sensitive.
isn't that some combination of harrassment and assault? i'm amazed the pm's security hasn't put him in the canadian equivalent of guantanamo.
this guy is actually using the "...because of the implication." schtick from it's always sunny in philadelphia.
social media was a mistake.
it’s interesting you’d notevthe financial motives of a right wing ‘grift machine’ , while ignoring the giant red ‘donate’ button right at the beginning of the article . was that intentional or an oversight?
[removed]
i once walked in on jean chrétien (mind you this was pre-9/11).
i was working at a hotel where he was speaking that night. he took over our banquet office unbeknownst to me before my shift. i walked right past his rcmp detail in plain chothes. they didn't even bat an eye as i opened the door to see him sitting right there at the desk waiting.  i closed the door right away and made a "oops" face to the nearest mountie but he didn't say or do anything.
so yeah, not the most proactive group protecting our pm.
i think you answered your own question there
i think they'd really like being arrested. would definitely give their right-wing-grifter shtick a leg up over the competition. 
watching them trail around after the procession like a baby duck while pretending to themselves and their fans that they're engaged in some kind of high-stakes pursuit was hilarious. if the pmpd had any concerns at all, either they or eps would have just pulled these goons over for a standard roadside check and the procession would have lost them quickly.
they haven't actually done anything so far as i'm aware. it's not a good look to be sure, but it's not criminal.
that would be prince albert, pretty harsh punishment tbh 😂
they live in alberta already.
not assault. assault requires an application of force, or an attempt or threat to apply force that creates a reasonable apprehension that the accused has the present means to carry out the threat.
possibly harassment, though it would be tough to make out. criminal harassment generally takes multiple incidents to make out, or the presence of threatening comments. it helps that they've expressly indicated they're doing it to make them feel uncomfortable and unwelcome though.
there's also the charter angle though; given the absence of violence or threats, they might be able to successfully argue that their actions are protected expression (though, i wouldn't expect that to be accepted by most judges).
a conviction wouldn't be impossible, but it would be unlikely.
pre-facebook social media was fine. facebook was a mistake. bring back myspace, nexopia, and digg. fuck facebook and reddit.

to surmise in a nutshell:
sharp (the mastermind) tried to hold up the cra in court on split hairs over the legality of how they were both investigating him and auditing him during conveniently, the same time. this held them up a bit, but ultimately their snooping and poking around found forged documents that sharp had to deny any knowledge of them being forgeries or having anything to do with the creation of said forgeries.
i think that about covers it well enough.  
>ultimately, through its audits of sharp, the cra obtained enough information to determine that sharp was the "mastermind" of an organization that operated like a "shadow bank," allowing wealthy people to access money stashed offshore, out of sight of authorities, the agency outlined in a confidential draft report.
i mean, auditing the taxes of a suspected criminal seems like something the cra should be doing?
the issue here is not that cra is audit but whether the information obtained during audit will be used in criminal proceeding. the rules on how you evidence can be obtained for cra audit and criminal proceedings are different.

there's a lot going on in this article, and it's written from a very particular point of view, but i think it says a lot that almost the entire article is talking about noah zatzman. usually you want your senior advisors to be behind the scenes, helping you create a robust and viable party that people can vote for. that seems to be the opposite of what zatzman and paul were trying to do. this section is particularly wild to me:
>true to his word, zatzman said he “actively worked and organized to defeat” manly, whom he describes as “parliament’s number one anti-israel legislator,” this past september, though he did not provide further detail. manly did not respond to a request for comment from ji.
>atwin, for her part, won reelection as a liberal in new brunswick this september. “i hoped to defeat her,” zatzman said, “but was much more active in the manly situation.”
the senior advisor to the leader was actively trying to cut their elected caucus in half. not trying to win more seats necessarily but intentionally trying to lose one. that's... i don't even know what to call it but it's certainly not a winning strategy. 
it feels like the greens might just have gotten lucky that things are going so badly for them. it at least means now with paul and zatzman gone they can try to rally around one another. at the very least they can not be actively trying to lose seats.
the party is an absolute mess and idk how they recover without a complete enema but what little confidence i had in the party went before paul was named leader and they've done nothing endearing since.
i just can't believe this zatzman character. how one could, in response to a (fairly mild as i recall) criticism of israel's military actions, decide the right course of action was to deliberately unseat two of your own mp's and then fail to see how that's problematic to the point that you brag about losing a seat for your party... like i get he likes israel but it just comes off totally unhinged to me... like congrats dude you tanked the party that hired you to help them, real great work.
the gp is essentially known as a one-issue party, and it is an issue that other (more competent) parties have embraced to varying degrees.
at this point the gp -as a national political party - is basically irrelevant.
well lets see, no leadership, no decent candidates, no ideas , no plan , no policy , no base … i’m gonna say the grift is done but who knows maybe they’ll rebrand as the teal party
now that annamie paul has finally resigned from the green party with some sort of financial settlement, she is going on the attack. this article is part of a communications strategy by her camp to control the narrative. first she bargained with the green party's federal council to cancel the leadership review, in which she would have done very badly. and now her favourite spokesmen noah zatzman and sean yo have resurfaced. is paul positioning herself to get a senior position with a pro-israeli ngo?
paul manly's former chief of staff, ilan goldenblatt, is an israeli born jew. it was he who wrote that tweet that aroused zatzman's ire. in an interview with journalist chris guly  in july, goldenbaltt made an excellent analysis of zatzman, which still stands as a fine rebuttal to this article. as goldenblatt presciently said about zatzman back then, "i think he'd be happy if the green party just ceased to exist..." [
the green party may or may not be over. what is over is the old may days of "let's talk about environment and wing it on almost every other issue".
whether or not they can find a platform that differentiates them substantially from the ndp or liberals is another story.
paul was obviously not the right person for the job, even if only because she rubbed the party old timers the wrong way. but i find it interesting that i have no idea if she had any vision for the party or not as most of the headlines were about party infighting. i suspect most canadians are similarly in the dark about her plans. i'm not saying paul didn't deserve what happened, but it would have been nice to know what actually she had in mind for the future.
actually, i'll make one other prediction: if the party puts may back in as leader, it's all over.
as always, if a headline ends in a question mark, the answer is “no”.
saved you a click.
if the author had enough evidence and sources their headline would be “the green party is over**.**” (with a period)
> the senior advisor to the leader was actively trying to cut their elected caucus in half. not trying to win more seats necessarily but intentionally trying to lose one. that's... i don't even know what to call it but it's certainly not a winning strategy.
the explanation seems obvious: zatzman wanted the green party to be the zionist party of canada in disguise.  he didn't care about electing green mps, he just wanted to defeat those he viewed as anti-israel.
imagine being the chief of party strategy and making it your #1 priority to get rid of one of your three mps. truly staggering idiocy
perhaps someone like alex tyrell can change party perception but its uncertain, could be good for the third party left vote if we consolidated in the ndp following a green collapse though
[removed]
maybe they would be better off just as a political advocacy group at this point. i know that when i was watching the nail biting race in nanaimo between the cpc and the ndp i was wishing the greens didn’t exist. they really cut a lot of seats up on the island.
the exiguous nature of this fissure is really put into a stark light by having it play out in the pages of “the tyee” and “jewish insider”.
sounds like two of three. manly and atwin. got rid of atwin before the election campaign even started, and then allegedly worked to get rid of manly during the election.
itd be better to get electoral reform so that both parties can flourish
a party cannot maintain a national profile when they are overwhelmingly viewed as a one-issue organization.
they would perhaps be better off developing/promoting the "green" caucuses within the other, existing parties. there is lots of room for growth and development of "green" issues in that manner, but the odds of them forming government (or the balance of government) in any of our lifetimes are essentially "zero" at this point (and you can place some of that blame at the feet of their most recently departed leader).
it's not at all exiguous when prominent figures in the canadian media adopt versions of the zatzman line, viz, martin regg cohen in the toronto star, or evan solomon on ctv.
it kind of is when the most extreme consequence of the rhetoric war currently going on is a fringe party losing or gaining a couple of mps out of the 338 who represent the country as a whole though. 
it seems like the mainstream news sources might be done with this one for the time being after getting as much entertainment as they could from paul’s disastrous tenure.

[removed]
[removed]
rules 2 and 3.
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]


>the pattern held in other largely french-speaking areas, including rosemont, villeray and hochelaga-maisonneuve. "language played a big role in the city election even if it's a provincial issue, mostly because of the debate over bill 96," said daniel béland, a professor of political science at mcgill university and director of the mcgill institute for the study of canada, referring to the province's proposed language law. "plante was the only candidate who really emphasized the need to protect the french language." in areas with more english-speakers, plante didn't do as well.
this is a guy trying to stoke linguistic division. the map doesn't show lingusitic factors at play at all. the map hardly changed from 2017 when language played no role. the areas where coderre has the biggest support in the north eastern part of the island (montreal-nord, riviere-des-prairies, saint-leonard)  are mostly francophone immigrants. in fact, anglophone areas show mixed support. the real pattern here is that plante scored big with solid left wing voters in the plateau and east end and coderre scored better  with right-wing voters elsewhere (which is centre-left in montreal). it also looked like local candidate campaigns were also a big factor. 
fewer people in montreal give a damn about language than quebec's  manufacturers of linguistic tensions would like to make  us believe.
>coderre scored better with right-wing voters elsewhere (which is centre-left in montreal)
coderre.. center-left?
the things you read on the internet...
> this is a guy trying to stoke linguistic division
there are linguistic divisions. especially with holness repeatedly kicking the wasp nest of the mostly settled linguistic questions (ex. montreal's bilingual status), which didn't escape [anyone's notice]( 
we were already seeing a rather big  20+% cleavage between the opinion of franco, anglos and allos [in the days leading]( up to the elections. 
plante with 60% of the franco vote vs 35% for coderre and 2% for holness.   
coderre with 51% of the non-franco vote vs 37% for plante and 11% for holness.  
that's a difference of 23 percent points for plante (62%), 16 for coderre (137%) and 9 for holness (550%)
coderre's french support was mostly in the french north east, and that is in great part due to him being a liberal federal mp there for more than a decade, but even that support has been fading as we've seen in the last 2 mayoral elections.  
so are francos just more left leaning than anglos? or did the constant linguistic questions raised throughout the campaign lead to some sort of divide between the linguistic groups? you chose.
*typo
the facts stare at you in the face and you try to shift the debate away from your chosen narrative. truth is, language played a huge part in this election. holness made a fool of himself over it, coderre misplayed his hand and plant played it well.
montreal is centre-left overall, so the whole spectrum is skewed. those voting codere would probably vote liberal federally and provincially. they would reject legault and o'toole as too right wing. they would be swing liberal-ndp voters federally.
the facts do stare in the face. coderre did well in francophone ridings in the north end just like last time.
ahh yes. because the cpc is right, the lpc must be left!
the whole spectrum is skewed. other than the ndp, they're all leaning right at varying degrees.
there’s so much more than the north end, which was his old base. you completely ignored [this comment]( which highlights the polling behind the results.
centre-left vote is strategic in montreal. ndp is hard left.
i did adress it  though. these areas also voted for plante massively in the previous election when language was not an issue, so why would they vote differently? plante offered a left-wing vision much more popular than coderre's plan to rip up bike paths. she actually picked up votes in left-wing anglophone ndg because of the sue montgomery fiasco. 
also, the only real change was in the racialized allophone areas where holeness cut into coderre's vote. holeness got 20-30% of the vote in these areas, enabling plante and her party to take more votes and seats in these areas. like you said, coderre's liberal francophone base in northern montreal remained intact, unmoved by any language issues. so did plantes left-wing francophone base in the plateau. so language was an issue, but mostly only the areas of western montreal where alot of the anglo vote shifted to holeness.
again, the guy in the article is just making up fiction to stoke language wars because it sells papers,  putting things in the data that aren't there. there is no evidence that language had a factor on the francophone side.
>holeness got 20-30% of the vote in these areas, enabling plante and her party to take more votes and seats in these areas.
holness didn't "enable" anything because his performance was so pathetic that even if his vote was directly transferred to coderre the latter would not have won.
the franco vote allowed plante to win. language was an issue, with plante winning 60% of the franco vote while coderre won a meagre 35%. you're using montreal nord as a barometer riding to prop up your world view when it isn't at all. it's literally cherrypicking on coderre's strongest historical riding.
language was an issue in this election should you like it or not. it dominated the news cycle and we can see an effect directly in the poll numbers and electoral results. all three candidates felt it was an important topic to campaign on and the one who won was the only one who actually supported french and measures to protect it.
was it the only issue? of course not. was it an important issue? of course.
>there is no evidence that language had a factor on the francophone side
you clearly have not followed the francophone news cycle during the election. maybe you're stuck in a media bubble.

people need to wake up to the fact that the idealised version of neoliberal trade with under-developed nations, is still imperialism, just without the military occupation and formal governance of the territories. 
the violent exploitation still persists.
an important topic that i am glad people are paying attention to. however, i note that this sentence is vague, and misleading:
"canadian extractive companies receive substantial financial support from ...the canadian international development agency (cida), now a part of the global affairs canada"
while there was significant interest in the previous canadian government under pm harper to work with the extractive sector as co-financiers of development projects, these companies did not receive oda. and the current government has moved even farther from this model. 
worse, the article doesn't mention the many millions given by the canadian government to hr groups internationally, including in guatemala, that raise awareness of these issues. groups like oxfam and the un high commissioner for hr.
what do you propose to change the current system to help alleviate these issues?
that's outside my expertise, i'll admit, but a few suggestions i have:
have international agreements for regulations and effective enforcement against non-compliant corporation, to ensure they cannot get away with exploitative actions in under-developed countries, that they would otherwise not be able to get away with in their developed home country. (e.g: a canadian mining company can't hire private security goons to shoot protesters in canada, but they sure as hell get away with it in central and south america)
i suppose i can only think of one suggestion, but apply that to multiple concerns, including tax/royalty-avoidance, labour-relations, and environmental conservation.

i don't think this is a surprise for anyone. o'toole wasn't the problem, scheer wasn't the problem, harper wasn't the problem (arguably he held the big tent together best), whoever relaced o'toole isn't the problem.
the reality is that tge conservatives really shouldn't be a single party by this point. yes, i get that they are because otherwise strategic voting would kill them in terms of seat counts, but arguably that would be more representative as at the best of times they only get 1/3 of the nation's vote.
you've got craxy antivaxxers and climate deniers with a hardon for trump-style politics in the same mixed bag as red tories who want a conservative approach to economics but don't care about social issues. you've got anti-choice people competing with libertarians within the same party. the party line doesn't even accept man made climate change. o'toole's only rallying cry is "we hate trudeau" because going in any further detail would incite infighting.
ultimately, it's the social conservatives and science deniers (including climate deniers) that turn off most canadians from the conservative party, but the conservative party needs those voters. that's the problem they face.
this is not great for o’toole: 
i knew that caucus members would be upset about batters’ dismissal - she is popular in caucus.
the big mistake was  the progressive side and the reform side merging. if peter mackay had of manned up and tried  to rebuild the progressive conservative party they would be in a much better position today. good chance that they would have won an election by now. instead  he sold out for his own personal gain. once people in the progressive  side really understood what the reform party was all about many voters left. erin o’toole is trying to win those voters back , but reform side which is even more radicalized now will have none of it. same with the ucp , that’s why there is so much infighting.
i always voted on the parties platform,  so be it pc, liberal,  or ndp. left leaning but new there are times to reign government in and hope for the other,  a balance.  but i can say i don't feel i can offer support to a party that some members represent racism. that i would say is the biggest challenge they have.
> harper wasn't the problem (arguably he held the big tent together best)
i'd argue the times/political climate favoured harper's management more than harper himself did. the current political climate just makes it all the more difficult to keep up the charade that the cpc is one party. 
> yes, i get that they are because otherwise strategic voting would kill them in terms of seat counts, but arguably that would be more representative as at the best of times they only get 1/3 of the nation's vote
it could also be the case that the surviving members would have *actual influence* on legislation. instead of the lpc bartering with the ndp/bloc for votes while the cpc sits back with a firm "no", a new "red tory" faction could emerge that bargains with the lpc.
>  red tories who want a conservative approach to economics but don't care about social issues
just have to do the standard response that this is a mischaracterization of what red tories are. what you are describing is actually a blue tory.
> blue tories tend to favour market-oriented economic policies such as devolution of federal power to the provincial governments, a reduced role for government in the economy, reduction of taxation and similar mainstream market liberal ideals. they also advocate self reliance, individual responsibility, personal freedom and liberty and therefore do not necessarily support social conservatism.
i think the best solution, barring electoral reform, would be to have a political realignment. aside from the ppc folks and social conservatives, i think the whole country would benefit from the left half of the liberals combining with the ndp to form a new party, the right half of the liberals combining with the left half of the conservatives, and the rest being a semi-fringe right wing party, the bloc, and the greens
the cpc caucus is meeting right now, if there's any fireworks i'm sure we won't be kept in the dark for long. 
 o'toole was asked on the way in and had a stock answer about needing to hold trudeau to account and not get distracted by internal drama.  can't see how this doesn't make it worse, but we'll see.
honestly i think that this whole situation really demonstrates why we absolutely need electoral reform. it helps absolutely nobody outside of the liberals in the center. it sucks for conservatives that don't agree with people in their own party. it sucks for the left which is underrepresented and sometimes feel like they have to vote for someone which isn't their first choice. mmr, proportional rep, even ranked ballots. we can argue all day and night about which one is best for canada, but at this point *any* option is better than fptp
i see what you mean, but that's a dangerous proposal even if it were plausible. we only need to look down south to see what you get out of a two party system. fptp encourages a 2 party system, and we're honestly lucky that the smaller parties can survive at all.
the otger aspect of that is that the liberal status isn't actually all that centrist. trudeau's government has been very neoliberal, with similar economic theories to the conservatives. considering they're the larger party, even half of the liberals joining the ndp would essentially eliminate the only viable non pro-corporate party we have. it's like america, where both parties only really differ on social issues, with minor tweaks when it comes to spending.
except during the last look at electoral reform the conservative were dead set against and changes. why should they fully participate now.
based on this comment, i take it you're an ndp supporter. i wouldn't call myself partisan, but i have voted for the ndp in both elections that i've been allowed to vote in, so i assume we share a fair amount of common ground.
i do share your concerns about the two party system, which is why i said "barring electoral reform." i'd much rather mmp than any sort of realignment, but a realignment doesn't require a change of laws.
that being said, we already effectively live in a two-party state. i like singh and the ndp, but i can't honestly say i expect them to win an election any time soon. we all know the liberals will eventually lose and be replaced by the conservatives. when that happens, i'd rather the new conservative party be further left than it currently is. perhaps with the left half of the liberals combined with the ndp, we can pass electoral reform once they get elected and finally do away with the current system.
that's kind of the lens i look at politics through - pragmatism. there's no point in advocating for things like electoral reform, which seems very unlikely after trudeau's 2015 thing, and saying that all other solutions shouldn't happen because they aren't as good. a partisan realignment will improve things a lot and potentially lead to electoral reform in the future. i don't see why, while we continue to push for electoral reform, we can't also support this idea.
they were against it because they get an advantage from the status quo if they remain a single party. for that reason, they'd be against it now. should the party fracture in an inreconcilable way, then you can bet they'd change their tune real quick
the conservatives were one of the three parties that endorsed the recommendations of the committee to put pr to the people by way of referendum. now, you might argue that they wanted a referendum because they believed that it would fail, but they were still open to putting it to the people. unlike the liberals, whose opposition to it wasn't coached in the recommendation for a referendum, but was instead because:
["proportional representation in any form would be bad for canada"](
my point with my previous comment us that trying to combine the ndp and liberals is like mixing oil and water. on social issues they get along famously, but when it comes to economics, their visions clash hard.
the liberal party believes in private enterprise as being the best way to cater to canadians. it's why they made a deal to have a vaccine plant run by moderna within our borders. the ndp meanwhile believes in the public sector. they are willing to tax corporations to bolster it, which basically goes against everything the liberals stand for.
i think you'd have a better time combining the conservatives and liberals than lib + ndp.
except they weren't against it. their position was just that it should go to the people by referendum (something i agree with wholeheartedly, myself -- the people being chosen as representatives should not, in my view, have sole discretion over how they're chosen). now, you might argue that they wanted the referendum because they thought it would fail, but they were at least open to putting it to the people and risking it going through.
the liberals, in contrast? trudeau let the mask slip back in 2017, and revealed that his position was that:
>"proportional representation in any form would be bad for canada," trudeau responded.
[source](
given that, it looks to me like the only party that was actually against it was the lpc.

not much of a surprise, but i appreciate the academic rigour that these researchers applied. they demonstrated that the two biggest factors in predicting who would vote for the ppc were an individual's views regarding vaccination and restrictions on freedom necessary for public health:
> similarly, someone who singled out “covid-19 vaccination issues” as the most important issue facing the country had a 44 per cent chance of supporting the ppc, compared to a six per cent chance for someone who mentioned any other issue.
check and check plus alot of religion = ppc.
 somehow racism is okay as well. don't understand that part yet,  will report back.
vaccine mandates / proof of vaccination requirements / vaccine passports have been entirely ineffective at reducing the spread of covid. that more parties don't oppose them is an embarrassment to evidence-based policy-making.
as high up as covid vaccines are on my *current* list of issues affecting the entire world, i can’t even begin to put myself into the headspace necessary to understand the point of view of someone who thinks that people needing to be vaccinated is *the* single biggest issue we face as a nation, especially from the view point that vaccines are somehow bad. it’s a viewpoint that i want to understand, but is *so* far removed from any sort of rational thought processes that i can’t even hypothetically wrap my head around seeing things from that perspective.
let's not conflate religion with christianity.......  which unfortuneately goes hand in hand with racism too often in this country
you need to learn more about facebook radicalization....start there
i didn't think vaccines were the biggest issue until it became clear they were being used as a means to create a two-tier society in which you're constantly at risk of being asked for paperwork to justify public existence.
i was a member of the lpc in 2014 for the leadership selection, and have since voted for the ndp, green party, and liberal party in federal and provincial elections.
if you don't understand how people feel the way they do, try harder. the response to covid-19 has differed drastically from the response to any other similar occurrence in canadian history, and we've successfully managed to essentially eliminate all of them.
i mean, i know all about it. it doesn't help me to be able to put myself in the shoes of someone who believes all of that nonsense. especially not enough to want to put the fate of our nation in the hands of maxime fucking bernier.
conspiracy mindset is conspiratorial.
that's because you're a social democrat. intelligent, educated and idealistic is no way to go through life.
/s



huge news for the buffalo sabres. 
that leafs @ sabres game last weekend really demonstrated how the border wasn't *really* open yet.
i don’t think the sabres have had a game over 9k this season - definitely not over 10k.
while i understand that they have many season tickets holders and general ticket buyers in southwestern ontario, they might want to reconsider their business strategy moving forward.
relying on border stability between canada/usa has historically been a sure bet, but covid-19 has demonstrated that not everything is 100%.



>i will not tolerate an individual discrediting and showing a clear lack of respect towards the efforts of the entire conservative caucus, who are holding he corrupt and disastrous trudeau government to account
erin o'toole referring to the recently-elected trudeau government as "corrupt and disastrous" is exactly why he will never win my vote.
this is the sort of toxic, ultra-polarizing politics that encourages people to view parties they disagree with--and their supporters--as enemies, instead of principled opposition. with threats of political violence and harassment, this sort of language is absolutely unacceptable.
what makes matters even worse is that [we know]( that political polarization is harmful to the health of our democracy. which means that the conservatives are engaging in rhetoric that is directly contrary to canadians' constitutional right to good government.
will be interesting to see how harper feels about o’toole kicking out one of his senate appointees.
she’s also supposedly well-respected in caucus, so this might only further hurt o’toole’s leadership.
as a side note, seems like challenging o’toole gets you immediately kicked out of caucus, but challenging vaccines and covid-19 doesn’t even put you to a vote to be removed from caucus.
glad we can clearly see where the cpc’s priorities are at.
this brings the conservative senate group from 18 to 17.  
 if the reports are true there are two groups both playing chicken in the party.  one side is organizing a slow coup against o'toole.  then on o'toole's side they're threatening to remove anyone who tries to remove him.  he's showing he's serious by immediately booting batters. 
the thing is batters is 51, the 3rd youngest in the senate.  she's going to be on the hill long after o'toole leaves.  batters has some sway and now she has nothing to lose.  kicking her out like this is a desperate move but that's basically all he has left. tune in tomorrow for the next episode.
a week before parliament sits, *this* what the cpc is dealing with.
edit.  [batters has responded.](
>tonight, erin o'toole tried to silence me for giving our #cpc members a voice.
i will not be silenced by a leader so weak that he fired me via voicemail.
most importantly, he cannot suppress the will of our conservative party members!
so that's fun.
i know people here don't like the tories, and are gonna view this through the lens of "this will hurt o'toole and therefor benefit the liberals", but i ask you to consider this:
the liberals aren't going to win forever. eventually, be it the next election or the one after that, they're going to lose, and we're going to get a conservative prime minister. now i don't know about anyone else, but when we do inevitably get the tories back in power, i would much rather have the o'toole faction over the social conservative faction that wants to give him the boot. it's a case of sucky vs shitty.
so with that said, i do sincerly hope o'toole's plan here works. better the devil you know and all that.
for those wondering if this was done under the provisions of the reform act, [it only applies to the house of commons.](
> **definition of “caucus”**
> *49.1* in this division, “caucus” means a group composed solely of members of the house of commons who are members of the same recognized party.
> **expulsion of caucus member**
> *49.2* a member of a caucus may only be expelled from it if
> (a) the caucus chair has received a written notice signed by at least 20% of the members of the caucus requesting that the member’s membership be reviewed; and
> (b) the expulsion of the member is approved by secret ballot by a majority of all caucus members.
is it just me, or is every sentence from conservatives about trudeau? it seems they exist only to oppose and have nothing original to contribute. what would conservatives in power do differently from liberals other than slash social programs and defund institutions? sorry about going off topic.
so far, the following mps have publicly tweeted in support of o'toole's leadership:
bc - (5/11) fast, vis, dalton, zimmer, caputo
ab - (5/21) lloyd, uppal, kelly, rempel, richards
sk - (4/9) hoback, vidal, redekopp, kram
mb - (4/6) bergen, morantz, dancho, mazier
on - (15/29) lantsman, duncan, ferreri, aitchison, nater, mackenzie, lawrence, barrett, schmale, muys, vecchio, ruff, williams, shipley, brassard
qc - (6/6) deltell, berthold, rayes, martel, paul-hus, genereux
atlantic - (2/4) ellis, perkins
i'm going off [david akin's list here]( and a few other tweets i found. out of the 118 conservative backbench mps:
- 41 have tweeted in favour of o'toole just within the 36 hours since sen. batters launched her petition
- 45 are active on twitter but have not tweeted in favour of o'toole's leadership within the last 36 hours
- 32 do not have active twitter accounts
o'toole seems to have strong support in his caucus everywhere other than alberta. he's probably safe from a caucus vote - at least for now, but if the cpc drops in the polls or membership anger picks up steam, mps might turf him anyways.
looks like o'toole was finally given his balls. this is his only avenue currently to use executive leadership, and it seems he really leaned into it. he must be feeling really good right now, and i don't blame him. but this may backfire if the rumblings of him being deeply unpopular are true.
when jwr was kicked out of the liberal caucus (rightfully so), there was lots of comments from the conservatives - as well as plenty in the canadian media - about they how they were silencing a powerful woman because she spoke her mind.
now that the shoe is on the other foot, is o'toole going to apologize for those comments? and are the canadian media going to spend the next two years treating batters like some poor martyr who was supposedly done wrong by her leader, because she dared go against him?
of course, batters is right. o'toole campaigned as a "true blue" conservative during the leadership  race, then he shamelessly tried to rebrand himself as an "almost centrist" for the federal election. and he made the switch abruptly without any grace. it was a high risk move designed to win power. but he didn't win, largely because few people trust him. who can believe anything he says? now he has to face the blowback.
contrary to what some people are commenting, batters is not a right-wing radical. she supported mackay for the leadership and has generally been pretty well respected among parliamentarians.
o'toole has opponents on both sides of the political spectrum. it's not just the anti-vaxxers that want him out.  he's going to have to be very careful these next few weeks and months, because there's a lot of pragmatic/opportunistic conservatives who will try to oust him at the first opportunity.
impose an age limit and term limit on senile out of touch politicians. 65 and under and thats pushing it age wise imo.
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
>she’s also supposedly well-respected in caucus
boy, does that not speak well of caucus.
[removed]
is she acting now with the blessing of harper?
o toole can remove someone from the senate caucus but the rules only protect the membership of the caucus for the house of commons.



i love how we've watched the middle class decimation that's happened in the free trade era for 30 years, and our government response is to put the pedal down and keep going. 
any free trade deal that doesn't include minimum wage parity is just a wealth transfer upwards. it's unbelievable these deals are still pitched as good policy in this era. 
also, what is sustainable about increasing our economic dependence on the opposite side of the planet? shipping pulp, soybeans, and other raw materials to cambodia and then shipping them back as consumer goods would undo our lame cop26 commitments in a month. completely unsustainable and untenable in a rational economic system.
how about we don’t implement free trade with countries where literal slave labour exists? and even paid labour is incredibly cheap. do we want to decimate what little industry we have left?
this is a great. south east asia is growing and has great opportunities for both imports and exports. with the us regressing into their insular protectionism, this may also give canada a meaningful competitive advantage. plus, the diversification aspect should help reduce our risk on china and us trade conflict - both of which has caused damage in recent years.
ftas have been net positive for the canadian and global middle class. showing the opposite, i would assume you have strong references to backup that claim?
as for your 2nd point, it is purely speculative and is just a conclusion based on a very superficial understanding of trade. for all we know such an agreement could accelerate the decarbonisation of our economies
also, when  you are saying you do not want to increase dependency on asia, the only partner we could turn to (and remain logical with rest of your comment) is the us. should we only trade with the us?
in what way has the middle class been decimated?
the only thing that has become less affordable is housing, which, funny enough, isn't included in free trade agreements.
[deleted]
people in this sub have trudeau shit when he tried to apply wage standards to free trade agreements.
> i love how we've watched the middle class decimation that's happened in the free trade era for 30 years, and our government response is to put the pedal down and keep going.
there's a lot of begging the question in this comment.
1: that the middle class has been "decimated" since 1990. that doesn't sound reasonable to me at all. (and no, cherry picking certain price indexes doesn't show that).
2: that, to the extent one can cherry pick certain statistics - these have anything to do with free trade.
free trade is one of the easiest and beneficial policies to a prosperous society. there's a reason that you decide to go to the grocery store, and the furniture store instead of doing everything yourself. trade makes both sides better off. a "minimum wage parity" would harm developing countries.
so, we should continue to import from china because... they don't use cheap or slave labour? the alternative to this deal is the status quo we have today, money flows into china to prop up their system.
canada has more leverage to get workers rights into these countries than we do with china, because of trade deals like this. 
>labour—this chapter requires that the basic workers’ rights included in the international labour organization 1998 declaration on fundamental principles and rights at work be reflected in law and practice, i.e. the elimination of child labour, forced labour and discrimination, and respect for freedom of association and the right to bargain collectively. provisions in this chapter are also enforceable through the dispute settlement mechanism of the agreement—another first for canada.
i'm not a trade expert, but this trade deal should put a dent in slavery and child labour, but you don't want to put that dent in there, cause you think it'll just lead to more exploitation?
but our current supply lines also have that, in the prc? so on one path we can see a way forward for smaller nations to fight this, on the other, the one you're thinking of, we do nothing, and nobody wins?
ed: i confused this new deal with the old deal, but then i don't know if the new deal has labour law protections.
yea i guess importing from china is better i guess. you didn't say that, but that's the alternative. get real, we don't live in your so-called imaginary world. this is a good step in the right direction. 
secondly, have you even lived in these countries? i'm a filipino-canadian, and trust me when i say this, ain't no one in the philippines complaining about them being taken advantage of via this free trade deal.
[removed]
do you have a source to back up your claim as well?  
the last batch of reading i did relative to free trade agreements and their benefit for the middle class didn't really convince me. many of them acknowledged that such agreements resulted in an economic shift that would necessitate training and career mobility (we have not facilitated that) and that they were as much a diplomatic move as they were an economic move.  
giving people access to cheaper, shittier products and financially entombing them so that they can't afford quality items isn't exactly a boon to the middle class. the shift to a service-driven economy without bolstering the pay and protection of those jobs hasn't been kind to the middle class.
>ftas have been net positive for the canadian and global middle class. showing the opposite, i would assume you have strong references to backup that claim?
[here we have the collapse of the canadian middle class in volume, and complete stagnation in wages, with a notable steep drop after nafta came into force.](
[and here we have the spreading wage-productivity gap, and a *decrease* in labour buying power of 20% since 1970.] ( 
>as for your 2nd point, it is purely speculative and is just a conclusion based on a very superficial understanding of trade. for all we know such an agreement could accelerate the decarbonisation of our economies
i'm definitely not doing any big brain analysis here, but i think the general principle of "moving more mass around the globe causes more emissions" probably holds up, just on the laws of thermodynamics. we should make more efforts to shorten and localize supply chains, from an ecological standpoint as well as an economic one. 
>also, when  you are saying you do not want to increase dependency on asia, the only partner we could turn to (and remain logical with rest of your comment) is the us. should we only trade with the us?
the opposite of free trade isn't no trade. we can still trade with other countries, while imposing tariffs that compensate for our higher labour and environmental standards. i don't know if you've met any import/export business owners, but their business is to trade with other countries and they're not struggling.
i believe the relationship is that a part of wage stagnation is the cheap labour being used in other countries. 
a minimum wage and the standards for jobs that pay it anchor other wages.
there are quite a few ways to look at issues facing the middle class, but it's also helpful to think that the term is almost meaningless at this point as there is no clear picture of what it means.
wealth and income inequality is at an all-time high? wages have not kept up with productivity and inflation at all?
[the last graph in this article shows middle class buying power for goods is down 20% since 1970. ](
so while there's a lot going into that number, and the material standard of living may be higher, it's not open and shut that we're better off than we used to be. at least this statistic would show the opposite.
too bad we can't import housing. for the past few years,  housing has also been the biggest inflation driver. coincidence?
you're right, and it's the same reason you'll never see climate targets denominated in any less than an election-timeframe. representative democracy simply is not up to the task of existing in a globalized world, because the lowest common denominator policies never look far enough ahead.
>> i love how we've watched the middle class decimation that's happened in the free trade era for 30 years, and our government response is to put the pedal down and keep going.
>
>there's a lot of begging the question in this comment.
>
>1: that the middle class has been "decimated" since 1990. that doesn't sound reasonable to me at all. (and no, cherry picking certain price indexes doesn't show that).
a lot of the evidence for this is, to be fair, circumstantial. but the circumstances are pretty damning. why is it that the each generation that's entered the workforce since 1990 has a lower net worth than previous generations did at their age? what changed in the late 80's that caused wages to drop off from productivity and never recover? the birth rate is dropping, and people cite finances as the reason they're not having kids. what changed there in the last 30 years? 
in my view, only two fundamental shifts in the economy can explain this pattern: the internet, and free trade. unless there's a compelling case to be made for why the internet is more closely related to people's incomes than free trade, there's only one sea change that's behind this. 
>free trade is one of the easiest and beneficial policies to a prosperous society. there's a reason that you decide to go to the grocery store, and the furniture store instead of doing everything yourself. trade makes both sides better off. 
i'm not saying no trade, i'm saying responsible trade. opening up domestic manufacturers to competition where the cost of living is $3/day helps developing countries, but you have to then accept that it harms us. 
there's a difference between specialization and cheap low-skilled labour. we should absolutely be buying carbon fibre and titanium from taiwan where they have high-quality, high capital cost manufacturing capacity, rather than trying to start competing from scratch. but we have canadian-made clothing that we know we have capacity to produce, and is even higher quality than the sweatshop bangladeshi clothing it will have to compete even harder with as a result of deals like this. 
>a "minimum wage parity" would harm developing countries.
maybe. if they're really that specialized, like my taiwan example, it's worth it. those workers are already getting paid at a canadian standard, because of their skills.  if we're just taking advantage of desperate people with a lower standard of living so we can get cheap goods, i think that's questionable.

[removed]
there appears to be mounting evidence, that while the vaccines do significantly reduce illness and death of those who are infected, they aren't as good as expected for preventing actual transmission.  
i feel that the case for mandating vaccines, can only hold, so long as it is a sufficiently means of preventing danger to others. preventing transmission was what we were told to expect as a result of vaccination, and that would prevent harm to others. since the virus never agreed to that promise, and is now making it hollow, at what point do we say that bodily autonomy trumps public health, as the vaccine isn't doing enough to meet the public health standard?
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
removed for rule 3.
[removed]
>at what point do we say that bodily autonomy trumps public health, as the vaccine isn't doing enough to meet the public health standard?
preventing transmission is not the only way that vaccination protects public health. reducing the severity of cases also reduces drain on our shared health-care resources. if all the icu beds are taken up by people waiting for their hermancainaward, it's not as if people are going to stop having the heart attacks and other serious health issues that they would have without the pandemic.
isn't that even more of a reason for people to get vaccinated since the likelihood of a vaccinated person transmitting the disease is going up over time, thus making it riskier over time to be unvaccinated?
likely never.
believe it or not, the group does have some binding claims on the individual. not a popular viewpoint these days, but such claims are valid and really do exist.
the la times article you linked there started off a bit wishy washy for me, but finished better with these paragraphs:
> in addition, herd-immunity calculations presume that when people gain immunity, they remain immune for a known period of time. but it’s become clear that neither vaccination nor natural infection confers lasting protection. booster shots or a “breakthrough” case might, but for how long is still unknown.
> that’s just the way science works, said raj bhopal, a retired public health professor at the university of edinburgh who has written about the maddening complexity of herd immunity.
> for any agency engaged in public messaging, “it’s very hard to convey uncertainty and remain authoritative,” bhopal said. **“it’s a pity we can’t take the public along with us on that road of uncertainty.”**
the emphasized (by me) sentence is interesting;  presumably there are some citizens who are trying to travel the 'road of uncertainty', and another group who ultimately would be willing to travel the road.  but there is also a group that seems to have no interest in even entertaining the idea of travel on the road.
if those people had gotten vaccinated, they wouldn't be as ill and we wouldnt be delaying potentially life altering procedures for people who did get vaccinated. at what point do we prioritize public health over bodily autonomy when the selfishness of antivaxxers is causing measurable harm to innocent citizens?
[removed]
[removed]
removed for rule 3.
[removed]
[removed]
removed; rule 3
[removed]

>before being appointed to the post, todd was tour director for the ontario pc party's 2018 election campaign and did not have experience in international trade.
you must know you're corrupt when you make an appointment like this, right? like how does ford's personal narrative work where he does this and somehow convinces himself that he's a good guy?



imagine someone saying we need to spend billions of dollars on "continental defense" as though china is preparing a d-day landing in tofino, and then saying that they should not only be taken seriously, but that nobody but them can be taken seriously. 
the idea that the only path to international credibility lies through military power is such a tired and laughable trope. china's foreign relations are almost exclusively non-military. we're at no risk of being ousted from the g7, we are already punching well above our weight in terms of being taken seriously internationally. 
also, you know what would help canada be taken more seriously? if we didn't let countries that cut up journalists buy weapons from us. if we stopped crying wolf and backing flaccid oas coup attempts in every latin american country where we have resource interests. if we met literally any of our climate targets just once. any of those would instantly give us more credibility in the international community than a billion dollar submarine.
canadians, especially those on the left, simply don't understand how seriously americans take security and defense. they also completely fail to comprehend how their disrespect for a country that doesn't leaks into every aspect of their relationship. even trump respected australia, as does biden, but neither has any respect for canada, and sees no reason to accommodate us on trade or other issues.
you find it improbable someone would disrespect us just for repeatedly making promises and then completely failing to follow through, or even making the slightest attempt to follow through on those promises?
>you find it improbable someone would disrespect us just for repeatedly making promises and then completely failing to follow through, or even making the slightest attempt to follow through on those promises?
you're going to have to be more specific. do you mean our promises to lower emissions, which we've blasted through every time we've made them? or our promises to uphold global democracy, except when the results of that democracy in bolivia, nicaragua, and venezuela go against the interests of our oil and mining companies? 
i assume what you actually mean is either: 
• our promise re: an arms deal with a murderous anti-human-rights monarchy creating a manmade famine, which we should never have made. anyone who is offended we would reneg on such a promise probably shouldn't have our weapons either. 
- or -
• our promise re: spending a vast amount of money and national productivity on a dormant military, a promise we are only forced to make because of the total capture of us (and therefore nato) policy by the military-industrial complex. none of the other nato countries hit their targets either, nor should they.

well there’s some garbage reporting. yet again, we get journalism that doesn’t even try to fact check. they’re taking a lot of tweets at face value and are just wrong about other details. 
no court has confirmed title to these lands. the closest they got was in the delgamuukw case where the scc overturned a trial decision on title and set out the principles by which title could be proven. they ordered a new trial, but the wet’suwet’en didn’t go back to court so, as of today, they haven’t proven title over there lands.
i agree on the quality of the reporting, but to be honest it doesn't bother me much because this isn't "news" from an actual news site, or even pretending it is. it's a glorified blog post directly on an activist organization's website about a situation they're apparently getting involved in; they have no reason to be impartial, nor would i expect them to be. anyone who gets their news from pbi canada's updates section should (hopefully) be aware it's pushing an agenda. 
what i do think, then, is someone using it as a source for a headline is dishonest.
our media is in shambles.  just look at "conservative media" (blacklocks) going after sophie trudeau's remembrance day tribute to her great uncle
i have been in these threads watching this situation develop, and it is so goddam nice to see another person who actually understands delgamuukw. 
i've seen so many bad legal takes on what that decision met (usually from one particularly misinformed user), and so many people just assuming delgamuukw = all unceeded lands belong to aboriginal people.


i understand the frustration however bottled water boosts gdp therefore is good for canada. 
if anything the millenial generation should privatize water supplies/tables - buy them then sell it to the next generation for triple the price. 
i would bet that water will be in demand for the next few years and would make millenials rich.
this, isn't that far fetched. some people on youtube for example are starting to and have made videos about this very subject matter already.   
thing is though... i see that kind of thing as a act of war against humanity itself. the bottle water companies are already bad enough that they spawned post apocalyptical movies about them getting out of control. and that was back in the late 80's or 90's. just imagine what kind of movie might be made today with some of the shenanigans that have passed since then with companies like nestle.   
i would much rather be part of the millenial that helps provide solutions by providing livable examples; than be the millenial that just repeats the same cycle that our fore-bearers have.  
your idea is a repeat of mistakes already capable to be learned from.

i love how after cbs did their own independent review of the policy and they're agreeing the ban should end, people are still arguing in favour of this ban. we have extremely sufficient testing methods, and banning a segment of the population for their sexual orientation is nonsense when its individual behaviour (which is completely independent from orientation) is what matters. if you're skewing the data to try to continue justifying this ban, i'd recommend sitting down and reflecting on why you are so insistent on keeping a group of people who want to donate blood and help from doing so purely because of their sexual orientation.
finally.
the science behind this change has long been established.  the ban was instituted when we didn't understand the spread of hiv, we didn't have treatment, and we didn't have testing.  all of that has dramatically changed.  it is much much safer to screen everyone based on  behaviours.  
glad this is finally being acted on.  should have been changed years ago.
fortunately we have evolved and found new ways of screening that can increase the donated blood supply while keeping canadians safe. 
i don't understand why some people here are so mad about this...
didn’t they already recommend this? i guess this is just confirming their position. i’d hope they’re testing all blood for hiv anyways, so concerns about that shouldn’t play any major role in being against this.
it's pure homophobia, nothing else.
a straight guy can have unprotected sex with a dozen people in the morning and go donate blood in the afternoon, no problem.
a gay guy in a monogamous relationship? no thanks.
the only possible explanation for this policy is "gays are icky tho"
strange to me how every time this is brought up it brings out a minority of *hardcore* blood ban supporters who turn the thread into a slap fight.  
you read the thread and all the comments vehemently disagreeing with this are from like three people.
so when the new numbers come in and we find a huge % of gay men continue to be excluded, is it an equity issue?  genuine question.  
i've had syphilis so i can never donate blood.  even though i've been cured, the antibodies mess with the screening tests.  more than 90% of syphilis cases in canada occur in gay men. 
you also can't donate and also take antiviral drugs to prevent hiv infection for the same reason.  
we're also going to exclude people with multiple concurrent partners, probably.  about 20 - 30% of gay men are in open relationships. 
bottom line is if you do a study even after this change, you're gonna find a % of gay men, possibly the majority, are ineligible.  it's certainly better.  but that is not an equitable result.   i don't know how you'd get that.  i don't know if it even could be achieved or what that would look like.  that might be why no one likes to talk about this.
i am gay and i’m not sure if the risks warrant fully removing the ban.  
i’m sure this will get downvoted but all you have to do is look at rates of hiv and hep c in the gay community relative to the straight community to see why.  there’s nothing morally wrong with the promiscuity that exists amongst gays, i participate in it myself, but having hundreds, if not thousands, of sexual partners in your lifetime means you have a much higher risk of contracting a blood borne sti than the general population.
just when i think we are living in a progressive society something like this pops up. this seems like a very easy policy to change that most people should be fine with.
the fact that this is still banned in 2021 is absolutely mind-blowing. especially in canada. gay marriage was legalized *years* ago and the science on this has been exposed yet… we’re still turning away a significant number of the population? i don’t get it. 
what’s the difference between a woman having sex with a man and a man having sex with a man (aside from different parts lmao) scientifically speaking in terms of catching hiv? is there/was there ever an actual difference?
well, data shows that people that have had msm(male sex with male) have a significant higher chance of contracting hiv than people that have not had msm. 
but if science is advanced enough to detect hiv in real time, who am i to judge.
straight guy here, end then ban.. what a dumb thing to ban blood donation over… doesn’t effect me now, but if i end up needing blood some day i don’t give a flying fuck what the donor’s sexual preference is.. jesus what fucking year is it? 1981 again?
for some reason i thought this decision was already brought in. have good screening questions, even make them slightly more strict if you want. there are commercials begging for people to donate blood all the time on the radio. fewer and fewer feel connected to their neighbours and are willing to do it. i don't think cbs can be picky anymore
it's incredibly triggering for a gay man to be told that his sexual life is dirty and unwanted. good for canada for wanting to address this, but it should also compensate gay men in safe relationships for psychological and moral damages caused by this highly discriminatory and problematic law.
til that this law still exist. shameful, especially during times of emergency, we reject blood based on life style.
huge win for the conservatives that has a positive impact on all canadians, our rights and our blood supply.  the opposition [has been vocal]( on this [issue]( for years. this was some of the most impassioned parliamentary exchanges i have seen in canada and i could not be more proud that we finally dit it.
>in a heated and emotional exchange during a late-night committee hearing in the house of commons, conservative mp duncan pressed liberal health minister patty hajdu repeatedly, including a direct question on whether she’d accept a blood donation from him. hajdu didn’t directly answer.
the article fails to mention that [roughly half of existing people]( and again approximately half of new infections are men who have sex with men. dismissing concerns about this as "promoting homophobia" is disingenuous.
>"sexual behaviour, not sexual orientation, determines risk of sexual transmission of hiv."
again, this feels like dancing around the issue. how can you separate sexual behaviour from orientation?
[i passed this ad a few months back.]( seems like the people on the ground know which demographics are at risk.
i’m grateful that cbs was able to resist the pressure from trudeau’s politicking and relied on empirical data instead. 
if the data supports that men who perform intimate acts with other men is not a meaningful factor, then that should guide policy.
[deleted]

what does reconciliation look like? 
what are the parameters/indicators of full reconciliation?
if you don't define this, the goal posts can be moved indefinitely.
the cbc story tells me the band is claiming the government didn't consult them because the permit is for land that wasn't their traditional territory back in the 1980s, and the government used old maps.
government won't comment, since there's an ongoing lawsuit.
i'm personally skeptical of the claims, but a bad news story is probably the worst possible thing for government. so, they will act to appease.

help them build a desalination plant.  this will help fix their water problems for a long, long time. it will also give them a new resource to exploit in a few ways.
however, because of how the ocean is having a desalination problem right now due to melting fresh water flowing into it; we would be wise to *maybe* also have them re-salinate the ocean a bit with that excess salt.
i for one have no problem with tax dollars going towards this, because it's a much needed technology for coastal areas with little to no access to proper fresh water. we just need to be careful to not make a potentially good thing into yet another bad thing.
why is it necessary for not-the-govt to ‘wrest money’ from the govt to help canadians? isn’t that the sole point of the govt?

more roads, more demand, more traffic. i say this as someone who likes driving, the time has long since passed where its time to invest in public transit. i live outside of the gta and everytime i pass through i think about how much i would hate living there. there's so much traffic its unbearable. you cannot pave your way out of this problem, the only solution is getting people off the existing roads.

the problem is that an increasing number of conservative party members are rejecting reality. 
i don’t know how else to put it. 
no one doubts that jason kenney is a true blue conservative in thought, word and deed, but he is on the verge of being turfed as leader by the party he created.  why?  not because he didn’t do enough during the pandemic but because he did anything at all. 
these same people are frequently members of the federal conservative party and they don’t seem afraid to tear things apart if they don’t align with their beliefs. 
at some point, i think both the federal conservative party and provincial ucp will end up splitting into two parties like they were in the past. 
that isn’t exactly a path to power.
i don't even know what the party stands for now. i know it's the anti-trudeau party, but what else? lower taxes? "family values"? fossil fuels? civil liberties? i don't know what to expect from a new cpc government. i remember harper's goals were to cut taxes including the corporate tax rate, get "tough on crime" and end the gun registry.
i just cannot see social conservatives or 'red' tories sticking around for qanon levels of nonsense when it comes to candidates. this is gonna be messy.
yeah that's the thing when you try to sell people on more and more extreme things eventually when you get into power and have to actually run things you end up more moderate and then the people that put you in power change their efforts to seeing you removed.
>that isn’t exactly a path to power.
oh, yes it is. it's the authoritarian's path to power. it worked for trump and a hundred despots before him, which is why the far right is leaning into it. they want a canadian trump.
but it only works against a democracy if you get the right combination: a charismatic leader, in a time of labour unrest, worsening inequality, a sense that the best times are behind us, with corporate backing behind the scenes,  and perhaps most importantly, religious leaders openly pushing for the change.
right now we don't have enough ingredients in this deadly cocktail. our social safety net is stronger than the us and religion's influence is weaker.
i dunno, i can see the social conservative certainly align with qnuts while red tories become more moderate or stay moderate (whatever definition the overton window leaves them with).
actually that’s exactly what happened in the us…the q has co-opted social, religious and fiscal conservatives, aka the current republican party…don’t underestimate the attraction of human stupidity
i would take a moderate party over a qnut party.

lol i’ll be excited for all of the expulsion votes.
would be comical if the caucus voted to keep those mps in caucus after a big show is put on lol
> batters launched the petition monday, saying she and other party members have lost faith in o'toole. she argued the party experienced "significant losses" in the fall campaign after o'toole flip-flopped on major issues such as carbon pricing, firearms and conscience rights.
i have concerns about batters ability to correctly suss out cause and effect.
sure, it is possible that if only o'toole had not contradicted well established party policy, the cpc would have earned a minority (or even majority) government.  but it really doesn't seem to me that batters has fully considered some (any?) of the other explanations.
i support this idea that the more mainstream cpc mps would use the reform act to jettison their peers that seem to be causing an outsized commotion.
i really enjoy watching the right eat itself...the tories are a joke and this shit is the punch line.
i see no down side.
this kind of defeats the purpose of the reform act, doesn't it?
the whole point is that the mps should have the power to kick out the leader, not the other way around. 
but if the majority of the caucus just expels anyone who challenges the leader, you effectively have the same old system just with a veneer of backbencher control pasted on top.
all the infighting in the “united” right. you just love to see it.
senator michael macdonald said pretty much the same thing at batters but still is in caucus
makes you go 🧐
right? when are the  appetizers coming out,  i've been pigging out on popcorn for the last few days
i had a lot of optimism after harper left that the party would do some soul searching and find a way to be a national governing party and to make something of their defeat. was i ever wrong.
i don't think we are quite there yet but i keep seeing the meme of emperor palpatine saying goooood over and over in my mind as these things keep developing.
the reform act should be repealed. it's dumb and essentially unenforceable legislation. 
the same can be said of fixed election dates.
[removed]
removed for rule 2. and a ban.

>o’toole’s leadership must be reviewed, because he abandoned conservative principles in the positions he took on the carbon tax, gun control, and conscience rights, batters said in a video posted to membersvote.ca. he then lost the sept. 20 election “by nearly every measure,” she said.
religious extremist goonery, guns, and climate change denial are not exactly winning positions which is why o'toole abandoned them. i don't know how you can control this party when this is half of them demanding to be respected and not treated like a circus side show. as an non-conservative voter i'm just here for the entertainment.
one action that o'toole can do is he could do the same action as trudeau and remove all of the cpc senators from the cpc party and make them all independents.  that might stop some attacks.
batters complaining that "the rift in our party is becoming too wide!" while accusing o'toole of abandoning conservative principles is akin to someone complaining that their lake is becoming too polluted while they actively dump raw sewage into it.
the guy won the popular vote, has served in the caf and seems pretty normal overall, with positions that i would say mimic the sentiments of most canadians. if given a chance to  become better-known i can see him unseating trudeau as pm in two years. 
what is batters trying to accomplish?
> i don't know how you can control this party when this is half of them demanding to be respected and not treated like a circus side show
what seems like a large portion of the conservative party seems to have abandoned the idea that they could ever be wrong about anything.  they're literally the principal skinner meme: "am i the one who is out of touch?  no, it is the voters/leader/media who are wrong!"
(in fairness, this is not unique to the cpc among parties)
>conservative principles
and exactly *none* of o'toole's policies were at odds with progressive conservatism, which is the most traditional form of conservatism that currently exists in canada.
as someone looking for an alternative to voting for jt again, this sure isn't helping! send the more extreme folks to the ppc, and bring the cpc back towards the centre a touch to make it palatable for the rest of us. until then..
i think that would make it worse, to be honest. they’d still be party members.
sometimes i'm pretty sure she's just a troll.
> what seems like a large portion of the conservative party seems to have abandoned the idea that they could ever be wrong about anything
you just described life in alberta
that's basically what they mean when they do a postmortem after an election and say "it was a messaging problem" as if canadians didn't quite hear them, and if we just got the message we'd come right around.
"we've tried nothing and we're all out of ideas!"
reminds me of [this interview that david herle did with hamish marshall a few months after the 2019 election.](  instructive.  oh, and long, so get yourself a snack and a beverage.
that is a very interesting interview. thank you for sharing it! :)


i don't want to get dragged into a debate about whether the "land defenders" have the moral high ground or not, nor arguing about whether canadian courts are paramount over aboriginal law. however, reading the article, which i think gives a lot of grace to the wet'suwet'en, you come across this nugget:
> earlier this year, canada adopted the un declaration on the rights of indigenous peoples (undrip) into law, following the province, which legislated the declaration in late 2019. 
this is at best an incorrect assessment of what the law is, and at worst an outright lie. the action referred to was the passing of [bill c-15]( the undrip act, which received royal assent this year. undrip has many impacts, chief of which is it would require the free, prior, and informed consent of indigenous groups for most of the ways in which a government would interact with an indigenous group (developments for example). 
in comparison, the current legal standard in canada is that there is meaningful consultation with indigenous groups, respecting recognized or potential aboriginal rights. this standard get increased depending on the affect on the aboriginal right, and specifically if aboriginal title has been recognized. but, meaningful consultation, and even if accommodation is required, does not grant an indigenous group a veto for anything. under undrip indigenous groups effectively would get a veto if they withhold free, prior, and informed consent.
the incorrect assessment (or lie) is that bill c-15 did not implement undrip into canadian law, which means that it is just another un declaration which has not actual binding power over domestic affairs. if you don't believe me go read the bill, you will find only affirmations of the ideals of undrip and requirements to create an action plan based on those ideals:
> [4] the purposes of this act are to (a) affirm the declaration as a universal international human rights instrument with application in canadian law; and (b) provide a framework for the government of canada’s implementation of the declaration.
> [6](1) the minister must[...]prepare and implement an action plan to achieve the objectives of the declaration.
the article also claims that bc has implemented undrip into the provincial law. i will have to look up whether a province has the ability to recognize international treaties itself (my gut says no), but putting that aside, bc too has not actually implemented undrip into the law. [bill 41]( has the same language which seeks to ensure bc laws are *consistent* with undrip and an action plan to achieve *objectives*.
considering that these issues are easily fact checked, articles from law firms such as [this]( can be found effortlessly, i would not chalk this up as an honest mistake by the author. they are intentionally misinforming the readers on the state of canadian law.
to be clear: around 500 workers are now stranded and relying on supplies available on site, with no way out.
quite likely the workers themselves didn't have the authority to leave; it's not as though they could walk out in those conditions and that distance.
annnd... the band has all but ensured continued intergenerational poverty, by making themselves a pariah to outside investment.
what a shit show, and it was entirely preventable by horgan's ndp; who seem unwilling to do anything meaningful. it'll be worse now that their leader is in cancer treatment.
coming on the heels of cop26's alleged climate deal and undrip, it will be interesting whether the federal and provincial governments will recognize the wet'suwet'en's concerns and territorial claims, or will push this project despite federally vowing to phase ~~out~~ down fossil fuels and coal. personally, these workers should have left when they had the time, and i believe that one concern among these bands are these workers are majority male and have had history of sexually assaulting indigenous women, quite a few remarking it as similar to the residential school system assaults. like it or not, historical trauma and environmental threats make the wet'suwet'en extremely wary on accepting this pipeline in any deal and they, like the poles at warsaw in 1943, the hungarians at 1956 and the aztecs in 1521 are simply attempting to defend their people. i get that it's a very messy situation and starving their opponents is not a good look, but they *did* give an advance warning.
> intentionally misinforming the readers
who? the narwhal? colour me shocked. they do some decent reporting, but their legal / regulatory reporting is biased and frequently misinformed. they’re little better than the national observer in that regard.
i do believe and i can't find the court ruling right now my google fu is failing me but i am sure one of the judges ruling for this or tmx addressed this very thing and said free, prior, and informed consent does not necessarily mean a veto
you can tell that canada has *not* "implemented undrip into canadian law" by the fact that the state of canada has not dissolved and all territory reverted to the control of first nations.
without veto power, what separates “meaningful consultation” from “performative lip service”?
cgl had all the time to remove the workers. they practically threw their own workers under the bus.
do you have a source for your accusation that pipeline workers have a history of  sexually assault on native women ?
> starving their opponents is not a good look, but 
jesus christ wtf.  not a good look??  how is that an acceptable statement?
your logic allows these people cart blanche for anything up to and including starving 500 people.  this is deeply deeply wrong.
> personally, these workers should have left when they had the time
typically, the workers are bussed in with company vehicles, to a site dozens of kilometers from the nearest road, let alone nearest town. and it's winter.
they couldn't just walk out, and couldn't steal the buses. leaving of their own accord likely wasn't an option.
[removed]
if you can find it i would interested in reading such a decision. mostly because i don't know why the judge would consider the implications of free, prior, and informed consent since it is not the required standard now or for tmx.
for real, articles 26, 27, and 28 would basically be the end of british columbia as a province, and parts of alberta and others. anywhere without a treaty in place.
thankfully, bc is working hard on getting treaties in place.
the fact that an indigenous group can petition the courts to intervene alleging that consultation was insufficient. if the courts find that to be the case, they issue an injunction against the offending party (the developer or government) preventing further action until consultation is complete. if consultation is never completed then the project dies or an order can be granted for the offending party to remove infrastructure and remediate impacts to the land entirely at their cost.
they were given 8 hours notice by a group not supported (or denied) by the band authority with agreements with the company, which isn't enough time to determine whether the threat was real, to review the legal obligations the company would have when vacating, then to safely shutdown operations and vacate an entire town's worth of people, supplies, machinery and all that goes with.
because if a fire had started, or gas leaked, or a trespasser injured on the empty site they'd certainly be accountable.
it wasn't a reasonable amount of time. 
and it wasn't a bus. it was the band. the band chose to escalate the risk to the workers when the company failed to satisfy them.
[removed]
removed for rule 2.
yeah not having any luck so maybe i am misremembering it .i did come across a court filing .it does not read like the members of the wet’suwet’en are trying to act in good faith which could make an interesting case as well and would at lest to me run against what udrip means if you won't meet with the company just ingoing it does not mean anything
edit : add link think it is time for bed lol
[

o'toole made a deal with the, proverbial, devil during the last leadership contest when he told social conservative members they could trust him to listen to their concerns.
during the last election, he pivoted to a more progressive conservative position in an effort to win votes in ontario.  the strategy failed and now the people he used to win the leadership feel betrayed.
based on what i am seeing in alberta ucp politics, these people will not be silenced or go away.
in a sense, o'toole made the same mistake kenney made by embracing these people.
i would like a healthy opposition in federal politics. despite me thoroughly enjoying cpc infighting, this isn't good for canada. 
on side note, democrats watching how easily the cpc implode must really wish the republicans would behave the same. but alas, liz cheney is but one person, really. there's kinzinger but he's announced his exit already. boo
i agree with you that we need healthy opposition but there’s nothing healthy about the cpc opposition. they’re contrarian for the sake of being contrarian

[removed]
basically canadians are vastly unprepared for retirement and their only notable financial asset is a house which is incredibly expensive to move (and maintain, and get care in, etc).
good luck if property taxes ever get a big reassement…. but then again who am i kidding if that ever happens councillors would be harassed out of office.
land value tax to smoke out the boomers, and drastically reduce their overpriced homes.
kids need enough space at home. they've had their time in there with their families, time's up.
there's a solution to this: hunger games for old people. 
pick the oldest/poorest seniors from multiple retirement homes, have them fight to the death, winner gets a 1million; sell the rights to netflix for 10millon.
boom, problem solved.
[removed]
removed for rule 3.
[removed]
it's far more inexpensive to stay in your home with help than move out.
which they all need to cash out at the same time.
here's how they will can-kick the crash: reverse mortgages with banks. this avoids the need to sell to extract cash, and keeps homes off the market, keeping prices high.
and going to a care facility, no matter how nice, isn't appealing after covid.
won't matter.  a rising tide floats all boats.  if the average property value doubles, most municipalities will cut the mill rate.
taxpayers in homes would vote out a council that supported doubling taxes so fast they're get windburn.
a lot of cities offer property tax deferments to low-income seniors so they can push off raised property taxes until they either sell or die. sooooo, it really shouldn't be an issue or excuse in that case.
in nova scotia, assessments are capped at inflation, so long as a home doesn't change hands. i wish i were making this up.
so your position is that we should force people from their homes? not all of these people are greedy assholes. some people just bought their homes and have seen the values dramatically increase due to terrible housing policy, record low interest rates and multiple rounds of stimulus. sure, they have benefited from it and have been lucky for it, but it’s not necessarily their fault.
a big part of our housing crisis is not the total # of units, which is often a focus of municipalities (looking at halifax), but of the matching of unit size and household size.     
for example in halifax only 20% of new apartments (the vast majority of new units) have more than 1 bedroom. is that really going to satisfy a healthy couple/family demographic in the future? or is it going to result in multiple bedroom unit prices spiralling skyward as more people (the wealthy childless, and families with children) compete for the low inventory.    
in older parts of halifax, for example, population density is actually lower than it was decades ago.  many detached, expensive family homes are occupied by aging couples or widows/widowers. where they used to have 3-4 kids. even converting the homes to 3 small single bedroom flats results in 5-6 occupants. so even with 3x the total units the house ends up with equal or less occupants than lived there previously in a 5-6 people household.   
a land value tax makes sense to combat this mismatching of dwellings and household size but so does a sort of population density tax that works like the carbon tax.  u/anthony_edmonds brought up to me a few weeks ago the idea of having a tax added to all properties and then distributed to provincial inhabitants based on tax filings. it kind of kills two birds with one stone because outside owners of properties would pay the tax and it would be distributed to tax filers who file as provincial residents. it would also nudge older people out of their vastly mismatched housing situations.
who is going to vote for this?
i got an idea. get off your ass and work for what you have like they did.
squid game!

i don't think we are ready for what climate change has in store for us. we better be getting ready and harden our infrastructure immediately.
vancouver's the busiest port in the country - for example, a lot of agricultural exports go through vancouver.
the rail lines to vancouver are out. a professor quoted in the article thinks it'll take about a week to get service back up and running.
it’s going to be damaging and probably hurt the bc economy, and their supply and demand chain in general and especially for producers and consumers on both end of the bc land wall. i hope that airlifts can get the necessities brought because even a week of blocked railroads can cause significant damage.
in abbotsford the barrowtown pump station is about 7 hrs away from complete failure. for those of you that don't know, that station stops sumas lake from reforming (it was drained in the 1920s). if, or in this case when, it fails, it will be one of the worst disasters bc has seen. the entire area is under a evacuation order, to the point where they are telling farmers to abandon live stock and everything else.
it's truly awful.
stressing the supply chain just before christmas. some gifts might be hard to find in stores. don't panic buy, but maybe do your christmas shopping a little earlier this year.
the federal government should start considering some kind of covid testing waiver for those needing to travel through the usa (< 24 hours) in order to get to vancouver from other parts of canada or british columbia.
do we already prioritize shipping and transport by type of good? if not we should. when lines are stressed we should be prioritizing food and other essentials.
the only other real alternative is bnsf through the us. rail interchange in chicago is a huge bottleneck so any containers going to the gta this way will almost certainly be severely delayed.
i'm sure that given the opportunity prof prentice mentioned that this is another excellent reason why canada needs to invest in airship technology. though cbc seems to have omitted that part.
for those unfamiliar,  he's been a proponent of airships for 40+ years. particularly as a replacement for unreliable ice roads. he likes to work it into conversations when he can.
the transmountain pipeline was also shut down, so vancouver airport could be low on jet fuel.
this is gonna be damaging to at least all 3 of the western provinces economies as vancouver sends a lot of product out to them that they don't have access to otherwise. i have no idea (as not my realm) but i really don't think there is enough large aircraft around to move the amount of freight that bc supplied to the interior and ab.
apparently to late for that and panic buying has already happened for things. gifts were hard to find in store before with the issues, now you might as well go for giftcards. don't really expect much for boxing day sales since right around now is when they are starting to ship out that product.
is prince rupert not an alternative as well in this situation?
not to mention the big headache going that way: customs. the wait at the border and the fees involved would make a lot of what’s being shipped unprofitable.
yvr doesn't only get jet fuel from alberta. most of yvr's jet fuel supply comes from the us.
vancouver is the third largest port in north america, it’s not east moving that volume elsewhere. prince rupert is small fry compared to vancouver
the cargo would be able to move in-bond through the usa so most customs procedures wouldn’t apply and no extra duties would be payable. still a giant headache, plus the us routes over the mountains are also having flooding issues.
[deleted]
of course i'm not assuming that prince rupert is a replacement for vancouver. but it could take some of the shipments in the meanwhile i'm assuming? i definitely think there is an argument to increase the amount of cargo that prince rupert can receive as really canada is pushing it's luck having all western cargo being directed to only 1 port.

filming yourself destroy the bridge and a car with a stolen backhoe is a choice.  makes for good twitter but that's going to be very easy to prosecute. 
looks like we're gearing up for another rail blockade, because the law is on cgl's side here. just like last time.  burning the injunction doesn't make it go away. bc is a little busy with more serious troubles right now, but eventually the police will be up to enforce the injunction and allow cgl back to work.
*three blockades on a forest road have isolated accommodations for 500 workers building the coastal gaslink* 
so they have stuck 500 people in a camp with no easy way out. at some point the government is going to have to shit or get off the pot in this case, and it should really fall on the side of the law. i mean every court case has ruled for tc. so is there rule of law for all in canada or not ?
[removed]
shut it down, and walk away.
there are those natives who support this project, and there are those natives who don't. let them figure it out among themselves and then get back to coastal with an answer.
nobody, absolutely nobody should waste another penny on this project until/unless the natives themselves can reach a consensus on going forward. if they can't? then to hell with it. you cannot do business with people who break the law, ignore injunctions, and fight among themselves while holding a huge project hostage. at some point the natives have to figure that out also, if there is ever to be cooperation and mutual benefits on projects of this sort.
you're fooling yourself if you think anyone's getting charges for what they do at these things
not with natives. the government proved time, and time again they will treat them with kid gloves.
removed for rule 3.

it's pretty incredible how an entire medium of communication has been tainted due to this issue, i wonder how/why it took so long to do something about it
i’ve gotten hammered with these calls the past couple weeks. today i got at least 3 of the “cbsa has seized your package” ones.
spamming and scamming in general has skyrocketed these past few years if my experience has any bearing on reality. 
spam calls trying to steal your money, fake job ads trying to steal your money, fake websites that look real trying to steal your money, fake rental listings trying to steal your money, fake relatives and even lovers trying to steal your money, fake crypto coins trying to steal your money. it’s just insane. 
with the massive rise in the cost of living in many places across canada, it drives me up the wall whenever i encounter someone or something trying to swindle me or my friends out of their hard earned dollars. i’m assuming it drives other people crazy too.
i used to get multiple calls *a day* for like 6 months straight. it was fucking insane. 
after a little haitus and a changed number, now i get texts every other day. i mean it was like 3 days after i got a new number, i didn't even have time to give it out to the lowest bidder yet. wtf?? 
the days of a private cellphone seem like a distant memory now.
because the crtc is garbage. it needs to be torn up and an actually effective agency put in its place.
i got one of those and a ton from "action collections". it might be more effective as a scare tactic if the robotic voice reading the name out to me read my name instead of some rando.
could someone who is knowledgeable about germany tldr what is currently going on with their government situation after the election?
so far they are finishing tailoring coalition agreements between sdp, fdp and green. those communications started on october 21 and will go for another week or so. 
main agreements so far if i am getting everything the right way:
- no tax increases for the rich
- bigger fight against money laundering and tax evasion
- increase minimum wage countrywide to 12€/h (9.35 €/h now)
- restriction on government debt increase
- continues no restriction on autobahns. 
- mandatory installation of the solar panels on  manufacturing buildings. private houses will be "by rule". they will install them unless stated otherwise. plan to use all roofes of new built buildings for panels.
- planned 2% of germany area to be used for the wind energy turbines.
- ideally stop using coal in production of electricity until 2030 (now in plan they have to achieve that until 2038)
- easing acces to receiving pr for people that are "well integrated in germany life" and pay taxes.  (no details so far)
[coalition agreements in german] (
now every party is playing very risky. the 2nd position of power, which is minister of finances is hanging in the air. it will decide how nord stream will be dealt with in the future. how eastern europe will be helped. how much support will ukraine receive and etc.
so far all those agreements are not set in stone and can drastically change. it looks like polarization of the political society grows in germany, and what will come in the end is hard to tell.
olaf scholz is a jean chrétien/bob rae type of left-leaner, i.e a centrist neoliberal, so i think that it will probably be a moderate spd candidate in attempt to appeal between the greens and fdp. but i think all in all the pick will be much more closer to neoliberal politics than protectionism or keynesianism.

it would be monumentally stupid not to cash in on this gold rush.
we can be a banana republic, or we can invent the next generation technologies that might just maybe keep our grandchildren from burning/drowning to death...
i personally believe in the hydrogen market replacing natural gas in electricity plants conversion and diesel in boats, trains and heavy road transport. canada could ~~easily~~ become the biggest hydrogen exporter with all the hydro, wind, solar and tide power it can harness.
we need to change all our coal power plants to ng for now as the retrofits aren’t to expensive, then once hydrogen industry is able to supply the country we roll ng to hydrogen. then mix in nuclear for base load.
biofuels are horrible for the planet. an idea that sounds good but in practice is one of the leading causes of deforestation around the world. hard pass
this is one of the people who massively extended the raw sewage dumping deal. hard to believe he’s the right person to be the minister of natural resources.
people will only buy in if it doesn't mean major life style changes. otherwise you can forget it.
quebec signing a deal for 20 billion dollars of green electricity to new york goes to show that the people who don’t invest into renewables now are gonna be buying from those that did. 
canada has an amazing landscape for renewable energy, we need to invest more into it.
but why would any country import from canada when hydrogen can be produced locally relatively easily?
>canada could easily become the biggest hydrogen exporter
export it where, exactly? transportation is the biggest weakness of hydrogen. we could probably supply parts of the us, but i don't ever see there being any country exporting hydrogen on a global scale. it'll be far more likely to have regional hubs.
personally for transport ships specifically i see small modular reactors being best. the us already has reactors to power most of its aircraft carriers and as a result they never need to dock to refuel.
if we standardize reactor construction, the cost per unit should shoot straight down. hydrogen energy, while awesome, is unfortunately very inefficient as about 70% of the energy put into it is lost. for vehicles as large as cargo ships which can support an entire power generation facility on board i think nuclear fits the bill better.
coal is being phased out in all parts of the country. the problem with nuclear is how long it takes to build.
biofuels don't have to be made from existing landscape though. 
you can grow something in a farm or a warehouse, or giant vats of algae or yeast, or food garbage and human waste.
it's a potential piece of the puzzle. if nothing else, finding useful ways to process waste is always a little bonus.
one of the major drivers for renewables is air travel.
do you want to have cheap, sustainable air travel in the future or do you want it cut back substantially/made a whole lot more expensive because of rising petroleum-based fuel costs? this is very likely to be either/or, without a lot of alternatives, at least for the next decade or two.
i suspect you want to be able to fly south in winter or visit relatives across the country.
if that's true, you really want a renewable fuels business in canada.
people said the same thing about internet and computers when i was a kid. in twenty years we will look back on today and wonder how we lived like this.
the only constant in life is that everything is dynamic and constantly changing. people who dig in their heels and refuse to change with the times find themselves left behind. hope we don't make that mistake.
quebec’s advantage is hydro, which, unlike solar and wind, is consistent and reliable. solar and wind can, for the most part, be generated locally in the us and there’s not much of a commercial case for solar and wind in canada to export to the us - it would generally be cheaper for it to be generated locally in the us.
it requires water and massive amounts of electricity, which not every country has enough to spare.
that being said, if it needs to be transported far, hydrogen becomes less and less attractive. already, it's main advantage is it's specific energy, is overshadowed by cost which only increases with transport.
usable energy transferred into hydrogen is currently around 77% of the energy used to produce it. 
meaning, if you have not a lot of natural resources, can only produce a limited, or mostly have carbon rich electricity or can't get the investment or social stability to install new renewable energy harvesting sources, importing fuel is vital. as production ramps up, so will market competition to bring the cost down. it will eventually be cheaper than oil, thus most developing countries will see it as a clean stepping stone to their own production. 
us is late to the game and does not have as much readily available renewable energy production, even when adding potential offshore windmill and desert solar farms. most states, would probably import hydrogen instead of going through the difficult and lengthy acceptance process of installing high powered energy transmission lines. europe electricity prices are rising so fast, accelerating the acceptance of gigantic multi billion euros nuclear facilities are discussed. africa and south america with their multiple rising nations will need a lot of power to keep their growth at current pace when births starts reducing. japan can't produce its own minimum electricity requirements and are experimenting with deep sea dive to recover hydrogen filled ice. to give a few general examples. 
i believe hydrogen will replace most of the current uses of of gazoline and natural gas within 2 decades. there are a lot of interesting studies, but by just seeing the investment from the big international oil companies, it's clear to me that they see an end to the oil era and will push for the combustibles replacement instead of letting their market disappear.
with the same public management, canada could end up with a similar situation as denmark did with its oil reserves.
you could probably say the same of the oil industry in the 1860.
hydrogen tankers powered by hydrogen will have to be designed and built to ship overseas, but i don't see why it couldn't  happen.
>export it where, exactly?
check my other comment under this thread, i give a few examples.
hydrogen can be transported via existing natural gas pipelines with minor modifications. it can also be liquified using ammonia and shipped via tanker, something the japanese are starting to do

do we really need the endless american style 'the next campaign starts day after the last election' political cycle here? it'll be 2 years at least until another election......can we have a little peace in the mean time?
[removed]
the state of the cpc and its leadership has implications for not just the next election. any instability in the cpc means that it is less able to function as the opposition, and therefore is able to exert less pressure on the lpc (or the pipe dream that the cpc would even exert its leverage and negotiate concessions out of the lpc in legislation).
you should read either shopping for votes by susan delacourt or brand command by alex marland - you’ll quickly realize that we’re at the point (to a lesser extent than the us) where the campaigning never actually completely stops.
an example is the lpc’s ‘days of action’ - which they hold all year round. they send out volunteers and mp’s to either knock on doors or make calls - something that is very much campaign-like.
that’s just one example. harper was big on never-ending campaigning, though.
any time there's a minority government, it's a countdown until the next election.  a minority government can fall at any time, it's just a matter of a confidence motion failing then we're back to the polls. 
the maximum length of time until the next election only happens the day after a majority government is elected.
we’re in a minority government where theoretically an election could happen at any time. and if the cpc is floundering, the liberals can govern almost as if they have a majority. every bad day for o’toole also increases the chances of a leadership race, especially now that a cpc senator publicly sent out a petition to remove o’toole as leader.
this is a comment on the media, but i can't disagree with them talking about what we're all thinking... the cpc can't just let a leader be.
you have to make your own peace my dude. just stop reading this trash. media corporations have no interest in anyone's mental well-being.
this is the end result of fixed election dates.  it's game theory - when the end point of the game is known, cooperation becomes much less likely.  there's always the incentive to cheat - in this case, start campaigning just a little earlier than the opposition.  then, of course, they start earlier and earlier, until the permanent campaign becomes a reality.
it's horse-race politics, or politics-as-sport. we're importing the american formula not because it's good, but because it sells ad-clicks. matt taibbi really nailed it in his last book. the media only cares about issues that can be spun as a conflict between two sides, and then they can sell us all on the drama.
[removed]
removed for rule 3.
yeah if the cpc is in shambles then your position is right
> any instability in the cpc means that it is less able to function as the opposition,
and if they were the only party in opposition, that would be a serious concern. however, the bg and ndp are also forces to be reckoned with, neither of which will just let the lpc walk all over them.
imagine the opposite though, where a party only campaigns within the writ. the mp doesn't go to any local events, the volunteers and local party organization sits on their butt for 2-4yrs. what do people say? you're out of touch, you don't know people here, you only care what i think when you want something from me, etc... 
it is an unambiguously good thing for democracy for parties to be permanently looking for votes. it means the parties are actually fucking listening to us voters. the more they go door to door, the more they're listening.
come election time, that's when parties should switch from talking to everyone and their cousin to talking to people who they have existing relationships with. hey mcnasty1point0, that thing we talked about 6mo ago? somehow we got it in the platform! isn't that dope, we're actually changing things!! 
i think direct voter contact serves as a nice counter balance to an increasingly siloed and disconnected media that is held in private hands. every local paper in the country is owned by a couple institutions, and those have a clear and partisan point of view. the independent national papers are becoming less non-partisan over time. the broadcasters are rightwing, even more right wing, and 'let's try and be balanced and present the right even though we hate it, otherwise they'll call us communists and cut our funding'... why should parties let all of their stories be told be a media ecosystem that has two incentives? 1) interest in stirring controversy  to chase click revenue 2) attacking anyone not lowering tax rates for the billionaire owners.
i know people want to be cynical about everything at all times because that's the culture of the era we live in. but there's lots of good people doing lots of good things and for many people knocking on doors and organizing in the community is one of them.
like most things in modern politics, it's a concept borrowed from the corporate world - "customer success". basically, don't sell the customer a product, leave them alone for four years, and then assume that they'll buy from you again when it's time to refresh. customer loyalty is retained through continuous contact and proactive engagement to ensure they're happy with your product and getting the best out of it - and even if they aren't, you know when it's time for them to buy a new one in four years exactly what it is they're looking for that your last one didn't do for them.
i think there's actually a level at which we can draw a parallel between such activities and simply doing your job as a riding representative, be it federal or provincial - if an mp is engaged with the community, available to their constituents, and willing to be more than just a willingly whipped vote in the house, i'm inclined to think more kindly of them. i'm not at all a conservative voter but i live in a staunchly blue region - i don't have much use for my representative in ottawa who appears to revel in his status as a useful token for the conservatives, but my mpp seems to do a pretty good job for his constituents and that will merit my consideration at the polls next summer.
if they flounder? they have been doing so for 6 years as the opposition. any gains they have made during this time is more of a reflection on the liberals than the conservatives.
exactly. the conservatives are *the official opposition*. how a party acts internally will impact how they could, potentially, govern.
never liked fixed election dates.

more action in general is needed against forced labour, wage slavery, child labour, etc
we need to band together with other countries that meet or exceed some bare minimum of worker's rights, and only trade goods amongst ourselves.
in the short term it would hurt, and it would be expensive, but it's the right thing to do, and in the long run it would be in everyone's best interest.
who am i kidding though? we'll push out some corrupt cock up of a plan, with more holes in it than swiss cheese, and pat ourselves on the backs for helping end child labour and slavery.
i don't mean to whataboutism, and don't at all wish to detract from forced labour of the uyghur people, but the usa is well known to use prison labour for many things.  i would also classify this as forced labour as to many others, but does canada treat products made using forced labour in the usa treated with the same action?
>more than 4,100 companies in the u.s. profit from mass incarceration. many of these are prisons themselves, but some are companies who rely on penal labor to manufacture goods or provide services. around 63,000 prisoners produce goods for external sale.  
>  
>verizon and sprint use inmates to provide telecommunication services.  
>  
>fidelity investments uses some held assets to fund the american legislative exchange council (alec), an organization that promotes inmate work.  
>  
>kmart and jc penney use inmate labor in tennessee to make denim products.  
>  
>walmart uses prison labor to clean barcodes so products can be resold.  
>  
>some cheese and fish from whole foods comes from prison labor.  
>  
>circuit boards from ibm come from texas prisoners.  
>  
>wendy's and mcdonald's use prison labor to process beef for their food products.
for goodness sake some prisoners are not even paid for the labour they are forced to do.    
>an inmate's hourly rate varies by state. for federal prisons, unicor-employed inmates make anywhere from $0.23–$1.15 per hour. many prisoners don't make anything at all.
[source](
so what happens to all the products in xinjiang that *aren't* made using the governments criteria of forced labour? over 85% of all cotton in china is grown in xinjiang, do we just ban imports of any chinese cotton products? how are they meant to prove this negative?
is anyone able to share evidence of forced labour? seriously, all i can find so far is people taking adrien zenz and his less than reliable victims of communism foundation's word for it.
all the govt needs to do is bit by bit make it inconvenient and expensive for suppliers (fast fashion, dollar store, home depot costco etc) to work with china and/ or at least to sell slave made goods. honestly there are different things conflated with the uighur factory issue. even if the uighur issue didn’t have  slave factories involved, it is cultural genocide. even if the cultural genocide was less violent and less pervasive there is also the issue that they are covering it up and trying to defame anyone who speaks about it including bbc. if the enslaved uighurs didn’t have anything to do with factories many other chinese people are suffering in factories plus there are the same factories in vietnam cambodia and bangladesh and some of those may be chinese owned.there is also the issue of china illegally fishing and the fentanyl they make that kills americans and that can come through mexico, so it’s very hard to stop. just for those two unrelated (to factories) issues i feel we should be trying to cut off and strangle china, which means stop pumping money into their factories, even the nice women owned/woman managed chinese  factories such as the one that makes “the always pan”. but it seems like maximum narrative right now is to stop importing goods made with slave labour if the labour is uighur from china. there is no transparency in china so it seems naive to assume those are the only immorally obtained goods coming out of china! but you have to start somewhere. it will not ruin our economy to slowly get out of china. even if things raise in price people will still shop. there are a variety of prices now. if in the future there are not so many $3 -$10 clothes, accessories, and plastic things to buy our tax dollars will be paying for less garbage costs and our roads will have less consumer goods weighing on them. there will be societal benefits to less disposable consumption
it’s a good start. it’s completely insufficient to address the issue, but canadian governments seem to always be dedicated to half measures.
ever wonder why business and political leaders offshored all the union jobs in the late 80s and throughout the 90s to countries with poor labor laws...
but you see, that is something we would have more control over, whereas the situation in china we have virtually no control over and the sources are questionable too.
i don't doubt horrible worker treatment is happening in china, why would anyone, it's happening here too.
canada also uses prison labour, not to mention other horrific treatment of prisoners. 
this article is just to point at someone else to distract from our own addressable problems. 
fyodor dostoevsky wrote that “the degree of civilization in a society can be judged by entering its prisons.” enter america's [or canada's] prisons and it becomes clear that we are nowhere near as just a society as we claim to be.
they say working is "a part of rehabilitation". even if you don't work on an assembly line making products that are sold, you still have a job in prison - everyone does. you work in the cafeteria, you do laundry, work in the library... 
sure, there's a big racial component to the prison system/population in the u.s., but it's not the same as being picked out of your village because of your ethnicity and put into a work/prison camp/concentration camp, and being forced to produce cotton until they just exterminate you.
why not?
other countries supply cotton t-shirts.
i'm content buying from elsewhere.
cease all trade with china until they finish their civil war or allow un investigators in to determine the veracity of these human rights abuse claims.
because we didn't team up with other countries to only trade amongst ourselves. 
if access to north american and european markets means that your country has to haveb reasonable worker protections, then those countries will either improve conditions or the jobs will come back.
we can only do that through an international "union" of countries that agree to minimum standards.
did you miss the part where prisoners are forced to work and, in many cases, they are not even paid?
or maybe from the ground up; maybe the wobblies will see a resurgence.
oh, so you did mean to whataboutism!
i don't think it's whataboutism to point out that our values are being applied very unevenly, and for that to cause suspicion about the true motive behind articles like this to begin with (e.g it's more about realpolitik with out geopolitical rivals than it is about values)
> to point out that our values are being applied very unevenly
thanks for putting this into words.  this is what i meant by my comment, where is this same energy for the usa, the world's largest user of forced labour and the country with more incarcerated people per capita than any other country.

i don’t think it’s going to work because canada doesn’t have leverage and also, biden has nothing to gain from repealing or putting exemptions in his buy america policy.
[removed]
i don’t understand what we have to do with this country anymore. we could stop wasting time and talk with europe and centre-south america instead imho.
rule 2


that anand appears to have done more on this issue in a month than sajjan did in six years is really damning. i always suspected that sajjan was just totally captured by the military establishment and bureaucracy and actively sitting on efforts to change things and it’s increasingly hard to see any other explanation.
>that anand appears to have done more on this issue in a month than sajjan did in six years is really damning.
they're both working for the same boss. if they wanted to do this before the election they could have, but chose to put electoral prospects ahead of those in uniform serving their country.
but doing that in the lead up to the election would have been admitting they screwed up, and that could have hurt them at the polls.
it would have been admitting sajjan ignored misconduct. it would have been admitting trudeau personally gave vance a raise when his alleged misconduct was know. it would have acknowledged that they did nothing with the existing report on misconduct. 
it's was politically better for trudeau to say that he had complete trust in sajjan and ignore the issue.
sajjan is the sacrificial lamb. now that the election is over they can throw him and him alone under the bus and pretend the issue existed only with sajjan. which seems to have worked out okay for them since your comment seems to blame sajjan and congratulate the government.
not that he didn't deserve to be thrown under the bus, because he did. there's more than enough room there for sajjan, his boss, and the military flag officers involved, etc.
anand is basically giving a "thoughts and prayers" to the victims.
actions not words please
i agree - but what does it say that sajjan was never capable of just “thoughts and prayers”?
because it's a meaningless and hollow gesture, and hopefully the victims are getting some kind of closure (or semblance of) through the ongoing class actions.
that being said, as a serving member, there currently is a zero tolerance policy on sexual misconduct or harassment and it's taken extremely seriously. we're given briefings on it multiple times a year, to the dead horse's dismay.
change is occurring and the culture is shifting

>	but the liberal government backed away from that promise to freeze out the f-35 and the aircraft is now seen as a top contender in the competition as it has many supporters in the rcaf. the three aircraft being considered are lockheed martin’s f-35, boeing’s super hornet and saab’s gripen.
we’re going to buy the f-35, and this government is going to kick this can down the road as long as possible to avoid the embarrassment. 
that political commitment to not buy the f-35 was not great long term strategy from the liberals. 
get on with it.
>an announcement on new fighter jets expected this month appears to be in limbo as federal officials maintain that they are continuing to work on the $19-billion program, but will no longer commit to the previously established timetable.
the procurement shitshow must go on.
>the three aerospace firms bidding on the fighter jet program were told in writing by the federal government that a decision would be made this month on a “down select” of companies that would be allowed to advance to the final stage of the competition. that, in turn, would set the stage for the winning bidder to be announced in march/april of 2022.
>april
reminds me of this april fool joke of an article from ctv news:
[canada on track to pick new fighter jet next year despite covid-19]( 
*april 1st, 2021*
i mean c'mon, just a little bit funny?
>the conservative government had selected the f-35 stealth fighter as the air force’s new jet, but backed away from that plan after concerns about the technology and growing costs.
>during the 2015 election campaign, **liberal leader justin trudeau vowed that his government would not purchase the f-35.**
>**but the liberal government backed away from that promise to freeze out the f-35 and the aircraft is now seen as a top contender in the competition** as it has many supporters in the rcaf. the three aircraft being considered are lockheed martin’s f-35, boeing’s super hornet and saab’s gripen.
i don't hide that i'm rooting for the f-35. super hornets would be okay, but i don't think we need to snuggle up close to sweden? buying a cheaper and inferior plane because we want... cheaper meatballs? idgi
>a department of national defence update on the project noted that contracts had already been awarded to build new infrastructure to support the aircraft. **the department expects delivery of the first planes to take place in 2025.**
historical evidence says no.
by building the contract around a fixed number of airframes, the f-35 is the only sensible option. the gripen, for example, would have enabled some interesting new options if the target were a dollar figure, as they would have more airframes to play with: for example, multiple variants including electronic attack aircraft, and a combination of single and double seat aircraft, and just more airframes generally (eg, enough aircraft to support the norad mission, a nato air policing mission *and* a contingency situation elsewhere simultaneously, which we basically can't do right now). it would also have been easier to justify sending them to a low-intensity conflict, say, another afghanistan (god forbid, but it happened). 
but if it's going to be 88 aircraft, there are going to be no special variants, and the f-35 simply has a vast amount more capabilities given that constraint.
not that we're guaranteed a sensible option, all that said.
[removed]
why not just take the gripen? it's a aircraft from and proven in cold climate designed to emphasize maintenance and operation costs, they even keep it updated. it's way more suitable to canada's issues of giving our aircraft long service lives and being stingy with spending or having them ready to cover norad roles.
military technology is changing fast.    we should go for the saab option and use the savings to buy advanced drones for strike and counter insurgency missions.   the australian ats is a perfect example of this.    the savings could also be used to arm fighters with advanced weapons, awacs and potentially p-8 poseidons for maritime survallaince.
> kick this can down the road as long as possible to avoid the embarrassment. 
just rip it off like a band aid. more people cared about election reform than what jet they're only going to see on the news or at an airshow is. 
>that political commitment to not buy the f-35 was not great long term strategy from the liberals.
painted themselves into a corner, just walk through the paint. it's only paint not lava.
seriously, why not browbeat boeing for being twats with regards to the c-series jets and get a good price on super hornets?
the us navy seems to quite like them, and as afaik the only reason they're being discounted is because 'boeing bad".
i have to admit i'm still not comfortable with single engine aircraft when you look at the distances our aircraft have fly to patrol in the far north.
>i don't hide that i'm rooting for the f-35. super hornets would be okay, but i don't think we need to snuggle up close to sweden? buying a cheaper and inferior plane because we want... cheaper meatballs? idgi
i don't think i've ever seen a serious argument (or a non-serious one, come to think of it) that the diplomatic upsides vis a vis sweden have any impact whatsoever on the viability or value the gripen as an option.
but the f-35 has the loyal wingman program, which australia is a part of? like, the f-35 has advanced sensors and computers, so integrating drones into a unit of f-35 makes them more likely to be complimentary than just the gripens. 
also the war on terror is over, while there might be some small bushwars later, the world is gearing up to return to a peer-on-peer conflict. drones can be useful, we can see that in conflicts today, but drones can't win in contested airspace, which means you need regular fighters to establish air dominance. 
i don't think the savings will be put by the government towards more military tech. though i think maritime surveillance is an important mission, as well as awacs, the government of canada isn't going to take any savings from the gripen and push it back into the military.
ed: the aus ats is the loyal wingman, duh. they're developing it for eventually adopting the f-35, so... your idea is to duplicate all the work aus has put into a f-35 partner drone for the gripen? using the savings the government is definitely going to put into the military?
oh, yeah that's a joke, but usually big contracts come with the geopolitical strings attached. the article actually details more of saab's offer, but i don't think we need swedish help with a space radar or cybersecurity, we live next to the usa. well the usa is also the biggest target for cyber attacks, which makes them look incredibly weak in the news, but on the other they're also tapping phones across the world, intercepting cell calls, spying on angela merkel. so the picture i think people get of the usa as constantly failing on the cyberfront is overblown, while their successes are more hush hush. space too, the usa is a world leader. 
saab's offer is nice, but it's not anything we can't get from anywhere else (aside from the planes obviously).
i am making an arguement that gripens are a more affordable option and can compensate for lack of stealth with a robust electronic warfare suit while drones (i use aussie example as others can be used) for strike missions.    the f-35 isn't built for air dominance as far that i can tell and not ideal for northern artic missions.   the gripen and f-18 super hornet armed with bvr's such as meteor or new aim-260 could easily meet air dominance mission for canada until 6th generation fighters become available beyond 2030 imo.  finally, the f-35 would eat up most of our dnd budget with little left over for other procurement include weapons to arm it.

while i advocate for complete zoning reforms, i suspect that such a change will only come from the provincial level.  i don't think the city council will ever consider telling people they can't oppose a new building in their neighborhood.  i'd rather see simple zoning for the city.  exclude dirty industrial sites and large commercial retailers from residential areas, but permit almost any kind of housing to be built in residential zones as well as commercial units under a certain size.  allow mixed use buildings, with commercial on the ground floor and residential above.  if anything the city should set a minimum target for the number of units per lot area and a minimum f.a.r. for units closer to downtown rather than its current methodology of giving every single neighborhood a limit on the type of building that can be built and different minimum setbacks that spread out houses and prevent multi-unit homes from being built.
where i think the city council could loosen the screws without damaging their election chances is by disbanding the nimby committee and let bureaucrats decide whether a planned change is beneficial to the city.  in toronto, minor code variance approvals go through the committee of adjustment, which is a volunteer arbitration board, and i believe this is the committee that gives nimbys too much power.  this committee is made up of volunteers bored enough to weigh in on building code variances a couple of times a month and allows neighbors to complain about why a duplex will destroy the 'character' of a neighborhood.  i'd much rather see bureaucrats making those decisions based on cold calculations.  only deny an application if the nimbys can prove that the applicant lied about a material fact, rather than letting them complain to a panel of volunteer nimbys that building a 2 unit house on a lot will cut down a tree or that there's not enough street parking for 1 more apartment as a way to delay an applicant who then has to produce even more documentation before the next nimby meeting in a month's time.
it's probably politically easier for the province to just be the villain.  no zoning restrictions (other than certain kinds of industrial), and let people live how and where they want, let cities grow organically in the way that makes the most sense for the residents.
building permits that cover the cost of new build city services that go along with anything that increases the number of people, that makes sense.  everything else should get cut.  we're in a crisis of our own making.
>i don't think the city council will ever consider telling people they can't oppose a new building in their neighborhood.
yeah, it's very telling that all over canada, in cities with political leadership from all sorts of ideologies, highly restrictive zoning is the norm. this isn't just a problem of some bad politicians, it's a problem of political economy.   cities are effectively run by the homeowners that live there, and it is currently in their clear interest to say "no" to more housing. that's not going to change until a higher level of government decide to step up.
> permit almost any kind of housing to be built in residential zones as well as commercial units under a certain size.
that will only work, if the power grid, water supply, waste water systems and roads can support the extra people. there are reasons, beyond nimbyism for restrictive zoning.
> let bureaucrats decide whether a planned change is beneficial to the city. 
never going to fly. that's called undemocratic.
none of this adresses the real problems of urban sprawl that is at the root of the problem. the places that need to be densified are not the urban core and streetcar suburbs that developed in the early 1900's. the problem is the single family home, strip malls, and shopping malls that have been built since the 1950's. these need to be densified with narrower streets, more row housing, more attached duplexes and triplexes, fewer yards, and more public transit. nimbyism isn't the problem. the problem is real estate developers that think they can maximize their profit by building high-end single family developments and big box stores atbthe edge of our cities and want to turn vibrant, dense,  inner-city  suburbs into condotowers and parking lots.
i bought a condo and its still expensive as shit. from a $/sqft perspective im paying 1.5 times more compared to my parents townhouse which is in a better location. this is in a area where up zoning is not a problem
sure we get more units but its by no means affordable.
i'm a fan of something like [japanese zoning restrictions]( (though i'd exclude residential category 1, and i'd be careful about quasi-residential since it could be used for stroads).  the zoning restrictions set the maximum intensity of a site, but allows anything below that intensity to be built as long as it fits within a volume defined by the geometry of the road it's on rather than an arbitrary height limit.  want to build a 25m tall multi-family apartment next to a single family home?  as long as the street's wide enough that it fits in the bounding volume, go right ahead!
i think we also need tax reform to really drive home the cost of suburbs as well.  taxes should cover, at the very least, the cost of providing a lot with a road, utilities, and city services.  would we see so many single family suburbs if the tax bills were doubled, or these suburbs were only serviced by gravel roads and septic tanks rather than 10m wide asphalt and sewers?
there must be excess capacity within these systems, or else we'd have to upgrade these systems every time a new subdivision was hooked up to the network.  i don't see the streets leading to ashbridges bay being dug up on a regular basis as more subdivisions are built in markham and richmond hill.  if our infrastructure is so fragile that converting a single unit house into a duplex overtaxes the system and needs to be restricted, then we have a much bigger problem on our hands than housing prices.
how is it more or less democratic to dictate whether somebody else can build on their property?  they own property, they want to build on it, yet it's considered democratic for their neighbors to object to how the finished product may look, or whether it will fit some unquantifiable 'character' of a neighborhood?  democracy means that people have a say in their government, not that they get to dictate how one specific person develops a piece of property that they own.
absolutely, those far out suburbs need to be brought under control, but that falls to the zoning bylaws of other regions which also have specific setbacks, restricted zoning types, and street uses.  areas like that also exist within toronto and need to be infilled though, and converting single unit lots into 2 or 3 unit lots closer to downtown is a good deal for almost everybody, yet developments like the one mentioned in the article (2 houses being converted into 12 units) are still roadblocked because they'll disrupt the 'character' of a neighborhood.  i'd love it if most of toronto looked like the bloor/danforth corridor and its surrounding neighborhoods, but some neighborhoods along the subway and srt lines barely achieve 1/2 to 1/4 of the density of those old city neighborhoods.
the fact that those outer developments are still being built though suggests that the real solution needs to come from the provincial government.  even something like stating that new developments can't be approved until the developer can demonstrate that a development is fiscally sustainable would change development patterns, while broad laws such as outlawing parking minimums and setting minimum population density targets for certain regions would absolutely constrain developers into building denser developments that could actually be supported by its residents.
but developers build where they're allowed to. the current urban landscape is a result of successive choices at the municipal level to contain density to a select few hubs while preserving the santicity of sfh neighborhoods. 
trees don't vote, which is the main reason why sprawl is still prevalent - not only developers have an easy time at the urban edge, but they can often strike deals with municipalities to defer taxes or get other benefits.
one of the biggest drivers of urban sprawl is nimbys; farmland/forest is the easiest place to build because there are no neighbours to stop you.  developers build high end single family units because they're allowed to, and it's illegal for them to build thee housing that you want them to.  the examples in the article are exactly that; trying to build row houses or the like and getting blocked by nimbys; if you were trying to run a business and kept sinking money for lawyers, planners, etc. for projects that got blocked by nimbys, you'd go out of business pretty quickly.
> these need to be densified with narrower streets
um, have you seen how narrow those streets can be? park a car on either side, and they become one way.
that's a separate rant, but to make a long story short, suburbs are undervalued for the costs they impart on a city.  i'd also like to see tax reform such that lots are taxed based on the cost to provide services and utilities and the maintenance of those utilities rather than the current methodology of assessing a value to a property and charging a percentage of that value.  with such a change, building tighter would reduce a property's tax while building on spacious lots would increase the taxes charged, rather than the current methodology which overcharges units that are cheap to serve and undercharges the units where it's difficult to provide service.  a study of halifax found that [suburban households cost nearly $2k more per year to serve than urban households]( but under our current tax strategy those suburban houses are likely valued lower and pay less taxes.
on a similar note, i'd love to see cities require economic feasibility studies for new suburban developments.  most of those excess suburban costs come from the vast distances between lots and the overbuilt infrastructure that the developer so graciously hands over to the city to maintain.  if a developer has to justify that a new subdivision will actually be able to sustain itself through taxes rather than being a white elephant that's going to cost the city more to maintain then they'll ever recoup in taxes, then we'd likely see fewer subdivisions with 50' lots on 9m asphalt roads, and those that were built would probably need a surcharge to even break even on maintenance costs.
but this is all just screaming into the void.  i can't find any advocacy groups with similar goals and i have no idea how to even catch the ear of a politician at any level, so all i have are these grand ideas that i rant about on the internet.
oh, well i may be taking a slighty strong position because we're in a crisis and not doing anything about it.
but i'm fine with that.
really, if there's a demand for it, it probably makes sense to build it.  and if there isn't, i don't think you have to restrict it.  as long as you get the costs of new service stuff covered (and the tax rate covers ongoing costs), then we should be meeting the demand.  unmet demand and the roadblocks to that demand are what's screwing us.
> there must be excess capacity within these systems, 
sure, but not enough to go from 20 single family dwellings on a block to two 20 story apartment buildings.
and these systems do get upgraded constantly, it's just over long time frames, as cities plan out future zoning over the next 10-20 years.
> how is it more or less democratic to dictate whether somebody else can build on their property?
you really don't get the difference between an elected body imposing on citizens, vs unelected civil servants?
i don't oppose building housing in vacant land next to suburban subdivisions that's been owned by real estate speculators for decades. the reason this gets built into car-dependent sprawl is not nimbyism (there's no one living there), but because of the corrupt relationship between real estate developers, town planners, and municipal politicians. it's the developers that fix it for high end single family homes by paying off municipal em\[ployees and politicians. 
i grew up in laval, a giant, sprawling, ugly, corrupt suburb north of montreal where the mayor of 25 years is in jail because of his relationship with the mafiosos who control the real estate and construction industry around montreal. isolated subdivisdions of single family homes went up in some areas, and isolated appartment complexes  with massive parking lots in others with absolutely no consideration for sidewalks, pedestiran access to public transit, or even parks. nothing to do with nimbyism. everything to do with real estate promoters and mayors looking to maximize profit and graft.
exactly! more room for houses and residences. that's the way to solve the housing shortage. more room for housing, less for cars. it's one of the reasons neighbourhoods like the plateau and ndg are so in demand. edit: t[his video describes why rodedale in toronto is so popular](
i don't disagree especially with the undervalued comment. if we are talking about the cost to service them from a municipal perspective they are the death of cities. 
i just don't buy the affordability argument in the gta at least condos remain very expensive and will continue to be so. maybe the taxes relating to the condos themselves will be less but the cost to buy will still be very high.
utilities only have a limited lifetime (~30 years for roads, pipes, and sewers i believe).  if the maximum zoning for a region is known, it can be built to withstand its expected use whenever it's refreshed.
i still don't know what 'democracy' has to do with dictating what somebody else can build on their lot.  what's democratic about neighbors dictating what's built on somebody else's lot?  the owner of that lot bought it, they weren't elected to govern it.
in another thread, you talk about developers ruining the character of a neighborhood.  do you think a neighborhood's character comes from its architecture, or from the actions, behaviours, and cultures of the people that live in that neighborhood?  i'd say it's actions rather than architecture.  detroit has similar architecture to most pre-automobile neighborhoods in canadian cities, yet i doubt you'd find anybody claiming that the character of those detroit neighborhoods is anything like what you'd find in toronto or montreal.  if preserving the character of a neighborhood is a democratic decision, as you say, then wouldn't it be more democratic to vet any potential buyers to ensure they fit in with the neighborhood?  would you say that restricting the sale of your neighbor's house to an 'undesirable' buyer, or them denying the sale of your house to the highest bidder, should be a democratic decision?

the press conference was funny.  you could tell kenney did not want to be there, his terse thank you's to the liberals in the room were perfunctory at best.  
this deal mirrors what the other provinces got.  steep reduction in price to 50% by next year, which will significantly change parents pocket books.  not sure why this took so long to work out.  other than just waiting for the election to be over to avoid giving the liberals a win in ab.  
the last holdouts are new brunswick and ontario.  ontario is quibbling over how to count children, and possibly waiting for better timing to align with the ont provincial election.  not sure what nb is waiting for. once they've worked out whatever theyre going to work out, child care in canada will have made amazing progress.  big wins for parents and for trudeau. this is one of those legacy building things he wants to see through.
the cpc does not believe in this method for child care. they believe in tax credits. in a few years trudeau will have set them up for a huge fall if they try to touch it to bring in their own system.
big picture this is a huge win for the liberals and anyone with kids that need child care.
there is no way this would have happened if trudeau hadn't called and won an election and turned o'toole and kenney into lame ducks. canada told trudeau to get back to governing and he is doing just that. let's also give credit to the the ndp and bloc for keeping the pendulum swinging left on this issue. parliament is working as it should.
this is such good news, especially if they can actually get a lot of these childcare spaces put in place.
so many new jobs, and so many parents who can escape the childcare trap and actually afford to start working.
finally, albertans get a fair deal from jason kenney and the weakling ucp who played politics with albertans lives.
ab ndp needs to go further, and run on making childcare free, and fully integrated into the public education system if they win in 2023.
too bad in a way, i was looking forward to even more scorn being tossed at jason for refusing this deal with the feds.
as my golfing buddies say, "even a blind squirrel finds the odd nut."
$10/day daycare is cool and all but why are we subsidizing everyone? wouldn't it make more sense to have a progressive pricing scheme which falls in line with federal income tax brackets?
using 2020 federal tax bracket rates something along these lines:
$10/day - up to $48,535 of taxable income.
$15/day -  between $48,535 and $97,069.
$20/day - between $97,069 and $150,473.
$25/day - between $150,473 and $214,368.
$30/day - taxable income exceeding $214,368.
good luck getting staff to wanna work at those spaces. they make little to nothing for stuff teachers do but not at the same pay
given the other article about the ucp reaching the threshold to trigger a leadership review, i wonder if this was rushed through just so that kenney could trigger a snap election to try and avoid the leadership review. if he wins an election he shows his detractors that he still has the goods, but if he loses he can voluntarily step down to avoid embarrassment and try to snag a leadership position in the future without an albatross around his neck.
similarly, i suspect that ontario will suddenly announce an agreement in april or may, just in time for ford to ride a swell of popularity into a june election.
it must have nearly killed kenney to accept assistance from the liberals.
also heard a quote on the radio with kenney talking where he made sure to thank the government for repaying millions in albertan tax payer dollars back to alberta..
> not sure why this took so long to work out.
given kenney's comments during the press conference, probably a demand for no strings attached money, like what quebec gets. since quebec provides day care that exceeds what the feds insist on, there's no reason to attach strings to the funding they get. alberta (and the other provinces) on the other hand, have to demonstrate that they'll meet the standard.
> . ontario is quibbling over how to count children
huh? i haven't been following the story in ontario, but i don't understand how there could be a dispute over something so basic.
i also wonder what the hold up is in nb, we pay $380 bi-weekly, we get a decent return of that in our taxes which is nice..
new brunswick seems to be holding out over some private business people not wanting to compete with the new non-profit competitors. which basically means they want to siphon more gravy before they will agree to let us have reasonably priced childcare like the rest of the country.
> not sure why this took so long to work out.
because it came from québec. it's not racism, it's québecism.
[removed]
[deleted]
minor correction. it's a win for anyone with kids that uses licensed daycare. not childcare as whole.

please send an ark we’re drowning. 
this is the rainiest fall ever basically. which in vancouver is *really* saying something.
the fires this summer and flash floods this fall are just the beginning of the climate crisis. we have a lot of work to do to:  
a) prepare and harden for future events, and   
b) change our habits to mitigate climate change and get back down toe 1.5 deg c warming or less.   
now is the time to invest in a new path.   
they say if we do not change our direction we are likely to end up where we are headed.
looking at photos from across the province it's been a crazy day. the [photos posted from merritt bc]( are particularly eye-opening for me as i've some relatives in that town and have driven through or made rest stops there on numerous occasions. it's so unlike how i picture that town.
so this also means the rest of canada is cut off from the port of vancouver.  so those supply chain issues bout to be really felt across the whole country.
it’s been a roller coaster watching all the news articles/video and pics coming out of bc, some really wild and scary stuff, stay safe everyone.
good news is that the rail lines are also affected, and that will mean they get fixed, because the railroads have power in this country, still.
on the good news front the water reservoir is topped up pretty good!
the kootenay alpine is already getting deep.  it's going to be a good ski season.  if anyone can get out here.
isn't there a barge beached near downtown vancouver that y'all could use?
limit to 1.5 degrees?  no, buying tesla’s and solar panels won’t stop it. not gonna happen unless everything the modern world runs on stops now.
which obviously won’t happen. 
we are so screwed lol
[rail lines have been affected as well.](
not really. the true reservoir for the gvrd, are the snow caps. the man made reservoirs, don't have the capacity to supply the gvrd for a year, without getting snow melt through the summer to keep them topped up.
solar panels will stop it from getting worse, though. but this is the new normal. so we'll have to spend a fortune building infrastructure to withstand these kinds of weather event. burning fossil fuels is very, very expensive.
revolution? bah, who am i kidding. we’d just be gunned down in the streets.
exactly.  so the already congested port will get worse because they’ll stop being able to unload due to rail stoppage.  goods coming from eastern canada to west coast distribution centres will stop.  i’m not sure people have realized yet how disruptive this will be.
that's right. this all washes into the sea.  global warming  means more precipitation washing into the sea and less into the water table, at least at our latitude. .
solar panels aren't stopping anything.
reducing consumption is going to be the only thing that mitigates this. we cannot tell the people of india and china to just stop using fossil fuels, while we also demand that they manufacture several hundred m\^2 of solar panels for each north american so that we can drive our 4000lb electric pickup trucks a hundred km round trip/day to ensure our kids can have skating lessons in august. 
we're trying to tell billions of people that they shouldn't improve their kid's qualities of life, while also refusing to even minimally reduce ours. it won't work. no-one will willingly starve just to ensure that suzie from brampton can still get fresh strawberries in december.
and since our own ever-increasing consumption of garbage and nonsense is the foundation of the economy that all our politicians worship, we'll all die before any meaningful change happens.
do nprince rupert and seattle have the capacity to handle this? can the rail cars be diverted?
absolutely. reducing consumption is paramount. but if you look at places like germany which is at a higher latitude than canada, they mandate that all new houses must have solar collectors on them and now they generate over 50% of their power from renewables, including 10% from solar. we need to decrease consumption as we shift sources. moving to electic rail from gas trucks and cars, for example.

if the issue is the risk of inflation then surely scotia would be okay with cutting the oil and gas subsidies and using that money for stimulus, right?
if a stimulus was paired with legislation that could fix some of our supply chain issues i wouldn't be worried. i unfortunately don't think our government is competent enough to fix supply chain issues so thats where the problem is
as long as the spending is focused domestically on things that will increase productivity and reduce the cost of doing business, the concerns of the bank of nova scotia are moot if not complete bollocks. the canadian government unlike households, has sovereignty over money and can therefore spend indefinitely in the right areas without causing inflation. the deficit is a myth.
[deleted]
that is…just not true. this idea of free money all the time for everyone on the basis of a folksy understanding of mmt has to stop. we’re in for a world of hurt if inflation keeps climbing. still an open question if it does or whether this is a temporary result of supply issues, but the government most assuredly cannot spend “indefinitely in the right areas without causing inflation.” even mmt acknowledges that you need fluid tax and interest rate policy to keep the reins on inflation.
> has sovereignty over money and can therefore spend indefinitely in the right areas without causing inflation
you cannot be serious. they can't spend indefinitely without inflation that makes no sense.
>the canadian government unlike households, has sovereignty over money and can therefore spend indefinitely in the right areas without causing inflation.
having sovereignty over money doesn't mean you can spend without causing inflation. it means you can't default.
>the deficit is a myth.
it isn't. it severely constrains boc from raising rates. the government has to service the debt. of course as you pointed out they can always print money to service it, but that's how you get an inflationary spiral (or severe austerity) and start losing control.
this idea that you can create something out of nothing is ridiculous. it doesn't work, its mortgaging the future, and really changes incentive structures in society.
a lot of us are under 30-40 years old  so dont remember a time of high inflation and interest rates...we are under the assumption of low interest rates forever.
[removed]
[removed]
how does creating endless moral hazard and removing creative destruction from an economy increase productivity?
it is truly scary how little knowledge about basic economics some voters have... trudeau is not using stimulus money on oil and gas subsidies lol...
you are very misinformed. 
or pick your own source: 
this is almost word form word what conservative democrats and republicans tell biden when he tries to pass his bills even though the inflation is mostly not his fault, it’s ridiculous to claim that something caused by the pandemic as a natural whiplash is because people need well-deserved wages and increases.
>it means you can't default.
that's not necessarily true either. if you start getting printing happy lenders may want debt repaid in foreign currency.
it is not ridiculous because centralized governments set the market price whenever they use their fiat currency in exchange for goods and services either through domestic infrastructure or military spending. governments create something out of nothing all of the time simply by issuing currency in exchange for goods and services. whatever productive activity they end up bolstering, they can later tax the value that is  
created, to recoup the amount spent, while the rest goes toward keeping the  
economy low cost. this taxation is the mechanism for preventing inflation.  
the only reason the boc is constrained from raising rates  
isn't because of government debt, but private debt, specifically the debt taken  
on by the big 5. i am quite confident they are the ones that really run the boc and have convinced politicians in this country that they need to let "experts" control monetary policy and very little to none of their lending contributes to increasing the productivity of our economy, or generating additional capital and assets. this is actually historical fact and goes back to when scotiabank lobbyists met with trudeau senior's government in the late 1970's, and used a jesuit priest to convince them that it was wrong to let politicians control monetary policy because they are inherently corrupt and it is the road to fascism. yet its the banks that simply inflate the value of existing capital and assets and make life more expensive for everyone.  
so if the rates go up and everyone they've lent money to does not have the  
means to pay back the loans given because the loans were used to inflate the cost  
of real estate and did not generate any new value, who goes under? the banks.  
you're right that government spending can cause inflation,  
but not if it is restricted to domestic productive spending, or spending that  
lowers the cost of doing business.
i was a kid through the 70s and 80s - the interest rates were killer and caused a lot of stress for families and businesses. add world events (war and famine were the du jour) and there were lots of spikes and shocks. despite this it still felt like the world could come together to tackle issues - mass aid for famine stricken regions, the cold war ending, governments around the world recognizing cfcs were punching holes in the ozone and legislating them out of existence.
but as you recognize, people have been living in an iso-bubble false reality. the shocks and spikes we're seeing now are nothing to what's coming. having multiple go-forward plans and assuming the worst (on the personal economic front) and voting for pragmatic government (not always sexy or super woke) with plans that articulate an attempt to deal with the problems we all see coming is how we get through the next ten years.
removed for rule 3.
removed for rule 3.

i hope that this deal can be worked out - if affordable childcare were available, that would completely change my outlook on having kids.
i 100% support a daycare deal. scratch that, i 1000% support a daycare deal. 
this is absolutely necessary for parents and the time has come for this idea, imo. $10 dollar a day childcare is common sense and if alberta can do it, ontario can too. let's get on board, ford!
[removed]
i have zero plans for children, never will and still want to see this go through.
[removed]
removed for rule 3.

oh wow, the lpc back up top on the aggregate in vote percentage too. i wonder how a cpc leadership struggle would affect these numbers.
i will never enjoy or get use to seeing the bq have more seats than the ndp despite the ndp having more than double the vote percentage...
yeah léger saw a huge dip for the cpc and apparently abacus is seeing the same thing.
[deleted]
never that far ahead - maybe 1-2 points. now a few polling firms are seeing the cpc dipping into the 20s
>i never even knew they were ahead.
they got the most votes in the last two elections.
...which is most likely because conservative voters are saying they're "undecided or not responding and come the next election they'll return to 31-32.
oh for sure, but the 8 point drop that léger is seeing isn’t typical movement for after an election.
of course, it doesn’t matter right now anyway, but that’s not the normal “undecided” movement. most will more than likely go back to the cpc, but it’s curious movement nonetheless.
yeah true, in 2019 it stayed at a virtual tie up until covid hit, but i don’t think it’s 100% a shift away from conservatives either.

when people say "why does o'toole have to play nice with the social conservative base? why can't he just eject them from the party?" this is why. he managed to trick them to win the leadership and quickly pivoted to try and win the general (an acceptable bargain for the social conservatives). but he failed to win, which makes him break the bargain.
he's got the party nipping at his heels and he's got denise "~~make america great again hat wearer &~~ faith goldy fan" batters trying to run him out. 
if he doesn't keep throwing red meat to the base, he gets kicked out. is it hilarious to watch him be simultaneously a "true blue" who thinks climate change has nothing to do with gas/oil while also trying to be palpable for the general populace who doesn't believe climate change is a hoax and is in fact real? yes of course, who wouldn't be laughing at him trying to walk that tightrope of cognitive dissonance. but that doesn't mean it's good for canadian democracy.
i think he lost because it was successfully hinted at several times that he would uphold all the conservative values and honestly that didn’t sit well with most voters.
i really have trouble seeing this party surviving the trumpist republicanism that elements of the party are importing from the u.s. the party has to either oust them or let itself be taken over by them. it's too virulent a force for any moderate elements of the party top tolerate. 
this is a gift for trudeau as it gives him significant leeway to play hardball on policy and make votes on policy bills matters of confidence. harper minority governments did just that when the liberals were imploding in opposition.
i think the only reason he came as close to winning as he did is because he didn’t hold to the extremist no-compromise fruitbats in the party. if it’d been the same q style idiocy that the right have allowed to take the reins in the states, he would have been as embarrassed as the ppc. thank god we have more than two parties so those fools don’t have the same kind of hold here.
edit: spelling
as much as i just enjoy the erin o'toole's constant drama cycle.  she has a point:  
>erin o’toole lost this election by every measure. our party lost half a million votes, won fewer seats, and received a lower popular vote than in 2019. we lost ethnically diverse mps, female mps, and mps in the gta, alberta, and in vancouver’s suburbs. in the gta alone, o’toole lost 80,000 votes compared to 2019. o’toole’s inability to communicate or connect with female voters created an even wider gender gap.
o'toole's failure was  his half-measure modernization of the party. he modernized the cpc on social and climate issues to an extent, but didn't go far enough while still opting to pander to the reform/paleoconservative wing of the party. that meant that the moderate and swing votes he wanted were either still scared away by the socon elements of the party, or unconvinced he really wanted to modernize the cpc.
basically until a party leader embraces full measure modernization on social/climate issues and abandons socon/paleoconservative talking points, the cpc isn't going to be able to significantly grow its base and threaten the liberal again. if they refuse they'll basically be gifting the liberals a federal hegemony over parliament for the next decade or so.
michelle rempel [is not a fan of publicly criticizing o'toole](
seems like the power struggle is on
will she meet the same fate as the other conservative mp who dared speak their mind and *vote their conscience*?    
or will only bert chen be punished for not supporting o'toole?
there are currently 18 conservative senators. there are 118 conservative mps. 
does anyone know if kicking a conservative senator out of the caucus is a decision of the conservative senators group or the combined senate and house caucus? 
also, will the reform act, which seems to include provisions governing how an mp can be expelled from the party, apply to this situation?
isn’t the senate supposed to be sober second thought / somewhat indépendant from parliament? this is pretty blatant, could she not at least be discreet about it?
"we must, indeed, all hang together or, most assuredly, we shall all hang separately." attributed to ben franklin
i guess pragmatism has no room when reactionary populists control the levers of power in the party.
as a climate voter, i'm hoping that o'toole survives this challenge. while o'toole's climate plan is weaker and more complicated than the current policy, he's accepted carbon pricing, which is a major step towards a political consensus on carbon pricing.
if the revolt succeeds and the conservative party replaces o'toole, it seems likely that the new leader will be more steadfastly opposed to carbon pricing. having been fooled once by o'toole, who promised to scrap the federal carbon tax and then did a u-turn, it's unlikely that the party membership will be fooled again.
then maybe he should and deserves to be kicked out, because talking out of both sides of your mouth is not a viable or sustainable strategy to lead a party let alone ever be viable at being elected pm.  voters are going to see the exact same thing and have no confidence that if he was ever elected he wouldn't just talk out of the other side of his mouth and start implementing social conservative policies.
the bottom line is - if he can't appease the base of the party in a way that doesn't implode the electability of the party, he doesn't have the gravitas or standing to be leader and should gtfo.  let the party elect a social conservative leader and get annihilated next election and then maybe they will get a clue.
you sure you are not confusing senator batters with mp bergen? she was the one with the maga hat photo
the cpc leadership election process makes it nearly impossible for a candidate that would be popular among the general electorate to win. 
first, it's not an open primary system like in the us. only people who buy memberships can vote, which means you can't win without convincing a lot of people to part with $15 and join the party. 
second, the winning candidate is chosen by a complex process of preferential balloting and points distributed by electoral district. the winning strategy is to sign up small numbers of new members distributed throughout the country, and try to hit a bare plurality in enough districts to win the points race. a riding with a tiny cpc membership is worth just as much as central calgary.
it's a system that's perfectly designed to give social conservatives an overly large influence on the outcome.
i think the problem is the conservative party has no universal values. the article mentions carbon pricing, firearms, and conscience rights as conservative values.  more guns, avoiding parts of a job you were hired to do, and having no better ideas than carbon pricing and not even that,  those are hardly "values".  nor are they a way to get elected.
canada is more progressive on average than the us, so the critical mass that trumpists seem to have reached in the us isn't as likely here. not impossible, and they can cause a lot of disruption and damage on the way, but less likely. at least one hopes.
but he couldn't finish the job, because he didn't do more than not hold to them. he needed to show he could control them, and he couldn't and still can't.
he had a stretch where he was impressing the media and some voters with some unorthodox policy planks, like making workers co-owners of corporations, densifying cities, and dragging the party kicking and screaming to a pro-life and non-climate change dneialist position. the liberals eventually managed to pin down the party on other poison pill plans like guns, though. the climate change plank was sort of seen as a facade too.

the author of this article says that conservative sources say to expect more opposition to o’toole’s leadership in the coming days and weeks: 
i expect this is the next page in the concluding chapter of erin o’toole’s tenure as leader of the conservative party of canada.
edit: and now, the standard slew of mp’s coming out in support of erin o’toole with the exact same messages at the exact same time lol
whether o’toole is ousted or not, it’s likely the conservatives will be absorbed by internal issues for the next year. if the anti-o’toole faction fail to get enough support for a snap leadership review, they’re just going to get louder and more obnoxious. they’ll undermine their leader at every opportunity.  if they succeed, then the conservatives will be thrust into the civil war that is a leadership contest. given that it’ll likely be a wide open race (there is no obvious replacement), it’ll likely take 6 months at the minimum to execute, during which time the liberals won’t even need the support of the ndp or bloc to avoid an election.
o'toole's failure was his half-measure modernization of the party. he modernized the cpc on social and climate issues to an extent, but didn't go far enough while still opting to pander to the reform/paleoconservative wing of the party. that meant that the moderate and swing votes he wanted were either still scared away by the socon elements of the party, or unconvinced he really wanted to modernize the cpc.
basically until a party leader embraces full measure modernization on social/climate issues and abandons socon/paleoconservative talking points, the cpc isn't going to be able to significantly grow its base and threaten the liberal again. if they refuse they'll basically be gifting the liberals a federal hegemony over parliament for the next decade or so.
the party's shooting themselves in the foot. i don't like the guy, but he's the direction they need to go if they want anything close to a majority again. but that social conservative base.
mr. o’toole was very deceptive with a large portion of the conservative party during his leadership campaign. 
those elements feel betrayed and want him gone.
i can’t quite articulate why, but a senator inserting themselves into house politics really bothers me (i know that it’s technically party politics and not house politics). let the elected cpc mps drive the bus on this, not some tory bagwoman who got a cushy lifetime sinecure. at least they would be forced to justify it to their electorate.
i'm not terribly concerned about what happens to o'toole (though i do like the idea of cynical, fickle politicians getting their comeuppance) but i do like that all the reporting we saw months ago about disharmony in the cpc ended up being borne out. 
i remember more than one thread in here from people saying it was all a conspiracy from the "left wing media". i wonder if they've learned anything here.
this is gold, the chaos that follows will be fun. even if they say in a month ok will have a review and find a new leader, that won't happen until may june at the earliest, summer passes, september comes around and then 6 months later another minority election with nobody knowing who the new leader is. bring it please, i'll enjoy another conservative loss.
[removed]
i'm not a tory but i definitely think they need to kick him out if they want the votes of people like me. if they don't, they can continue to lose and alienate the base of their own party.
i’m genuinely surprised by this, especially given that there isn’t a clear replacement for him. i thought for sure he’d be around for another election. this is probably a really obvious statement but internal issues seem to be the downfall of canadian political parties way more often than strong opposition.
wonder who replaces him. 
mckay isn't a good choice.
>during which time the liberals won’t even need the support of the ndp or bloc to avoid an election.
can you explain more about this?  why wouldn't the liberals need ndp or bloc votes during a leadership race?
* caroline mulroney
* peter mackay
also, i feel like the things erin o'toole said was nice and good.  he was personally supportive of the bill to end conversion therapy, but if you take a look at the rest of the cpc you can clearly see that the cpc does not support the conversion therapy ban.  so voters couldn't trust anything erin says, because he has not controlled his party, and shows no indication that he wishes to.
and how are they going to do that when elements of the party would never allow that to happen? he was moving in the direction they needed to go, but the party doesn't want to go there       
his flip flopping was partially because he needed to say certain things in the leadership race just to have a chance at winning
the problem is that ditching those policies, will lose them a lot of their base, and the only way to regain the support they'll need to contest with the lpc, will be to take support from the lpc. i'm not sure why someone who's supported the lpc for so long, would look at a changing cpc, and trust that they were sincere on climate change, and ditching social conservatism, given cpc history.
a socon leadership could conceivably win the most seats. the liberals imploding would mean more loss of seats for them than the cpcs would lose with a "true blue" platform - their base isn't going anywhere. but then again, the liberals have messed up a fair amount and the needle hasn't moved yet.
sure, but when they get the leader they really want, canadians will refuse to vote for them and they will do worse than o'toole did.

bc has a pharmacare system which is free for disability benefit recipients. so why is madeline not benefiting from it?
> desperate for solutions, she eventually found a **naturopath** who took her seriously, and they found that a **mix of intravenous vitamins** helped her get some of her energy back. the injections give her a couple hours per day when she’s able to be active, what she calls her “energy envelope.”
> but because these are naturopathic treatments, and she’s needed more advanced ones over time, the costs have added up and now work out to **over $100,000 per year**.
i cannot help but think she is being taken advantage of by a pseudo-doctor who is taking all her money and giving her placebo in return. and now the pseudo-doctor has convinced her the best course of action is for her to die when she doesn't have any more money to pay them.
source: 
disability payments in canada are wholly inadequate to live a comfortable life. completely agree that people on disability are stigmatized and living in poverty. however, this article has a number of things off about it. bc's msp has a process for applying to the government to have non-covered treatments paid for. if her treatments aren't covered, they're probably not medically sound. also, i can't imagine anyone being approved for maid where they openly say they don't want to die but can't afford to live.
just what i expected, an emotionally charged anecdote with no details or supporting evidence and a deceptive headline.
maid should be step 11 after the government tries steps 1-10 in order to make disabled folks lives easier. financial support is in the top 3 steps at least.
so long as our governments continue to value wealth and property, over basic human needs and dignity, this will only get worse.
[deleted]
this being said, disability benefits for therapy is  nonexistent. as someone who has yet to have a meaningful reaction to medical therapies, i find it extremely puzzling as to why the government "cannot fund" things like physiotherapy or talk psychotherapy. my medications and hospital fees were easily twice what i pay now for therapy (entirely out of pocket). policy could have covered me, but why pay half price for something that works?
that's where these quacks show up. proven therapies have been pushed to a market where they're competing with charlatans. fund the stuff that works.
iv vitamins make expensive pee. that's about it. she is 100% being scammed. placebo is real though so that's likely the benefit she's seeing.
these are the kinds of situations that needed to be considered when the medically assisted dying bill was passed.
she doesn't mention what her treatments are and why they're not covered; the reason being, she thinks we should be paying for her homeopathic remedies.
i don’t see anything deceptive about the headline. the government is refusing to provide adequate care and services for disabled people which has been a known issue for years. the evidence is already out there just people like yourself want to ignore it.
> medically and scientifically unproven treatments 
prescribed by a naturopath no less, not a medical professional. no public or private insurance anywhere would pay for that.
it is actually not at all clear that the 'placebo effect' as commonly understood actually exists. the idea that fake medicine engages some mind body response that causes actual healing (or even actual 'feeling better') is quite likely just a misreading of the actual statistics. 
unfortunately, the idea 'makes sense' and people seem to like to believe it, even otherwise skeptical researchers can be fooled by this pleasant-sounding fantasy.
woo-merchants seize upon this idea that the mind, being fooled by a placebo, can somehow heal the body without medical intervention in ways that it *would not otherwise have done*. the more sophisticated woo-merchants actually include this line of reasoning in their marketing. "sure, my treatments have proven to be no better than a placebo, but that just means that unlike conventional medicine with all it's scary side-effects, my medicine works solely on the placebo response, which is the body's natural way of healing itself"
mike hall from the merseyside skeptics has done a lot of work on this. [here]( an article that covers it somewhat.
if the supports for people with disabilities were better she probably wouldn't be turning to naturopaths. these people largely thrive on public distrust in a health system that is incredibly expensive and difficult for poor people to access. it's the same deal as vaccine conspiracy nuts in the states (and to a lesser extent, here). they've lived their lives without any positive interactions with conventional medicine and seek out alternatives as a result.
what's deceptive is that her preferred treatments are homeopathic, and so not covered because they're without any reputable evidenciary support.
it's deceptive because it's one person's opinion about their own situation (with no tangible details or facts) but the headline makes it out to be that this is occurring with many people.
[deleted]
most private insurance covers naturopathic medicine. but not my daughters occupational therapist. go figure....
that's very interesting. thank you.

to me it feels very hypocritical for the person leading the merger of progressive conservative and reform parties to dump on (the possibility of) other parties forming a temporary coalition.
the behaviour by o’toole that you criticize is also canadian (westminster, really) democracy at work. as is your article. so yay democracy and fptp.
harper poisoned the word coalition amongst cpc supporters back in 2008.
demonizing our democracy is 'democracy at work'?
harper also floated a cpc-ndp-bloc coalition to bring down the martin liberals' minority. seems like he poisoned the word because his own attempt at one never got off the ground.
the prodpect of a cpc-ndp coalition is a joke, although a bloc-cpc coalition would be very possible given that the bloc was founded by a conservative.
> bloc-cpc coalition would be very possible given that the bloc was founded by a conservative.
the modern conservative party is more to the right than was the pc party. the former reform/alliance wing continues to have an outsized influence on its policy directions, making such an alliance difficult. 
also, while the first leader of the bloc was a pc, the party also had mps and other members joining from the liberals. it was originally dubbed a "rainbow coalition", with 7 mps from the pcs and 2 from the liberals.
the quebec wing of the conservative party = lucien bouchard/francois legault in pro-bsuiness ideology. they basically mostly stand for stripping the federal government of any power in quebec.  the bloc may be slightly to the left of this, but they compete with the conservatives for the same voting bloc.


>but if a canadian goes to a public place while carrying a firearm – if they take their legal rifle anywhere other than hunting or to the shooting range – they are going to be arrested, charged and convicted so fast it will make their head spin. every legal gun owner knows that, and the vast majority have no problem with it. there are strict rules on storing and transporting guns – and a ban on carrying in public, whether openly or concealed.
funny little detail, but as far as the firearms act is concerned, it is legal to carry an unloaded non-restricted firearm strapped over your shoulder onto the ttc like it's a regular tuesday morning. it's other parts of the law that'll getcha swatted, like disturbing the peace, etc. if you attempted to conceal the firearm with a duster coat, then you run into firearms act issues. it's written in such an ambiguous way; you are required to 'conceal' restricted firearms in a plain locked rigid container for transport... but it can't be too good at hiding the contents (like an amazon box or violin case) because then you're 'concealing a firearm'.
edit: there is also nothing limiting the mode of transportation one can take with restricted firearms. so you absolutely could take an unloaded restricted firearm, trigger/cable locked in a locked rigid container, on the ttc so long as it’s the most direct route to your att-stipulated destination available to you. you just need to follow the transportation laws and not conceal it *too well*.
i'm not sure if i agree. dale king was in a situation in hamilton with an illegal firearm and selling drugs, shot a guy and the self defense claim stuck.
in canadian media, our gun laws are only strict and comprehensive when using them to dunk on americans for something.
when its election cycle/slow news day and aimed at canadian readers, it's all about non existent loopholes and pretending we have assault rifles on the streets.
and the irony is that despite the comprehensive and restrictive firearms laws, there still is a healthy amount of violent gun crime that occurs, which the federal government likes to pin on the millions of canadians who have a licence.
i bet that if canada had a 2a, the level of violent crime involving the use of a firearm would be exactly the same.
in a self-defence situation, the legality of the weapon used isn't particularly relevant. it would leave you vulnerable to some weapon charges though. the two things are largely separate.
did the crown's appeal stick? i haven't seen an update in a long time.
disagree. the more guns there are, the more gun related accidents and violence there are. there’s nothing special about canadians that would make us magically more careful with guns than americans except for the stricter gun laws.
edit: and let me add, i’m not against guns at all, i’ve used one for hunting and target practice at the farm. it’s not a big deal… in the country
no, the data is pretty clear: access to firearms doesn't change *how many* murders are committed, but it does significantly change *how* those murders are committed.
more guns means more murders using guns.  less guns means more murders by stabbing, strangulation, etc.
frankly ... makes no difference to me then.  but the rhetorical trick is in substituting "gun murders" for "murders", or "gun violence" for "violence".
agreed, mostly.  
i don’t think gun laws do anything one way or another to non-domestic criminals such as gang violence or mass shootings.  
i do think gun laws impact domestic crime though, and accidental deaths.
probably won't, crown appeals usually don't go that well. same with peter khill.
i am not so sure about some of that when you look at stats especially if you remove the usa and i am not so sure even in the usa saying just the guns are the reason
[
[
and if there is an increase in gun related 'accidents' (fyi, no such thing as a gun accident.) and 'violence', which group do you think will be the source of such an increase?
the group that is already licensed? or the group that isn't licensed and is the current source of nearly all violent gun crimes in canada?
so...guns don't kill people, people kill people....amirite?
just did a dive and looks like the trial for the two paramedics is underway, and still no word on the appeal so i guess it still hasn’t happened.
there are no accidents as defined by the law, that i agree with. the moment a gun is improperly stored, that's a crime. however, as defined by logical process, as in "object used in a way other than it was intended," then i'd say there are lots of gun accidents.
as per your question, what i \*think\* is irrelevant. i'm no expert. the types of weapons and ease of storage you see in each respective country/state is heavily correlative of the level of firearm-related deaths we're able to record data from. in 2018, there were only 249 firearm-related homicides in canada, but i'm having trouble gathering data regarding the suicide or 'criminal negligence involving death' rate.
i do know thanks to the cdc that california has approximately 3000 firearm-related deaths per year, (seems like a little more than 2/3rds was homicide) with 88 guns per 100 people. thanks to statscan, i know that there are approximately 250 gun-related homicides in all of canada, and thanks to a cbc article i know that there are approximately 240 injuries (both fatal and non-fatal) per year. canada has 34 guns per 100 people, most of which are long guns.
as a result of this un-scientific, inexpert comparison that i'm unqualified to deliver, i believe that canada is better off not having its own version of the 2nd amendment. \*you're free to disagree, of course, i'm just presenting the facts and figures that led me to my strong opinion on the matter.\*
[
[
[
[
[
edit: reaffirmed that i'm not an expert.
well, if you decide to kill someone, it turns out if guns are available they're a convenient way.  but if not, there are lots of other convenient ways, too.
but essentially nobody is saying "i wasn't interested in murdering people, but now that i've got this gun i'll give it a try."
i am not advocating that canada have anything like the 2a in the us.
i am just pointing out that (suicides excepted) gun violence in canada is an urban issue centred around specific groups.
the problem is, the government seems to think it's the ones who are actually licensed.
one of the larger issues is that police and statscan do not collect or present more granular data on gun crime - as in, where did the firearm originate from? licensed holder? illegal? etc.   this makes it easier for the lpc to just throw ridiculous bans on various classes of firearms without any statistics to back it up.
guns bad. ban them all.

if the cpc has no path to victory, they should be advocating to eliminate fptp voting and move to a fairer system.
they would have way more power because they could team up with the other minor parties to defeat the government and accomplish *something*, whereas right now it looks like they are content shouting from the sidelines, essentially praying for a majority that will never come.
things the conservatives need to learn from the last two elections
1. running on stephen harpers version of canadian conservatism won't work, he introduced that stupid barbaric practices hotline to try and create a wedge issue and it's cost them immigrant canadian votes
2. trying to be blue liberal won't work, especially when your leader wins as a "true blue conservative"
3. stop picking the least objectionable leader. scheer was a watered down harper and o'toole is a chameleon; changing colors to try and win.
i really don't see the conservative party winning a minority or even a majority any time soon and here's why.
1) there party has a tectonic split between the "progressive conservative  / red tory" side and "reform / social conservative" side.  this goes back to mulrouney and the split there and even though they have merged back the split is still there.
2) this split severely cuts into there ability to win new votes.  they need to keep there rural and western base of mostly social conservatives but in order to do so they have to run on positions that alienate red tories and potential new voters.  see o'toole flip flopping on abortion, private healthcare, lgbt, climate change.  meanwhile if the party actually moved its self to where canadians are on those issues they would risk there base either not turning up or going to a further right alternative.  it would take a few cycles to start losing there western seats but we already have seen the cracks form in edmonton.
3) harper isn't the leader anymore.  harper brought the parties together and did a decent job balancing both sides.  but with harper gone each side is going to want to make sure the next leader is there guy/gal and as we saw with o'toole just trying to get elected as leader gives the other parties a metric fuck ton of ammo on your for the stances you have to take and either hold or flip flop on.  so without that unifying force and spirit the party had they are going to be consistently pulling the party apart at the seems
4) there campaign infrastructure is lagging behind.  as a new democrat i feel qualified to speak on bad party infrastructure and having spoken with conservative volunteers the parties campaigns are run in more old-school ways that don't help, reliance on paper for example.
5) the party is just getting older, they pull in less young people then the liberals or ndp, they don't campaign to young voters so naturally over time there ranks will erode away.
6) the last 6 years of "trudeau bad" and throwing shit at the wall to see what sticks just haven't worked.  add on there confused campaigning and people will keep opting for the liberals because no alternative is offered.  just trudeau bad.
7) i feel that the western / rural base is actually extremely vulnerable.  when was the last time the tories had serious, meaningful and helpful plans for rural canada.  the biggest challenges being large predatory argo companies, climate change, healthcare and poverty all are issues the tories don't give a shit about.  i honestly think they can lose there base if they don't offer them something past there culture war crap.
to summarize the conservative parties two main factions are in a tug of war which is tearing the party apart at its seams.  this means whichever faction wins they basically end up alienating there base or the new voters they need to win.  they don't campaign nearly as effectively as the liberals and they lack a future by not attracting young people. they are very shitty as an opposition party and overall have confused messaging and i feel they take there base for granted.
o'toole's failure was  his half-measure modernization of the party. he modernized the cpc on social and climate issues to an extent, but didn't go far enough while still opting to pander to the reform/paleoconservative wing of the party. that meant that the moderate and swing votes he wanted were either still scared away by the socon elements of the party, or unconvinced he really wanted to modernize the cpc.
basically until a party leader embraces full measure modernization on social/climate issues and abandons socon/paleoconservative talking points, the cpc isn't going to be able to significantly grow its base and threaten the liberal again. if they refuse they'll basically be gifting the liberals a federal hegemony over parliament for the next decade or so.
they looked like they had a shot at winning, then the crazies came out and people realized 'uh no, i'm not going to vote for these guys', their base imported rabid american anger politics but we don't have the market for here like they do in the us, they reallllllly need to silence/kick out the crazies otherwise if they couldn't beat justin trudeau in an election he called early in the middle of a pandemic what hope do they have going forward? it's going to take a lot of liberal corruption to make people think they're going to side with whackjobs
i find articles like this baffling.  o'toole has an absolute path to victory.  so did scheer before him.
the problem is that this relies on something largely out of their control: support for trudeau and the liberals cratering enough that those lost votes will get split to the cpc and ndp (and others), leaving the cpc a clear path to victory.
so if you want to say that o'toole needs to rely on a bit of luck to win, then yeah, that's true.  but if you're trying to argue that there is no path?  that's nonsense.  trudeau sticking his foot in his mouth a couple of more times in the campaign could have led to a cpc victory.
as long as o'toole can keep the next election mostly as a referendum on the liberals and trudeau, he absolutely can win.  the real question is whether someone else in the cpc ranks would have a better chance.  for that i have no idea.
sadly when gas is over $2 a litre and seniors have trouble paying their heating bills this winter the peter principle will kick in and give mr. o'toole a new lease on his political life.
every time the cpc fails to get their best politicians (ahem michael chong) to run its already an abject failure. they essentially are running with “second best”.
say what you will about trudeau, the liberals failed miserably with dion and ignatieff. they learned their lesson and chose to get their “best” at the top of the ticket.
majority or minority governments, key is they’re still in power. in the drivers seat so to speak with the government agenda’s and policies.
run a blue liberal and give centrists an alternative. it won’t work if the cpc keeps pandering to that rebel media base
in july we were asking when the liberals would call an election and lock up their inevitable majority. in august we were asking if the liberals would be able to get a majority. in september we weren't quite sure if the liberals would win at all. how is that "no path to victory"?
erin o'toole basically forced the liberals to go into a defensive fearmongering campaign. if alberta's covid situation hadn't blown up a few days before the election, he might have won more seats than the liberals. 
> it doesn’t take the heart of a lion to denounce the outrageous treatment chen is getting. no one has the right to demand a councillor’s private communications, simply to conduct a more effective witch-hunt against him. even the police need a warrant to do that. o’toole has always said that he wants a bigger tent for the cpc. throwing a national councillor to the wolves for the high crime of questioning o’toole’s leadership is a poor advertisement for inclusiveness.
no, that is how any political party works. senior members can stab their leader in the back and get away with it. a random 30-something delegate can't.
my criticism of erin o'toole is that he seems a lot more progressive than the party he's leading, and so all of his promises feel extremely empty. when asked about party members having opposing opinions to his own, his answer is, "i'm the leader," and yet that seems like complete bs; it's all over the fucking place (pardon my language).
but giving him the axe would be stupid on so many levels. it's just too convenient to blame every problem on one person and make them the scapegoat, and no one learns.
i'd love to believe that you're all correct and that the cpc is doomed to either lose their base by moving to the centre or lose moderates by moving right, and is effectively condemned to permanent opposition...but you're kidding yourselves, i'm sorry. 
the fact that doug ford won over 40 percent of the vote in ontario is proof that the cpc will win simply whenever people get tired of the liberals. when that time comes voters simply won't care about the next conservative leader's mixed record on women's rights, climate change, austerity or whatever, because the overriding concern will be to send a message to a government that's seen as out of touch. my prediction is that voters in 2024 will punish the party that did nothing about cost of living by electing one that will make the situation even worse. 
i hope i'm wrong, but sadly i think that this is the realistic answer.
i've had a feeling for a while that peter mackay is just biding his time for trudeau's popularity to totally wane, then he'll make a leadership run...
canada continues to be governed by ontario and québec. justin trudeau and the current liberal government have exacerbated that unfortunate reality by making it abudantly clear that they really don't care about anyone outside those two provinces, because they are fully aware that they don't have to. i have been a staunch supporter of a unified canada my entire life, but there comes a point where you have to ask, if the federal government couldn't care less about anything east of thunder bay, then why continue to beat our heads against the same wall? the system is broken, and we cannot continue this way.
honestly otoole or whoever is the cpc has a pretty attainable path to victory...4 more years of liberal government. a lot more can and probably will go wrong during that time: cost of living, unemployment, social programs going bankrupt and more tax increases. not to mention they have yet to touch their housing or childcare promises. the housing could lose them votes either way as there will be losers if he does or doesnt follow through on housing issues. i think the next election there is a clearer path to victory than ever and 10 years of liberal government takes the blame game away from economic or social issues (although they will probably use the pandemic as an excuse next election).
...if the conservatives merged forces with the ndp and bq to pass electoral reform, not only would this be the weirdest timeline, but actually the first time i'd actively support the tories overthrowing a government.
you're wrong, that majority will come. that's the beauty of a two party system and why both the libs and tories have an interest in protecting fptp. they're pretty much guarunteed another government eventually.
if they ditch fptp the current cpc splits into reform and pc again, as there would be no reason to stay merged. this is not a path to victory for the cpc, as a result.
they won't because they know that most of the time they will not get more power but less. they can team up with other small parties but aside from the ppc what other parties would they team up with? on the vast majority of issues they are likely to be blocked into a corner with the ppc
considering they've won the popular vote the last two elections by 200k votes (i.e. the population of regina), the fact that they still support fptp is baffling.

taking a month to resign is another in a list of party leader firsts paul can add to her cv. 
the fight was over once the party started the process to actually kick her out.  party brass got tired of the waiting and the legal battles, finally. if that action hadnt been taken i think she would have drawn it out even longer to get legal costs covered.  
now that chapter is over, the greens need to figure out what the heck they're even doing anymore.  starting with getting a new leader.  i'm not sure if it'll be may, or if someone is waiting in the wings but they need some real leadership.  and a serious overhaul to their rules.
i wouldn't mind meeting one of the people that are still die hard fans of her in person, just to see if they make the same silly arguments in person as on reddit. 
she has been such a disaster for the green's, i don't see where people get the energy to try and argue that she is just a victim of other people's mistakes/some conspiracy to tank their own leader.
[deleted]
[deleted]
the greens actually won a new seat last election despite paul's incompetence. the green's success has been with strong local candidates, and have provincial wings in b.c. and pei that have now had considerable electoral success. perhaps the greens should focus on attracting members from provincial riding associations and municipal politics that have actually run campaigns and staying clear of hot-button issues (like the palestianin/israel conflict) that are intractable. it's pretty clear that paul was in it for the entitlements and not the cause.
> greens need to figure out what the heck they're even doing anymore.
back to elizabeth may
there used to be someone like that around here, but they stopped commenting…probably saw the writing on the wall.
its only going to get harder to find green pty voters after this act of self immolation
there are people who like her? not being sarcastic, genuinely asking.
i’ve yet to see anyone defend her, and *christ* after the election it’s not hard to see why.
paul probably figured out that there was nothing left to loot and pillage so decided to move on.
what little leverage she had is quickly running out. the membership is currently conducting a leadership review by mail. the deadline is november 25. there's a 0% chance she'll win the review, so really all the leverage she had was to drag the process out. she can't legally stay on past a losing leadership review vote.
she floated the idea of resigning _while the election was underway_.
>the greens actually won a new seat last election despite paul's incompetence.
really? a quick search shows that the greens had 3 seats after the 2019 election and they have 2 seats after this election.
leaning into providing local candidates/reps a lot of autonomy would give them a real raison d'être against the other parties, but it's a big part of what caused this problem, so they may be gunshy.
probably got too busy with their newest venture, buying oceanview property in saskatchewan.
naw, there are a lot of younger voters who see them as a viable option but end up voting for ndp/liberals down the wire every election. all the greens need is a galvanizing leader and they'll bounce back to where they fell from. 
even with paul they still won a seat in ontario (not her seat, mind you). if the party and may can figure out how to rally voters behind the next face, they'll have a good comeback. hopefully they haven't scared away donors though.
yup, seen a few commenting in the threads here. it was pretty surprising.
she obviously had enough support to win the leadership, and, well she has definitely lost a lot of support since then, she realistically needed to retain a least some support in order to stay on as leader. not much, but some.
there some people who seem to struggle with the idea of time being linear and therefore think it's all the executive council's fault.

i think the demographic most affected by this are young people who are not likely to vote conservative, if they even vote at all. and he doesn't have much to gain going after that vote.
especially if he starts offering solutions that will actually work like rezoning the suburbs for more density. improving transit access. getting rid of rent control.
too many voters are benefitting from the status quo to care.
i'm a millennial and between my wife and i, i don't know if we'll ever be able to afford a house. a family member's house which in a more sane time would be at best a $400k house, is now worth over a million. it's absurd. i know there's no easy solutions, but i honestly don't see how this can continue.
if the cbc does a vote compass for the ontario election, will they include any questions on housing or affordability this time?
and none of the options on that survey include intensification.  "should we pave over more greenspace with financially unsustainable suburbs, legislate developer profits, tax vacant homes, or restrict foreign buyers?"
at this point, i'm convinced nothing short of a zoning revolution will provide enough property.  do away with detached and semi-detached residential zoning.  let builders build multiple units on a single lot without appeals.  allow mixed commercial/residential buildings in areas zoned strictly residential.  do away with setbacks and parking limitations.  if zoning only allows for the most expensive form of housing to be built and to take up more land than is necessary, then it's no surprise that housing is expensive.
3 1/2 years into their mandate and they are only doing polling now on housing affordability, not a great look. 
and knowing how ford operates he’ll just take the most popular ideas and haphazardly implement them, not knowing if any of them will actually work.
people literally can’t afford housing to live in and this guys comments are about developers’ profit margins, jfc
> ford spoke of "the nightmare stories you hear about building homes that would take four to even up to seven years to build and that's ridiculous. by that time, the cost has gone up, the market's gone up, the materials have gone up, the labour has gone up."
as a millennial and someone with a stake in this issue, it is so frustrating to know that there are easy solutions only to see governments and parties fall far short of even considering implementing them. nowhere on the poll was there any mention of increasing capital gains tax (not that i would expect this from a conservative government), limiting or taxing private banks and real estate involvement in providing mortgages and inflating housing costs (80% of bank loans in this country are for mortgages), or creating public financial institutions that could provide low interest loans and conditional incentives for private developers. i don't believe this is a problem of supply more than it is of inflation due to financialization of housing stock, with peoples shelters being used as casino chips, and a major lack of political will. and its not just the conservatives failing to get to the root cause of the issue. even the ndp does not have a viable solution by saying they want to build 500,000 homes, which would end up being a band-aid over the rampant infection of finance and real-estate. i am more embittered by the day as i watch our politicians give favour to the corrupt banking elite in this country.
[he's going to steamroll his mzos.](
keeping rent increases at some maximum increase when a new tenant moves in rather than increase to whatever you think u can get?
when people blame doug ford for high housing cost, have you look at other provinces?  is it really doug ford’s problem or is it happening across the country and beyond?  
the “system” is designed to put most people in disadvantage to benefit a much smaller population.
the last year of power for most premiers are the worst for all constituents. 
raises or freezes wage, poorly implemented programs, last minute budgeting, and other decisions purely based off of votes - and not what the province needs. 
this shit should be illegal. he surprised me during the pandemic (i voted ndp) but every premier always overcompensates in their last year, and it hurts more of us than it helps.
just curious, why vancouver is the least affordable city in canada, given the fact that ndp is the ruling party in bc?
i'm 31 - am i a young person? i am not a conservative voter but if there was a real push to make some changes here on housing affordability i would certainly take it into consideration when making my vote. childcare. housing. climate change. i don't' care who puts forward the plans as long as they are plans that have viability and will be actioned. conservative, liberal or ndp. i know the likelihood of this plan being put forward by conservatives is slim but if they want to maintain power might be time to consider some action here.
i dunno, it might influence the parents of all of these young people as well; the realization that their kids are screwed despite all their hard work.
> getting rid of rent control.
i think the pcpo and their supporters would be thrilled to eliminate rent control. fortunately, most people recognize that this spectacularly bad idea would be the death knell for even the polite fiction of meaningful housing security for renters.
i am so sorry :( i assume this is gta/gva 
i am forever grateful i got to purchase in ottawa in 2019, compared to todays market we got a steal. crazy.
as a millennial home owner, i don't know what i did right but yours hasn't been my experience at all.  most millennials i know have homes or actively choose not to buy.  [a quick search shows 48% own a home]( 
i know moving isn't an option for everyone, but those prices seem region specific.  without knowing byour personal details i can't say where we differ, but i don't think the situation is so dire on the whole.
i loved the question in the general about housing framed from the "poor owners/developers" perspective, bemoaning how they'll "lose their retirement" if housing prices go down. 
i'm not holding my breath for any substantial conversation about this issue.
considering housing is primarily in the jurisdiction of the provinces, probably.


well he's screwed. does he take the party down with him and call an election or just accept his fate?
rachel notley's strategy of "wait until the conservative grassroots turns on their own premier" is about to deliver her a second majority government. 
i wonder how many times this cycle can repeat before it stops being hilarious.
[removed]
considering the ongoing investigation into illegal actions that got kenny elected to lead the ucp.  
what are the chances that kenny just ignores these associations? what is the fallback for said ucp associations if the ucp leadership just ignores their own bylaws?
i'm not sure yet, but i think he's a 'call an election and let the people decide' kind of player. 
 worst case scenario he loses to the andp and subsequently gets kicked out of the party he created.  best case he wins another government and can fend off challengers by showing he's a winner.
god i hope he calls a snap election. that is all i want for christmas.
i think he is a “burn it to the ground” kind of guy. if they want to challenge him he will call a snap election.
does the lt governor actually have to dissolve the legislature under these circumstances? i would think she could ask to see if anyone else can form a government first.
i think that the only concern right now, is that if the ucp actually dumps kenney. the non conservatives in alberta (andp and the lpc) have benefited enormously from the universal disdain for kenney. dumping him at this point may help the ucp survive. suddenly the andp need to pivot from kenney to someone else with less than two years before the next election.
removed for rule 2.
i read this and was like 'wait, your worst case and best case are backwards.'  then i realized you meant from his perspective!
it will certainly be interesting to see what kenney does when he's backed into a corner.
if he does call an election, he'd definitely be a "burn it to the ground" kind of person... however given his record of going all-in on his own optimism/ideology while discounting facts and reality ("best summer ever"), it wouldn't surprise me if he doesn't do anything and ends up getting summarily kicked to the curb because he'll think he has the leadership review in the bag until the last votes are counted.
with oil prices increasing and some large projects recouping their development costs, leading to higher royalties, alberta's fiscal outlook is better now than it's been in a while. given that, i'd put my money on him calling an election, running on a platform of "good times are just around the corner, this isn't the time to rock the boat" or something to that effect.
[removed]
i think so too. he created this party, why would he so willingly hand over the reins? i think he’ll take the whole thing down with him rather than quietly disappear.
i read he's hanging on to try and make sure it's his faction of then party that continues to lead it.
if the lg refused the request of the premier to dissolve the legislature, when that premier has the confidence of the house, and has had it for several years now, it would be a constitutional crisis. there's no reason for that request to be denied. dissolution requests only get denied when the last election was recent, and there is someone obviously prepared to gain confidence. the 2017 bc election was the best recent example of that.
in theory she doesn't have to listen to the premier, but in practice she absolutely will.
who else could form government? he still leads the party

ya, it's hard to give kick-backs to cronies with healthcare. with construction there's less oversight, so you can give your people expensive busy-work as a bonus. see also trump's all.
see:
as a resident of ontario i dread our next provincial election. literally every choice is dogshit. i mean it felt like my vote was pointless in september but even more so now and kinda for different reasons as well. i mean sure toronto is still gonna decide but even if i knew my vote as an individual would make a difference i’d still feel fucked.
yea, hi, when trying to convince me to hate doug (too late) you should probably stop trying to make it look like any of the other parties are going to do better than his government.
the liberals have been in power since 2015 and not a single worthwhile promise has been kept.
i think we need change as much as the next person, but writing this like the liberals or ndp are going to do anything about this is one of the largest fucking jokes i've god damn well read.
liberals said better healthcare and better housing prices in 2015.
right now we have the largest exodus of medical staff and housing prices have quadrupled or quintupled throughout all of canada. - before covid even hit
[deleted]
the city of toronto proper went largely orange with a couple liberal ridings. suburban toronto and rest of the gta went conservative. so who exactly are you referring to when you say "toronto"?
housing and health care is primarily in the jurisdiction of the provinces, which doug ford/opc has been in charge of since 2018. housing is simply not the federal governments constitutional jurisdiction, nor is health care (though it does provide funding). 
so this is to say, your comment is just deflationary of the party/jurisdiction actually responsible.
btw, the federal liberals were elected in 2015, not 2016.
> housing prices have quadrupled or quintupled throughout all of canada.
factually untrue. house prices are basically stagnant in alberta.
so your defence of the provincial conservatives is to blame one of the other two parties at the federal level?
nunavut too
while provincial governments have a lot of impact on housing markets, there are a ton of levers the federal government controls that influence the housing market. for example:
- monetary policy
- immigration 
- taxation
- banking
and that's without mentioning the cmhc, a federal entity. the first line of their web page says "we are driven by one goal: housing affordability for all.".
edit: hit submit too early

notably, nurses (a female dominated profession) see their pay raises capped ostensibly to ensure the sustainability of our emergency services, while *other* emergency services (police and fire fighters, male dominated professions) go untouched.
look, i understand that an education is expensive but you are still getting a pretty fair deal in canada compared to other locations. there is also the opportunity for summer work to offset the cost and the university will actually pay you to attend in advanced courses. bursaries, grants. starting out with debt isn't any fun but that's the reality. hopefully the course choices you make will be lucrative in the long run.
that one way to look at it. the other is what municipal vs provincial.
either way, tax payers are screwed and the general public is screwed as well.
i see a lot labour unrest and government running crazy deficits. this can’t end well.
yep, this is why caps were also proposed for teachers.
tax the rich. close the loopholes. 
the money is all there. it’s just getting siphoned off by the überwealthy. there wouldn’t *be* deficits if they paid their share.
the spat between public workers and taxpayers is a deliberate distraction to keep us from fighting our common enemy.
you've said a lot without actually saying much. can you elaborate on any of that?
well i think we need to raise taxes, i would disagree that taxing the rich is the solution. it is a start, but i think we as a society should view taxes as our duty to each other. we should have a decent minimum wage, and income support for people at the bottom. however, i think that would require all of us putting our share.
the idea that people get stock options as pay and only capital gains is so wrong. 
we should also tax primary residences, i see a lot people doing house flips. i can only believe that these people are getting primary residence exemption.
the problem is that my generation, the boomers, have passed the debt to future generations. that’s not right
i’m in ems.  ford can’t touch my wages because we negotiate with the municipalities.  he can with nurses.  the paramedics who work for orange have their wages capped with the nurses too.
we are a very interesting time. technology is creating deflation. climate is causing crisis every where from heat waves, to flooding, to forest fires. we had our first pandemic. i believe more will come.
the government response was spending money with no real plan at taxing to balance anything.
the net result is we have inflation, people who are sick of bad jobs. a government whose purpose is to popular. i old enough to see effects of stagflation, this time i fear it is going to worse. things are faster and easier now to move investment. the rich are seeing great gains, all loses are passed to tax payers. so i feel bad for people stuck in this mess. 
as for the nurses, get a better union. the police department have been very effective at getting raises over the years. we i graduated being a police officer was not financially good, now you make 100k.
f**k off with the boomer shit. do you know how many generations have been born since the nineteen fifties.
orange got out of it didn't they? they are able to strike. we the nursies are not....
in ottawa union have a deal if fire fighters get a 5% pay raise so do police etc.
long story short: i am part of a group of nurses that are the only ones in ontario (allegedly) not part of a proper nursing union. over the past few years it basically came out that the committee members forgot they also represented us. we're in a group that includes all the other services and trades in the hospital. we now have our own sub committee to push our interests along. there was also an investigation done into how we can move to another union, but it doesn't seem feasible at this point in time. from my understanding they would have to dissolve the union after a largely unanimous vote among all members of said union, and then they would have to re-sign under a new contract blah blah blah. (if you have any ideas, please forward them along).
the last of the boomers are 1965. 
we had cheap post secondary education as compared today, and we had decent jobs when graduating. 
what i see now are kids with 100k in student debt
no they requested to be exempt but were denied.
a grad degree for a canadian cost on average under 8000 a year.
then add books, and living expenses 
easily double to triple that, for 4 years 
i paid like 1000
an arts/science undergrad at queen's, for example, costs about $7,300 per year in tuition and fees.  but it doesn't include books, housing, or living expenses, all of which will significantly add to the total.  
an engineering degree is $13,000/year.  commerce is $17,000.  tuition deregulation has had significant impacts.

with 10/10 polls reporting [the pcs take it by 167 votes, or 6.8%]( the riding and its predecessors had been liberal since the mid 1980s.
edit, and when the liberals were reduced to one seat in 2000, this was the seat, [then known as north river-rice point](
this was the weakest conservative party riding in 2019, meaning there is a realistic chance the pcs can sweep the entire province if an election were to be held right now. of course, this was a byelection and two years is a long time in politics.
hopefully the liberals can hold onto it. i like 3 viable parties and it would be a huge blow if they lose this one too. the greens picking it up would be nice too. i hope the conservatives don't. keep them to their bare majority.
this sucks. oh well.
uh oh, close between the conservatives and liberals, but the conservatives are ahead and they won the advanced polling. they're going to take it. damn.

[deleted]
yup - they recently had one where the cpc wanted the ethics(?) commissioner to look into trudeau’s mother speaking at an event run by an organization that received money through the pandemic cews program.
i believe the commissioner quickly threw it out - though, i might be thinking of one of the other 100 times this same thing occurred lol
there often has been some degree of wrongdoing found, just nothing that implicates the prime minister.
source for the commissioner "throwing out" the complaint?
they actually wanted her to appear at committee and trudeau prorouged killing a conversion therapy bill that has been needed for years.
[deleted]
you’re thinking of we - the instance i’m referencing is a more recent one that rightfully never went anywhere.
however, trudeau did appear before the committee in regards to we - as did his chief of staff.
there’s absolutely no reason for trudeau’s mother to appear before the committee. her implication was a huge stretch for the cpc. investigate trudeau and morneau all you want, but they took it a step too far with trudeau’s mother.
it was prorogued as revenge for pulling that stunt in regards to his mother
there have been serious ethical breaches found, but not implicating all actors. your summary that all these investigations amount to is “no wrongdoing found” is as much of an exaggeration as the cpc’s complaints are, just in the opposite direction.

it's sort of ridiculous how their solution for making "affordable housing" is to mandate 5-20% of units in select developments to be affordable for someone making $32-$92k.
like, the solution is only 5-20% of housing should be built for the average person in toronto. who are they building the other housing for?
nothing will work as long as we continue to treat housing as an investment. housing as an investment, and housing as affordable, are fundamentally contradictory goals. whether you want a solution based on public housing or a private market with relaxed zoning laws, the solution will demand that as see housing as something other than a way of building wealth.
we need zoning reform. legally mandating zones for single-family detached housing is suppressing housing supply where it is demanded. 
mixed commercial/residential is the way to go for major cities.
the solution is so obvious it’s painful to see. when you artificially restrict supply of a necessary good, prices rise, supply and demand is fundamental economics.
it’s frustrating especially because it’s got nothing to do with personal choice, people in favour of denser housing aren’t coming to turn your single family home into a multiplex, they just want to be allowed to build one on their land.
imagine being so calloused as to refuse to allow other people to do what they want with their own land, especially when there’s a housing crisis and many people struggle to find places to live, just because you’re afraid it might make the neighbourhood look worse.
i find the idea of "affordable housing" kind of funny for this reason, or at least the term. the definitions we use for affordable in the housing market are really literal, they're not like a buzzword that really means housing for near homeless people living on disability or something. and yet we treat it as though that is what it means. shouldn't 100% of housing be affordable? what good is housing people can't afford? funny haha, and funny sad i guess.
people know so little about affordable housing details i wonder if they know what they are voting for. 
you can knock down the oldest building in the neighborhood that rents for $1,500 in a neighborhood where average is $2,200. all using government financing. then you can build a premium building with an average rent of $2,500, and as long as you hand out a paltry sum of units for “below average market” then you are good to go. 
the plans always sound nice but the devil is in the details. shockingly, when you knock down a building filled with affordable units and replace it with a newer more expensive one, the housing crisis didn’t solve itself.
>who are they building the other housing for?
the sarcastic answer i want to give sounds too much like feudalism.
edit: and also might not be entirely sarcastic.
684904068 ontario inc, obviously.
look at london and manhattan. that's where toronto is headed with this strategy. there's lots of housing for people with low and high incomes, but very few homes for people in the middle.
it avoids ghettoization for affordable housing projects. if it was 100% it tends to have high crime rates. also affordable housing pushes does nothing for the over all price as it's gate kept subsidized housing. it creates as much demand as it satisfies and due to nimby efforts it cannot scale up. no one wants it near them.
> who are they building the other housing for?
toronto is a city of haves and have-nots. there's a significant middle to upper class, even though there are still so many living in poverty. the average income is 51k but the median is 37k. a third to half of renters pay more than 30% of pre-tax income on rent.
mandating affordable units is sort of pointless with comprehensive reform to encourage building of affordable units to begin with. that said, even building luxury units is helpful, since new luxury units tend to be purchased and moved into by upper class folks, and former high-end housing loses value and becomes middle class.
you know how much it costs to build a house right? maybe 100+ skilled tradesmen are involved  plus raw material inputs plus the cost of land plus all the costs to develop (bring infrastructure and utilities and roads). i know the skilled tradesmen are not coming fot less. the only real solution is tax payer subsidized "affordable" housing. in other words we pay to give ourselves affordable housing.
what crazy is that investing normally shouldn't hurt others, housing running has hurt people. did tsla running up hurt anyone? aapl? bitcoin? imagine if we let people invest in commodities in a way that ran up their prices, everyone debt leverages into soybeans hording them so that people starve, or we let debt leverage pile into steel or copper so we cant build anything.
>housing as an investment, and housing as affordable, are fundamentally contradictory goals. 
in other places in canada, people also invest in rental properties and housing is relatively affordable.  how do you explain that?
“the solution to walkable and affordable cities is mixed use zoning, or as the rest of the world calls it, “how you build cities””
-paraphrased from the youtube channel notjustbikes
yeah north america is one of the only places where housing and commercial uses are separate and housing stock is restricted. shocker shocker we’re the most unaffordable continent.
i think it's because houses can be a commodity and a luxury item.
since it brings in demand that didn't exists (people who can't afford housing at market prices) it does nothing for over all price issues. because it creates as much demand as it satisfies. by the way it works it will never have any impact on the market price and it doesn't scale up. the more you build for that, the more nimby pushes back and the longer and longer the timelines go.
its just something that sounds nice but does nothing.
canada still has feudalism, and i don't mean the trappings of the monarchy. things like how certain families seem to own entire provincial economies make me think we're not too far off from where we started. patronage-based political backscratching is true in both feudalism and democracy, but especially in deals like this where it feels like it's a sop to the masses that won't weight too heavily on the developers fiefdom. 5-20% in certain developments sounds less like a solution and more like a fig leaf to make it look like something is being done, while protecting the capitalists who put us here in the first place.

it’s dumb that it’s politically toxic to do so, but really mps need bigger budgets for staff.
mp offices typically have 4-5 staff and is basically structured to have two people who handle casework at the constituency office, one who handles administrative work (budgeting, scheduling, scheduling travel) and one who handles parliamentary work in ottawa.
there’s definitely a lot of variation depending on the mps preference, and for larger rural ridings who need multiple offices, but it looks roughly like that. our policy shops that are rather anemic, run by filled with staff who are overworked and often underpaid. to be fair, most are there because they’re fairly passionate about politics and often enjoy the kind of stuff they get to do, but the exhaustion caused by the workload is real and leads to poor decision-making on policy because there simply isn’t time to flesh out the issues in great detail.
meanwhile, issues have only gotten more complex over the years in the age of information and we expect our mps to be experts in every single issue and staff need to help pick up that slack. it also doesn’t help that as public discourse becomes more polarizing you also see and increase of abusive calls and threats that staff end up fielding.
for comparison, us senators can have something like 18 employees with up to 4 more with certain conditions (ex. part time employees can be part of those 4). while i think the us takes it way too far on the other direction, i think increasing the budget to allow offices to double their staff would do wonders to the quality of work that goes on in parliament. no government  would touch that though, because they’ll just get accused of being politicians looking to spend taxpayer money on themselves.

>rob batherson told the hill times on oct. 13 that mr. chen had been suspended for up to 60 days from the party’s national council, after he had started a petition urging the recall of mr. o’toole (durham, ont.) as party leader. last week, mr. batherson said that there’s “no end date” on the ontario councillor’s suspension.
whenever abortion votes come up the cpc's talking point is that they do not whip votes, that they allow members to *vote their conscience*.    
why is it that this *vote your conscience* line is only used when justifying a vote to restrict access to healthcare, and not other matters within the party.  seems the cpc has always had the ability to kick members, and it's telling that *this* is where they choose to use that power.
>on nov. 5, a lawyer for the conservative party sent a letter to mr. chen demanding he submit detailed records of his phone, email or text messages with “any party member, party activist, interest group or interested person regarding the petition you generated following the 2021 general election.”
i'm sorry, what?  this is coming from the party that is worried about government overreach?  how his this allowed?  give us all your phone records/emails since you disagree with our leader.    
this seems heavy handed and way too far.  will the cpc also be looking at removing and punishing all members who even had contact with mr. chen following his petition?
i can't see them possibly getting anything unwillingly from chen if it's on a personal account / device. the fact they even attempted it is, to me, mindboggling. they decried bill c-10, then go on a fishing expedition in someone's personal accounts which they have no right to because he tried to rally support to replace the leader of his political party, which is his right. holy smokes, it's a bit of a gongshow. i think it shows how desperate o'toole and his team are to try to seem strong, since the reform act has neutered him on the caucus end of things.
i’m not sure how you can tie the party’s position on its elected representatives’ ability to freely vote on certain topics in the legislative process (in a manner that is theoretically consistent with the views of their constituents) and the internal dynamics of the party. they’re two very different things and are informed by different considerations. one is the party’s approach to expressions of democratic will, the other is how the party chooses to manage its internal affairs and the rules are necessarily different to maintain a degree of stability.
your comment is a false equivalence that’s intended solely to steer the discussion in an entirely irrelevant direction.
the conservative **party** of canada is a private entity and not a public government body. they can do whatever they want as far internal party governance is concerned.
not really, but if you don't wish to discuss this you are not obligated to respond.  the cpc has, as part of it's fabric, the notion that members are allowed to vote what they want, i would assume this includes discussions and actions surrounding the leader of their party, but then again, this likely has more to do with erin o'toole doing everything in his power to hold onto party leadership following his disappointing election.
a serious item that most people overlook when referencing politics in canada, and why being partisan is so foolhardy in the current scenario.
you can't trust private entity's that have no public oversight. you can barely trust the government bodies that \*have\* public oversight.
all voters should be independent and be voting based on logic, not 'my cute party guy says he works for me'. should have evidence of that, rather than constantly voting in types like ford and trudeau (same person, really) that just say whatever to get their constituents to vote for them, then do literally less than nothing (in dougs case) or actively fight the people (in trudeau's case) to fuck them over for personal profit.
truly an amazing time to be alive.
it’s a false equivalence and has almost nothing to do with the policy of free votes on matters on conscience in the legislature. you’re pushing the conversation in a values-laden and polarizing direction that has almost nothing to do with the issues identified in the article. 
the sole intention of the discussion you’re trying to promote is to turn what is an otherwise relatively mundane internal party dispute that wouldn’t ordinarily garner much traction in this sub into an irrelevant tangent about abortion.
edit: your other comment is much more on point and does invite a good discussion.
again, i disagree, i think this very much is relevant to this issue, and the issue of leadership in the cpc as a whole.


better than kyoto, but it's still too little too late. we're continuing to drag our heels on this and people are going to suffer and die because of it.

ah yes a platform created off the cuff in sept 21', to be discussed over 22', maybe watered down and implemented in 23'. begins to trickle early indicators of impact by 24'.  stoked for the 15% yoy increases until then...
> maybe watered down and implemented in 23'.
nah, in, 2023 we will have an election, it will then be held hostage in that election.

> low interest rates for mortgages and a shortage of properties for sale continue to fuel competition and push home prices higher. crea’s home price index, which adjusts for pricing volatility, rose 2.7 per cent to $770,000 for a typical home across the country. that is the highest monthly price increase since february and march, when homes in the toronto and vancouver suburbs were drawing dozens of offers.
i wonder if this has anything to do with the money supply being [expanded dramatically]( over the course of the pandemic. filter it for the past 5/10/25 years - can see that there's been a massive increase in cash the past year.

summary: cheque fraud.  victim accepts a "job offer," is told to buy "office supplies" with reimbursement via cheque, cheque is bad.
the scam works because cheques, especially paper-based ones, can still take several days to clear after being deposited.  in that time the depositor's account typically reflects the increased balance, but that amount is still tentative. 
in the case of this scam the victim sees their increased bank balance, believes the cheque has cleared, makes the purchase of 'office furniture' (with the fraudulent company), and then finds themselves on the hook when the cheque bounces.
in particular:
>> her new employer sent a cheque for $3,485, instructing her to e-transfer those funds to an office supply company to purchase needed equipment.
the cheque clears with a delay, but the e-transfer is instant and irrevocable.
there's not a whole lot banks can do about this.  the offer presented in this article is genuine:
>> then td suggested that it put a security measure on her account, preventing access to funds from future cheques until they have been verified. 
>> hotchkiss wonders why she hadn't been offered this protection before.
>> "it should be standard for all the canadian banks to delay deposits until they can be proven they're legitimate cheques," she said. "it would prevent this scam from happening to anyone else."
… but most people really don't want this.  the vast majority of cheques are legitimate, and the short-term credit forestalls even more complaints from customers who object that the bank isn't letting them use their own money.
the bigger problem is from poorly-trained bank personnel.  from the example later in the article with another victim:
>> but before e-transferring $3,475 for non-existent office furniture, fleischer called simplii financial (an online subsidiary of cibc) to make sure the money was actually in her account.
>> she was told it was. 
that's the bank's error, which i lay at the feet of using a call centre trained mostly to read off balances from accounts.
i’m sorry, but if someone offers you 30$/hr for data entry, you should know it’s a scam. for the first time ever, i’m on the bank’s side.
always cash cheques at the institute they are written from, whenever possible. i’ve done this for any company that has paid me in the past, it ensures the funds come from their account.
i'm sorry but i have to agree with the bank, this is on the customer. you got suckered and it's your fault, your desperation got the better of you.
this is a case of both sides sharing some blame. 
on the one hand, if someone hires me and sends me a $3500 cheque to buy furniture, i'm already suspicious. i'd definitely be waiting for the cheque to clear. 
on the other hand, after all this time, a bank can't even provide notice on your account that some portion of the money you have in your account is not really there and, if you try to spend it, you may be on the hook if the cheque turns out bad?
i like cbc but their gopublic stories about banking are generally trash (the one notable exception being the one about selling pressure a few years ago which is 100% spot on). i feel for the person who got frauded but this is her fault, not the bank's. what this should be taken as is a lesson on the importance of financial literacy.
unfortunately, these stories do as much harm as good. by wrongly placing a the blame on the banks, it absolves the consumer from responsibility their own mistakes. just as bad though is the blatant information going on. much of what is being said in the article is wrong, unrealistic, or outright illegal. just a few gems that were particularly egregious:
>she deposited the cheque, watched her balance increase, waited 48 hours to make sure the money remained in her account
48 hours is close to the bare minimum amount of time for a bad cheque to come back on you. bank holds are 4-5 business days for a reason. no, all the fi's don't have instant, seamless clearing.
>"i'm frustrated that the bank allowed the money to appear as if it was there," said hotchkiss. "it's totally misleading."
that's... how a cheque works. "the bank's hold funds policy, which explains that, when a cheque is deposited, the bank is essentially offering credit until the cheque clears". this is 100% the case. that's how cheques work. it's not the bank's fault you don't know how cheques work
>"it should be standard for all the canadian banks to delay deposits until they can be proven they're legitimate cheques" 
this is so wrong for so many reasons. first of all, it would be deeply unpopular to institute automatic 5 day holds for all cheques. customers would riot in the fucking streets. secondly, it could be illegal due to access to banking rules, even if you could opt out. third, the time frame for most types of fraud charge back is 30 days, meaning that instead of the standard 4-5 days she's suggesting an automatic month hold before releasing cheques as safe from fraud claims.
>he says it wouldn't be difficult for financial institutions to let customers know that cheques can take days or even weeks to clear, by sending out texts and emails.
yeah, the "expert" in this story is trash also. again, likely very illegal due to casl which restricts advertising and communication by the banks. you also risk information fatigue.
>but before e-transferring $3,475 for non-existent office furniture, fleischer called simplii financial (an online subsidiary of cibc) to make sure the money was actually in her account.
this one the bank might be in the wrong. it is equally likely though that the person heard "available balance" and thought the cheque had cleared. these kind of disputes often have people tweaking their language to support their position so i don't trust that the verbatim conversation with the bank rep was exactly as this person describes it. 
>"cheques must be looked at and confirmed that they are legitimate before the money is deposited and accessible in customers' accounts."
td and all the big banks have that service: it's called the teller. seriously. you had the option to have the cheque looked at but opted out. had you taken this to a teller, they would likely have recommended a hold on the cheque based on the fact that the deposit makes no sense; you're a 22 year old student with no significant deposit history suddenly making a 3.5k work deposit. you can't just verify a cheque is good with the issuing bank - it's (again) illegal (due to privacy laws) and even if it weren't, it would be too much work for the banks to respond to those verification requests unless it as mandated by law. there are ways to verify the funds are legitimate but again this is up to the consumer and not the bank.
i would like to see a "you don't actually have this money yet" warning before you withdraw/e-transfer money from a cheque, but outside of that i can't imagine what banks could possibly do differently. not having that credit from depositing a cheque that hasn't cleared would drive far more customers mad, even as an opt-in policy.
not to mention the whole situation reeks of "how did you fall for this?"
kind of a similar scam going around the music community - someone asks you to write a birthday song for their kid, offering a sum of money, then they "accidentally" overpay then ask for you to transfer the extra back. the original payment bounces and you just lost the money you sent "back". amazing how many scams prey on struggling people.
surprised cbc doesn't think to link any resources to allow consumers to education fraud prevention. the little black book of scams is a good starting point for some financial literacy around the fraud out there: 
[link](
> the short-term credit forestalls even more complaints from customers who object that the bank isn't letting them use their own money.
then post a big fat red warning sign and show cleared vs pending funds. banks certainly have the money to build more user-friendly software. don't even get me started on how some of the world's biggest banks are using 20th-century online security standards.
until these scams actually hit the banks' pocket instead of their customers', it's just business as usual. where are their customers going to go? yet another in the big 6?
or requires you to buy $3400 worth of office equipment…
this is one where desperation is starting to blind people's common sense. if you need money to eat and someone is offering you money, i can understand why you might fall for this kind of thing.
my bank does that. you have to pay attention and know how to read your account info, though. they're also really good at notifying me about potential fraud on my credit card. 
i remember when i worked in the u.s. that my bank wouldn't let you touch or withdraw the money until it cleared. it's safer, but man was it inconvenient sometimes when your balance was low. 
basically,  what you gain in security, you lose in convenience. there's no way around that. this may be unfair, but i bet those people who complain about being defrauded would be the first to complain if they couldn't cash the checque for a week.
all banks show pending transactions and actual available balances
what does "pending transactions" mean to you?
well how about they do what they do to me every time i deposit a cheque?   
put a hold on it.    
how in the hell did an unemployed student get to pass a $3k+ cheque without a hold on it?   
seems like a simple solution to me; accept the deposit and offer no money on it until it clears.
> then post a big fat red warning sign and show cleared vs pending funds. 
that might help, but i think a large subset of victims of this scam would still fall for it.  after all, 99% of cheques you see in life will ultimately clear just fine, so a "clear" and "pending" balance will likely be interpreted as "my money" and "what will be my money," particularly if credit is still automatically extended over the pending balance.
i suspect that general knowledge about chequing has become worse rather than better as paper cheques have become increasingly rare.  
this scam can only exist because of the intersection between paper cheques (which clear with a delay) and instant eft.  three decades ago, the victim would themselves have to write a paper cheque to cover the "office furniture," so there would be time to stop payment when the primary cheque bounced.
i think the true solution to this scam is to just finish the cheque/eft transition.  as i understand it, europe is well ahead of us on easy/instant/free bank transfers, and customer-paid interac exchange fees seem like a culprit for holding back equivalent adoption here.
at some threshold, even the idea of receiving a paper cheque should be suspicious, and banks could finally stop habitually extending implicit credit for pending amounts.
most banks already show this though with available funds, and what's on hold. and people still complain "why are you holding my cheque?"
it's very easy to read "available balance" versus "pending transactions"

it will be identical to a deal with a different province and kenney will talk about this being a long difficult struggle made difficult by the feds. 
we will all read the agreement, realize it is then same as somewhere else, and wonder why it took so long to make a deal.
wow. kenney wasn't last. ontario doesn't like the amount. silence from new brunswick? but then higgs is terrible. he might just ignore it out of spite. unlike the other 2, he's safe.
[removed]
does this apply to day homes or alternative forms of child care such as nannies which shift workers need because regular day care doesn't actually work for us?
[removed]
it may have a different name, it's no longer a child-care agreement, but rather a child entrepreneur incubator.
ontario doesn’t like the amount but are also apparently spouting a false amount when asked about it.
higgs currently has his hands full, hopefully once he stops being an idiot we'll be able to make a deal.
removed for rule 2.
[removed]
no clue. i am hoping it applies to any registered child care service. there are home daycares run by independent contractors through registered agencies out there (my mom runs one), she follows rules set and basic curriculum from the agency. she has the option of doing alternate hours vs the daytime. she chooses not to, but there are some people who do. if they allow any registered service to count for the agreement, then that would, imo, be the best way. even private home care can be registered/certified - they just need to fulfill certain provincial regulations and submit audits/forms to do so.
removed for rule 3.
[removed]
[removed]
they are just stalling so that they can announce it closer to the election.
> hopefully once he stops being an idiot 
so, never.
well i know the province deregulated the day homes last year or the year before. but i am seriously hoping that day homes qualify for some form of subsidy. i can't see them not getting something otherwise they will lose all form of competitive advantage against day cares if suddenly day cares costs plummet.
[removed]
removed for rule 3.

i lived in hamilton most of my life and even i think sarnia is a pollution disaster. it's criminal what those companies get away with up there.

for context, the university did not organize the event, a student group did. they've pulled things like this before, inviting lauren and stefan molyneux in past years (that event was also canned, i believe. though i'm not 100% sure about what the outcome was when they invited alt-right types a few years ago).
in this case, ubc made this statement some time within the last days: 
> this week, senior university staff were made aware of a nov. 17 talk on campus that was booked by the ubc students for freedom of expression. to be clear, this was not an event sponsored by anyone at the university of british columbia. the host of the event is an external group that is not endorsed by ubc.
the university has reviewed the requested event booking and conducted an assessment of the event in accordance with our event booking process. although the university does and will continue to support academic freedom, we have determined that this event should not proceed.
source: ubc student.
[removed]
i actually don't care if they let her talk or not, in my mind having her on just damages their credability. lauren southern isn't a real source, she's a partisan hack and the article digs in better than i can.
>southern's film zeroes in on what ground-penetrating radar cannot detect, such as organic matter, according to one of her interview subjects. she also takes issue with the term "mass graves" and what might have caused people to be buried on the grounds of the former kamloops indian residential school.
>she also makes the claim that there's no evidence of a catholic church cover-up, insisting that misleading media coverage has led to churches being burned.
>moreover, southern's documentary insists that there was no "mass grave" and no "genocide" in kamloops.
she's just whitewashing history, seen it before. edgelady gonna edgelady, she needs the attention.
>southern doesn't once mention the findings of the national truth and reconciliation commission of canada, which determined that cultural genocide occurred in canada. nor does her film make any mention of the missing and murdered indigenous women and girls inquiry, which stated that genocide occurred.
>she also overlooked a paper by ubc's indian residential school history and dialogue centre, entitled "considering the legal and human rights framework for addressing mass graves connected to indian residential schools".
>in addition, southern did not address another paper by the indian residential school history and dialogue centre concerning the terminology in connection with the findings of so many unmarked graves on the grounds or near former church-operated indian residential schools.
>that paper notes that the bournemouth protocol on mass grave protection and investigation—supported by the international commission on missing persons—offers this definition of a "mass grave":
>“a site or defined area containing a multitude (more than one) of buried, submerged or surface scattered human remains (including skeletonised, commingled and fragmented remains), where the circumstances surrounding the death and/or the body-disposal method warranting an investigation as to their lawfulness."
so, i think it's embarrassing for the ~~university~~ student group to even consider having her on. she's not an academic, she's not responding to other peoples critical thinking, she's whitewashing history to grift people out of money for telling them what they want to hear. 
it's an unforced error on the universities part, i can judge it as such. i think the backlash about cancelling her will put them in a corner, but if they cancel her then she gets to cry about cancel culture. boo fucking hoo ya racist.
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
she's awful but there's a chasm of difference between unmarked graves and mass graves and no one in the media was held to account or took responsibility. a dozen churches burned because of that lie.
[removed]
rather than trying to cancel these events i think the university should just encourage people to come and poke holes in her story. i assume there must be a q and a session in this sort of thing. so encourage students to go and question her. for the small idiot group that organized this there has to be several intelligent students who wouldn't have a problem picking appart her argument piece by piece.
> the university has reviewed the requested event booking and conducted an assessment of the event in accordance with our event booking process. although the university does and will continue to support academic freedom, we have determined that this event should not proceed. we believe proceeding with this event would adversely affect campus and community safety.
their assertion that it would "adversely affect campus and community safety" is rather unclear. how, exactly, would having this person give a lecture impact safety?
people need to learn that now allowing false information to spread or unproven information is not a bad thing. if we did nothing but listen to false knowledge we would never got to where we are today
questioning the truth or official story is one thing. but why do these far right figures always latch onto the more odious and objectively untrue aspects of the issue?
money, the grift? fame? stupidity? 
i'm glad they said fuck no. but i'd have equally been glad if they just screened the documentary and then let the students tear it apart while allowing her to defend her nonsense.
this is why people should've been more careful in trying to cancel/interrupt speakers on campus like dr. jordan peterson, dr. frances widdowson, or criminal defence lawyer marie henein. it creates a false equation between people with legitimate credentials  with whom you can vehemently disagree with but who have earned a right to using a platform within the academy where their ideas, beliefs, and experience can be challenged within true academic discourse as opposed to bad faith trolls like this "journalist" who are no doubt entitled to their freedom of speech/expression but not to have a platform endorsed/supported by the university. but by casting a wide blanket over everyone who even remotely challenges the "safe space" of the university, it groups everyone into the same group whether they have legitimate credentials, ideas, experience (even if disagreeable) with trolls just looking to stir up trouble and which nothing productive/constructive comes out of their presence on campus even if their arguments opposed/refuted.
"no evidence of a catholic church cover-up"
correct. they're just like "yeah kids died from whatever they died from or we killed them, happened a lot back then. never gave a shit about most of them."
who's surprised by this?
clearly this is provocative, but how can anyone here have an opinion if you have not seen this film? also, these were unmarked graves, not 'mass graves', and they were not a surprise to anyone that had followed any trc findings. i mean, it is good that the publicization of these unmarked graves are opening the conversations that really need to be had - about reparations, responsibility, the role of government and the church, and many other painful topics, but this knee-jerk cancellation of anything that opposes the narrative has got to stop!
a white blond conservative women denying horrific crimes committed by the church!!!!! i for one and fucking shocked, this is not how blond white women normally behave!
it pains me to have to say this: please do not cancel this event! _attend_ the event and ask well-researched questions. it’s not that hard, really, given _that’s what a university is for_. why don’t people still believe that the vietnamese started the war with the usa with an unprovoked attack? somebody asked well-researched questions. the information/thought  silos that allow misinformation to flourish need to be pierced by facts and conversation.
universities are just giant echo chambers of group think now. “something goes against the narrative let’s cancel it or pressure the higher ups to close it down.”  mass graves =\= unmarked graves.  gpr isn’t an accurate way to find unmarked graves either without proper excavation to backup those readings.  also the fact that the number of unmarked graves includes an unmarked graveyard that was used by a now nonexistent town tells you that proper investigation needs to be done.

the line that stuck out to me the most in the article was this one:
> conservatives are conservatives because, unlike liberals, they want to get elected to *do* things, not to *be* things
...which is not how i would characterize conservatives (or, indeed, liberals, for that matter).  perhaps it goes back to the hangup of conservatives: i have little idea what they're *for*, but i sure do know what they're *against*.
so boesenkool argues that it basically doesn't matter what the values of the cpc are since they can just shift to whatever platform will get elected at any given time and try to shut the outliers up without losing too much of their base, then ends with the thought that "it’s hard work. but canada, and the values conservatives hold dear, are worth it. "  he's just describing the contemporary reality of political parties behaving like amoral opportunists that have whatever "values" their consulting firms say they should.
when you start with the, imo faulty, premise that political parties exist to win elections you throw away the need for core values.  without those values you are just an opportunist.  why would i as a voter want a leader who will by his own admission go where the wind blows?  standing behind a set of values may not be what is best for your party but is best for me as a voter.
the comments below the article show the real elephant in the room of the conservative coalition that has made the conservative's canada's natural opposition party: a virulent populist anti-french and anti-quebec faction.
>  you see, conservatives are conservatives because, unlike liberals, they want to get elected to do things, not to be things. 
that's an interesting line, that could probably get unpacked into a compelling article at least. i've never thought of lpc members as people who just want to "be things" before, but it does fit.
however, i think it also fits with conservatives, as they also want to be a thing, to be in power.
>  making life easier for people who shower in the evening, rather than in the morning. 
what does that even mean?
that line stood out for me too. i think it was true back when this guy was actually involved (early harper days), because conservatives **did** have something they were about then. 
post harper it's been "uh.. we're not trudeau **tm**"
> ...which is not how i would characterize conservatives (or, indeed, liberals, for that matter).
i was coming here to comment on just this segment.  i think that line is full of wishful thinking on both sides.  in particular, if the liberals are elected to "be" rather than "do," then it seems very coincidental that the cpc and its supporters have long lists of action-related grievances.
(edit to add:) likewise, o'toole's recent campaign did its best to portray him as a blue-collar-ish "man of the people," which seems to be a "be" rather than "do" question.
yeah that’s a bit of an odd line.
i haven’t read the article yet, but a line like that makes me question whether or not it’ll be a good read.
its boessenkool, what do you expect?
all the current iteration of the cpc has is opportunism. their only path to victory is when suburban ontario/quebec liberal supporters get tired of the liberals and/or bloc.
i think there's this constant tension between having principles and winning. if you can compromise *some* principles and win, you then have the power to action on the principles you didn't compromise. 
but if you lose you can action nothing. 
the danger of course is that you compromise all principles in the course of winning. i would argue that the liberals are very close to this state, with the tories not far behind. 
ironically its the social conservatives' fixation on their principles that holds the rest of the party back (from winning)
well, if political parties largely dump ideology in favour of policies known to be effective, i'd be all for it, even if it makes them more similar.
their values aren't that different (nor should they be).  their *priorities* might be more different, but that's a different question.
[removed]
>what does that even mean?
no idea. i read it as "you have a blue collar job where you come home from work very grimy and dirty and need to shower" as opposed to someone that sits in an office all day?
literally just shooting in the dark here though haha
the had worked hard to come up with a platform of 5 ideas they thought would be popular. did the implementation of said 5 ideas. then spent the bulk of their time in office faffing about with penny ante stuff because they didn't have any other ideas they thought would be popular.
there is little for the liberals to compromise as this country tends to be left of center.  in any case this depends entirely on what you believe.  the conservatives put forth their "values" in 2015, while jt came along with fighting climate change equality and feminism and took it away.  he has stuck pretty close to those principles.  
my point though is more along the line of "do the right thing."  as an example jt's first cabinet was as close to representative of the population as was possible at that time.  a huge risk, yet he did it.  had that and other things cost him the election the bar would still be set much higher in this regard.  a cabinet of 80% white males will never again happen in this country.
i think we saw some pretty big differences in values the last year and a half.  jt took the position of protecting people at all costs while moe fretted about the economy.  to me that is a big difference in values.
removed for rule 2.
that's sorta what i was thinking too, but it also looks down on people in the service sector, since they're often doing jobs that wouldn't normally leave them so sweaty or grimy at the end of a shift, that a shower would seem essential.

you can't introduce legislation until parliament sits and the speech from the throne happens, which is next week, so...
i get what they are trying to say but... of course it's ticking. if you make a promise with a timeline, it starts ticking when you make the promise...
well, freshly minted environment minister steven guilbeault took some action here, so it's off to a good start on the green front. 

>on election night canadians heard from justin trudeau that in his view the election outcome was “a clear mandate.” is this a mandate to continue the same liberal course unchanged since 2015 or is it a mandate to adjust and adapt? the numbers suggest that if average voters were asked, it was a mandate for the liberals to recalibrate.
sure, but the liberals don't take their mandate from the average voter, they take their mandate from the liberal voters. asking them to consider all of canada is good, and they probably do that from time to time, but when talking about their mandate don't they receive it from their voters, not the entire voting population? 
the numbers don't lie, but the public is reactive. like leaving afghanistan what was trudeau supposed to do? 
the pandemic one really puzzles me, people are less confident in the healthcare system now rather than at the height of the pandemic, which just shows the public is probably being influenced by other factors: we see the usa floundering, our own confidence goes up. usa gets democrats back in power, while they may not be the best, they're not trump; canadian confidence falls cause we're always comparing ourselves to our bigger brother. 
the public isn't a great barometer, they do not exist in a vacuum where canada is the only country. i think americans actually getting back in the saddle will have a big impact on our self-image, for the worse because when trump was in charge canadians felt inflated. sure we have kenney and ford, but they're not trump, for all the pundits who compared them. 
it's not even anything the trudeau admin can wrestle with. the usa is stabilizing (i hope) and the golden age of "there but for the grace of god go i" is coming to an end. 
i don't think the liberals are going to take the oppositions voters in mind in creating their mandate, but the polling numbers don't exist in a vacuum either. a winter of discontent for the opposition, except the ndp was let in from the cold? i think the author forgot that with the ndps support the government won't be deadlocked like we see in the usa.
the usa might see a winter of discontent, which will of course bleed into canada, but their winter of discontent comes from the republicans feeling cheated and overexciteable and democrats feeling frustrated that they can't get anything done. canada will have a more functional government than the usa, people will grumble but what are they going to point at? trudeau isn't biden.
the united states is *not* going to stabilize. the democrats are going to suffer a demoralizing loss next year, and grotesque republican obstructionism and theatrics will follow. everyone is going to be mad, and you'll see more barbaric legislation passed in their deep red states. the democrats will continue with ineffectual posturing that considers all equalities except for economic equality. everyone is going to be mad, and the united states will march down an increasingly ugly path. trust me - the country is so gerrymandered, greed-addled, and brainwashed that it's beyond stability. i hope i'm wrong, but i got the hell outta there for a reason.
preaching to the choir on the democrats being useless, but i don't think trump can hold the republican party together. idk if the democrats and the justice system can take him down quick enough, but even then i don't know if the trump side can keep form imploding on itself. time will tell, even if the democrats can't bring the maga side to justice the gop ight implode in itself.
but hoping for a spontaneous implosion in lieu of democrat competence is not a bright future.


it was never in the cards. 
hasn't been since this first ever came up.
we're going to run the experiment and see where it takes us. 
maybe we'll burn, maybe we won't. science says we'll burn (maybe not to a crisp, but definitely 3rd degree to some significant portion of the body). 
let the good times roll!
here’s to hoping geo engineering can save us if it gets bad.
it will be tried. another experiment to enjoy. woo hoo!!!!

i mean… yeah. we’re talking about something that happened *six years ago*, not some kind of intergenerational grudge. i’m white af and still remember how shocked and horrified i was by that more or less openly racist appeal to “old stock canadians”. it surprises me more that they have *any* support among visible minorities, considering that their caucus now is substantially the same as it was then.
how can we forget? 
i'm not going to hurl invective over it, but the only real notable trend i saw out of the election was that the cpc wound up being a bit, uh, whiter. where traditionally it was competitive in diverse ridings: picking up seats in atlantic canada and rural ontario while dropping them in diverse urban western canada.
part of it had been a hostile campaign vs. china affecting them among those communities, but i wonder if vascillating on covid measures a bit didn't either. there was no appeals made to social conservatism, and finally, uh, i'm not sure there's many non-white english folk bent out of shape over john a macdonald.
the thing is, a lot of minorities / immigrants are socially conservative, so anything to "advance the gay agenda" and "moral destruction of society" from legalization of drugs, to abortions, and anything of the sort is just a non-starter.
that entire thing was cut so weirdly. she goes back and forth and the camera gets super close and one point.
wasn't this lady the one that went on about all these letter in front of her name when no one asked?
this is cringy af lol
the full quote is [available at the bottom of this page]( but a former cpc candidate in london. he talks about relief from conservative voters and staff that this years candidate for the riding was white. he posted this right after the killing of that muslim family in london
except for the fact that minorities overwhelmingly vote liberal. so apparently all of these non-starters are really not.
you can't teach an old dog new tricks (conservatives)
i would rather liberate my future instead of leave it to people who want to conserve secret racism


so this rather long article doesn't ever really get around to answering the question its title posits. rather it's more a list of all the reasons people are against the project as opposed to an analysis of how it will actually impact the coming election. 
personally i think fords opponents, politicians and voters both,  are making a mistake if they allow him to use this as the wedge issue of the campaign. ford seems to be a assuming(correctly i believe) that gta suburbs will be the key factor to winning. at the end of the day suburbanites tend to be car commuters so betting that they will be for highway expansion is likely a safe bet. 
more than that by choosing to play the game ford has set they allow him to portray a positive out look by saying "yes" while in turn they cast themselves in a negative position by being the "no" camp.  going before voters and listing all the reasons they can't have something is hardly a winning campaign strategy.
these highways likely be popular with suburban voters.
he wants to make it a wedge issue between him and "downtown elites"
[￼$5.16 billion is what the province of ontario is planning to spend building new highways￼ in the next two years]( the bradford bypass and the 413 from vaughan to halton hills￼
[the brand new￼￼ go train station they just built at￼ ￼bloomington and the 404 cost $82.4 million. apparently it supported 200 construction jobs.](
i think trains are a much more efficient and cost-effective way to commute to the city, not to mention they can be electric so people aren’t burning extra fuel waiting in traffic or paying for costly repairs on their cars or leaking fluids/road salt into the greenbelt. the bradford bypass and the 413 won’t help commuters get into the city any quicker, it’s still going to bottleneck the closer to the city you get.￼
if we spent the $5.16 billion on train stations we could build about 62 of them…
realistically we could build 30 of them and spend the rest of the money upgrading and maintaining and connecting new or existing lines. everyone would commute to the city quicker and we would be a whole bunch more environmentally friendly. it’s just a matter of spending money in the right places. 
we would also be creating about 6000 jobs in the process. ￼
i guess i’m just not convinced we need another highway  
just a thought￼￼￼￼
i’m not smart enough to know - i’ve read some people say that canceling the 407 lease would be a wiser use of money. but i’ve also read that the contract was essentially iron-clad and the province would be dramatically overstepping to consider doing it, so while i wish we weren’t stuck under that, i don’t really know how possible that is… it would solve a lot of this craziness though.
personally, i would be happier and feel that longer-term provincial economics would benefit from high-speed rail instead of a highway to nowhere…
i just feel like the ontario provincial government has failed its population for nearly half a century year after year, and i wish we could actually work towards a solution instead arguing over this useless highway.
[removed]
[removed]
even if he builds it, it will turn into another toll highway and be unusable for most people. just like the 407 east extension and the connector highways (412/418) which are practically unused.
complete waste of time and energy.
doug ford's development playbook is straight out of the 1950s, which was before he was even born. it's like the ontario government is being run by the ghost of doug ford sr.
[removed]
we need highways to grow guys.  goods need to be transported and my goodness the amount of wasted man hours and gass spent waiting on the 410 or the 401 is astronomical.
if we stop growing we shrink.  you don't want to be in a place that's shrinking.
betteridge's law of headlines.
reddit is an echo chamber of urbanites.
good point, but imo it is a long stretch to think ford would even have a chance at another majority. i hope i'm not wrong on that.
i think it has a good possibility but then i can also guarantee that the environment issue has been gaining a lot more speed lately and the fact that the proposed area is going to undergo even more disruption and construction has a possibility that the issue will piss off a lot of people in that area.
yeah honestly i want the highway because the gta sprawl is very challenging to traverse approaching from the northwestern side
> these highways likely be popular with suburban voters.
[considering vaughan took away their support, the popularity of ford highway is a lot lower than expected](
it's a wedge issue strategy, but it may not work.
correct me if i'm wrong, but isn't the bloomington go station the one in the middle of the green space with very little-to-no surrounding development, and for all its expense has only a handful of trains per day?  maybe i'm mistaking it for another, as i lived on the lakeshore east line and never took the train out that way (why would i, i'd have had to go to union then north, which would be a huge waste of time).  
i'm pro-trains and think this highway doesn't really make a ton of sense as it will inevitably become a congested mess like the rest of them, but metrolinx's approach is heavily car-dependent and needs some tweaking.
quick edit, [bloomington]( is the station i was thinking of, as i recall hearing of it recently while going down the rabbit hole of notjustbikes' yt channel.
go expansion is more than just a single station. the total go expansion program is something like $20 billion.
the vast majority of that $5.16 billion is general maintenance of the provincial highway network as well, not expansion. things like bridge replacements, repaving, etc.

as a long time rural ns resident (but close enough to halifax) - yes. this has been on the rise for years, but now off the chart! my new neighbours from kitchener are nice though ;)
> from july 2020 to july 2021, just over 18,000 ontarians left for the maritimes, compared to 14,905 the year before.
this is a really interesting figure, actually. from the local subreddits, you'd think 75k ontarians hit parlee beach in a normandy-level invasion. 
i personally would have thought the numbers would be higher *and* show a larger change in rate than that.
so [statscan has a wonderful website]( that shows the estimated population change of canada and breaks that down across our provinces and territories.  now this article is talking about 2021 q2 but when you look at the statscan site not only has ontario not seen a population drop by quarter ontario has almost consistently increased in population every quarter for the last decade with an average change of +52,264.55 people per quarter.
so if they are saying ontarian’s are leaving, their exodus is not enough to counter the numbers coming into ontario and who are staying.
according to statscan there was an increase population of 36,452 from 2021 q1 to q2 and another population  increase of 30,393 between 2021 q2 to q3.
interestingly there have only been 2 negative quarters for population growth in ontario during the last decade.  the frist in q1 2015 which is the coldest quarter weather wise in canada and we see a significant dip in growth in every q1, and the second in q4 2020 during the height of travel restrictions during the covid-19 pandemic.
a decade of population change in ontario by quarter
|year|quarter|population|change|
|:-|:-|:-|:-|
|2011|q4|13,308,659||
|2012|q1|13,323,332|14,673|
||q2|13,348,263|24,931|
||q3|13,390,632|42,369|
||q4|13,434,943|44,311|
|2013|q1|13,444,704|9,761|
||q2|13,467,829|23,125|
||q3|13,510,781|42,952|
||q4|13,558,528|47,747|
|2014|q1|13,562,583|4,055|
||q2|13,582,747|20,164|
||q3|13,617,553|34,806|
||q4|13,661,314|43,761|
|2015|q1|13,657,737|\-3,577|
||q2|13,669,860|12,123|
||q3|13,707,118|37,258|
||q4|13,757,688|50,570|
|2016|q1|13,773,629|15,941|
||q2|13,816,545|42,916|
||q3|13,875,394|58,849|
||q4|13,946,431|71,037|
|2017|q1|13,971,785|25,354|
||q2|14,006,386|34,601|
||q3|14,070,141|63,755|
||q4|14,150,783|80,642|
|2018|q1|14,186,830|36,047|
||q2|14,235,643|48,813|
||q3|14,308,697|73,054|
||q4|14,392,903|84,206|
|2019|q1|14,426,822|33,919|
||q2|14,467,552|40,730|
||q3|14,544,701|77,149|
||q4|14,638,247|93,546|
|2020|q1|14,688,726|50,479|
||q2|14,729,324|40,598|
||q3|14,745,712|16,388|
||q4|14,740,704|\-5,008|
|2021|q1|14,759,431|36,452|
||q2|14,795,883|36,452|
||q3|14,826,276|30,393|
|change / quarter average||1,517,617|52,264.55|
[removed]
looks like last 40 quarters. only 2 showed a net loss….  most recent showed an increase of 30k alone…
me think ontario will be just fine…
my neighbors have just moved in and are from ontario. originally from this area though. been away for approximately 25 years. many are looking to live a more rustic, rural lifestyle then the hustle in the cities. even new customers i meet at work are from far away as b.c.
i moved to bc over a decade ago thinking i was getting away from ontarians and their general disdain for things like not littering or taking your shoes off before walking through someone's house.
but then they all decided to move out west.
aren't canadians, in general, reversing the rural-to-urban migration of the last few generations? flexible work conditions and high urban housing prices means there's a good argument to be made to leave the big city.
hell, i did it. it's great. do recommend.
people will soon regret moving when they realize there is nothing to do in rural areas except drink and pop benzos all day.
bring your best please. we've seen enough of your worst over the past 2 decades. even the best that did come during those times were sad to see the rest there as well.
or at least that's what i got the gist of from renting out to them, or being a renter with them, etc, etc.   
those who are the good ones will know what i mean. those who are the bad ones... i'm sure i'll get a response eventually from one of them.
as a kitchenerite, thanks for being a hospitable haligonian.
>from the local subreddits, you'd think 75k ontarians hit parlee beach in a normandy-level invasion.
"outsiders" make the easiest scapegoats.
this is an important observation - i think statscan refer to "mobility and migration", so looking at provincial outflow only gives a skewed perspective.
where are they coming from? other parts of canada?
click bait reporting. i've returned back to ontario, my alberta doctor, went to bc. people are leaving places like alberta for places like ontario. i moved back this year, never will go back.
removed for rule 2.
the 1990 housing recession hit ontario hard. history may be repeating itself. look out below.
what province?
gasp! out here amongst us bored, drugged up racists!? however do you survive?!
/s

if the federal government wants to be able to choose which parts to use in our cellular networks, why don't they set up a federal utility that builds one out?
with the amount of profit the big telecoms have been making over the past couple decades, the feds could do it way cheaper.
its funny that conservatives are claiming moral authority on this issue, while  "tory party leader erin o’toole has hired a former top executive of the controversial chinese firm huawei. o’toole brought on board jake enwright, who was huawei canada vice president & director of corporate affairs. he will handle research and issues management for the conservatives."
there's not even any security risks mentioned in the article, the closest that exists is this:
> regardless of whether huawei poses a genuine security risk, the concerns have given rise to a general notion countries cannot afford to gamble on a telecommunications firm that is supported enthusiastically by beijing, said wesley wark, an adjunct professor at the university of ottawa and a senior fellow with the centre for international governance innovation.
> “the company is just too closely aligned perceptually to the chinese regime to allow western states to do anything else,” wark said. “and they do have alternatives.”
like, doesn't that outright say "we don't have a reason to believe there's a risk, but they're a chinese company, and that's scary"...? i get the national post's usual political leanings, but *come on*. you can't call that an actual security risk, that's just "bad optics to people who were already scared". 
just once i want one of these articles to actually go into detail about the actual security risks, and how, exactly, these devices are supposed to exfil data back to beijing that somehow no one in csis managed to catch. i get that i care way, way more about the technical side of data security stuff than the average reader would, but... seems like a bit of a glaring omission here?
we could call it…..*nortel.*
the government cannot do it much cheaper. their operating margins are around 20% - and this doesn't include things like money spent on spectrum because that's not considered an expense.
the governments of the world have long since been involved in influencing vendor selection either directly or indirectly. this shift in messaging to a more hardline stance has only been in the last 5 years.
erin's a prc flunky? he sold out very quickly to the chinese.
im a conservative and that hiring mad me think twice about who to vote for.
we are out of five eyes if we go with huawei, which is all based on our other partners' perceived risks to security from that company. that *perception* is enough for canada to ditch huawei, the rest is just background noise and nobody needs to play with the issue any farther than that.
if you think that your interest in the technical side of data security stuff warrants it, then take it up with our other partners in five eyes (being someone far more caring than the average reader, maybe you know something that they don't - give 'em a call).
p.s. it was beijing that promptly kidnapped two canadians in retaliation, when canada followed the rule of law in an extradition case (state-sponsored extortion). that's how much huawei means to the ccp.
most canadians who are reading natpost are of two types really.
the first are folk like you who are basically against anything natpo says, and so they don't really care to cater to you. (no offense)
the second folk are those who like myself, already know the reasons why 'china is scary', as you are putting it. reasons like a multi-faceted shadow government where the face is supposedly democratic, but the reality is that the communist party and its personal army are actually in control. not just of that government, but also many companies within the country. so many that we can't be 100% sure which are, and are not. so we must treat them all very carefully under that pretense of not knowing for sure.
what the average citizen does not understand about politics and espionage is the very reason why the average citizen shouldn't be voicing their opinions about either. most of the stuff that goes on is actually subterfuge of some sort; but with a happy package to keep the rest of you happy.
again, no offense. just answering the question you are posing as best i can. to put it simply, it all boils down to this.
societies platitudes mean nothing when dealing with the shenanigans of spies and liars. which the cpp and pla is full of, along with our own government, and many others out there.
so some of us don't need the nitty gritty details in every single article. sometimes we just need an update on things. hence natpo's lack of details, imho.
btw: csis is pretty open about their findings when they are certain or certain enough on things. but because of the whole left vs right bs in our country right now... their findings get aligned with right wing politics due to right wingers supporting csis's findings. which of course leads to left wingers getting angry about these things... for all the wrong reasons.
here's an example article: [
the threat is real. the vast majority of intelligence reports do not get seen by the public. this is the reason we have cse, to help protect our national security. all it would take is a hidden killswitch or timed backdoor to open up our entire infrastructure to a cyber attack. this is the new battlefield and i for one am glad our government is making wise decisions on this matter.
even if the devices in question don't send reports back to uncle pooh bear, there is the very scary option that the prc can use them to send a message.
years ago when the first iphones were coming out i had a meizou iphone clone. the phone was great until, one day, when the prc politburo had an issue with the ceo of the company and decided to send a message. the message they sent was a kill order that bricked every meizou phone.
imho you can buy chinese washing machines, vacuums, keychains, whatever.... as long as it doesn't connect to the internet and have a backdoor that can be exploited, you'll be fine.
gasp, and then let it get privatized for dirt cheap?
>their operating margins are around 20%
hmm, the crtc's own financial reports are showing ebitda margins of over 40% in 2019. have i gone wrong, or where did you get that 20% number?
that would be over 10 billion dollars a year of our money being spent rewarding shareholders. i think the government can do much better then that.
he hired a canadian guy who used to be an executive at huawei canada...
how the fuck did you jump to prc flunky over that?
i'm as liberal as they come but the mental gymnastics there is just astounding.
oh, certainly, losing access to the whole five eyes network is absolutely in and of itself a security risk.
i'm just *reasonably* certain that's the actual security risk, and none lies with the hardware. given how the us has been repeatedly trying to sabre-rattle with china as of late, and has refused to offer its allies any evidence of this security risk, instead just saying "there is one, trust us, if you don't we won't share with you anymore :) :)"...
feeling a lot more like red scare 2.0 shit than an *actual* issue. just wish our media would take things a bit more critically, and started presenting this issue as what's *actually* going on - the us is strongarming us as part of their ongoing trade war with china, and, given how valuable of an ally they are, playing their game is probably the right move. we don't need the manufactured fearmongering around china, it's not helping.
> we are out of five eyes if we go with huawei, which is all based on our other partners' perceived risks to security from that company.
so it's us basically blackmailing us. also, isn't bell deploying huawei 5g hardware so far?
right, i guess my point is just... a blind "chinese government does bad things, therefore chinese company does bad things" is... while there's certainly reason to suspect that might be the case, there's two options here:
1. there *is* some backdoor in the hardware, *and* csis can't find it, *and* csis has, incorrectly, decided the risk of some backdoor they can't find is low enough that they're okay with rolling it out anyway.
2. there's nothing.
regardless of how much one dislikes the chinese government, i can't find any reason to believe the first one's the more likely outcome here.
the lack of details, *especially* with the wording in the headline, implies there's a third option here: that there *is* an exploit, that security experts know about, yet we're considering going ahead anyway. that's not the case. at all. it should go without saying why news outlets outright lying is bad.
> all it would take is a hidden killswitch or timed backdoor to open up our entire infrastructure to a cyber attack. 
and i would catch both with the first firmware dump. and i'm not even a csis security expert. if it's on a hardware level on a custom made chip, it also would be glaringly obvious after chip dissection. this crap is impossible to hide.
you do understand that unlike your clone phone csis literally disassembles these stations and chips inside then down to almost molecular level for security analysis?
how important was the marijuana party in getting weed legalized? without them, would trudeau have had enough public support to legalize weed?
lots of posts and comments with negative karma on the front page of this sub.
what is going on?
with the caveat that i don't have much knowledge on this specific topic (but i do work on public support for policies and their implementation), i'd say that the marijuana party probably played a marginal role in the legalization of cannabis. it might have raised the issue to some who were previously unaware of it, particularly in its first elections in 2000, 2004, and 2006, when it ran double-digit candidates (without coming close to winning a single seat). it was always a marginal party, so it's not like the liberals would have made strong electoral gains by going after their (tiny) electorate. 
as with other issues, canadian activists have had more success through the courts, with supreme court decisions mandating actions on the part of governments. in this case, there were government decriminalization bills on the house floor in the early 2000s under both chrétien and martin, but they died in committee, or because of some legislative process or another. the legalization of cannabis for medical use around the same time did lay the groundwork for its eventual legalization in 2017, however.
that's an interesting question. i agree with /u/ed-rock. imo, the marijuana party was never powerful enough to shift attitudes on a nation-wide scale. trudeau's legalization promise was a convenient way to contrast himself with stephen harper, and force the conservatives to look regressive and out-of-touch to trudeau's base (urban, progressive-types), and it worked. the change was generational, as entire generations of people in canada by that time had grown up bombarded with anti-cannabis propaganda that everyone knew was bogus.

in other words, it’s mostly cpp increasing as planned as a part of the liberals cpp enhancements. there is a small additional effect from the pandemic, but not much.
an increased cpp is a good thing. canadians are not saving enough for retirement so this increase needs to happen.
given everything has gotten expensive recently i don’t think this is the best time for yet another deduction off people’s paycheck.
most of canadian saves lot money by work from home, not going vacations, and using one car instead of two. -it’s billions canadians saved in last 12 months due to covid
thank you lpc. glad to see the money is coming from "billionaires" as you always say during election time. i work construction full time 2200 hours a year and plus i work part time for an electrical contractor on weekends. i am broke and i am going to pay over 40k in taxes this year. glad everyone else is getting their free stuff though.
yeah they ran this exact story last year too. i'm sure it'd be nicer for the increases to happen during economic boom years but it's way simpler to just increase until reaching the goal than to try and make rules about what years are good enough to do the planned increases.
most canadians can't save any money. especially on the crazy rent prices continuously going up and the cost of food etc.
[removed]
we are not saving cause cost of moving is throw the roof and corporate greed has eliminated workplace pensions.
it's not going to significantly increase payments, just cover the cost of living increases for a bit.  they'd need to more than double the payment amounts to hit the poverty line of $26,426.  
max payment right now for retirement at 65 is $1200 (you can get $30 per month more if you keep working) and average is $750.  that's not poverty line anywhere in canada.
what if canadians are already saving all they can afford? won't this just be net neutral or maybe even negative?
that's because we can't save since the govt almost explicitly does not care about cost of living issues. this is actually a bad thing.
lol implying that the younger generations are ever going to retire. for us this is just the government taking more of our money away to ensure boomers are comfortable.
actually, an increase isn't what is needed... that just puts more money into the system that barely lets any out. this is going to be long winded, so sorry in advance.
cpp is a very misunderstood program. even those who think they know everything about it, don't.  [here is a good link for that. it covers some common myths.](
but as one cbc article puts it:
>3. if the cppib has $392 billion — why is the benefit so low?
\-------
>the maximum annual benefit for someone retiring in 2019 is $13,610, but most people don't get the maximum, says benjy katchen, executive vice-president and chief digital strategy officer, home trust company.
***the cpp was designed to replace just 25 per cent of an average income.*** your benefit is based on how much you have contributed through your working life — from about age 18 to age 65, or 47 years. in order to receive the full benefit, you must contribute the maximum amount each year for the vast majority of these years. ***the pensionable earnings maximum is set each year, based on an average income, and for 2019 is $57,400.***
i bolded and italicized the two most important parts.
this is ridiculous to say the least. 25% of the income of what is the current reality for many of us across the country is not enough to live on.
katchen thinks we should not be relying on it 100%... despite not really having anything else to rely on beyond non-existant savings in a country that is setup to make saving money a punishment. the entire point of the cpp is so that it will be there when things don't go as planned. like how ei is there for when you lose a job via no fault of your own. both assume you are doing what you can to make things work, for the most part. and most people are. they just don't make enough money, for some reason or another. usually due to no fault of their own. hence the ei comparison.
>"i think we should not be relying 100 per cent on cpp," katchen says.
"cpp provides a base amount of income that everybody should know is there, but people should know it's a very modest one, so anything extra above and beyond that's got to come from your company pension or investing money in gics \[guaranteed investment certificates\] or other instruments."
instead, we could just readjust the equation to be fairer, and pay out the elderly a bit more on a common basis so they don't have to live like paupers in a country that only wants them to ruin themselves while young so they can suffer while old. if anyone thinks that's a bit extreme; look no further than all those nursing homes over the past couple years that proved just how terrible they were during the pandemic.
those nursing homes only need to exist at all, because those elderly folk and/or their families included, cannot afford to keep living in their own homes for a myriad of reasons that all tie back to taxes and income.
so what is needed instead? well for one, that fairer equation would be a good idea. expecting anyone to make north of 50k in this country should be worthy of ridicule. is it possible? sure, absolutely. for everyone? no, not at all. number two should be something more like increasing the payroll replacement from 25% to 50%. why double it?
take a 25k yearly income for example. at 25%, that would be 6,250$ to live off of. now this isn't the proper calculation going on, but for the general purpose of proving the point... that's just not enough by any standards today. for most people who are doing basic math only, this is a no-deal extraordinaire. especially for those who actually do get close to or over the 57k amount, since they will have maintained rather nice lifestyles up to that point likely that won't be affordable with 1/4 their income either. if you think the already poor are going to take it well, just imagine how well those who did well will take it when they are brought down to being practically broke as well?
and yes, that's how it is. because the only people who this doesn't apply to, are rich enough to enjoy off shore bank accounts. or make enough to be able to live well and still save half or more of their income each year. those people are not what the cpp was meant for.
the cpp was meant for people who are likely to not be able to come up with living funds for the final 30 years of their life during the first 60 or so. this is why it's a universal taxation on all income. you can't know who those people will be for sure, so you take it from everyone.
and so this is why increasing the amount taken is not the right idea. you'll just be taking more from those who already have barely anything to give; only to put it into a system that doesn't give enough of it back in the first place. we need to fix the output problem so people are willing to not care about the input side of things as much.
that is all. you have a nice day.
the problem with cpp is that only really benefits middle income earners. the wealthy don't gain significant savings from it and oas plans are generally regressive to lower income workers since statistically on average they work longer, pay a higher percentage of their earnings into them and die younger. thus most oas plans only benefit one subgroup of people and even if they are better than nothing, make a marginal impact on overall social welfare (since various countries have dismantled their public oas programs in favor of increased social transfers and maintained equal or superior living standards to canada or the u.s  etc.)
another issue is that if oas funds are mismanaged, it runs the risk of the fund being depleted which in turn translates to future recipients receiving lower payouts. this isn't a problem that canada has to worry about for the short term since our fund is well managed, but various countries have run into that problem, such as the united states etc. there's also the issue where recipients opt to work past the age of retirement and have their benefits withheld as a consequence etc. 
if the cpp was abolished and replaced with more direct social transfers to low income individuals and households via reforming and expanding something like the canada workers benefit (cwb) to function as a type of guaranteed/basic income program, it would be more progressive, provide more direct benefits to lower and middle income canadians and get rid of the regressive federal payroll tax.
cpp, and other oas plans were designed with good intentions, but i think the past century has shown that there's better policy alternatives for providing assistance to those that need it. even purely in terms of  income savings programs,  i'd argue there's also more effective options than oas.
cpp should be eliminated, paid out, and people can invest on their own with their now increased income.
the savings that our finance minister wants us to give her ideas on how to 'unlock'?
you're broke making 120k/year?
much steadier this way too. rather a bit every year than "times are.good let's catch up on 5% extra this year"

take 1% of their assets every year and redistribute to the impoverished until the are no more impoverished or no more excess wealth to tax. whatever comes first.
what we need is reasonable tax system that does not give some people free capital gains exemption. we should possibly change capital inclusion rate based on income, below 50k the inclusion rate should be zero. under 200k, 50%. over 200k, make 75%.
abolish taxes, instead have a transparent and accountable government with infinite fiat. end inflation, increase regulation, and ultimately allow for removal of said fiat among all holders of said fiat regardless of wealth, i.e. %. down with the petro-dollar and up with blockchain green-energy fiat. binary currency... our economic system is antiquated and sees no reform for the benefit off all because the rich want status quo
it's a campaign ad from the president of cupe.
the reality is everywhere it's been tried it's been found to be a colossal mistake; it's easy to advocate for when you have no power but no government is going to do it because they don't want to eat the legacy of it.  /r/ontario/ is full of people grumbling about how the ndp are unelectable because they governed through tough economic times that weren't their fault - that's not completely true, but you can imagine how it'd go over if the second time around those tough economic times were their fault.
so communism?
> the reality is everywhere it's been tried it's been found to be a colossal mistake;
"everywhere"? why has it been "a colossal mistake" in...
[norway](
[netherlands](
[switzerland](
as of this year, belgium has also introduced a wealth tax (on securities accounts). will this also be "a colossal mistake"?
no that would require the people to own all of the capital, 1% wouldn't accomplish that.
in the same way that robin hood is a communist i guess? are you more of a sheriff of nottingham supporter?
and yet when i was born, a dozen european countries had one.  but they kept getting phased out because they don't generate very much money *and* they're expensive to administer *and* are significant economic drags.  advent of better data collection and understanding.
of course, if you make them small or narrow, the effects (and the revenue) are small.  similar, if you apply them narrowly you can do various things.  property tax is a wealth tax, but property is highly non-mobile, which avoids one of the biggest drawbacks.  the dutch "wealth tax" is also not really a wealth tax, but a streamlined income tax.  the norwegian government has stated its aim is to eliminate the wealth tax (and currently a lot of value discounts are applied to make it functionally smaller).  that belgium is introducing a very, very limited wealth tax limits how much of a mistake it can be (but of course, if you limit wealth taxes to income producing investments like that, they're effectively income taxes, especially on things like securities whose value are entirely set by.the income they produce).
switzerland is maybe an anomoly, though how it's implemented, and how taxation works in switzerland is a big part of that picture.
> the reality is everywhere it's been tried it's been found to be a colossal mistake
---
> if you apply them narrowly you can do various things
these don't sound like the same sentiment. wealth taxes, sensibly applied, can and do achieve their goals. there isn't one magic solution to income inequality, but wealth taxes can be part of a holistic solution.
no, wealth taxes, when applied so narrowly as to functionally not be wealth taxes, don't carry the usual negative outcomes of wealth taxes.  if you limit their goals to "basically nothing", limit their actions to "essentially nothing", they can achieve those goals.  but why?
of course, not all problems have a single solution.  and  really, all taxes carry some downside or another.  but wealth taxes have a lot of downsides and very few upsides.  in almost every case, they're better replaced by an income tax.
of course they’re wealth taxes. they’re taxing wealth and not income. they’re by definition wealth taxes.
if you restrict it to income producing securities, you're effectively taxing income.  a 0.15% tax on the total value of the securities is a 2-ish% tax on the income from the securities.  a wealth tax is only a wealth tax when it's applied to non-income generating wealth.  if you're taxing something on it's ability to produce income, which is how securities are valued, it's acting as an income tax.
notably so for securities.  you can use a wealth tax to say, suppress new/growing businesses which typically have some of their value in anticipated future earnings.
>  a wealth tax is only a wealth tax when it's applied to non-income generating wealth.
what is "non income generating wealth", other than a primary residence? is it your argument that a wealth tax is only a wealth tax when it's a property tax on a primary residence?
wealth of practically every form can, and regularly do, generate income.

you think that's bad, just *wait* until we see the numbers for 2020/2021.
the united states just surpassed the level of inequality that france had before their revolution, and canada's maybe a decade behind those numbers.
>canada's maybe a decade behind those numbers.
don't worry, our political representatives are working very hard to help the canadian oligarchs catch up.

wow that is crazy impressive. should find out what marketing and outreach they used and implement that elsewhere.
the provincial government offered lotteries for a million dollars at one point, and free 100$ to people later. there was also the calgary stampede tickets and etc they gave away to people who got the vaccine right away.
a lot of that together probably had a big impact in general on the area. also, it should also be considered that a lot of service workers live in the ne, and many of them are having to deal with people directly via things like delivery, courier and taxi services. this will have had its own direct effect as well, after the first wave or two demonstrated the need for vaccines that is.
take all of that and include the new restrictions that require full vaccination to even work in some places anymore now...
i don't believe this is the success of any one group or entity. this is the result of many factors coming together to make it nearly impossible to live without having the vaccine in you at this point. especially for people trapped in the service industry, which a lot of the ne is currently working as far as i am aware.
source: am a service worker... kitchens... was going to move to the ne side for the easy access to many pubs and such prior to the pandemic. the cheaper rent is nice too, even if the nearby communities all aren't as nice... in some places. (i'm looking at you forest lawn.)
> especially for people trapped in the service industry,
in other areas the service industry has vaxx rates of ~50% (recent us study), so that is perhaps even more impressive.

the majority of these "immigrants" are already in canada. from the article:
>it is important to note that a landing occurs when a foreign national sees their legal status in canada converted to permanent residence. this can take place for an individual entering canada from overseas or for a temporary resident living in canada transitioning to permanent residence.  
>  
>this distinction is important since canada is currently focusing on transitioning its existing residents to permanent residence.
additionally:
>[about 70% of the 222,275 people granted permanent residency by aug. 31 had been temporary residents, according to immigration, refugees and citizenship canada.](
hmm... define "new\*? 
from the article:
the focus on transitioning those within canada explains why the country’s population growth remains historically low, amid a period of historically high immigration. in september, statistics canada reported the country’s population grew by just 0.5 per cent over the last year, which is the weakest growth since the first world war.
“it is important to note that a landing occurs when a foreign national sees their legal status in canada converted to permanent residence. this can take place for an individual entering canada from overseas or for a temporary resident living in canada transitioning to permanent residence.”
“this distinction is important since canada is currently focusing on transitioning its existing residents to permanent residence.”
“immigration, refugees and citizenship canada (ircc) is guided by the rationale that those in canada are less likely to be impacted by covid interruptions such as travel restrictions and other delays that may impede canada’s ability to welcome 401,000 immigrants this year if the country otherwise chose to focus most of its attention of landing permanent residents coming from abroad.”
“the focus on transitioning those within canada explains why the country’s population growth remains historically low, amid a period of historically high immigration. in september, statistics canada reported the country’s population grew by just 0.5 per cent over the last year, which is the weakest growth since the first world war. prior to the pandemic, canada’s population grew by over one per cent annually for the better part of two decades with much of the growth being fueled by new permanent residents arriving from overseas.”
^^^^^^**
since these are not generally new people entering the country (they already live here) they’re not going to add to our population growth or gdp (since many will already be contributing to it).
while becoming a permanent resident makes a tangible difference for many lives, in material terms for the country this high immigration is just a bureaucratic slight of hand … at least compared to actually bringing new humans into the country from oversees.
that's because prior to june the border was closed. i wonder why they opened it in june.
"in june, canada lifted its travel restrictions on all confirmed permanent residence holders, thereby allowing them to enter canada and complete their immigration process. canada also recently lifted its ban on flights from india, which is canada’s leading source of immigrants."
> in september, statistics canada reported the country’s population grew by just 0.5 per cent over the last year, which is the weakest growth since the first world war.
that was reported in september and the data was june 2020 to june 2021. 
these numbers are landed people;
"canada has now landed 267,000 immigrants this year. it will need to land 134,000 more immigrants between october and december to achieve its 401,000 newcomer target."
exactly. and, as of the end of august, ircc estimated 70% of newly granted permanent residents had been temporary residents. this is primarily a shifting of legal status, in an effort to keep people from leaving, rather than actual new people arriving.
> in september, statistics canada reported the country’s population grew by just 0.5 per cent over the last year, which is the weakest growth since the first world war.
keep in mind this report was released in september but covered june 2020 to june 2021 when borders were closed. that has since changed;
"in june, canada lifted its travel restrictions on all confirmed permanent residence holders, thereby allowing them to enter canada and complete their immigration process. canada also recently lifted its ban on flights from india, which is canada’s leading source of immigrants."
what happened prior to this and what is happening now are two different things.
well, ircc's latest stats show 70% of "immigrants" are temporary residents who have adjusted their legal status. 
do you have any data to suggest that this is not the case for the september numbers? or are you basing this purely on your own speculation?
you don't know how immigration system works. there has been 0 fsw draws since 2020, only cec and pnp draws so overwhelming majority new pr are already in canada. nothing to do with the border.
nothing to do with borders. you need to research how pr are handed out
as of august 31. 
this data is from september.
also do you think they have an unlimited amount of temporary residents they can keep switching? obviously there are a finite amount and it's why they opened it to those outside the country now.
this also isn't counting the 400k international students this year.
once again, do you have any data to suggest that september's data is materially different from that of the trailing eight months up to august 31st? or are you just basing this purely on your own speculation?
also, yes, international students don't count as immigrants. but in 2019, there were 216,000 in university and 128,000 in colleges, so even if the 400,000 figure is accurate (which you again haven't provided a source for), that isn't that far off previous figures.
i don’t think the september data is radically different (it’s on open gov). i just scanned through the september data, filtered for in-canada immigration programs, and took a conservative guess of 10% of spousal sponsorships being inland ones, and came out to about 28,700 new prs being temporary visa holders. that’s about 64%.
i think it shows we’re trending towards more outland prs coming in, but the majority is still temporary residents transitioning to pr.
[removed]
great data, thanks for sharing that.
so, assuming 70% from january-august, and 64% for september for the year to september 30th, we're presumably at about 69% of permanent residents being transitions from non-permanent residents, rather than new arrivals.
definitely changes the narrative around that 400,000 immigration figure, when over 2/3 are already residing in canada.
yes and we also have new temporary residents and international students coming in.
removed for rule 2.
it really does. for what it’s worth, i think a two-step approach to immigration shows better fiscal returns to both the immigrant and to the public. immigrants with a previous study or work attachment to canada show better income growth over time compared to those who get pr without that attachment.
it’s not the worst economic program in the world to draw people here on work visas or as students and then cream skim through our points system. it’s just a different narrative to the one we see, as you said.
it’s a fair point, but i doubt those comprise a considerable portion of new prs. obtaining a temporary work or study permit is typically the start of a years-long path to permanent residency, not the culmination of it.

so can we stop pretending abortion legality and access are settled issues in canada, finally?
those of us who want to keep abortion rights intact need to stay vigilant.
[removed]
why anyone ever pretended this is beyond me. it's totally delusional. even in big cities i could make the argument it isn't settled.
[removed]
we don't have a right to tell other people what to do (except when we do, hence the entire legal system), so therefore we have to tell pregnant women that a non-viable embryo has more rights than they do and force them to carry those embryos to full term?  [yeah, i disagree](  if you truly believe that you have no right to tell others whether to do or not do something, then the logical conclusion is to *not give a single damn about whether or why a woman gets an abortion*.
if you truly believe that society can tell people to give up their bodily autonomy and basic human rights to save the life of another, do you also believe that the government should be allowed to harvest your organs?  you have 2 functional kidneys, excess lung lobes, and a liver that can regenerate, so would you object if the government just showed up at your house one day and took some of those excess materials to guarantee somebody else would live?  sure, your quality of life would be greatly altered by such a surgery, but should you have the right to tell somebody else they *can't* irreparably damage your future just so that they have a chance at survival?
removed; rule 2/3
according to opinion polls, only 10% of canadians want the government to re-open the issue.
 (scroll to "opinion polls" and see references at the bottom if you want to see the sources)
i'm impressed... just to clarify are you for or against a woman's right to choose what happens to her own body?
i’ve thought about it, and i’m still disgusted by the so-called “pro-life” movement.
removed; rule 2
[removed]
yeah, but only 70% said they found abortion acceptable, and in the ipsos poll 18% said it should only be legal in certain circumstances like rape, 6% said only if the mother’s life is in danger, and 4% said it shouldn’t be legal in any circumstance. 
if we didn’t have a major party whose caucus votes in the majority for restricting abortion, those views would not be legitimized and become less common.
the article is about how the small minority of anti-abortionists can find ways to get more power when they organize together.
my answer is *of course* i’m for. that is one of the distraction arguments i’m referring too. i have never met a pro life person yet irl that seems to have that as an influencing factor. it’s just a pro abortion echo chamber argument that no one is arguing against. the pro life argument is that the baby is a person and deserves human right to life. hence the name. if the baby is a person then no one has the right to kill it,except in extreme circumstances, just like after birth. so the conversation for us is all about the rights of the baby. one of the reasons this is definitely not a closed argument is that the pro abortionist have not answered that to any satisfaction. we, of course, say that they can’t. so then they distract with the choice rhetoric. but that doesn’t affect us at all; imagine trying to argue that a mother could kill a three month old baby after birth for just any reason. people would think you are a psychopath. that’s what we think.
>'only' 70% said they found abortion acceptable
this is deep into settled issue territory. for comparison, only 67% of canadians said in 2020 they supported gay marriage. (12% support only civil unions, 10% oppose any legal recognition.) the debate is over.
> so the conversation for us is all about the rights of the baby
but by doing that you're just ignoring the half of equation that makes this a difficult problem. you can't say the a woman has the right to bodily autonomy while also saying that the entire argument hinges on the rights of fetus. it's not a tenable position.
and as far as the request to think deeply about this: why in the world would you assume that we haven't? we just came to a different conclusion than you, and it's one that the majority of canadians happen to share.
"pro abortionist". i've never met anyone that is for abortion. i've met people that believe in a women's right to choose. hence the name, pro choice.
i would like to see no one having to get a abortion. ever. which i know is unrealistic despite what pro lifers think. 
but pro life groups are very much agaisnt any measures that would reduce abortions. they take a all or nothing approach that encourages extremism. where they could be part of the solution.
>if the baby is a person then no one has the right to kill it,except in extreme circumstances, just like after birth.
this is nonsense.  the argument in favour of abortion has nothing to do with the humanity of the fetus, or lack thereof.  replace this fetus with a 40 year old man, magically shrunk down, placed in a womb and unable to survive outside of it, and the argument for abortion remains the same.
i'm beginning to suspect "pro-life" people lost this war so thoroughly because they didn't even understand the argument they were having.
government won't even force parents to donate blood/organs to a living, breathing baby under their care.
yet somehow government is supposed to force women to donate their uterus to a fetus which colonized their body against their will?
anti-choicers are deranged.

> the outcome of the recent municipal elections is just the latest evidence that the pool of progressive voters in this country, far from shrinking, is expanding at the expense of the conservative movement.
this is the key takeaway from the article. canada as a society is becoming more progressive and any party that can’t keep up will get left behind.
there has always been a large progressive constituency in alberta. reminder that nenshi first won in 2010 and won with good margins in the next two elections. 
anyone who things the latest municipals in alberta were a break from the trend hasn't been paying attention. 
alberta votes blue federally because of regionalism, not ideology.
maybe in ontario and quebec. hebert doesn't understand alberta politics and it shows
>alberta votes blue federally because of regionalism, not ideology.
i mean, both can be true, in this case.
i’d argue relatively speaking, alberta is the province zooming from right to left on the fastest scale in the country. 
alberta is getting “colorado”-ized and its showing up municipally and provincially. the federal level is just something of a perfect storm keeping the tories afloat there for the time being. but even still, cracks in the armour are appearing.
>hebert doesn't understand alberta politics and it shows
what are the ndp polling at, relative to the upc?
jeremy farkas probably thought the same too.
while toronto and ontario were electing the fords, calgary had 25 years of centre-left mayors and edmonton became an andp stronghold.
i suppose you'd have to clarify what you mean by progressive, and why that isn't happening in alberta. 
personally, i think that while there is still an enormous gap between urban and rural alberta that *might* be uniquely large in canada, we've been moving towards a progressive alberta since the mid-90s, easily.
...i disagree, as an albertan. i think a lot of people are extremely progressive, especially in the cities. we just have such a tradition of voting tory that it sticks us in the mud. people vote for what their parents voted for and don't think about it. 
but then look at the current elections. the ucp is fucking themselves into non-existence, and notley is the primary front runner for premier. edmonton and calgary both gave strong mandates to smart, progressive mayor's with progressive councils. 
etown and calgary are both also breaking the blue wall federally. it's slow, but good candidates running strong anti-conservatice campaigns are happening.
 i don't really give a shit about what the rednecks in the deer and high level think, they're not the majority.
but both aren't true. otherwise edmonton should be solid red territory, given its provincial tendency.
huge numbers of abndp voters are cpc federally, despite their platforms being contradictory in certain cases
urban alberta is basically only more conservative than other urban spots because of oil politics right now. in everything else they've been trending leftward.
jason kenney
i mean, alberta is a big place, and it's still a solidly conservative place too. it doesn't mean it's not progressive in some parts or liberal in others, but it's not only because of regionalism that the cpc gets their ultra majority there.
also alberta is more willing to vote for more centrist leaning parties or people on the provincial and municipal level. oil decides things federally in alberta.
brian jean just came out against vaccine passports and mandates as well, in a province that has well over 70% support in favour of those. which has a lot to do with why the fury against kenney in alberta crystalized into a massive ndp lead.
there is no saviour for the ucp until they realize they are fundamentally out of touch with 2021's alberta and pivot to the centre. i wouldn't hold my breath that they figure that out.... they aren't the brightest bulbs.
even if they got rid of kenney the next election will be quite competitive. 2019 was the best provincial election ever for a conservative party in alberta in terms of raw votes. the ucp if they win in 2023 will be lucky to win the popular vote by more than 10 points. i think they win by around 5 points if they win in 2023
is jason kenney how the ndp got a majority government last time too?
jean also has a tendency to be a gaffe machine despite his more down to earth demenour. i do think the next election will be more competitive with jean as ucp leader but i do think the ucp needs someone from outside the cpc or ucp to have a decent chance of getting reelected in 2023.

>“it’s my pretty firm belief,” says gilliard, “that the police should not be called unless someone’s life is in danger.”
well, thats pretty stupid. basically he thinks theft should not be a crime, 
sorry, cameras keeping criminals accountable is a good idea. i will vote for socialist policies to get the people the help they need. what i will not compromise on is allowinh people to steal from me.
> but, when you arrive home, you can log on to a social network and warn others like you about signs of abnormality, crime, and misdeeds. all you need is a comfortable salary, a house with a porch, and a doorbell with a little ­camera hidden inside. it might not have been your neighbourhood before, but you have the power to defend it, to make it yours, to make sure it stays yours
oh come on, it's a little camera that deters thrives. the author seems to suggest that it's opressing the lower class (by stopping then from stealing?).
not to mention that for it to be a surveillance state that state needs access to the equipment, the author suggests that amazon could use ring to monitor their employees, that's quite an accusation. from what i understand unless you expressly give them permission amazon wouldn't be able to do anything with ring footage besides store it for you, anything else would be a  pipeda violation.
this article conflates a lot of different issues and assumes a lot of behaviour to do it. i'm not sure it was very well researched and frankly it's pretty disappointing to have come from the walrus.
the ring camera portion of this i could take or leave; i understand the concerns of the authors, but i'm not entirely sold. 
the facebook group part though, i think that's lacking in historical perspective. in a now bygone era when more people didn't work outside the home, and communities were more commonly tight-knit, people gossiped about people's comings and goings all the time, and they orginised to be nimbys. the facebook groups and nextdoor are just bringing that back, not fundamentally changing anything.
yeah, setting up a camera to deter thefts makes you a racist now, god the left is so self destructive, we have probably 10 years on america given our demographics but we're going to follow their rightwing takeover eventually
i find it super weird how blasé people are about installing internet-connected cameras and microphones throughout their homes. as for porch pirates, why deter when you can [prevent](
i work in cyber security i fully understand the potential ramifications of using a ring etc. you have an internet connected camera/microphone on your person at all times, the additional risk of having a street facing camera is pretty minimal. 
and if porch lockboxes become popular im sure there'll be a rambling walrus article explaining to us how those are actually tools of the oppressor.
i have a few 1080p cameras hardwired to an nvr in my house. the high quality night vision footage from my camera, combined with the footage from several neighbours, put a thief behind bars last year.
because 95% of society lives mundane boring lives.
how are you posting on reddit right now?

building a pipeline that an ndp premier asked him to buy. funny how that part always gets left out of the left-wing talking points.
sierra club also needs to get it's head out of it's ass and stop opposing nuclear power. i stopped donating to them when it became apparent they weren't actually focused on co2 and unwilling to recognize that compromise is required. saving a thrush is pointless if climate change changes the landscape.
funny the right wing doesn't appreciate it.
ndps premiers, the prime ministers boss?

i do wish cbc and others would stop promoting the fiction  that biden or any previous us president does  anything but put america first  .   it’s their job to do that.,
biden cancelled keystone xl to suppress canadian competition in an industry where the us has grown  immensely in the last 15 years: oil and gas.   obama really got it rolling with big expansions in us ports , pipelines, fracking and legislative changes.  he also delayed keystone xl for 6 years.  
none of that sounds like ‘environmental concerns’ to me . 
line  5 closure means a huge boon to the oil and gas industry in america , and an immediate supply concern for ontario and quebec.   and guess who is well placed to fill that void?  not canada, we have nothing in place to supply central canada with these products, and are unable to build any infrastructure to deliver them.  namely, west to east pipelines.  we have been played, and somehow take great  pride in that. 
trudeau will go to washington, get some photos taken , and be issued some small, dusty  biscuit disguised as a banquet to bring home to fervent acclaim.   but let’s  not forget- canada is back!
yea and we will all celebrate the us fucking us by calling it an environmental victory. meanwhile quebec will continue to get 80+% of their oil from the usa. it actually might be a good thing if line 5 shuts down, perhaps freezing in the dark will convince people we actually need to have our own oil and gas industry that people seem hell bent on eliminating.
what if i told you there was a high pressure pipeline between alberta and toronto that is already built and they just need to install a few pumps?...which have already been ordered.
there is a made in canada solution ready but i can see why it is a last resort for enbridge (they would either have to buy and upgrade that pipeline or sell their shipping contracts at a steep discount).
its also interesting when you say obama delayed kxl but biden cancelled it.  obama also cancelled it.
i was not aware that enbridge  had surreptitiously built energy east. won’t that surprise everybody . 
and trump  slow played keystone xl. obama,trump , biden   .  detect a pattern here?.  meanwhile, made- in- america gas and oil infrastructure and export capacity  has expanded  exponentially , mostly driven by the actions of obama.  ‘america first ‘ is at the forefront of us policy in every administration.
energy east is converting an existing natural gas line to oil.  the line itself is allready built (has to get to sarnia but the right of way is there allready.  the kxl pumps probably are not ideal for it but they have much shorter lead times.  that said to use that line is a very expensive proposition for enbridge as they would need to buy it first but it is built.
what right of way are you talking about? are you referring to a tc energy project ?
both tc energy  have progressively abandoned canada as a place for investment in new projects.  that’s a wise move on their part .

well we can cap and reduce the cement industry in quebec and the auto industry in ontario. every particle counts.
so, just outsource our carbon?
the auto industry is largely lowered in ontario. though the majority of power in quebec/ontario is carbon neutral so was already quite reduced.

short term pain for a future for our kids and the planet? well...ya. i'm glad people are waking up to reality. it's about time...
decades ago the federal government destroyed en entire industry and economically crippled a province in order to save fish. now it's our lives and the lives of our descendants at risk but people are arguing over protecting jobs? jobs come and go. industries come and go. there is nothing special about oil and gas or forestry that means we need to protect it above all else. the same cannot be said about our environment.
between this and the angus reid poll with 50% saying we should drastically reduce our production of fossil fuels, it's increasingly clear. the position on the left of where politicians are "both sidesing" on is actually the mainstream.
i'm glad to see that there are people in canada who recognize that our current economic fundamentals are intoxicating for the planet, and with over 60% of canadians agreeing it's a fairly indisputable supermajority. i get that such radical economic transitions to much more green-friendly sources of energy, such as hydroelectric, wind, solar, or nuclear will definitely sting in the prairies, although i think that a temporary recession can be navigated and survived through *far* better than a unending plethora of climate disasters. environmentalists can also point at that oil is drying up and we'll need to switch eventually.
this is doable as long as everyone is comfortable paying a lot more for basically absolutely everything (anything made of plastic, transported by boat, train or air, rubber, roads, everything). nothing is free. there was another recent poll were canadians wanted to help climate change, just they did not want to spend any of their money to do it lol
i mean it's pretty easy to say kill jobs that aren't mine to keep emissions down, but manufacturing and mining and really almost every other job have carbon footprints too, some bigger than others, and id be willing to bet that much less than half of canadians would say yes to "would you be okay with losing your job to curb emissions?"
given recent polling, i think a majority of canadians understand that within their lifetime, radical change is going to occur as a result of a decimating climate crisis; and that that crisis is a consequence of overuse of ancient carbon reserves.
i don't think most canadians understand the depth and breadth of the radical change that will be required *for either outcome.* 
for those that want the "limit climate change" outcome, we must *immediately* stop our use ancient carbon. period. no gas heating. no gas driving. no coal for steel, so no steel. etc. literally everything comes to a full stop, we live like it's the year 1000.
for those that want the "technology will solve it" outcome, we must *immediately* do a global moon-shot effort to save ourselves. period. do or die, and there is no time to be wasting.
and those that are doing what's required for the "do nothing" outcome, radical change is coming for them anyway. it's going to be a rough crash into reality when natural gas prices start to reflect the true environmental costs, when food prices go up as crop failures become common, when extreme weather events wreak havoc on their locality.
we're gonna pay one way or the other.
edit: oh, and because the effort has to be global, it is political; and because it is political, it is doomed to fall victim to petty squabbles, economic greed, wishful thinking, and spite. we're going with the "do nothing" outcome. hold onto your hat, it's going to suck a *lot.*
emissions cap and shutting down canadian oil industry must come with a ban in importing oil or oil products.  zero point shipping jobs and emissions overseas.
“as long as it’s not my job”. very easy for others to make sacrifices on your behalf. the problem with these surveys is that people’s actions are never as altruistic as their responses, myself certainly included
this comment section and everyone like it is why we this issue is never getting solved. tragedy of the commons , my sacrifice is more than yours , etc, etc. apologies to future generations we aren't going to be able to make things better for you.
i'm willing to bet those 2/3rd don't work in the oil and natural gas sector. i'm also willing to bet that they will change their minds when gas hits $2.00 a liter. people are all for making sacrifices until it's them that's asked to make a sacrifice.
i don't have the time to look into this further but i'd think there is a big divide between eastern canada and western canada on this. 
western canada, pretty much all conservatives and a lot of others know how important oil and gas industry is to the economy. while it's necessary to phase it out and replace it with renewable energy, that should only be done as we all shift to renewable energy and not when we are all heavily dependent on oil and gas still. because as we know, this is just going to increase the cost of everything related to oil and gas while killing jobs at the same time.
carbon capture isn’t hard... it’s very do-able. a lot of canadian oil companies have already said they will beat the time line given by the government. that’s only because now it’s government funded and they don’t have to use their money to do it.  and honestly our oil and gas actually only makes up for about .3% of the global green house gases.  if you do a simple search on google it will tel you that.  our oil and gas sector is one of the best and cleanest in the world. if canada actually cared about reducing its emissions it would actually stop buying saudi oil and refine our own and use that. 
i’m not saying that canada shouldnt do it’s part even though it wouldn’t make a dent in the global emissions. i’m just saying we should stop shooting our selves in the foot meeting all these net zero goals and then go off and buy billions of barrels of oil from an unethical source. seems a little bit backwards to me.
i’m close with people who would fight tooth and nail to eliminate oil and gas but simultaneously complaining about the quickly raising costs for heating their houses yet somehow don’t understand why they can’t have it both ways.
nearly two-thirds of canadians support severely weakening canada’s economy and economic influence, in order to help save the environment despite canada making up less than 2% of all greenhouse gas emissions: poll
wont happen.
our 'government' (which isnt there to govern positive change, merely run the status quo) has been preaching 'climate change' and 'we must act', yet pushing pipelines to sell our climate destroying products to the world.  lool!!!  hypocrites to the next level.
make no mistake, we will cling to what is, to what was, right to the very bitter end.
we will not give up on our paradigm and prefer death over change.
when change does come, it wont be good...it will be very draconian, forced upon us, and the life you have now wont be what you have later.  :)
this is of course not accounting for food scarcity issues driving people away from our dying paradigm.  if you cannot afford food and rent...one must make choices.  hard ones.  thats assuming there is food to buy.  heheh!!!
any species which fails to migrate or adapt to changing environmental conditions suffers one fate.  thats us baby!!!
love the environmentalists approach ....put everyone out of work to reduce our carbon footprint. might as well cull a few billion people from planet earth next.
i seriously doubt that's true. my guess is its another "poll" conducted in targeted areas known to be sympathetic to the desired outcome.
i wonder how quebecers will support losing the portion of their transfer payments derived from the gas and oil industry.
it would mean a huge tax increase or a cut in services. which would they prefer?
a rough estimation is that each quebecer represents ~$1500 in transfer payments. what if the government destroys the g&o industry and quebec has to pay into the equalization program?
how will the quebec government manage the loss of $14 billion a year in revenue?
that's an extreme scenario, but not inconceivable.

there are people who like when he says those things. he’s happy when they’re happy. he doesn’t care what the others think.
i am not a fan of ford but our media the s tar etc could also use diversity training.
the comments are no longer constructive. locked.
of course positive things came from nazi germany, it was a nation state that needed to keep itself a float. you cant have a entirely cruel society that bases itself on evil acts and expect it to survive. this isnt fantasy.
in saying that, what is the point in teaching young children the good in nazi germany? what is the baseline historical context in which looking at the good in which came from nazi germany will really change the overall impact on the narrative of canadians in ww2? we can look at scientific discoveries they made, yea sure, but in the context of the bigger picture that does not take away from the overall idea that nazi germany was main antagonist of ww2 and canada's role in taking out that antagonist.
when you look at this issue from a historical, pedagogical and curriculum based viewpoint, what is the reason why we must teach our kids the "good" in a totalitarian genocidal nation state? what does our kids learn? that there is a silver lining in every dark cloud? that good can come from evil? are these really the lessons we want to teach children when learning about the history of canada in ww2? what does this add to the narrative?
what all of these articles are leaving out is that this document was created/updated in january 2020 - so the nazi references were also added by this government.
i think it's important to discuss how the nazi party was able to come to power and maintain it going into ww2, if only to teach us to see warning signs and prevent a repeat. the party got over 40% of the vote before they took over germany and established a single party rule and it would be wrong to answer that over 40% of germans were evil.
obviously this type of discussion is complicated and nuance dependent and shouldn't be taught to young children.
people like to point out that hitler created more jobs but what he actually did was force women out of the workplace and give those jobs to men.
[removed]
[removed]

japan invaded and brutalized many counties in asia during wwii. taiwan was one one of the places occupied by japan. however, good number of older taiwan preferred japanese ruling. 
so the nazi most likely had same impression on some people.
kids will learn eventually that life is a lot more complicated than good vs evil, i think it's ridiculous people can't even bring that up. whatever, i learned most of what i know outside school anyways.
i read the entire article, speaking of the guideline, it said: "for instance," it read, "if a video details war atrocities committed by the nazis, does it also point out that before world war ii, german government's policies substantially strengthened the country's economy?"
phrased as a question, not a statement... 
i presume the article, as well as most of the comments in this thread are suggesting that even if, hypothetically, the nazis cured cancer, we would pretend it didn't happen... or i guess just change history to say it wasn't the nazis, but the allies.
any fan of history has always been impressed with, say, the machinery and engineering that came out of nazi germany. *cough* operation paperclip *cough*
i presume we should pretend that never happened? makes sense as the victors write the history books....
[removed]
kinda silly, but but let's not act like there weren't many scientists that did some actual good/beneficial research and development from the germans during that time.
edit: nobody is advocating for the horrible things that happened during that time, but to say *nothing* positive came from some of the people working in germany during that time period is just lying.
this thread is all over the fucking place. we have more balanced views like yours and then we have the dude being openly supportive of fascism.
those are good questions, and in reading the article, that's what they were trying to answer.
if student sticks up his/her hand and asks "mr. teacher, did the nazis do anything good?"
how should the history teacher answer?
the article specifically confirms that the paragraph was present in a 2008 document with similar wording, and it could be even older.
not that this absolves them of any responsibility for including it in the 2020 version, but it wasn't newly added.
>according to wayback machine, a digital archive, the nazis' inclusion in the document predates recent governments. [a version from 2008 contained a paragraph with similar wording.](
wasn’t it 33%
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]


government is the sort of organization that should be investing in nuclear. it has the best roi, but it's a loooong term investment. a private company that deals in quarterly returns isn't going to want to put money into something they won't see profit on for 5-10 years. but a society should.
canada needs nuclear energy to decarbonize in anything approaching a reasonable amount of time. it’s not possible with wind and solar because we heat our homes all winter with fossil fuels. i built a house in ontario in 2019 and the hvac contractor tried very hard to convince me to use gas/propane, he’d never done an all-electric installation (i’m in a rural area, too). 
we need to heat our homes through the winter without burning any fossil fuels and it needs to happen very soon, by infrastructure construction standards. our greatest demand for energy will be when the sun shines least, months before peak spring hydro flows. there is no viable grid-scale, seasonal energy storage option, let’s be real. we need nuclear power in canada or we will suffer from terrible drop in economic productivity. nuclear works, it’s here and we can even “invent” new capacity by just not turning off pickering. 
people say we don’t need nuclear, we have “heat pumps”. unfortunately no. heat pumps don’t work through the ontario winter. i have an oversized cold-weather heat pump and it just will not heat my smallish, tightly-insulated built-in-2019 passive home through the coldest part of winter on its own. it runs forever and gives you just a tiny amount of heat.  i’m right on lake ontario not up north at all. 
even if we could build heat pumps we can‘t install new windows and reinsulate every house in time. we aren’t even building new houses to tight enough standards. we’re still expanding the home natural gas network. 
being anti-nuclear is not consistent with a sustainable climate future, at least in canada.
a disappointing stance from the govt imo. leaving it "to the market" in the context of endless regulatory hurdles and activist disruptions means it just isn't going to happen at all. this is something only the govt can lead on, and they are signaling they don't want to lead. if nuclear power is not part of the equation, then we aren't reaching our climate targets, period, which is unfortunate.
luckily, on the provincial level, conservative governments have been pushing funding for nuclear. still this is something that i heavily disagree with the federal government with. their push is to invest into hydrogen but smrs are another tool we can use to reduce emissions especially in rural communities. nuclear is a good form of energy that we should continue to invest in.
when the natpost goes off on the liberals for preferring market based solutions, you can tell they're deciding their position based on being against the lpc. its a heads i win, tails you lose deal.
the liberals only do things if they think they will poll well. nuclear doesn't poll well, so they will "leave it to the market".
so the title quote is based off this:
> for canada, guilbeault said nuclear will have to compete alongside technologies like wind and solar, which are becoming the least expensive types of power available.
> “it’s not up to the government to decide which of these technologies will thrive. it’s going to be up to the market,” he said to reporters in glasgow.
how is that controversial? the federal government does not and should not be micromanaging the choices of actual power generating companies across the country. the government is funding the development projects which are necessary to get some viable nuclear proposals, but there is no need to force those proposals into production for a market that doesn't want to use them. if they did then i would expect natpo to have op-eds actually screaming about how the liberals are interfering in the energy market, causing problems with "unproven" and "uneconomic" nuclear projects (both being real risks for the new-generation smrs).
why didn't natpo use a quote from this bit for their title?
> natural resources minister jonathan wilkinson said the government is supporting early projects, but they will have to prove themselves.
> “we have supported the development work. and certainly i look forward to seeing what that looks like when they are demonstrated at scale and when we actually have a sense of what the commercial economics of those systems will be.”
maybe it makes the liberal approach look too reasonable... i guess the natpo can only have 1 liberal positive article a year and that was done [here](
shame they didn't reacquire the portions of aecl that were sold off to snc lavalin. though we lost a chunk of expertise when that happened (and the feet dragging on iter installation in ontario didn't help).
yea that’s dumb, get on this now. the feet dragging has to stop, you have a solution in front of you that damn near every nation is getting on board with. get behind this now and not later. i don’t understand why they wait when it takes 9 years to build a reactor plant? this is the future of steel manufacturing & power supply for electric vehicles. don’t wait ya fucking dumb dumbs
there are currently 0 nuclear plants across the entire planet that exist without either massive government investment, or there are directly owned and operated by the government.
it's economically unfeasible over the short term and new safer nuclear plants take a minimum of 10 years to build
nuclear power is the way to go. 
it's efficient and clean. there's so little waste that's easy to store. 
i'm confused why we have not jumped on this.
private sector? aren't all of canada's nuclear plants owned by the provinces, or at least, by crown corporations? the startup costs are huge and i don't know who else would build one in canada.
it's so strange getting news on energy policy from the national post:
> liberals leaving nuclear's future 'to the market' while other countries bet big
> the u.k. government gave famed engine manufacturer rolls royce $350 million this week to help the company build a new generation of small modular nuclear reactors. china also announced plans to build up to 150 new reactors. and france, which was set to reduce its reliance on nuclear power, announced this week it would instead build more plants.
> “we are going, for the first time in decades, to relaunch the construction of nuclear reactors in our country and continue to develop renewable energies,” the country’s president emmanuel macron
how do any of these examples constitute a country 'betting big'?
 like, this isn't even in the opinion section haha
as far as nuclear in canada, i think threads like this are, weirdly, an obstacle to meaningful change. the loudest pro-nuclear voices can't seem to help but couch their arguments in inarticulate, inaccurate, anti-progressive language.
it's like the gun debate in this country - so many people i know are anti-gun just because the pro-gun side is so bad at arguing and so quick to bend the truth.
wait, aren't these the free enterprise folks? the ones that have been privatising public goods like power generation for decades? great, let's build where they live.
[deleted]
the super power of nuclear is lobbying for government handouts to build and operate before dumping the waste on the public to somehow store for a million years. otherwise it's proven to be consistently over budget and drastically behind schedule. anybody count on nuclear to solve the climate crisis is deliberately ignoring the past 7 decades of nuclear history. wind, solar storage etc. have been shown to be a viable and economic path to net zero.
this. i'm ambivalent about nuclear, personally. but nuclear supporters often misunderstand the reason for its failure in the last few decades. sure, anti-nuclear protests haven't helped. but the much bigger story is the fact that energy systems have been left almost entirely to the private sector, which struggles to find a value proposition in nuclear due to its high borrowing costs compared to the state.
a smart one would
the average time it takes to build an reactor is 10 years. the absolute quickest you can build one is 5 years assuming literally everything goes perfectly, and when stuff goes wrong it can take close to 20 years. any reactors we build, realistically are going to take 10 or a bit longer. 
they often go over budget by insane amount. i’m talking double in some cases, and are just ridiculously expensive upfront even if cost overruns are kept low. the return isn’t measure in the short to medium term (5-10 years), they are measured in multiples of decades. once built and operational, yeah, there eroi is great, but that isn’t the only thing that matters. 
canada isn’t a nation that has tons coal or natural gas we can’t replace with solar, wind, or hydro. solar and wind, in particular, are much cheaper and much faster to build. they will change our energy mix much sooner than nuclear could ever. 
there really aren’t a ton of benefits for nuclear in canada. just 18% of our energy mix is coal or natural gas, 67% is renewable (60% hydro, 7% wind/solar), 15% nuclear. nuclear isn’t the answer to that 18%.
it’s a bad investment for us. we need 100% net zero emission energy production, like, now not maybe in a decade if we’re lucky. government investment is much better spent on solar and wind. hell, even certain types of biogas from resulting from green bin composting could be better investments to net-zero future (biogas can be tricky though, but i digress).
nuclear doesn’t have a particularly strong case for increasing its share of the energy mix. we should maintain and extend our existing plants as long as possible but, i’m not convinced even maintaining 15% makes much sense for canada that has so much of its base load addressed by hydro.
long term investment can be a good idea, certainly for some places, but not so much in canada.

i mean quebec has successfully used this strategy for more than forty years, so i’m not sure why it’s a problem when any other province does it.
keep your stick on the ice, don’t pack up and go home. if we had done something about the ppc we wouldn’t have to deal with this. stop trying to copy mitch mcconnell
out of touch news paper - the west doesn't want money from ottawa - it's far beyond that - sask, alberta and big chunks of manitoba and bc have had enough. we want out.
[removed]
very historically appropriate for ontario to feel they can treat other provinces like it's owned colonies i guess.
they crippled manitoba to the point it's wheat board went under. now all of their production has to be shipped over to on for processing and rebought.... hmmm, where did we see that happen historically? 
sask is in the same boat, but with grain and potash.
alberta is sending more money to ontario than a divorced father who lost custody of all 5 kids of his kids to the ex.
it's not "show me the money" it's "if you're not responsible enough to support yourself financially, you shouldn't feel you have the right to dictate the entire country's politics. we aren't your fucking colonies, and we aren't your bank account!".
i don't blame them (or tbay for joining them) for telling ontario to stop treating them like an atm while also denying them any say. the gta has almost the same population as all of the praries yet produces less per capita? tf is up with that?
this is the cosplay version of the quebec strategy. the threats aren't credible and the prairies aren't looking to park their votes with which ever party offers the better deal.
its also unclear to me how the quebec political strategy did much for quebec citizens. it increased power to the government in quebec city while investment and people fled. making the premier of alberta and saskatchewan more personally powerful is a great goal for a conservative partisan, but not much for the voters.
quebec, as much as people in the rest of the country hate to admit it, has a distinct cultural and national identity. the quebec nation is a real thing, and it's based on tangible factors, primarily language and shared history.
the west is doing this as a political stunt because they're mad that the rest of the country isn't as conservative as them, and doesn't share their same sentiments regarding economic and social policy.
there's a difference, and to me a pretty big one, between leveraging a distinct national identity for political gain (as quebec would frame it, for the ability to protect a distinct cultural identity), and complaining because the party you like doesn't win enough. one is perfectly valid in a multicultural society like canada and the other is, essentially, bad sportsmanship in political defeat in a parliamentary system.
i study nationalism and national identity, specifically as it relates to functionality in fiscally federal systems, so i feel relatively comfortable addressing this issue.
every western (sorry should say prairies since bc never pulls this shit) conservative who speaks about trying to act like quebec seem to misunderstand the relationship quebecers have with the federal government. their differences are not ideological, like what we see with moe (and kenney), but rather much more fundamental. they do not see themselves as primarily canadian, or even canadian at all. most quebecers are quebecers firstly, and sometimes only. they view quebec’s national myth having been formed from the fight to maintain itself as a french speaking society amidst abandonment by the french monarchy, and repression by the british empire, and after confederation by its ruling class on the west island until the 1960s. 
this emotional attachment is why sovereignty, which can cause many potential economic issues, remains so popular. it’s also why their government can afford to go after ottawa for more jurisdiction (which happened primarily in the period between meech and charlottetown when nationalism was at its peak and mulroney was panicking), because they and everyone around the table know that quebecers will identify more with the quebec government than with a government that is formed by a majority of people who they do not view as belonging to the same people as them.
next time moe or kenney pulls out the treat me like quebec card, one should think do the people living in alberta and saskatchewan identify with canada primarily or not, and the answer to that question will say everything that needs to said about how those premiers’ complaints will be viewed.
one of the big reasons why quebec can get away with it is that they are fluid with their votes. they have voted mostly liberal, but have supported the conservatives and even gave the ndp official opposition status once, not to mention their affinity for the bloc and sovereignty provincial parties. so there is political hope (and seat numbers) for anyone interested. the prairies on the other hand vote conservative, period, and don’t have the seat count that makes them politically interesting if someone where to dip in. 
long story short, prairies don’t have the clout nor the voter smarts to make a play.
the difference between quebec and the west is that we all know damn well the latter isn’t serious about this.
québec has succesfully been itself. its not about the money, its about doing society projects ourselves, and taking the fed money allocated for those services.
you want to be like québec? then *be* and *do* something, no one is holding you back.
quebec also has an actual reason to this such as being a distinct entity within canada. it's a lot more opaque than a transparent money grab.
because quebec could and would have pulled through with it
removed for rule 2.
[removed]
the rural base argued hardest against wheat board. they had delusions that they would make so much more then "the govt" ignoring the transportation/storage/international markets that the cwb offered. the death of the cwb is entirely the fault of rural farmers and the cpc. they got what they wanted. i have zero sympathy when it bite them in the ass.
you know, maybe i’d be more sympathetic to the albertan plight if their wealth didn’t come entirely from natural resources. 
it’s like saying “if you work hard, get yourself educated, and manage your finances well, maybe you too can be born on top of the largest oil reserves in north america.”
toronto’s economy is based off of skilled jobs, finance, and being the business hub of canada. albertas economy is based off getting really lucky.
and before you ask, i’m from nb.
> it increased power to the government 
this is true. quebec doesn't get more money, but more autonomy. they manage their own pension plan, but because their roi hasn't been as good as cpp, qpp contribution rates are higher than cpp contribution rates for the same benefits. quebec will get similar amount of money as other provinces for childcare, but they can spend it on anything they want no string attached, unlike other provinces who have to spend it on childcare and achieve specific goals on specific timelines. if you trust provincial government more than federal, it's better to take some powers away from federal government and give it to the provincial one. otherwise, there is no point.
as someone from bc, i would like to point out that we're literally to the west of this so-called west, and we mostly don't share alsaskitoba's grievances - which in any event are greatly exaggerated by an antiquated voting system that gives a false impression of unanimity. frankly this is the oil industry and its bought and paid for media throwing a temper tantrum over carbon taxes.

[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
removed for rule 3.
[removed]
removed for rule 2.

looking up taiwan towns for my city to partner with right now!!
china is the world’s bully and eventually will have to be taught that hard truth
interesting to note in
 the article that kennedy stewart has encouraged this partnership while avoiding contact with ccp officials since april.
i should also point out that other canadian municipal politicians such as ken sim and alexa loo did attend a ccp function earlier this year.
i wonder how chuck puchmayr of new west city council feels about this. [he sidestepped protestors to attend one of the ccp-sponsored meet and greets with local politicians.]( or victoria's mayor  lisa helps, who did the same?
so a country that kidnapped two canadians, the 2 michaels, is now telling vancouver what it can and can't do?
the nerve of that country.
yeah mind your own business mr. xi. it's nice to see more and more countries standing up for taiwan, though it's a bit concerning that china is probably willing to fight the rest of the world if it comes down to taking custody of a country that is 1% of its area and 1% of its population...
nice! good on you.
thank you for calling this out.
that’s correct. it’s vile.


it seems that many countries just don't really care about resolving the climate crisis. we've had a choice, over the past few decades, of either producing theoretically stronger treaties that many countries opt out of thus rendering them useless (like kyoto), or weak and unenforceable treaties that everyone signs (like this one, or paris).
i'm not sure what the way forward is.
in canada, we definitely need to get our own house in order, and over the past few years it seems we're finally moving forward on that. but i guess we'll also have to find whatever like-minded countries there are and impose some kind of global carbon tariff on everyone else. if there's no way of forcing countries to act, we'll have to hit them where it hurts.
i think the coal compromise really underscored how badly the rich world is failing the poor world. we are among the worst polluters on the planet per capita, but climate action here means nothing if china and india can't afford to wean themselves off coal. 
i think rich countries need to come together and pool resources for a manhattan project level effort to create modular nuclear reactors that can cheaply and effectively replace dirty energy in poor countries.
could it be because those other countries realize there isn’t a viable alternative yet and they know they don’t have the resources to deal with the social upheaval that string commitments will bring about? no. definitely not that.
> isn’t a viable alternative
this is an excuse in many cases. many applications have alternatives, but no will to adopt them due to the costs advantage of fossil fuels and the ability to dump that co2 in the atmosphere for free. there is a [social cost of carbon emissions]( but like any tragedy of the commons situation, not enough people are taking responsibility and paying real money for their emissions.
[steep cuts to carbon emissions gain stronger economic backing](
you have to make alternatives viable not wait around until they magically become so.
and it's not even big stuff it's just forward thinking. requiring all new construction to be roof top solar ready, not even have solar, would be huge. changing out street lamps, the list really goes on and on.
> there isn’t a viable alternative yet 
except there is. what you meant to say is "alternative with the same short term cost". it is basically like paying less now on credit with a very large bill in the future, vs. paying more now and a small bill in the future.
the countries most responsible for blocking stronger language in this agreement were, according to this week's reporting, australia and saudi arabia, both fairly wealthy countries. meanwhile, a lot of much poorer african or pacific island countries are actually asking for *stronger* action on global warming because they fear they'll be the worst affected.
it’s an excuse with a pretty good foundation. considering those countries the least likely to be able to make the switch to the alternatives that do exist are also some of the poorest countries in the world, the relative cost and the ease of integration and operation are very important considerations.
it's a bad excuse.
1. everybody uses it. the usa, australia, japan - wealthy developed countries are using this excuse despite clearly being able to afford alternatives. sure, it will cost more money to replace coal plants with nuclear, replace gas cars with electric, etc. but those kind of things need to happen. if these wealthy countries can say "oh but it costs too much for me" then literally every other country can do the same.
2. if poor countries want to use their weak socioeconomic situation as an excuse for the status quo, they still need to justify their climate impact to those even *more* disadvantaged countries who are literally losing valuable land and having people displaced. is india ready to give land to bangladesh and some nearby s.e.asian countries to make up for the land they lose? india itself is expected to have at least 10 million people [displaced from sea level rise]( so i really doubt india will be willing, or even have the capacity, to help other countries.
poor countries are responsible for comparatively few emissions, though.
> if poor countries want to use their weak socioeconomic situation as an excuse for the status quo, they still need to justify their climate impact to those even more disadvantaged countries who are literally losing valuable land and having people displaced. is india ready to give land to bangladesh and some nearby s.e.asian countries to make up for the land they lose
...what the actual fuck? so your solution here is to reboot colonialism and "help" countries redraw their borders according to the whims of some westerner? and you use india as an example? 
i would invite you to read up on partition, and then consider whether or no what you're suggesting would ever happen -- particularly since india *is* a nuclear power. 
the global south isn't using their poverty as an *excuse*, it's the reality on the ground for them right now. they aren't going to shutter their coal power plants until they have an alternative that is workable and affordable -- nobody is going to invite the kind of unrest and chaos that would entail.
india would be beg to differ. the other problem is that poor countries that have historically had low emissions profiles are trying to industrialize and probably can’t do so with renewables alone, so those emissions will likely climb rapidly.
> ...what the actual fuck? so your solution here is to reboot colonialism and "help" countries redraw their borders 
i think this is a big miss-interpretation. i did not tell other countries to change their borders. i simply asked the question if india is going to help those other countries that will suffer the worst consequences of climate change, since india is still contributing to the problem and does not signal that they care at all about their emissions. india is just an example, but you could replace it with many other countries including the usa.
the global south is not going to avoid the damages, in fact they may suffer the most. even within the global south, countries are loading up far-term costs on figure generations for the effects of all their near-term ghg emissions.
first: india has a population of 1.4 billion. second: it is possible to industrialize with renewables.
> is india ready to give land to bangladesh and some nearby s.e.asian countries to make up for the land they lose?
well, gee -- when you write a sentence like that it's awfully difficult to come away with any other interpretation. 
countries in the global south *know very well* they are going to be hit hardest by climate change, climate-related refugees and famine. they have no illusions about that. 
india has over a billion people that it needs to feed & provide power and water for -- that's more people than north and south america combined and they're doing it with a fraction of the resources we use. so maybe lecturing them on their emissions and a casual threat to their border integrity isn't the most helpful opening.


i don’t understand why the minister of seniors is not a senior or at least close to being one. 
i can see in other portfolios like health and veterans affairs where there’s not as many people to pull from - but for seniors there’s lots of people who are older than 32 to choose from…
ministerial positions aren't the same as a job in that sector. aside from trudeau, their pre politics experience wasn't meaningful to any portfolio.
the job is to make decisions with the recommendation of the department. while considering the parties/pm current policy goals and potentially ideology.
in the past it was all politics and loyalty to thevparty. trudeau deviated and tried to involve his mps gender and pre-politics career. and that blew up in his face at least once. when an important minister was disloyal and created a scandal out of a administrative procedure 
the only position that has more requirements was the financial minister. which for optics tended to be the next most powerful politician to the pm and tended to have some random link to money.
and why would they be better at it? perhaps a younger perspective would actually be a benifit?
[deleted]
[removed]
what about attorney general? i found most of them are previously lawyers.
well how could a young person possibly understand the issues that seniors face to the same degree that a senior could?
sure you can learn second hand, but having lived experiences are better. 
i wouldn’t want a senior to be youth minister or white straight man to be diversity and inclusion minister. 
i understand that not every caucus has enough people that every minister has relevant experience, but when we can i’d think we should have it. it just seems silly not do it when there’s options.
>token appointment just so trudeau can look good versus finding the best available candidate imo
so who is this "best available candidate"?
if trudeau had put an old person in that role, you’d probably also call that a token appointment. i guess everyone is a token appointment unless they’re a straight white man? those are the only good people who get their jobs through merit, not token appointments?
wouldn't appointing an old person for the sake of having an old person be a token appointment?
yet he's ran the country for the last 6 years and everything is still here. imagine that!
removed for rule 3.
with empathy? you don't have to experience something personally to look at objectively, listen and problem solve. when you are personally affected you can lose that objectivity. you also have staff that you can draw from their experiences.
plenty of senior support services in the lower mainland that aren't run by seniors. for example.
seniors are not a catch all- there’s so much diversity: social, economic, regional and cultural. khera comes from a community where supporting seniors in a family unit is fundamental, providing and caring for seniors is a essential from her background. she also has experience by caring for seniors so seeing policy from a human lens and understanding how it could impact seniors is an asset. my dad is 65: should he be the seniors minister? age isn’t the qualifier here, leadership and being able to intake and give perspectives are.
uh, what?

just wanted to say that even though i hate doug ford, i really like this photo. slightly unbalanced and that gives the shot more emotion, the colors are great and the subtle red of the poppy is a great contrast to the blue sky.
excellent photojournalism.

> the monetarist theory predicts that, all else equal, the greater the increase in the money supply, the greater future price increases will be.
well, the issue is that all else is not equal.  velocity of money has been declining, and we have been facing deflationary pressures for a long time now.
note: the author is a former reform party mp and is a big proponent of things like a flat tax.  conservatives seem to like to stick to quantity of money kinds of theories despite that causing problems in the past (like in the 70s and 80s) and getting it wrong with predicted inflation in recent decades. quantity theory (which we have been seeing in action with things like qe) is hardly perfect either, and so the debate between quantity and monetary theorists continues.  so just keep in mind that the author represents one side of the argument.
kind of silly to think that our store shelves are empty because people are just buying too much stuff.
what agenda is postmedia trying to push letting articles like this seep into the discourse? come on folks, we know better then that.
a lot of people don't realize that the job market plays a huge role in inflation. if, for example, we had 0% unemployment we would have run away inflation. 
right now, we have a sort of artificial low unemployment number.
it is not because people are buying too much stuff, it is because the more money you print, the less it is worth.

as a nurse in ontario, i can see with certainty that this is what i'm seeing. nurses are leaving the field in droves - i know several that went and became realtors! - seeking higher pay, better hours, and some work/life balance.
i left a nurse manager job in which i was responsible for 500+ employees and the psw care of thousands of vulnerable patients in the gta. after covid-19 hit, i was expected to be on-call 24/7 to my boss, to public health, to the lhins, to our employees with covid-19 questions and concerns, etc. my working day went from 0830-1630 to 0700- ????.
the real kicker came when i found out that i could make more money doing temp work in local ltcs passing out meds and putting on bandages than i was doing my demanding, 24/7 manager job. so i quit. and i've been making between $40 - 60/hour for my time since then. this is less than many icu nurses are making right now to do the hardest jobs in healthcare. 
more and more nurses are walking away from their full time jobs. why sign your life over to a hospital and a government that doesn't give a shit about you? it's not just the wage freezes, it's the cancelled vacations, the mandatory black out dates, the forced overtime, the constant short-staffing, and the unsafe patient ratios. there's no reason to be a nurse anymore. no one respects us, no one values us, and no one is interested in paying us what we're worth. 
conservative governments are trying to break your healthcare system so they can force through 2-tier. and if they do that, guess which tier you'll be on? and guess what type of services and staffing you'll get there? a vote for the conservatives is a vote against nurses and healthcare. and one day, you're going to need us.
[removed]
ford has been out for nursing staff since before the pandemic. its has been eye opening to say the least and i certainly hope that nurses, hospital staff and the public remember this when it comes to voting this guy out. a stain on public services and an excellent example of what you get out of the conservative party.
you seem to imply the solution is to pay more. can we really afford to properly fund the system? i've come around recently to the idea two tier is the way to properly fund the system. functionally we already have it, as those that can afford to go to the us rather than sit in our queues for surgery, diagnostic, etc. clearly, we are politically unwilling or unable to fund the system. let people who can pay, pay for better quality. this will alleviate pressure in terms of patient load on the public system and create competition requiring the public system to be better to retain staff
removed for rule 3.
[removed]
why shouldn't we be paid more? a nurse in an ltc makes $23-26/hour, while the ltc itself is raking in several million dollars in funding from the government. that money is going to the owners and shareholders while the front line staff are underpaid, and your loved ones are having their diapers rationed. 
i disagree with you that we are politically unable or unwilling - it's simply that politicians no longer serve the will of the people. most canadians are concerned about climate change and want to see the government end subsidies for fossil fuels - and yet, despite broad support, they choose not to. 
healthcare is a human right. no one deserves better or worse healthcare based on how much money their parents have. taxing the rich and making healthcare better accessible for all (including dental, pharma, vision and mental health) is the only way to move forward.
myself and my md husband will quit or move before we work in a 2 tier system that privileges few while exploiting many.
yeah, because if conservative governments can be trusted to do one thing it's protect the public healthcare system when there's a for-profit option out there. clearly what we need in our society is *greater* stratification between the rich and the poor.
so what you're saying is a 2 tiered system already exists. we can either get healthcare on an as needed basis, or if you're impatient, you pay exorbitant sums to go to the us for surgery.
whereas if you're in the us and you dont have money, foreigners-- i mean canadians get to use your system because they have money. i guess no queue times if you're not lining up because you cant afford it... thats great, i guess.
[removed]
[removed]
removed for rule 2.
your comment seems to suggest that private ltc homes are using money saved from nursing costs as profit however this is not the case.
[removed]
[removed]
have you ever worked in an ltc? do you know how many people you are responsible for during your shift? this goes for nurses and psws.
thats how profits work, my dude. they're the leftovers after expenses. which is why ltcs are frequently short staffed and pay poorly.
they don't care if your loved ones are clean and comfortable.  they care that they're generating them revenue.
[removed]
[removed]

the article cites a cbre report claiming chinese purchase of canadian real estate plummeted from 3.9 billion to 181.5 million in 2020.  that drop conicides with a period of uncertainty throughout the  market, increase demand due to domestic pressure all from covid so i dont think it fair for the article to suggest it's some kind of shift in the behavior of chinese investors.  
i'm also suspicious of the numbers as a whole as it's quite complicated to determine where the money came from to buy a property.  chinese investor has a family member who is pr in canada buy the property and it looks like a domestic transaction.
finally, the article keeps mentioning this property in nova scotia is boggy and difficult to access like it's a huge and insurmountable problem.  swamps get drained, land gets flattened, roads get built.
i have local family and know the farmer pretty well. 
what the article fails to mention is the civil infrastructure investment that was required and the chinese plain refused and have been sitting on this for years. septic was required, there's no potable well water available for that many people. 
ns is not very welcoming for them
i'm not sure what your experience is but it's very difficult to build on or around a wetland in nova scotia. need approval from department of environment, then you need to remediate or create new wetlands at at least a 1:1 ratio, it might be more. tons of federal, provincial and municipal rules around development in and adjoining wetlands. also it's just hard; even when you get approvals there are challenging engineering issues you don't have to think about when you have better land.
which if you think about it is exactly the kind of oversight you might expect from a company used to building crazy shit on mainland china, where i'm guessing they don't have the environmental oversight we do in canada.
> i'm also suspicious of the numbers as a whole as it's quite complicated to determine where the money came from to buy a property.
sure, but this is tracking large institutional/commercial investors that are being much more vigorously monitored by the chinese government, especially compared to 5 years ago.  for chinese private investors who have an easier time obfuscating financial transactions there'll be many more individual investments but the value amount will be drastically lower.
as for the value of the ns swamp, they're talking about consistent, regular interest in terms of potential development.  someone coming out of nowhere with no real track record isn't a great predictor.
i think you're suffering from a failure of imagination with just how difficult, expensive and frankly dumb it would be to develop land like that.
i dont *know* but i would guess that the soil would be very silty or clay, so you would have to truck that out to a depth of 3 to 4 meters (at least) and then truck in soil you can use -- and only then can you start to think about preparing the subgrade to build something on top.
so yes, we can do this, but we probably wont.
i would argue that it will get built, it's just a matter of when.  i agree it's probably not economically feasible today, but in a world with an ever growing population and growing land prices it may one day make sense.  and when that day comes the geotech and general contractor will say "yes we can do that".  piles can solve most poor soil conditions, or secant or bentonite walls, or sheet piling are other solutions.  
a better argument against developing this land is an environmental one as bogs and wetlands are important ecosystems, or the economics of developing on poor soils.
\* piles wont help with freeze/thaw swelling, which is why the clay would have to go
\* to the best of my knowledge, there are not many roads built on piles in canada. its probably not 0, but i would imagine it is a very niche design
but yes, the obvious objection here is that draining wetlands to build stupid shit is incredibly wasteful and an ecological disaster. that hasn't really stopped us much in the past though, so i prefer to focus on the economic problems -- because that's all we care about apparently. like many engineering problems: sure, we can probably do (whatever) but how much are you willing to pay to do it?

i'm against online hate and disinformation but more than that i'm against governments getting involved in regulating the internet. trudeau should just leave the internet alone.
staunchly liberal and have voted liberal for 15+ years.
but touching the internet in any way shape or form and trying to apply censorship from big government will have me vote for anyone but you.
there is good and bad in the world, that is life, that does not give you the authority to police the internet for bad thoughts.
how do you think they would technically achieve a method to remove hate from the internet? the answer is massive surveillance. they would need to be able to see what you post and know who is posting it, and that should scare everyone. 
(yes i know the three letter agencies already pretty much have this, but they can't/wont really do anything to everyday citizens, regular government can)
can’t wait for politicians to choose what counts as hate speech and misinformation. this is entering the realm of getting in trouble for “wrong think”.
we need a super majority to determine hate and disinformation when this legislation is being passed. no government of the day should have this power.
you can have free speech or a controlled bubble wrapped world. you cannot have both, the 2 ideas are incompatible.
>trudeau’s live video address to the conference also highlighted another challenge that those working through internet have had to rise above during the pandemic — a failing connection that cuts you off from the people you are trying to connect with.
>about three minutes into his presentation from ottawa, trudeau’s screen froze, and then cut out.
bit of a giggle. happens to everyone, but to see it here is funny. 
>“he seems to have disappeared. anyway, thank you very much,” he said, calling on the french crowd to give the canadian prime minister a round of applause — which they did.
>“it just goes to show that he really is live, and we’re not so showing you pre-recorded videos.”
very professional spin on a bad situation, shows they planned ahead in case this happened to anyone, not just trudeau i think.
yet another pointless pledge that won't happen.
trudeau: stop rampant house price rises. do your actual job to protect canadians.
coming from a man who said communist china was the best type of government, is it a surprise he wants to control information.
i doubt he’s actually doing it for those reasons. theres stuff he’s said before that makes me nervous about the real intention of this thing
how about he fixes our first past the post election problems? or our shitty data plans? or any number of the original promises he made when we first got elected?
and who decides what is truthful? who decides what is hate? how much of what we say and do will we be stripped of in the name of "freedom"?
though on the other hand, if we ban lying online, we can essentially ban any and all political ads.
the problem with trudeau's approach on this issue is who decides what hate is? who decides the difference between disinformation and opinion?
if i were to write an article on the we scandal disagreeing with the outcome is that hate or disinformation? both?
there's no way an ideological government like trudeaus should be deciding any of this.
trudeau has become quite the beacon of safety. 
every policy he makes is for our safety. glad hes in office and looking out for helpless inner-city citizens like myself.
right...the canadian version of the chinese media filters.
we've seen this before people.
how did that work out in history?
i swear you've all been caught in a temporal causality loop.
[removed]
i’m here for it in principle, however i have yet to see a plan to achieve it that doesn’t end up muzzling anyone the government doesn’t like. the issue seems clear cut until you have to figure out what counts as misinformation, who decides that, how can you define the line between opinion and misinformation. internet regulatory activity becomes incredibly messy. 
further, any time government has tried to regulate the internet people have simply found ways around it. in china and iran using vpns to circumvent government censorship is laughably common, and these are governments that will use harsh measures to maintain their control. canada is a liberal democracy, we don’t have the stomach for the kind of enforcement necessary to make something like this kind of censorship work.
i don't think this would ever work unfortunately. there is literally no middle ground when it comes to internet censorship. realistically the only thing that we can do is host our own canadian platforms that moderate out hate speech and disinformation - but none of that would address the problem that trudeau is trying to front run. the same people susceptible to disinformation are the ones that would avoid moderated platforms in the first place.
ergo, the only way to execute/implement the lofty goals of a polite internet are censorship in the same vein as chinese censorship - where the chinese government literally has the same justification. 
on some level i understand, as china doesn't have the same anti-vax population as the western world. on the other hand, it's china.
also, china has shown us that vpns are effective tools to get around the internet police. this is going to be an effort in futility - like trump's wall.
man are the trolls shaking in their boots here. the lefts like it's about time and the right, that keeps getting kicked of social media for being trolls, are crying free speach. there's no right to be a troll, it's about time. it will have to abide by the charter of rights and freedoms, and they're going to have to look at the other stuff, instead of just the one bit they cry in defense. yes it's time to censor viral speech.
while i agree something needs to be done about the brainrot caused by shit like qanon and organizations pretending to be informative lime rebel media, infowars and the like, i do not think censorship is the answer. censorship is objective and an imperfect way of solving a problem. all it does is affirm the beliefs of people who already *think* they are being censored. the people behind the misinformation need to be brought down one by one. it will be a daunting task. but honestly who wouldnt want to see someone like alex jones be held responsible for lying about whats in vaccines? we cannot go after the information space, we need to go after the individuals responsible who push misinformation to in turn also push products that they claim are better alternatives to modern medicine. lets get the supplement market regulated like it ought to be. let's take down these not-doctors and hold their feet to the legal fire so they cant pull this shit again. lives are at stake here. we got morons interrupting remembrance day ceremonies to spout antivax nonsense they get from facebook. it all needs to end.

this is such a meaningless question to ask. of course i think all mps should be vaccinated if medically able, for their health and the health of those around them.
however, do i think that not being vaccinated should result in them not being allowed to perform their duly elected mandate? no, absolutely not. you don't fuck with democracy by putting extra conditions on those elected to represent us.
so then the question that should be asked is "what should happen to unvaccinated mps"? and there you get nuance. as long as unvaccinated mps can participate fully in the process, i'm ok with them being asked to participate remotely. if in any meaningful way that would mean that they cannot participate to the same extent as a physically present mp, then the restriction is off the table in my eyes. either have everyone be remote or nobody.
i support the idea that if you're going to go to parliament in person then you should have your shots.  but, for those who don't, there should be a remote option available.
[removed]
so strange… people are fanatics over vaccines. on both sides, pro and anti. i’m anti mandates. i think it’s odd to force anyone or coerce anyone to do something they don’t want to. and context speak volumes.
really though how many thousands of man hours will we dedicate to the shaming, when they can take a rapid test and go about their business without harm. 
  politics- always about optics above substance
[removed]
let's let the cooks decide if they should wash their hands before making your meal. or we'll just let anyone work in hospitals and do medical work. wouldn't want to ask someone to do something they don't want to!
i agree.  the political theatre is annoying.
thank you for some context. using an analogy like that is strange to me considering the subject matter we’re comparing. i think the vaccine is great. seems to be doing good work for at risk demographics. the obese, elderly and those with underlying health conditions. 
im trying to be sincere here when i ask about these sentiments… 
but you don’t find the global push to get the entire human population vaccinated as something logistically impossible? 
we’re going to encounter variants whether you like it or not, seems to be endemic. 
whether we get the variants from unvaccinated spread or vaccinated spread both scenarios have potential. there’s even the argument that vaccinated breakthrough cases and spread can put evolutionary pressure on the virus to escape vaccine efficacy. and there seems to be no talk of the law of declining virulence as years go on.  you don’t have to debate me regarding these realities, ive talked to my doctor about this candidly since we have a relationship after i was diagnosed with a from of amyloidosis. 
it’s like we’re all reactionaries no more moderates. we’re focusing ire and irrational rhetoric and blame on people for an airborne virus that you could catch from vaccinated or unvaccinated people alike. i’m vaccinated and work with employees and have worked the entire pandemic in private avaition. i’ve had people come in with full blown flu like symptoms convinced it’s not covid because they’re double vaxxed therefore they’re not going out to get tested. 3 instances like that the last couple months. that’s more irresponsible to me than a unvaccinated person who goes gets tested the moment he/she feels symptoms and has masked and social distance and followed regulations indefinitely.

its a perfect illustration of just how fucking dumb the drafters of the new curriculum were.
the point they tried to make is that you have to have balance in the curriculum.  if you talk about the bad aspects of something, try to talk about the good.  its not an inherently dumb point.
if your next thought when writing that point down is "for example, the nazis." then there's something seriously wrong.  there were a million examples they could have gone with and that's the fucking one they chose.
i get what they were trying to do by using examples of how nazi policies garnered them support, but man is that shit wording.
in berlin there is a museum on foundation of the old ss headquarters called the topography of terror, that is by far and away the deepest dive into anything i've ever seen at a museum.
for example, there was an exhibit on exploring the roll the writings of martin luther had on the rise of nazism 400 years later, and how those writings were used to bolster the nazi position by the leadership. it's *that* level of detail. the museum is like reading a thesis.
the topography of terror goes into detail about the post-wwi changes that helped earn the support of the german people for the nazi regime.
i think *that* was the goal of that example, not an apple to apples "sure they were bad but the autobahn is rad" comparison.
like then white house chief of staff general kelly supposedly told trump (after the latter allegedly praised hitler's handling of the german economy) "the german people would have been better off poor than subjected to the nazi genocide."
what's crazy about this is it seems the students at the university of alberta seemed to be pretty wise to what direction germany was going under hitler back in 1933. unfortunate folks living in the same city eight decades latter cannot see things as clearly in retrospect to use that regime as an example. 
part 1: [
part 2: [
part 3: [
part 4: [
edit: "without a doubt, there is a page of history being written that germany will not be proud to look back upon" - november 10th, 1933
it's a shame they couldn't get into the details as to why their economy turned around in the mid-30s - ramp-up of their military sector to get ready for a war, appropriation of possessions from jewish families and businesses, etc. 
it's not like they had a secret economic policy that we haven't been able to reproduce since.
>the centre says it’s shocking that the alberta ministry of education would consider the genocidal nazi regime as an example of a group that had positive impacts, given the murder of 6 million jews and millions of others.
>“in what world could collaboration or cooperation have taken place between nazis and the groups they targeted for complete annihilation?” said michael levitt, president and ceo of fswc in a statement.
>“the fact that alberta students could have possibly been fed such an outrageous proposition is extremely troubling. we expect the ministry of education to address this issue immediately.”
alright, so here's the passage they take issue with:
>does the resource reveal both the positive and negative behaviours and attitudes of the various groups portrayed? for instance, if a video details war atrocities committed by the nazis, does it also point out that before world war ii, german government’s policies substantially strengthened the country’s economy? resources dealing with world history sometimes focus on the ways in which the developed nations have exploited the developing countries. some canadian history print and digital resources dwell on the mistreatment of fnmi peoples by caucasians and do not include any examples of non-fnmi individuals or groups actively opposing this type of treatment. **without omitting or glossing over the many instances when members of one group have cruelly wronged persons of another group, the resource should attempt to provide some balance by presenting factors causing the behaviour or portraying positive qualities exhibited by members of the group that have acted inappropriately. asking students to suggest ways in which members of these groups can collaborate or could have cooperated to bring about positive interaction and understanding of one another can be a valuable strategy.**
i can kind of see the point of using this example for teaching critical thinking, to understand how the nazis came about (though their economic success was in fact the result of the weimar republic, i believe). or how, post-war, people like [friedrich flick]( a convicted nazi war criminal, became one of the richest men in west germany.
i don't think that anyone is asking how jews and nazis could "collaborate or could have cooperated to bring about positive interaction and understanding of one another," for all that they ended with that. 
i do think it is important to teach all facets of history, not whitewash or ignore parts that we find inconvenient, and it's pretty obvious the nazis are bad, and whatever good they did doesn't come close to balancing the harm done (also, their economic policies were pretty bad from what i've read, so i don't think they'll get much credit there).
in the end, they really should have used a better example here.
anyways, the only part i really don't like is that they seem to be phrasing how everything must be "balanced." the idea that "some did some good, some did some bad" ignores *degree* - if, say, 9 out of 10 people mistreated indigenous people (an understatement, i know), giving equal time to the one person who did the opposite is misrepresenting history. not everything has to be balanced because not everything is balanced. it reminds me of this [bias towards fairness]( scene.
let's be clear here: there was nothing objective or balanced about the example of "fairness" given by alberta's so-called teaching guideline. yes, the germany economy improved during the mid to late 1930s, but that is not something to be praised.  hitler and his henchmen deliberately built a war economy, the purpose of which was to wage a war of aggression, to conquer europe, to create lebensraum in the east, and to destroy those who the nazis perceived to be inferior races. hitler was very clear throughout the 1920s and 1930s that jews in particular were the enemy, but he also pronounced that slavs were inferior. the whole point of the prewar rearmament program was to perpetrate injustice, which was quickly evident after poland fell in 1939. after the war began, the nazi economic "miracle" was sustained by the massive looting of other countries and by slave labour. for a school curriculum to balance "human rights abuses" with "economic achievements" is a classic example of false equivalents. whoever approved this study guide for students knows nothing about history. this proposed curriculum was in the spirit of jim keegstra.
you can't talk about the rise of the nazi party without talking about its rise to power and its populist policies that took an impoverished, broken country, to a world power within a decade.  
the 2 ideas are inextricably linked.  without the policies that grew and strengthened the nazi regime, the nazi party fails.  
electorates elect people who bring financial stability.  the nazi party did that. they brought jobs, controlled inflation, innovation, industry, and deflected insecurities and projected them onto the jews.  if you were to deflate house prices, bring back, "good jobs", and reinvigorated the canadian economy, while telling everyone that it was all the fault of the british/anglicans, it would slowly gather traction, and before you know it, canada's invading the uk, and demanding the royal family's head on a plate.
edit: the nazis weren't elected.  there wasn't a clear majority and at the time, the weimar republic required some form of majority or coalition.  since coalitions couldn't be formed, and the nazis had won the most votes, (think liberals winning 35%, ndp 22% and conservatives 31%, other =12%. no this isn't equating the liberal party to the nazis just making a mathematical point), the nazis declared themselves winners, and went about removing opposition and dissenting voices, with extreme violence (thus proving that the liberals are not even close to being as horrible and terrifying as the nazis. no canadian political party is that bad, today).  but, their nationalistic dreams and ideals to externalize the enemy allowed them to fund their own military industrial complex, which increased gdp.  bear in mind increased gdp =/= improved economic outcomes for regular folk. ppp is a better statistic to use. however, perception is reality, so, increased gdp, meant good governance.  also, telling the majority of the population that "we're going to murder all these people who are extremely wealthy and take their wealth, and once we've done that, we'll take over the continent, and all of you beloved soldiers will retire in mansions, and eat caviar and drink champagne until you die" helped.
while i agree it should be changed, i think it's important that history is taught from a neutral lens. the holocaust wasn't carried out by alien space monsters, it was carried out by humans who were enticed by a strong leader in a time of depression. i think it's important that we teach future generations that if they grew up in nazi germany, they could have easily become a nazi. also that by simply following orders does not wipe one's hands of moral atrocities.
i would like to point out that the alberta government has already been called out on the issues of the good of nazi germany. i remember reading a post about it on reddit and there was some murmurs but adriana legrange refused to remove it from the curriculum. adriana legrange is still trying to force the ucps backward curriculum into schools. despite many educators saying that the new curriculum actually will be a throw back to the 1950s education standard. the ucp are a real danger to the education of future generations. the ucp took alberta’s education curriculum, created by teachers and educators and had a review  panel that had zero diversification. i should state that is was also an all male panel. the panel also included a former jason kenney political staffer that has published racist and anti-indigenous materials, chris champion. all of these issues were brought up before the ucp confined it was going ahead with the curriculum, only 17% of albertans likes the new curriculum.
there is one rural community that will be implementing the new curriculum, it also has almost 500 students in the community and over 100 of them tested positive for covid. they didn’t shut down the school because they’re  also antimask and antivaxxers. the ucps way is keep people dumb and uneducated so they will keep voting against their best interest and continue to vote conservative.
when i was in school we had to do the same with communism when it came to pointing out positives and negatives of the ideology but i'm guessing that won't be getting the same treatment?
i'm constantly surprised that nazi supporters just don't seem bright enough to frame things differently. saying that a poor economy allowed the nazi party to gain a political foothold, and that their good economic performance allowed them to gain the power and control necessary to start a war probably would have gone unchallenged. saying that there was an upside to the nazis is sure go be (rightfully) challenged.
it's probably good to understand the political and economic conditions that allowed such a morally bankrupt group to gain and retain power.
agreed, so many better examples than the nazis (like why are you jumping to them in the first place? lol). especially in a province with a dark history of a populist party with an anti-semitic streak riding a wave in the 1930s like social credit did.
>drafters of the new curriculum were
the document is question is from **1984**.
i think its important to illustrate that the harsh punishments on germany led to a country that could not recover until hitler came in. yes, he is hated now but before wwii he was celebrated world wide. the guy literally won time man of the year. it's important to illustrate how bad it was before him and how the positive affects he did have early in his tenure resulted in people looking passed the atrocities.
it's important to teach people this was not somebody who just overthrew a government, he worked his way up a party very quickly and was celebrated for it. people decided that the bad was worth the potential upside and that's something that should be noted in regard to today.
wow, nice find.  wtf is going on out there today?  i get that kenney and his goons are... goons.  but *this* goonish?
they also flat out stopped paying their ww1 debts, i know i’d be a lot richer if i could get away with not paying my debts.
they were also benefiting from the good economic policies and infrastructure projects of their predecessors
i think a far larger issue with the entire concept of this argument is that it requires agreeing that the nazi government was accurately reporting economic conditions. 
to not acknowledge immediately that a nation who covered up the slavery and murder of entire societies was probably lying about their accomplishments… i mean c’mon.
ve report zat ze econonomie ist strong, heil hitler! was the title of every powerpoint presentation i’m sure.
it’s like complimenting genghis khan for lowering the co2 levels in the atmosphere by killing a hundred million people.

remembrance day was begun to commemorate the great war of 1914-18, during which soldiers wore masks in order to protect themselves from poison gas. when the big guns were set up yesterday in queens' park in toronto for the remembrance day salute, all the soldiers were wearing masks (in contrast to the police, who were not). mask wearing is part of canada's military tradition, for obvious, logical reasons, and so are vaccine mandates. as the armed forces well understand, these measures save lives.
if you want to see the disconnect between /r/canadapolitics commentary and basically every other canadian sub, here's the thread.
other subs: _these protestors are bad people_.
this sub: _the rcmp has gone too far!_
>"kelowna rcmp officers support a person's or groups' right to protest, but when they choose to willfully interrupt the assembly of citizens at a remembrance day ceremony, this is a step too far," insp. adam macintosh said in a news release.
> "the kelowna rcmp will be fully investigating this event to determine what offence, criminal or otherwise, may have been committed and, if appropriate, the submission of charges or fines."
i agree with the sentiment, but it's not the rcmp's place to say it.  and it's ***definitely*** not the rcmp's place to decide what expressions of free speech are so shameful that they investigate to try and find something they can trump up into a charge.  
i can't believe i'm reading a story about antivax protests at a remembrance day ceremeny and most of my outrage is directed at someone other than the antivax protesters.
nice to hear the rcmp come out right and say that what makes a protest illegal is whether it hurts their feelings.
not having a poppy on: “you people”, “show some respect”, “it’s the least you could do”, “they can go back where they came from if they don’t like it”.
protesting at an actual ceremony: “well we shouldn’t overstep and criticize”, “it’s their right to protest”.
hmmm, i wonder what the political difference is.
i live in the us now and the day after biden’s inauguration people in my neighbourhood started flying american flags upside down and at half-mast. they are learning from trump fans and we are all the worse off. this is toddler behaviour
yes, but leaving flags down on remembrance day is ok. 1,159,000 canadians served. (some of my family) 44,090 canadians died so the flag could stay up.
the police have no business telling us when and what is acceptable to protest.
where?  sure, i'll hear that, but what and when?  not a chance.
we need more information here.
the remembrance day gathering was not an official city of kelowna event as that was cancelled because of covid. so, that means both groups had a right to be at the city park unless there’s permits involved we’re not aware of.
which… really means nobody committed a crime unless there was properly damage, violence, or theft.
obviously it’s incredibly poor taste for these yahoo’s to protest remembrance day because they’re mad they need a vaccine to go to a gym, but i don’t see the criminality here.
[removed]
the antivax comments in this sub have had me scratching my head. i thought this sub was more liberal biased but the antivaxxers will come out on all these threads.
yeah, i’m genuinely surprised at the reaction in this sub. the universal reaction to this protest in all other subs has been disgust. i didn’t know there were so many anti-vaxxers lurking.
it's the different focus of these places. and it doesn't imply a divergence of believe. both of those statements can be true. 
- those antivaxxers protesting at the cenotaph on remembrance day: bad people. 
- the rcmp commenting, *as the rcmp*, on the morality of those people: not their place and exceeding their official capacity.
the rcmp should not be in the place of issuing moral judgement on the acts and behaviours of canadian citizens. their job is to enforce and uphold **the law**, not their personal sense of decency.
they're both right.
>other subs: these protestors are bad people.  
>  
>this sub: the rcmp has gone too far!
what's the problem? both statements are true, so there's no disagreement.
out of those links, only the /r/canada link includes the quote by the rcmp in the title and the further comment by the rcmp that they are going to look further than they normally would into whether they can find something to charge the protestors with because they disagree with the protestors politically.
i wouldn’t have thought of complaining about the rcmp without that context.
rcmp:  "we are going to investigate if any crimes were committed."
this sub: "this is shameful and a gross violation of the rcmp's duties!"
[outside of this sub-reddit]( it seems that canadians find this occurrence to have been _objectively_ shameful.
because it is.
the rcmp are responding to public outrage.
came here to say this. the anti-vaxxers have to be the dumbest ever when it comes to pr and building sympathy with their causes, between protesting in front of hospitals and at remembrance day ceremonies, but fuck the rcmp telling people when and how they should protest. that's not how protests works, buddy.

best protection is a cheque. what are you going to pay people not to drain the sloughs? with a quarter of land worth a million dollars and rent that is nearing $140/acre they'll get drained.
> best protection is a cheque.
i don't mind market solutions...
what would actually work best, would you say?  buying the land outright?  an annual remittance?  other suggestion?
this is usually how it works. some market-based mechanisms like reverse auctions, conservation easements and water retention bmps are becoming common on the prairies.
ooof.... where abouts are you that rates are that high?
annual remittance, afsc could handle it. they have your fields and at least some sort of auditors to verify claims. you'd have to be willing to spend more than a farmer would make on a wheat crop to be successful. when commodities get back to normal my price would be $100/acre. they'll never match canola but that would be tempting for us anyway.
we could call it “bucks for wildlife” to pay landowners to keep natural areas.
i'd want to know what they end up paying. working with ducks unlimited is closer to an act of charity. the amounts in the states don't interest me, it would have to be extremely marginal land.
east central alberta. the rent prices slowly slogged up to ~$90 and skipped all the way up to $130 this year. land prices for good dirt missed the 7 and 8 hundred thousand range entirely.
depends, reverse auctions let people who could retain wetlands bid on conservation easements. that way the most amount of wetlands are protected for a given investment.
manitoba $45-50 for nice dirt.
your area is very coveted indeed

[removed]
just a very cool reminder that not only did the [ndp go out their way to defeat a government bill]( that would have imposed criminal penalties for defrauding cerb, which would have made convictions for this type of activity easier - but they basically celebrated doing so.
existing criminal penalty provisions didn’t speak specifically to cerb, meaning convictions will have to rely on more vaguely applicable laws - which might jeopardize convictions.
so great job guys! it’s almost like the government knew what it was talking about when it proposed the measures.
organized crime seems to imply mafia or something like that, but from what i can tell,this seems like it's just happening in the same communities where other fraud is prevalent such as insurance fraud, not some gang operation
never have expected that from those nice dudes. seriously, what is the news in that? the government laxed rules with a promise to come after trackable offenders. no one was in the mood to ask about non trackable offenders.
organized crime 'knowingly and actively' exploits anything they think they can make a profit from.
this is aggravating, but not really a surprise.
> "reporting entities indicated that criminal organizations, using stolen ids and individuals recruited via social media, are operating 'cerb scams' in certain cities; prepaid cards are loaded with cerb benefits and other laundered funds," said the intelligence report.
friendly reminder that solicitors are not [reporting entities](
> the report also said payments were sent to people who appear to have been engaged in illegal or suspicious financial activity. fintrac said some clients received cheques despite not living in canada and while appearing to live in "a jurisdiction of concern." those are countries and areas that fintrac views as posing a higher money laundering or terrorist financing risk.
so some portion of cerb financed organized crime and global terrorism.
> "given that there is no monetary threshold associated with the reporting of a suspicious transaction, it is not possible to provide an accurate number in relation to the total amount of cerb/ceba funds that may have gone to organized crime," said spokespesron mélanie goulette nadon.
and we're not sure how much, because what we were told about was ad-hoc and voluntarily provided by concerned reporting entities.
> "canada is a pretty significant economy, there's significant criminal activity and there's significant financial criminal activity happening in this country and i would say that broadly speaking, law enforcement isn't good at detecting and disrupting that activity."
law enforcement isn't good at detecting and disrupting the activity because _the rules are stacked against them_. solicitors don't have to report, and there's no monetary threshold for reporting suspicious transactions, and every level of government is well aware that our casinos are havens for organized crime to launder _huge_ amounts of cash, but we allow them to operate with relative impunity.
and this is just for the small values in large quantities, the four to six figure amounts. who knows how much money is laundered through bigger transactions, like housing?
last i heard, [david eby was still struggling to get fintrac to cooperate with his investigation into that matter](
yes, that was obvious and well known, real question needing an answer is what will be done about it?
anecdotally i see a perfectly over simplified attack add point for upcoming elections:     
* lpc funded organized crime during the pandemic
they were spraying money out of a proverbial fire hose at anything that moved. 
the criminals that made bank out of that free-for-all didn't have to be "organized",and most of them weren't.
i posted many times in the discussions about why trudeau called an earlier election that it was in part because of the slow leak of information that would start coming out about fraud and abuse of his covid relief programs and opaque $400 billion in deficit spending.
bitter sweet to be proven right.
[removed]
rule 3
there’s still identity theft charges for what’s described in the article which carry up to a 10x longer prison sentence than the proposed cerb fraud bill.
just a cool reminder that the liberals told everyone to sign up for cerb and then figure out eligibility later. when they decided on the rules they decided to bring criminal charges against people who signed up before the eligibility rules were released and practically criminalized being poor.
yes it does make it harder to charge for cerb fraud and, yes that is good. because there are a lot of people who didn't qualify for cerb who were encouraged to apply for it by their mps if they met the "intent" of cerb. they also would have been much easier to charge if the ndp hadn't done what they did. 
so yes the police have to do work to catch criminals, but i'm not going to feel bad that the police have to do their jobs if it means vulnerable people are better off.
good for the ndp, terrible idea, worse bill
> dark arts practitioner l lpc
fucking lmao dude
i'm ok with that. the original bill would have led to criminal prosecution of individuals who messed up applications, and of very-small-time cheaters. those people were not the problem. 
surely the kinds of activities described in this article - actual organized crime - can be prosecuted under existing fraud laws. if not, we have a larger problem that should be addressed with broader criminal law reforms.
what organizes crime did is easy to convict. mostly identity theft and other frauds. 
what the bill was directed to were trackable individuals, just to appease the ‘they are just too lazy to work’ folks about people getting ‘free money’. 
unrelated. catch organized crimes then let’s talk about the effectiveness of charging them.
if the liberals had actually wanted that bill to pass, they would have tabled it anyways and the cpc probably would have voted for it, since  punishing people on social assistance is very much on brand for them.
instead the liberals waited until they got their soundbite of opposition from the ndp and then just gave up, waiting until they could use it to attack the left, as you're doing here.
might you say canada has a *welfare queen* problem? ^(/s)

this is the type of stuff that is making the cpc drop in the polls. o'toole needs to kick these people if he wants the public to take the cpc serious.
the fact the petition is initiated by a retired pharmacology professor is even more distressing 
anyway, this doesn't appear to be in the same category as the [elizabeth may 9/11 truther petition,]( since she immediately disavowed it but felt she had a duty to present it. allison is doing no such distancing.
> “call upon the government of canada to urgently examine the evidence in favour of ivermectin and consider making ivermectin available immediately to canadians as a schedule ii medication, obtained directly from a pharmacist.”
what about the evidence not in favour of ivermectin for covid? one day we may have an endemic parasite problem and we can be all aboard for the parasite medicine though.
i like this particular flavour of anti-vax, because the alternative is another more expensive and less effective pharma product. i'm more sympathetic when the treatment is like st. johns wort, that can at least make sense as the idea would be that it contains a range of compounds that may have a benefit. 
this is like rejecting insurance and instead lobbying for easier access to high interest loans.
there's a reason we regulate medicines the way we do.
if you get sick with a life-threatening disease, people who make and sell medicines have every reason to tell you or your loved ones whatever you want to hear in order to sell thier product. 
with hydroxychloroquine and now ivermectin these were first suggested as covid-19 therapies when there were no good alternatives. 
there are multiple vaccines that have been studied better than almost any other drug and that actually prevent covid-19. they have been reviewed thoroughly by government scientists and physicians. the data have been released (
how is it so many people fail to understand the difference in medication for humans and horses... or the difference between a parasite and a virus?
[removed]
these people *are* the cpc.  the same idiots still think climate change is a hoax.  the conservatives have courted the nutjobs for so long that they're a very significant portion of the party faithful.
i don't get that these people refuse to take this one medicine that has been approved and studied more than any other, but will take horse medicine.
because their entire identity is being contrarian and accepting reality would shatter their sense of self.
at this point they’re literally actively trying to be wrong. like they do with climate change and any other thing that goes against their ideology.
if you're sincere in wondering, it's because it's also medicine for humans that was shown to inhibit the action of the covid virus *in vitro.* this is totally different from being effective *in vivo,* but a lot of doctors and researchers jumped on it anyway and started saying "this might actually work." but it doesn't. a great many studies were done, and most showed no significant effect, but there were some that showed some mildly encouraging results. these turned out to be mostly illusory as well. in the meantime actual doctors started prescribing it, and many countries in latin america were actually distributing it as part of their anti-covid efforts.
it's a good example of how confirmation bias leads scientists to find the results they want to find, but how sheer volume of research can overcome this. similarly doctors can easily be led to believe that their treatment works - i prescribe treatment, patient gets better, b follows a therefore a caused b. post hoc ergo propter hoc. for what it's worth the doctors who were originally begging and pleading for governments to fund ivermectin research for covid have since come out and told people that the science is in and it doesn't work. but at the time, they thought they had really found something that worked.
does this mean that people were stupid to buy into it in the first place? i think it's a little harder to say that. compare the behaviour with wearing masks long before we knew that wearing masks was effective.
*at this point* we can say that anybody promoting it is definitely being willfully blind at best. but the "horse medicine" stuff, while it makes for great memes, is mostly about mockery and self-congratulatory "look how dumb these people are" posturing than sincere efforts to fully explore the complexity of the issue. some people, like the youtuber vaush, are pretty open that this is a tactical decision, that mockery and shaming have the greatest probability of changing the greatest amount of behaviour. i happen to think that's pretty cynical but at least he's honest about it. in any case, here is the answer to your question about how they fail to understand the difference between medication for horses and humans, or between parasites and viruses.
trigger the horse has entered the chat.
rule 3
there is ivermectin for humans and ivermectin for horses.
irrelevant. it doesn't do shit for covid. it's perfectly fine for river blindness in humans, but has not been proven to do a single thing for covid.
i never said it did. i said there are two types.

> “when you look behind mr. o’toole, people see a very conservative party, rooted in rural areas. and so it’s a difficult hurdle to overcome and i am not really sure what the solution is for them going forward other than to work on tone. [that] might help,” he said.
not really in favour of this "change of tone" suggestion.  it doesn't really address the fundamental differences that exist within the cpc.  rather it attempts to hide or mask them, to create a facade.
the solution is for the majority of cpc supporters to jettison the fringe elements of their party, to cut them loose.
iow, don't underestimate the size of the lpc-cpc swing voter cohort.
edit: the becomes them
you are right, i used to vote conservative but these days i just can't with the vocal fringe element driving policy changes. if they could go back to the roots of being socially liberal and fiscally conservative then they would win by a landslide.
you'd need pro rep for that to become a feasible political strategy.
> ...they would win by a landslide.
well let's not get too carried away!
when were the conservatives socially liberal?
that's not the roots of the conservative party.
where do i sign up?!
before they merged with the reform party they were much more socially liberal.
reform was stronger than the pcs.  so, the roots are actually socially conservative.
i said before they merged with the reform party. the conservative party has a very long history before the reform party was even an idea in preston manning head. it was the reform party that introduced these right wing fringe elements that have distorted the policies of the previous eras. my comment stated that they were more socially liberal before the merge with the reform party, so no, it's roots aren't the reform party, it was a fringe party that came on the scene and caused the liberals to get a majority after majority with vote splitting. this abomination that calls themselves the conservatives today is getting extreme right wing policy pushed by a small, vocal, anti-vaxxer and anti-abortion sect within the party.
this is always an interesting topic of conversation and one that i think always needs a bit more context. i tend to agree that the progressive conservative party did have a tradition that was more socially liberal, broadly speaking, than the current conservative party of canada but i have to ask if that isn't a bit overstated due to trends in partisanship. 
abortion is an interesting case for instance because of the way it divided the pc party in the 1980s, but it also divided the liberals when the matter came before parliament. the same is true of same-sex marriage during the chretien-martin era of the liberal party. so while the pc party of the 1980s and 1990s may have been more socially liberal than the current cpc, the lpc of the past was more socially conservative than the current iteration of the party as well. the parties of the past were, in essence, broader tents that incorporated more viewpoints. the socially conservative views that now are contained exclusively within the cpc used to be spread out between the parties a bit more. now however, the lpc and cpc are more ideologically cohesive.
the question to be asked is did reform cause this ideological sorting? to that i don't really have an answer. reform and subsequently the alliance did become a home for a lot of discontented right-wingers that were unsatisfied voting for the big tent pcs, but i don't think that right-wing discontent was generated by reform itself. i think it probably always existed within the canadian electorate and eventually ideological sorting would have occurred whether reform existed or not. parties simply decided that the tents were going to be smaller.
look at ontario post-bill davis. you have a pc party leader who was a red tory. in 1985 when he steps down and, due to some discontent with decisions that davis had made in his final term, the party elects frank miller a true blue conservative. since then the same ideological sorting seen at the federal level is present in ontario. the pc party went from a big tent that dominated ontario politics for 40 years to a more explicitly right wing party. in the same province the olp, a party that used to be more conservative and dominated by farmers, has become a more explicitly liberal party. this sorting started before reform even came into existence and far away from the reform party's voting base.
but again we can't re-run history to see what would have happened had reform never existed so who knows? my feeling is that parties and leaders slowly came to become more ideologically cohesive as a part of electoral strategies or even natural processes of ideological sorting and that this would have happened regardless of reform.
the pcs merged into the reform, not the other way around.  the conservatives comes mainly from the reform party.  that's the point.
> ...before the reform party was even an idea in preston manning head.
i wonder what manning actually thinks about vaccine mandates and so on.
in the early days of reform i had some level of respect for manning.  unlikely to vote for the entire reform package, but i thought they actually made a good case for certain policies.
lately though, manning seems to have retreated, becoming a bit of a caricature of himself.
you may be right and i don't think the reform party created any of those beliefs, they simply gave a voice to them. where before the only right leaning party was the pcs. you are also correct that both the pcs and lib were much more center based parties then they are today. it's the shifting away from the center that is hurting us today. we see that same shift but in a more advanced state to the south of us, as well as the issues it can cause. no one now is giving a voice to the social liberal but fiscal conservatives so we have to hold our nose and vote for the best of multiple bad options.

reject china, accept britain and taiwan.
this is very simple. the usa would block the chinese from joining using the new nafta clause anyways so there is little point in entertaining this ideal.

the max population a seat should be should be 100k, meaning ontario (and alberta) get the representation they deserve because sk and atlantic provinces only have about 80k
paywall, can't read. what little i can says something about reducing the size in general? what the hell is she talking about?
i love when canadian journo look to the us electoral system and decided we should important it’s worst elements here as well.
limiting the number of mps is an incredibly bad idea, and anyone that suggests it is not thinking through the obvious implications it would have. larger ridings are less representative, and that’s gonna cause problems when populations grow. it’s had awful distorting impacts in the us. there are deceased of data showing how why it’s a bad idea and there is a reason electoral systems expects are soundly opposed.
i think they are going to have to work backwards.
(quebec seats - representation rule) x canadian population / quebec population + representation rule = total seats
(78 - 2) \* 38,201,889 / 8,575,779 +2 = 341
that way quebec's seats can stay the same continually.
in 2011, dion suggested capping the house at 308 legislators and redistributing seats based on population distribution rather than by absolute population (so abandoning the constituent to legislator ration that elections canada uses to determine whether seats should be added or removed from a province).  there doesn't appear to be any real discussion about reviving this capped 308 seat idea, but the author is acting like this is under active consideration again right now.
personally, i'd rather see the house grow even more than 4 seats.  get more voices that have fewer constituents rather than creating super-legislators that have to maintain huge staffs just to handle their constituency outreach and only provide a single voice for a region.
or they can be ignored and let them sink back to the 75 seats they had a decade ago.
huge staffs? the average mp has 4-6 staff total. that is between ottawa and the riding...not that many
i prefer this middle ground. expanding things even more means even more backbenchers not doing all that much. you complain about huge staffs but there'd be the same, just maybe spread over more. or probably even more staff. more housing and travel costs. more mp salaries. you'd need somewhere bigger to house them all. but thanks for the explaining what she was talking about.
i'm all good with giving gta more power
that has changed now most mps have 2-4 in ottawa and another few in there riding.
if there's one thing the pandemic has shown us, is that it is possible to conduct parliamentary business remotely.
unless they are paying the staff under 40k a year their budgets would not fit four staff in ottawa
i'd like most mps to remain as remote as possible.

>“they told me straight out ‘no’ because \[ms. henein\] defended jian ghomeshi and how do you explain that to little girls,” ms. lee said.
they're punishing her because she's a defence lawyer? and they don't think they can take advantage of this teaching opportunity because it's too difficult to explain to girls? that's all kinds of back-assward. how are these people educators?
>the superintendent, helen fisher, also told her that students would not participate in a book-club event scheduled for february with nadia murad, **a nobel prize-winner and activist**, ms. lee said. she said she was told ms. murad’s book, the last girl: my story of captivity, and my fight against the islamic state, would foster islamophobia.
...you're fucking kidding me. these girls have a chance to speak with a nobel prize-winner, and they don't want to promote the opportunity? and the absolute irony is they're doing so to prevent islamophobia...because they've confused isis with islam? 
rein in this bullshit equity department.
> ms. lee said she was told the school board’s **equity department** felt the lawyer would send the wrong message.
equity department huh? somehow you just know this is a thinly-disguised department of unnecessary politicization.
> “they told me straight out ‘no’ because [ms. henein] defended jian ghomeshi and how do you explain that to little girls,” ms. lee said.
the right to a free and fair trial is somehow too "out there" to explain to teenagers. what a world. 
> the superintendent, helen fisher, also told her that students would not participate in a book-club event scheduled for february with nadia murad, a nobel prize-winner and activist, ms. lee said. she said she was told ms. murad’s book, the last girl: my story of captivity, and my fight against the islamic state, would foster islamophobia.
this woman was straight up captured and raped by isis, escaped from them, and the school board is concerned about 'islamophobia'. it is sad to see progressives slide into lunacy and try and enforce their beliefs in children.
for anyone who forgets who marie henein was *before* the ghomeshi trial, i recommend reading this article from *toronto life* which was written at the cusp of the trial. she was (and is) extremely well regarded in the legal world. 
she has done some really wonderful, incredible things as part of her career:
> working late one night, henein found her colleague ­alison wheeler distraught that a prospective client, convicted of manslaughter and grappling with mental illness, had been refused legal aid; he was planning to argue his own appeal—a daunting prospect even for those with a law degree. together they came up with the idea of offering their services, pro bono, to prisoners like him who had run out of legal options. with the blessing of marc ­rosenberg, by then a judge on the court of appeal, they took off for ­kingston—an impromptu mission that has turned into a 14-year-old judicial institution. with 30 appellate criminal lawyers on a volunteer roster that henein still runs out of her office, the program has won 20 per cent of the 100 appeals a year it argues for some of the most marginalized prisoners in the province, many of them aboriginal people or those battling mental health issues.
some people on the left have got to learn to stop making martyrs out of people. they do nothing but give ammunition to the right on the culture war.
marie henein was just a woman doing her job, everyone in canada is entitled to a fair trial, including accused rapists, she hasn't done anything wrong here.
[removed]
[reminds me of this scene from the oscar-nominated performance by denzel washington as an autistic civil rights lawyer in the film "roman j. israel"](
well let's see, 1. immigrant, 2. woman, 3. racialized 4. mother 5. brown skinned and she is at the top of an old white man dominated profession. she is one of the top criminal lawyers in canada. the elite of an elite profession, her story should be an inspiration to all, especially young girls.
the headline seems bad, though the details of the piece seem to suggest that this really might be a misunderstanding, or that the book club organizer may not be an entirely reliable narrator. the tdsb itself doesn't seem to agree with the rejection.
school boards should be abolished. they don't serve any useful role. most of their employees have nothing to do, so to fill the time and justify their role they do stupid stuff like ban marie henein from speaking, or police what books can be in school libraries. surely it would be a better use of money to fire all these bureaucrats and hire more teachers.
edit: to those downvoting this, can you give any examples of something school boards do that couldn't be done by teachers, principles, or the department of education?
[deleted]
yea the islamic state does not equate to islam, anymore than criticising the state of israel equates to anti-semitism. 
also by rejecting henein for doing her job as a defense lawyer it's basically teaching that people don't deserve to be defended if they're charged with crimes? i feel like that goes against what we're told as a law abiding society.
if you haven’t noticed that this is the way society has been trending the last few years, you haven’t been paying attention.
ignoring for now the question of what they might think of teenage boys, the worst part of this statement is it shows how little they think of teenage girls. what a colossal insult. teenagers can’t understand that in our society everybody is innocent until proven guilty and entitled to competent legal defense? i’ve had three teenage girls and i can tell you they have all been more than capable of understanding relatively simple concepts like “innocent until proven guilty.” the _school board_. wow. it hurts both my brain and my heart.
the public school board just lazy and bureaucratic, they don’t want to invest time and efforts into this but treat students like live stocks, feed them easy simple no-mistake forage, make sure their compliance with minimum requirements, let the live stocks have some fun in the fenced fields, and hand them over to next…
advocating against religious extremism and teaching people to know the difference between faith and fanaticism will make a whole world of difference in combatting the mindset.
i can understand people associating isis with islam, it's like associating evangelicalism with christianity.  islamic state follows/believes in the sunni sect of islamism. salafi jihadism, to be specific. and many of their beliefs are rooted in islamic scripture.
not all christianity is evangelicalism, but evangelicalism is definitely christianity. the same is true for salafi jihadism and islam.
i'd say that people who claim that isis has nothing to do with islam are confused.
>this woman was straight up captured and raped by isis, escaped from   
them, and the school board is concerned about 'islamophobia'. it is sad   
to see progressives slide into lunacy and try and enforce their beliefs   
in children.
a similar thing happened in bc, i can only remember the vague details now but apparently they had a float in their pride parade for like a decade that was manned by homosexual men of middle-eastern descent celebrating their freedom to love who they want instead of living in fear of being caught and killed like they would in their country/s of origin under islamic law.
but then a few years ago they were suddenly told they werent allowed to have their float anymore because it was promoting islamophobia.
and i was sitting here like 'they would literally have been killed for being gay, i think its a legitimate point' but i guess not anymore?
> it is sad to see progressives slide into lunacy and try and enforce their beliefs in children.
or, just maybe, this is some dumb people working at a school board? the article even supports that given;
>mr. bird said that after speaking with staff, “there appears to have been a misunderstanding, as the equity department does not review and approve books for book clubs.”
>mr. bird said in an e-mail on thursday that both books are being reviewed by board staff, as is standard practice for books being distributed to students in tdsb schools, “and we hope to be in a position to approve in the near future.”
>meanwhile, he said the tdsb has paused bringing external speakers to its schools or promoting them to students while it develops a protocol on such events, which he anticipated would be finalized within the next two weeks.
[removed]

[removed]
this is referring mainly to news, it's missing the influence the oligarchs have on canadian content creation too.
but of course, clearly we need to pass cancon-defending legislation to ensure that online media is subject to the same rules, so that we can enjoy the influence of canada's media oligarchy upon all of our online content, too! what would canadian culture be if not for the domination and control by these few media companies?
thanks, grits. i know you have our backs. (with a knife).
basically there are very few media outlets to trust, journalism is truly dead. right i knew that, so where do we go from here?
lol. article talks about domination of canadian media, yet completely ignores the cbc. 
every concern about private control of media applies ***doubly or triple*** to government-sponsored media. if i don't like global's coverage, i watch something else and that's the end of it. if i don't like ctv, i turn off the tv and that's the end of it. if i don't like cbc... the government takes their share out of my paycheque anyway and there's nothing i can do about it.
substack, medium, duckduckgo
>every concern about private control of media applies doubly or triple to government-sponsored media.
except no it doesn't because the cbc is public and technically answers to the public.  privately owned media companies answer to unelected oligarchs like conrad black who face no accountability in whatever self-serving agenda they want to promote (i.e. pushing climate change denialism because they get funding form o&g).  
and yes, you can't "opt out" of paying taxes, which also pay for schools, hospitals, firefighters.  welcome to society.
already on those, still a ton of bs to sift through.
>the cbc is public and technically answers to the public
not directly. the cbc, like other crown corps, are wholly owned by the crown and funded by parliament. it is governed by a unelected board of directors. the only way for the public to have any influence on the cbc would be to somehow make it into an election issue. that would require somehow breaking through all of the other marketing and social engineering that makes up our election campaigns, which only happen every 4-5 years. while it can be said that the cbc 'technically' answers to the public, that accountability is functionally indistinguishable from nothing.
it is instructive to compare to private networks. if all canadians decided overnight to stop watching global, that would be quickly reflected in viewership rankings, which would result in advertisers jumping ship. the effects would be felt in a few weeks to a few months. if all canadians decided to stop watching cbc, it would cruise on government funding for years. 
private media is far more accountable to the canadian public than the cbc.
your complaint seems to be that a critical mass of canadians don't share the dislike of the cbc that you do for it to become an election issue.  the reason it's not an election issue is the same reason universal healthcare is not an election issue, it's because it's something the broad majority of canadians agree on.  
i would rather have the cbc than the mouthpiece of a convicted corporate felon like his lordship conrad black spewing climate change denial through the national post.
>your complaint seems to be that a critical mass of canadians don't share the dislike of the cbc that you do for it to become an election issue.
no. as i've stated, my complaint is that the cbc is unaccountable to the canadian public. i've explained (and you're ignored) the mechanism by which private media is more accountable. 
>it's something the broad majority of canadians agree on.
you don't know that. you ***can't*** know that because it's never been measured and canadians have never been allowed to express their opinion on it. 
>i would rather have the cbc than the mouthpiece of a convicted corporate felon like his lordship conrad black spewing climate change denial through the national post.
and i fully support your right to your own media consumption choices. all i ask is that same right be extended to me.
1.)  consumers don't have much of a "choice" if all they have to choose from is a bunch of billionaire-owned media outlets that all say the same thing.
2.)  you keep repeating over and over again "there's no choice" and yet completely ignore the fact that the public has made a choice, it's just not one that you like.  erin o'toole floated the idea of defunding the cbc then had to quickly backtrack because it was unpopular.
3.)  you have a right to your own media consumption choices.  no one is stopping you.  you're complaining about paying taxes for a public service you don't approve of, which is just tough, taxation doesn't hinge on you approving of each and every single government agency.
why am i paying taxes for *your* triple bypass when i do an hour of exercise a day and am in excellent cardiovascular health?
we live in a society, deal with it.
>1.)  consumers don't have much of a "choice" if all they have to choose from is a bunch of billionaire-owned media outlets that all say the same thing.
that makes absolutely no sense.
>2.)  you keep repeating over and over again "there's no choice" and yet completely ignore the fact that the public has made a choice,
nope. the canadian public has never been asked through a referendum or any other independent, verifiable method if they support the cbc or not.  
>3.)  you have a right to your own media consumption choices.  no one is stopping you.  
so i can chose not to watch cbc but i cannot chose to stop paying for it? you call that a choice? are you really that obtuse?
>why am i paying taxes for your triple bypass when i do an hour of exercise a day and am in excellent cardiovascular health?
simple. health care is an essential service and cbc is not.
>we live in a society, deal with it.
you keep repeating that phrase as if it means something. it does not,
returning to what started this exchange:
>every concern about private control of media applies doubly or triple to government-sponsored media.
you have not stated any relevant facts or given any reasoning to explain why this statement is wrong. i explained quite clearly the mechanism by which private media is more directly accountable to the canadian public than the cbc and you have not stated any relevant facts or given any reasoning to explain why this statement is wrong. you have made it clear that you are a fan of the cbc, which is fine, but you advocate for someone else's taxes to pay for your entertainment, which imho is a self-centered and arrogant position to take, but you do you.
unless you can bring relevant facts or a new line of reasoning into the discussion, i'm done here. have a good day.
you don't have to personally vote in a referendum for each and every single government service for it to be valid, that's not how taxation works.  it's wildly impractical.
just because something is private doesn't mean it's more accountable if all you have to pick with is a few conglomerates that all share the same interests and saturate the market, just look at the insurance sector.  
also, public and private media and fundamentally different.  public media serves the public interest and since it has stable funding, can invest in things that are not profitable but are in the public interest, like investigative journalism, which takes time and resources.  private media's only role is to make a profit, which they can do by turning out trash that gets people worked up ideologically even if it is shallow or misleading (i.e fox or msnbc).  you're comparing two different things with different mandates.  
the cbc provides a public interest, is widely popular in canadian society and is funded by taxes as are other public services, regardless of whether you personally like or dislike them.  you're free to write to your mp if you are unhappy.

great news, hopefully this will increase the safety of kids going to school and remove the worries for vulnerable families
thank goodness, that is great news! i feel so bad for those kids getting kind of tossed to the meat grinder in all this. i understand why people were keen to get back to in-person schooling, makes total sense, but i would have liked to see some more protections like smaller class sizes and hepa filters and so on.
great, but i hope this won’t cause the mandate to extend to children. considering how children are far less likely to develop severe symptoms, there’s very little medical precedent for making vaccines mandatory in schools for example. i’m mostly concerned for the children of anti-vaxxers, it’d be unfair to them to restrict them from attending school unless they get a vaccine they hardly need.
[removed]
as a british columbian, it blows my mind that the provincial government didn't mandate vaccines for teachers and other school staff - particularly because kids 11 and under aren't vaccinated yet.
> i’m mostly concerned for the children of anti-vaxxers, it’d be unfair to them to restrict them from attending school unless they get a vaccine they hardly need.
just want to point out we already do this for certain childhood vaccines.  we have no idea what the long term effects are of a child getting covid are yet, and there are immunosuppressed children who have the right to a safe classroom.
hardly need. public schools have vaccines mandates, end of story lol
[removed]
removed; rule 3
they did worse. they allowed the school boards to decide and they are all rejecting the idea. langley being the latest.
i'm aware of other vaccines being mandatory, but those are illnesses that are actually quite dangerous for children. currently long term effects of covid are rare to manifest and usually amount to minor lung damage which although not desirable at all considering the rarity its not extreme enough to warrant mandating it. 
>and there are immunosuppressed children who have the right to a safe classroom.
i think it boils down to a question of "are there more immunosuppressed kids then anti-vax parents," to which the answer is probably no, i think we should consider the course of action that maximizes the amount of kids in school.
okay and? not all diseases affect children the same, some are more deadly for them (measles) while others aren’t (covid). saying kids absolutely require the vaccine is like saying subway passengers need seat belts, like yeah it’s slightly safer but not by a considerable amount.
aren't children less likely to get covid and spread covid though? i don't think anyone in particular is immune to the effects
[removed]
fuck, i wasn't aware of this.
then i'll double down on my initial comment: the provincial government should sack up and mandate it across the province.
the reason i reference disabilities is because these students have protected rights.  it's on those grounds that schools can mandate vaccines.  we're currently still in a community transmission situation, making covid a higher risk than measles, so even though it is less dangerous, it is more dangerous to immunosuppressed children who cant get or wont respond properly to a vaccine.  this is the approach that saves the most grave forms of illness and reduces hospitalization.
people have the right to refuse the vaccine, but not to prevent the return of things back to normal or put others at risk.  unfortunately for their children, their parents choose for them.
wonder how you feel about flu shots in public schools too.
no.  early studies seemed to show that, but later studies found that children do get infected and are just as contagious as adults, even when showing mild or no symptoms.
[removed]


why doesn't health canada fund the training of all service dogs. it's a 2 yr long, intensive training process that costs over $50k a year. service animals are essential for some people not optional but there is no public healthcare support for service animals anywhere in canada.
having a service dog is expensive. a real service dog not one with a vest slapped on it so a old lady can bring it into costco.
 we need nation wide rules. full stop.
bc has a licence program but it isn't properly enforced. i show my card when we are out with our dog and my daughter and no one has any clue what they are looking at. it's hilariously tragic.
menawhile most places don't check and let whatever in because they don't want to get yelled at. start fining the companies that aren't doing it properly and start a snitch line. until you have experienced it you have no idea how a little aggressive yappy dog in a cart can endanger your child.

>when i was in alberta, i met with energy workers who are already retraining and planning for the renewable energy future. they were blunt, “we’re doing our part, so where is the government?” 
well they didn't name any names, but okay, blue collar worker wants to remain anonymous cause it sounds like an unpopular sentiment in the area. not just moving from oil to renewables, but getting more government involved.
so, sure, there can be on the ground people who are ready to go from oil to renewables, but to lay it on justins feet is only half the story. the provincial government isn't ready to go forward, instead they're digging in their heels. i think the provincial government reflects the public's opinion a bit more than this anecdote but i'd like to be proven wrong. 
trudeau could talk jobs until he's blue in the face, and that still wont move any blue voters, because the provincial governments aren't interested in working towards that goal.
this always pops up on these issues, how does the federal government get provincial buy in?
jobs??
lmfao!!!
aye...there will be plenty of work once food scarcity begins and people start dying off.
grave digging will be a booming industry!
there is economy and then there is climate change.
by all means...place money first.  :)  those plastic bills are delicious and high in nutrients.
(makes a fresh batch of popcorn for this shit show)
[removed]
>trudeau could talk jobs until he's blue in the face, and that still wont move any blue voters, because the provincial governments aren't interested in working towards that goal.
well is the goal to generate jobs and strengthen the economy or is it to swing voters?
honestly it would take an otoole led government to get provincial buy in. the liberals have smeared factions of this country and then its hard to reach your hand out and say you want to do business after. the "sunny ways" was bs and trudeaus attacks on the cpc and alberta and saskatchewan will leave him stuck with having to govern for only 1 half of the country. frankly i think jagmeet is better suited to run this country, his only attacks are deserved ones on trudeau spefically. he has not attacked the cpc or their base, the west or people who do not want to get vaccinated (at least not as bluntly as trudeau). i think jagmeet could lead a more united canada as well as otoole and maybe we could progress on restructuring albertas economy, transfer payments etc.
it's both, because the provinces won't act on this under their current government. there are mixed motivations, but that doesn't mean both can't be true.


the government owns 6% of air canada, to demand something like this they would need a seat on the board and about 45% more ownership.
the simple solution is to move air canada to toronto,  the business center of canada.  there won t be any language demonstrations or demonstrators there.  they have many language schools there is the ceo can get up to speed in both languages.,
it's up to the shareholders of that company to decide whether a ceo keeps his/her job. what the rest of the world thinks doesn't mean spit (that includes you, trudeau).
canada sold off air canada (stupidly). their choice of ceo is not up to the government, the public, or protesters.
if only the state owned its national carrier... wait
this is the main point, right? what kind of message does this send to foreign investors who may be considering setting up shop in quebec? it's easier to just go to ontario to remove all doubt.
they're not *allowed* to move. federal law prevents air canada from relocating their hq anywhere other than montreal.
this isn't a recalcitrant ceo. it's a hostage situation.
after ford shut there major factory down in toronto this summer this could be a good get for tory.
is your position the ceo should speak french? if so, i'd love to hear your point of view, i don't understand why the ceo should. it doesn't seem like it would impede his ability in the least, he's not on the phone lines answering customers calls. but maybe there is a valid reason i'm not thinking of.
if this is the kinda shit that gets leadership removed at air canada, then i’m glad it’s not a crown corp. not hard to see why it was a bloated mess back when it was. 
air canada is forced to be headquartered in quebec by federal legislation. it’d be political suicide for the liberals, but there’s really no point to this level of protectionism in favour of quebec. air canada already does most of its business outside the province, and i’m sure they’d likely move to toronto; it’s already their biggest hub.
“the international language of civil aviation is english. in 2018, air france-klm sa appointed a canadian, benjamin smith, as ceo of the combined flagship airlines of france and the netherlands. smith is fluent in neither french nor dutch.”
in my position, french is eroding in québec as it did in canada and north america in general over the last few centuries. so hearing the ceo of a company known for repeatedly breaking language laws brag that french is not needed in montreal and that it's a testament to its character is indeed insulting. i also fail to see the opposite being considered acceptable: if he only spoke french, not a word of english, there'd be outcry. and if the ceo of british airways didn't speak english after over a decade in britain, or the ceo of aeromexico didn't speak an ounce of spanish, some would say it's a lack of respect. yet, neither of those are part of a threatened, disappearing group.
like i've said to the other guy, knowing french to be appointed wasn't a requirement. but spending over 10 years in the city and bragging you were able to avoid even needing french? that's just plain mean. also, legislation, yes. you do know that despite it, thousands of jobs were moved by and because of air canada away from québec. but let's just remember that the reason why toronto ever grew to the point it is now is because federal funding took québec money to build the waterways up to the great lakes. now, sure it made sense. but they also made sure québec couldn't levy any tarifs on boats going past montreal, essentially stripping us from one of our greatest economical tools: the saint lawrence seaway. history is fascinating.
>“the international language of civil aviation is english. in 2018, air france-klm sa appointed a canadian, benjamin smith, as ceo of the combined flagship airlines of france and the netherlands. smith is fluent in neither french nor dutch.”
correction — nov. 16, 2021: this column was edited   
to remove a reference that canadian benjamin smith, ceo of air   
france-klm sa, is not bilingual. in fact, he speaks french."
the layers of irony david olive missed in falsely using benjamin smith's credentials as an argument is hilarious and only proves quebec right. smith doesn't just speak french, he learned it when he took his position of ceo at air france.
vote with your money. if you don't like what air canada is doing, don't give them any more cash.
instead of flying air canada, fly calgary-based westjet!
is language a protected class on the charter of rights and freedoms here in canada? a disappearing group? 
how is it insulting that he doesn't speak french? i'm not insulted and i'm canadian.
what language laws is he breaking and on what level does this reside, a provincial law or federal law? if provincial, air canada is not province exclusive.
simple:
(1) properly enforce fines when francophone passengers' right to receive service in french from *customer-facing* staff is violated; and
(2) remove the federal prohibition preventing air canada from having its hq anywhere other than montreal.
the whining about the ceo running his company from a montreal hq without speaking french rings a lot hollower when that hq is held *hostage* to a specific city and isn't allowed to move.
obviously, those insulted were québécois, a threatened people. looking at what happened to most french speaking communities outside of québec, and then seeing how montréal is taking the same path should be plenty enough to back that assessment. federal language laws requires service to be offered in the two official languages, something air canada routinely fails to do. it's been blamed so many times by the commissionner of official languages. and, like i said, the insulting part is him bragging that french isn't required in montréal. again, if he spoke just french, not english, and said similar things, there'd be protests as well, despite our situations being quite different.
yes please, let's suffocate québec's economy a bit more. that's real progressive.
so the ceo of air canada should learn to speak french because of a small percentage of canadians are insulted that he doesn't? if this isn't the definition of entitlement i'm not sure what is. 
also language is not a protected class so using the term "a threatened people" makes it seem like a distinctive group of people that are worthy of protecting when in actuality it's a language which, even on the global stage, isn't natively spoken very much anymore. 
if the company is breaking language laws shouldn't that come with a fine? maybe suggesting they increase compliance with language laws would be a legitimate ask instead of insisting the ceo learn french, how will this help the company improve their compliance with language laws? is the ceo sitting on the phone lines serving customers; i highly doubt it. 
lastly, if he only spoke french it would not be the same as only speaking english. when looking at languages and what is spoken most natively, the list is:
1. mandarin, 2. spanish, 3. english, 4. hindi,......15. french
so yes there probably would be an outcry if the ceo only spoke french but that would actually impact performance as he/she wouldn't be able to communicate with most of the world without speaking 1 of the top 3 languages spoken.
edit: listing messed up and had french displayed as the fifth natively spoken language when it's actually at number 15; fixed.

we just need to multiply that number by about 20 and we'll be set. canada needs to show leadership. this is a pivotal moment for the planet.
in 20 years what we're going to have is angry 40 and 50 somethings that entered a great field to take care of their families and are now being abandoned.
imagine west virgina coal towns all over western canada.
canada is going to lose more jobs, tax dollars, and global reach because of trudeau. we have a huge chip when it comes to having oil that doesn't originate from a opec nation.
we have this little problem called alberta that's not going to go away anytime soon.
remember last winter when quebec ran out of propane for a few minutes and people nearly died?!! give me a break,  while the idea of no fossil fuels sounds nice,  you litterally can't live without it!!!!  the only thing sadder is how you wont admit it and would rather spend your money in foreign markets buying oil rather than in canada from a market that helps give you billions of dollars every year - man. gtfo.
[removed]
[removed]
we don't want oil regardless of where it comes from, that's the point. there are jobs to be found in renewables, there won't be any jobs with a derelict planet.
and british columbia, and newfoundland, and saskatchewan, and new brunswick. maybe some others but those are the few off the top of my head who are pretty dependent on fossil fuels.
alberta is actually one of the best provinces for green energy development. just recently they finished building the largest solar farm in canada.
albertan here. i myself know that oil is a dying industry especially with technological advancements replacing many oil patch workers. it’s also not a renewable resource. d the fracking being done by cochrane is causing earth quakes to revive rate through the province. i noticed the tides were changing when banks and oil companies were selling off their oil shares and investing in renewable energy. i tried having a conversation with several people about it and there responses were the same, “the world will always need oil and gas, always.” when you try to counter that “yes that may be true but not in the capacity we see today or in the past” they completely melt down. most albertans identify as being an oil and gas province and believe that alberta is more important then it truly is. it doesn’t help when you have a government that feeds into this narrative. you can’t talk renewables to them either as they act like you just spoke the language of the antichrist. it’s oil and gas or nothing, period.
alberta and saskatchewan are also the highest ghg emitters in canada but can’t mention that. or the fact that large oil sand companies have been caught lying about their emissions. needless to say when these oil and gas companies do shut down there is no plan to reclaim the land as it will cost billions and alberta will never see that money from the oil and gas companies, it’s more billions we need to eat or trudeau to bail us out. 
there’s something in the water here in alberta and i’m pretty sure it’s selenium.
it doesn’t just “sound nice”, it’s necessary for the proper survival of the planet according to the best available scientific evidence currently. yes there will be some applications that  will continue to need oil, but the majority we can certainly transition away from. even the propane heating example, many households in the province are heated just fine with electricity/wood. it’s overly simplistic to look at this issue and say “well we currently use oil, so there’s no way we can address the issue and save the planet.” what if we took that approach with cfcs? we’re running out of time to be dragging our feet like this.
[removed]
[removed]
> there are jobs to be found….
not as many, not where we need them, and not as high paying. people who talk about substituting renewables for the oil and gas industry don’t realize that renewables play a very different role in canada’s economy than oil and gas does and that it’s not a matter of just swapping out one for the other. and we’ll be a whole lot poorer for it, facing higher taxes and reduced public services across the country.
alberta is #1 for greenhouse gas emissions (ghg) and saskatchewan is a close second. 
alberta has a far way to go!
bc only produces clean energy. alberta still burns coal.
i know bc exports.
then why are my oil / gas stocks doing so well?
it's going to take a prolonged oil and gas downturn for alberta before public opinion sways. i guess that's already beginning, but it will need to be multigenerational in length to crack the armour of the most dogmatic and to introduce enough new blood into the voting pool to make a change.
i have nothing against going green, but if we need to make drastic changes in the time you are suggesting,  sorry, it's not going to happen. quebec has good hydro power out west, theres very little,  and solar / wind just aren't going to cut it in the dead of winter.
also it's harder to retrain a 40 year old compared to a fresh high school graduate.

murray sinclair's impact on canadian public life is fast approaching father-of-confederation levels. it's a testament to his ethic of service that he's willing to take on such a challenging, sensitive file at age 70.

peopel are dying all over the world and we're vaccinating mink!? i hear some zoos in the us and canada are doing this kind of thing too. 
and the province is paying for it!? why!?
we're vaccinating fucking rodents over sending them to poorer countries???? what the actual fuck???
i hate this stupid country...
edit: can the people who are downvoting me confirm that vaccines for minks are not being produced in the same facilities as vaccines for humans?
if not, my point stands - we're producing vaccines for literal rodents over vaccines for humans.
if so, i will admit i'm wrong, and i sincerely hope i am.
i did some digging, and i found [this pbs article]( that's about "mink covid". i guess mink are just way more susceptible to the virus than other animals, and there were quite a few outbreaks linked to mink farms in europe and the united states with mink-to-human transmission. 
if that's the case, it makes sense to me that the province would want to root out that vector for the virus to spread unchecked with mink vaccines. i suppose that could be a good breeding ground for a new variant of concern.
we should ship extras overseas but locally our bottleneck to full vaccination isn’t lack of supply, it’s lack of empathy.
do you really think that they’re taking human vaccines, turning around, and giving them directly to the minks?
they’re using experimental vaccines from the us, as said in the article.
much like we don't encourage humans to take horse dewormer, we similarly shouldn't be giving experimental rodent vaccines to people in poor countries for human use. can you imagine the scandal.
the article says it's "an experimental mink vaccine", which makes me think it's not the same as any of the human vaccines.
the fact that we're being downvoted, that people around here seem to value mink over humans in other countries, is disturbing
then do like bc and shut them down. mink are housed in such terrible conditions. for fur. not worth it.
oh i know we don't lack them for ourselves, i did mean for others. and i'm downvoted. i guess people around here would rather take care of mink (already living in terrible conditions) over human lives in other countries. speaking of lack of empathy....
[ \- only 4.5% of people in poorer countries have received a single dose of the vaccine
if they're producing 54,000 vaccines for rodents, that's 54,000 vaccines for humans that weren't produced, since i assume they use the same facilities. unless they're just like experimental human vaccines that they just messed up on while producing.
either way this is disgusting
missing the point completely. and why is the government paying for it anyway?
veterinarian medicine has separate development lines from pharmaceutical research to production. there is no cross over with human medicine other than vaccinating vulnerable animals (dogs, tigers, minks, etc) helps stop or slow zoonotic virus jumping.
i am not taking a position on the mink farms, just clarifying that humans are not being denied vaccines elsewhere in the world because of animal vaccination in ns.
it’s like you’re getting upset that we feed pets and livestock in canada despite the fact that there are hungry people on the other side of the planet. 
if canada wants to buy experimental animal vaccines, it’s not taking away human doses from other people. two things can happen at the same time.
so they don’t have to massacre hundreds of thousands of animals and shutter an entire industry.
i think the original comment misses the point when they talked about giving animal vaccines to poor countries.
but why is the government buying the vaccines? well it saves the animals from being culled, which ultimately saves farmers money. but probably the most important is it reduces the spread of covid-19 as minks can catch and spread the virus.
> so they don’t have to massacre hundreds of thousands of animals
which they kinda do already. and they're not exactly treated well in their lives either.       
> and shutter an entire industry.
boo hoo. it's fur. it's not needed.



>adding to his frustration, najafizada said, is the fact that he's been waiting nearly a month and a half for the federal government to process his family's application.  
>  
>“i don't know what is the problem here,” he said. “if the canadian government is overwhelmed, if they cannot do it, then please do not bring people from outside.”
dude... come on. that's such a dickish thing to say after fleeing a country that just fell to the taliban.
a month is not an exorbitant amount of time, and it's not like you're caught in some limbo hellscape--you're in an air-conditioned toronto hotel, with food, amenities, and a roof over your head.
my partner works in refugee settlement, something they brought to my attention that i didn't take into consideration is the background of these afghan refugees. 
unlike syrians, who were coming from a war zone, many afghan refugees are established professional and from successful careers working with the former afghan government or well paid international ngos. 
my partners take was that many syrians were so fracking grateful to have a place. they willfully and happily accepted whatever came their way. many afghans however were wealthy and rich and are refugees not because of the destruction of war but because of their previous employer.
if we do not have the housing resources to support  refugees we shouldn't be taking them. politicians get a pat on the back and communities are left to pick up the pieces.
[removed]
there were comments here earlier that thought our homeless crisis in major cities would be solved if they were offered to stay in free hotel rooms. my advice to them is to go volunteer in a homeless shelter and see the types of issues that makes them go homeless in the first place. that is if they really cared about our homeless people like they mention in the comments.
the guy's entire country fell apart inside of one week, and he is complaining because after the free flight out of there canada didn't provide him better planning, better hotel service, and permanent residency inside of six weeks of arrival ...
oh, the humanity ...
i was going to leave a long winded comment replying to someone below, but i find no value in it. it’s unlikely their mind will be changed. 
i would like to encourage people though to not think of this situation through the lens of their own experiences. in canada most of us are extremely blessed to not have experienced a life filled with trauma, uncertainty, mass sexism, rampant and often violent corruption and practices that we would consider downright barbaric. 
many of these refugees endured lifetimes of trauma that nobody in this thread would begin to understand. to call them entitled, to be racist or to undercut their experiences and tell them to “go back where they came from” is crass, unhelpful and shows an extremely high amount of shortsightedness. 
many of these people would likely love to go back, if it didn’t mean torture, rape and murder. many of these refugees likely had family members die, or suffer in some sort of brutish fashion we couldn’t begin to comprehend. 
if your response to these people is to call them entitled, to bark at them or devalue them…well, i hope you never have to experience some of the trauma some of them undoubtedly experienced.
since when refugees became picky and choosy.  if i were from a war torn place, a safe county took me in, i’ll take whatever accommodation they gave me and be grateful. 
because people are picky, i would feel better if they pick a better place than canada. 
i pay taxes so i’m a tax payer. i wonder if our gov is using my tax dollars wisely in their refugee commitment.
i’ve worked with a ton of new immigrants/refugees in my life, and am the son of a refugee myself. the frustration is rooted in a misunderstanding of how western bureaucracy works. in many of their home countries the government just did what it wanted without due process or transparency and it’s just accepted because the government is powerful.
so when they come here they have a hard time grasping that a developed nation’s government is actually less efficient because we value transparency, fairness, and good governance over brutal efficiency — and that misunderstanding oftentimes leads to the new immigrant/refugee believing that the government is just ignoring or refusing to help them, rather than the reality that western bureaucracies are just woefully inefficient by design.
agreed, but welcome to canada, so much red tape you can get anything done for cheap or in fast time, but hey if he likes it better in afghanistan he can always go to the airport.
agree.
but if they pay for their own hotel, i’m totally cool with what they bitch’in about.
stability can be found anywhere, some areas of afghanistan probably feel more stable if not in another new "normal" since the us left.
it's not about that conditions and amenities are worse here, the infrastructure is obviously better but surely anyone can sympathize with experiencing uncertainty and being stuck in a frustrating mess of beaurocracy.
in that case they can pay for their own accommodations. i came to canada over 20 years ago as a refugee. my family was so grateful to be here and how we were received that we would not even think of of complaining for such a small inconvenience like moving hotels.
why are we settling any refugees in the gta?
if we can't take the refugees, we should not be participating in the wars that displace them. it's the morale cost of being involved in the business.
[removed]
removed for rule 3.
[removed]
i think shutting down mental health facilities to save some taxes for a few quarters exacerbated the homeless issue. but hey, at least the books were good for a few years!
note that the liberals got into power for over a decade after mike harris but didn't exactly undo that terrible policy...
quite a few homeless recover but the chronic ones are chronic for a reason. as you've mentioned, tossing them into hotels isn't going to solve anything.

if we're going to be dismissive and reductionist: the np is nothing more than the oil lobby in a yellow journalism suit.

[removed]
people in this thread commenting about a "twitter mob" when it was literally 1 person asking if unboxed supported vuong. i'm not sure why people defend him. regardless of what you think about his past, it's pretty sleazy to turn a business meeting into a photo op without even discussing it with people in the photos. it's common courtesy to at least ask if photos can be used publicly. the guy lacks self-awareness, to say the least.
nadia qureshi said she complained to elections canada after polling staff mistakenly told her husband on election day, "you can still vote for the liberal party and they'll still fill the seat with someone."
a lot of people don't seem to understand how our system works. you ultimately vote for the individual and not the party. you can't go in and vote just "liberal party" you are voting for the person who is endorsed by the party. or in this case was endorsed as of the deadline to register as candidate. 
mps are free to leave their party at any time after being elected and there's really not much constituents can do until the next election.
[removed]
regardless of the right or wrong of everyone involved, this is clear example of how vuong's position is untenable and does harm to the riding. whether that's fair or not to vuong is besides the point. he should step aside for the health and good of his community and so they can have functional representation without constant issues over the next term.
removed for rule 2.
well you can look, it was far more than just 1 person, especially when you factor in retweets. and a group that believes only the right sort should be allowed at a business is an unhinged mob, that isn't normal
removed for rule 3.
>only the right sort should be allowed at a business
i haven't seen anyone say that. is this really what you believe is happening here? personally, i empathize with the business owner, who has nowhere else to turn besides the mp who was elected, whether she supports him or not.
the problem is pretty clearly vuong's surreptitiously using the meeting for pr. the "mob" seems to be upset with vuong, and rightly so.
setting aside what constitutes a mob, can you point me to even one unhinged person who thinks vuong shouldn't be allowed at that business at all?
i'm always very leery of people who seem to regard election to public office as an end unto itself (paging zach paikin...), and the unresolved sexual assault stuff is certainly disturbing. 
having said that, as a general rule, i try not to take incidents that happen entirely within the confines of twitter too seriously.
read the article, people say they won't shop there cause vuong was there, and the owner must support vuong. it's the idea that a business must boycott these people the mobs don't like which is unhinged, they should just let people live their life, twitter was a mistake
that's simply not in there. i'm assuming you mean this bit:
"i actually shop with you — and i won't be if you're backing him"
that's a far cry from what you're claiming. the full tweet makes that even clearer:
"unboxed, do you support kevin vuong? i actually shop with you - and i won’t be if you’re backing him."
the unboxed twitter account already answered to clarify that the meeting was not an endorsement. the first tweeter didn't reply, so i'm guessing that she's satisfied with that answer.
who is upset at vuong's mere presence? it should be trivially easy to link to such a tweet if one exists.

it's horrible how we treated them. i can maybe understand some fear and concern, especially in those days, but that does not excuse what we did. stealing all their stuff with no compensation and forcing them into camps for years.
i was having difficulty understanding why i should care where these random people live today then i realized that this is directly related to probably the most significant war effort by canadians, the second world war.   
it’s a good reminder of just how brutal war can be on all sides.   
i believe the interned japanese were compensated a while back and received an apology. perhaps someone else has more details.  
and i also believe that they were not materially mistreated (besides the whole internment thing).  
i wasn’t alive at the time this happened so i don’t know how i would react in the circumstances.  i like to think we could do better, but in times of massive fear and stress i’m not sure how i would do.  i don’t feel judging past behaviour is terribly helpful in this instance though.
actual title should read "japan forces their citizens abroad to be treated terribly because of their militaristic government."  
i feel bad for these people but i kinda don't, at least they survived and had a chance to build a new life.  if you were a foreigner in japan during this time they would just kill you.  war sucks.
u/dc-toronto, with respect, pretty much everything you wrote in your post is wrong.
my husband's family is japanese-canadian, and they lived in bc since the late 1890s. they lost their houses, their businesses, their family heirlooms, and pretty much all of their possessions when they were sent to the camps. 
after the war, they were coerced into moving to japan, even though all of them were born in canada and had no connections with japan. life in post-war japan was brutal, but they weren't allowed to come home because they were no longer considered canadian citizens.
yes, brian mulroney did apologize in the 1980s, but only after a lot of pushing from the japanese-canadian community. and they did get a token compensation payment, but it was basically pennies when compared to all they had lost.
if you are interested in learning, here are a couple of articles that can give you a good idea of what happened:
[
[
> i believe the interned japanese were compensated a while back and received an apology.
given a pittance over 40 years later.        
> and i also believe that they were not materially mistreated (besides the whole internment thing).
...taking all their stuff, selling their homes, forcing them into camps for years, and not allowing them to even move home when it was over isn't enough?         
> i don’t feel judging past behaviour is terribly helpful in this instance though.
oh bs. this was not ok!
what?? are you saying the internment camps were justified? literally imprisoning canadian citizens because of their ethnic identity? 
that's literal fascism my dude. get help.
if we had conducted our war with japan according to the ancient rules, we would have chained hirohito, shipped him in a crate off to san francisco, and then dragged him across the continent naked, to be publicly tortured to death in times square at truman's triumph.
not that i would have complained.   but we didn't live by the olden rules, even back then.  we chose to hold ourselves to a higher standard, for the most part, than the collective racial guilt advocated by our enemies.  this is one area where racism let us sorely fail in that regard.
we didn't stop at actual japanese nationals.  we didn't stop at people in high-risk occupations.  that's the scope of security measures applied to recent german immigrants in canada at the time.  a sensible precaution.  but even the british didn't round up every ethnic german (probably since they'd have to lock up the head of state).  but for the japanese, it was treated as a blood taint, they were all genetically programmed crazed loyal fascists to the death and not a one of them could be trusted.  you could be a third generation fully assimilated canadian living hundreds of miles from the coast working as a grocer.  off to the camps.  you don't have to go far to find people even at the time objecting quite strenuously on moral and legal grounds, particularly in the usa.
wtf is this post?       
> actual title should read "japan forces their citizens abroad to be treated terribly because of their militaristic government."
japan's actions did not 'force' us to do this. this was not ok.
the people, for the most part, weren't jpanese citizens. they were canadians of japanese ancestry, many of whom were born in canada.
that makes even less sense than the people who say the victims of 9/11 deserved it because of american imperialism, because these were people who *chose to leave* a then-imperialist power, or whose ancestors did.
thank you for providing this detail.  if i have some spare time i'll read your links and learn a bit more about the subject.
at the end of the day, i wasn't involved so at best it may inform my decisions in future.
now it's time for the japanese government to apologise for its war crimes which are infinitely worse than interment and deportation. china, taiwan, both korea's and other asian countries are waiting for the day when denying japanese war crimes by the government isn't a thing anymore.
and the victims of unit 731 didn't ask to be vivisected by shiro ishii and his goons.
i don't understand how my comments about the government of canada's treatment of long time canadian citizens of japanese descent could possibly relate to the actions of japan's rulers towards china, taiwan, etc. 
there's no connection between my husband's family and anything you are talking about.
quite right, but i fail to see how it is relevant.

welp, i guess it isn't exactly a surprise that kenney saw the slap in the face to democracy down south that was citizens united as something to be emulated.
why don't we just stop allowing donations altogether? every major party gets some time on national television, debates, a website, etc.
less popular parties maybe get a website or something. of course there's social media as well, but a limit to how much money can be spent on social media campaigns.
just seems like it would make things a lot more even.
> madu previously said the lack of a donation limit is not an issue because nomination candidates are not allowed to spend more than $12,500 on their nomination campaigns. 
bribing politicians isn't an issue, because they can't spend it on their campaign. they can then only spend it on essential things, like yachts.
> young said the united conservative government is going against the trend federally and in most provinces of tightening campaign finance laws.
yes, because conservatives should always be for sale to the highest bidder.
> the bill also increases the amount that parties can spend on a campaign. the ndp government capped campaign spending at $2 million in 2018 but a proposed new formula - $1.16 per voter - would raise that amount to about $3.27 million.
that way, conservatives that don't mind selling their influence can afford bigger campaigns as compared with other parties that can't or won't sell themselves to corporate or foreign interests. it gives the conservatives an advantage in getting elected.
see:
de mesquita, b. b., & smith, a. (2011). the dictator's handbook: why bad behavior is almost always good politics. publicaffairs.
the funny thing was at the press conference when this was annouced, they said they were getting big money out of politics and helping minioritys and women run.... welcome to alberta politics!.
this would just put us further along the road of emulating the shit show to the south. this needs to be stopped immediately. this is basically throwing up your hands and legalising corruption.
i mean, really, the only people who would propose that sort of nonsense just think we're either stupid, don't care, or haven't been paying attention.
for fuck sales i'm getting sick of the complacency in this country when it comes to political awareness. hard enough to get people to even go vote
citizens' united was one of the factors that shifted the us from a democracy to a plutocracy.
citizen's united has nothing to do with political party donations. and you shouldn't use it as a horror boogeyman term without actual analysis. all that does is spread misinformation (such as implying it has anything to do with donations to political parties).
they used to be more towards this. every party got 1 dollar (to oversimplify it) for each vote they received in the previous election. 
i am completely for this as essentially it’s a my tax dollar going to the party of my choice.
harper killed it.
they did that federally, but conservatives didn't like it since it allowed 'tax dollars' to go somewhere they didn't approve of.
harper got rid of it as soon as he could once elected.
edit for clarification: previously parties received, i think $2, for every vote that they received in a federal election.
[removed]
> every major party gets some time on national television, debates, a website, etc.
it takes money to develop something to broadcast on those platforms, so just giving them time, isn't enough for them to advertise.
the only issue for the ucp right now is that the abndp has been crushing them in fundraising for months now. so this might help them close the fundraising gap with the abndp a bit but as long as their polling numbers remain anemic they won't benefit as much from these changes.
> bribing politicians isn't an issue, because they can't spend it on their campaign. they can then only spend it on essential things, like yachts.
that is absolutely not how that works. a contribution is to the nomination contestant's campaign, not to them personally. the entire issue here is that if they accumulate a surplus they would seemingly be able to transfer it to their party, thereby bypassing the contribution limits.
we've always been a decade or two behind our southern neighbours.
but this?  if we go down this road there is no going back.
> this would just put us further along the road of emulating the shit show to the south.
this feels very hand-wavy. how, exactly?
(it's disconcerting to me how knee-jerk the insults to america have become, even when it's not related to the article at all)
"shifted"? 
do you mean, "retained" ? :)
citizens united is a workaround that allows limitless third party spending in us elections. this new ucp policy is a potential workaround to allow unlimited political donations. no they aren't identical, but yes a rhetorical comparison is fair.

honestly while i fully understand the need for more highways and such as cities grow, i'd rather see that money go into public transit and other measures that would reduce traffic in the first place. here in ottawa it's unbearable, and while from the few times i've been toronto had it a bit better, it's still deplorable when compared to other canadian cities (montreal comes to mind) or especially cities abroad.
this is ignoring the problem. if you're going to cancel the highway, you need to legislate density in toronto. millions of people are going to move to the gta in the next decade or so, and they need to live somewhere. the province needs to either go to war with toronto's nimbys, or it needs to allow sprawl.
close the catholic school board, use the excess savings (busing, duplicate jobs, especially at board level, sell off land/schools) to fix and build schools where they're actually needed.
the problem is so many parents don't want this, so it needs to be tied in to a comprehensive plan.
i heard that the liberals in the 70's (??) had a great plan with schools in new build areas.
if you've never lived in a neighborhood like this, this is basically the problem. lots of school age kids, but after 10-15 years, it really drops off. because of this, schools have excessive portables, which are not the best learning environments. my school is going have to thirty portables, partially because ontario conservatives stopped building schools in all their wisdom.
in any case, the plan.
you buy 5-10 houses right beside the school (attached to the field, whatever). each house has a kitchen, bathrooms, etc. you divide them up and make them the kindergarten/grade 1 classrooms. the kids have everything they need, even a fenced in play area. as the school eventually shrinks, you sell off those houses one by one.
you never need portables, have a great learning space and you end up making money to pay for school construction as the cycle ends.
pretty smart, never came to fruition
i think most people want something to alleviate pressures on the 400 series around toronto.
a bold move cotton we'll see how it pans out.
stop building more highways. we need a half decent passenger rail line, its kinda pathetic we don't have one already given that 50% of all canadians live between two cities (windsor and quebec) and that a single high speed rail line could service all of them.
cars are not mass transit. consider how much space a single car takes up, then consider how its usually 1 person per vehicle and that hundreds of thousand of people need to get from a to b using this ridiculously space inefficient mode of transport. traffic is an inevitability that cannot be worked around using cars, if you want to decrease traffic then use a system that can transport more people faster using less space.
mate i need a house not more schools. i can’t afford a school normally, so please make some houses so that i don’t go homeless
pretty bad i keep at least a bit up with politics, but i'm not sure of his name off the top of my head. 
david del duca? del luca?
looked it up..... steven?  way off 😂
couldn't use the money they saved, from closing numerous trade/high schools when they were in power?   
glad i graduated when i did, but sad they closed down one of the highschools i went to..  
it had so many trades within it, full scale classrooms also, full sized auto body, automotive, welding, masonry, horticulture, 2 full sized kitchens, one full sized bake shop, hair dressing and the list went on...   
they closed it to make a french emersion elementary school and shoved all the students into an already over crowded highschool, that had nothing to offer.
schools are overcrowded, reserves don’t have clean drinking water and the housing market is unsustainable. i know, let’s build a highway in toronto!
how about healthcare? we kind of just had a real public health emergency and wasn't capacity one of the biggest issues.
conservatives promise to win the following election and cancel the liberal project, losing all spent taxpayer money in the process.
what about we finish making the highway we have waited 17 years for in the north 4lanes so we can all stop having family members die every year.
canada's population has grown from 34 million in 2010 to ~38 million now and is set to go up another 2 million in the next 5 years. that's a population increase roughly equivalent to montreals.
the country needs infrastructure. all kinds. highways, power plants, schools, mass transit, etc... it's not one or the other.
and, of course, homes for people to live in. it's amazing that in a country as geographically huuge as canada there are housing shortages all across the country.
but it's always nope for a long list of reasons. don't build anything when canada needs everything.
if canada doesn't want to build anything then it's going to have to limit immigration. if it increases immigration (which i'm for) then at the very least facilitate and expedite places for people to live.
how about a planned city? a good spot would be between montreal and toronto. there's not much there now and if the population grows at a 400k rate over the next 5 years it adds up to a city about the size of calgary. environmentally modern as well.
this is such a dumb promise. once the contracts are signed, it's over. and i don't think you can win an election by being anti-infrastructure. 
this is your opening play in an election????? it's over before it even begins.
[deleted]
we don't have the cash on hand to do either of these projects...why pretend that it's ok to get into additional debt for one (type of political supporter) but not the other.
liberals and conservatives each know what their demographic would prefer and so they set forth those projects that get the most votes for the next election cycle.
the absolute massive expansion of public transit montreal has one in the past while is the envy of all municipalities in canada. only vancouver can come close to the vision.
then we have... ottawa. our capital. dear god we cannot even get a single line to work properly by the 21st century connecting the east/west extreme suburbs, never mind proper vision of some good urban lines, like one going from montreal road and turning down bank street (just as an example).
shameful the province wants highways and stroads over good urban transit, which has positive externalities for those who need or choose highways.
transit would be a good opportunity. odd that the liberals passed that up, but ok. all of our cities need more transit infrastructure and improvements.
i don't think proper cities need more highways as they grow. it's suburbs that need more highways, as the suburbs are designed in such a way that public transport is less convenient, more difficult, and really everyone ends up driving. the city itself doesn't have space for more highways to grow, but is can both benefit from, and build efficient public transport, or walkable neighbourhoods. 
but when many people talk about cities growing, they really mean suburbs.

we need to realize that the needless deaths of hundreds of thousands of people are decided by  a handful of people around the world; none of whom ever put their own lives at risk. we elect these people to serve our best interests. i do t know about you, but i never vote for war.
this is very nice to read today, because i often find that rememberce day events in canada kinda loose the plot a bit. especially since the day ostensibly marks the end of the first world war, a truly pointless war that saw millions die for no real purpose, it's very unsettling to hear politicians always frame war as being about necessary sacrifices. and fundamentally, i think this is because they don't want to admit that they and those who occupied their roles in the past have sent younger people abroad to kill and be killed needlessly. honouring the memory of veterans means admitting that most wars have been needless, and that our own country is guilty of making our soldiers do terrible things. to sanitize and glorify conflict is just an invitation to repeat our mistakes.
remember the people who got rich/increased their families fortunes by supporting both sides of the conflict.  
some very prominent families.
this is a case where the headline doesn't match the article at all. rhind isn't a pacifist - he just wants canadians to remember the brutality of war.
> since 2006, and right up until just before the pandemic reached canada, mr. rhind visited dozens of schools and community groups, sharing his stories and the importance of remembrance with schoolchildren through the memory project, a program run by historica canada, the non-profit best known for its heritage minute canadian history ads.
> 
>“a hundred thousand canadians were killed or injured, families where their father, their son, or their husband didn’t come back, so we shouldn’t just forget all that,” he says in an interview, echoing his message to students. “but it’s not just a case of remembering the sacrifices that happened in world war one or world war two. a lot of canadians come from countries threatened by war and there are threats of war all the time around the world. we need to remember how stupid and unnecessary war is.”
[everyone wants peace, right?](
agree with the comments here that ww2 may have potentially been avoided but the treaty of versailles was not that harsh.
this "both sides are responsible for ww1 and ww2" while having a kernel of truth is revisionist.
the bravest are those who left and fought.   
the wisest are those who stayed and worked.   
without the two, the world would be very different right now.
true, but, should we have just avoided war and let hitler do as he pleased? i'm sure the nazi empire of 2021 would be very progressive
all due respect to mr. rhind, and many thanks for your service.  wars are stupid yes, but unnecessary?  the second world war was absolutely necessary to ensure our freedom - not a good idea to cave to hitler - thank goodness we won.  the war in afghanistan is another one that was necessary but the good guys lost - look at the price that is being paid now.  stupid, yes, unnecessary ... sometimes they are necessary unfortunately.
old men quarrel, young men die. the whole thing is abhorrent to me.
war is when the young and stupid are tricked by the old and bitter into killing each other.
- niko bellic
might i point out the most of the people that started these wars weren't elected.
so many people are all "in flander's fields" instead of "
dulce et decorum est" like they should be.
" take up our quarrel with the foe:
to you from failing hands we throw"
how about no? send the rich not the young.
major general smedley butler wrote that "war is a racket" in 1935.
enriches the very few and privileged at the expense of the very, very many. everyone should take an hour and listen to the whole thing: 
if you don't have time to spend an hour watching (listening) to the above, consider taking less than 10 minutes to watch this dramatization of the highlights: 
as true to today as it was nearly 100 years ago.
also keep in mind that canada has a very profitable instrument of war industry. according to this link, canada sent nearly $4 billion in arms to saudi arabia in 2019. a country with an absolutely abysmal record of human rights. 
i love this comment
> because i often find that rememberce day events in canada kinda loose the plot a bit. 
i guess it depends on the events. whenever i go to a local event it's very sombre. full of eulogies and poetry of sacrifices.
interesting. for example?
e. h. carr:
> as lenin observed long ago, peace in itself is a meaningless aim. "absolutely everybody is in favor of peace in general," he wrote in 1915, "including kitchener, joffre, hindenburg and nicholas the bloody, for every one of them wishes to end the war." the common interest in peace masks the fact that **some nations desire to maintain the status quo without having to fight for it, and others to change the status quo without having to fight in order to do so**.
war results when two sides have goals that are irreconcilable, and are willing to fight for them. (consider the status of taiwan.)
hans morgenthau argues that the alternative to war is diplomacy, which has three major elements: persuasion, compromise, and pressure (i.e. threats). or as machiavelli puts it:
> it is customary with those who wish to obtain a favor, to make use either of prayers, presents, or threats, that pity, convenience, or fear, may induce a compliance with their requests.
fully disagree on treaty of versailles and i'm pretty well studied on it. versailles was designed to be humiliating as was the treaty of 1870 with the german unification war. tit for tat.
lets leave out harsh or not. versailles was unworkable for a number of reasons. self-determination for some populations and not others was a ticking time bomb. reparations were structured in a way that was for the benefit of american goals to not have to write down any of the allied war debt and for the uk government to sell its social programs without tax increases and no consideration that if you wanted germany to make payments they needed to have a positive balance of payments on exports, which meant accepting german market access and high employment that would reduce western allied employment. the peace was designed to not have buy in from any german government and at the same time it had no ability to compel compliance long term. attempting to impose it by force would have ended up breaking the occupier. a lasting peace probably involves treating the new german government like the post-napoleon government was treated in vienna.
or you could try to break german power permanently, but that's likely to still backfire in 30 years, because western europe's largest ethnic group isn't going to accept being under someone else's thumb permanently.


this is a reactive solution that fixes nothing. you going to get classes with students with even more diverse learning needs, teachers are going to be teaching to the middle and struggling students are just going to be left even more behind and the excelling ones are going to get bored
the work needs to be done in the elementary level. we need to get more stem majors into grade 4-8 teaching positions, we need to use them as rotary teachers that only teach math and science. we need to give kids a chance instead of letting them struggle in elementary and then going to a environment where they won't succeed in high school
this is fine, but at some point a student will need to learn whether they’re more suitable for the academic or applied stream.
it’ll be interesting to see what the curriculum is like for those blended grade 9 courses - i fear students who are very clearly suited for applied could get left behind in a blended course & if each and every student will be adequately prepared for the stream that they eventually choose.
anyone who’s been to high school sees why they separate the applied kids from academic kids. this is a stupid decision that’s gonna drag academic kids down for a year.
after high school you have some kids who stop there, some go on to trade schools or colleges, some go to university and take courses that don't require math.  others go to university and study math, physics, engineering, etc. what are heavy in math.
by having one, and only one math course, ontario schools will be failing their students in many cases.  
this is madness.
how many times have they gone back and forth on this? i remember grade 9 being destreamed in the mid-90's. obviously they brought streaming back again after that.
this is like reading the patch notes for a game where there are obviously competing schools of thought as to which system is best.
this is not good, i'm a high schooler, i did grade 9 academic except for french which i took applied, no way could i have learned as much as i did in my other courses if it was half as bad as my applied course. this is a horrible decision.
aside from the other issues, making the decision before entering high school and really seeing and so understanding the ramifications, which are social as well as academic, is something of a disservice to students.  i had good grades, was given a choice, so i basically picked randomly.  no thought at all.  my grade 10 course decisions were made much more seriously.
i don’t hate this but it should never extend past grade 9. all i see this really doing is hurt the top and bottoms of the classes. top won’t be as challenged and may be very challenging for the bottom. 
personally i think this is a step backwards but we can just wait and see i guess 🤷‍♂️
i am so disappointed to hear about this. i took all academic courses in grade 9 except for one applied class and that applied class was a nightmare. there were so many students with behavioral issues in the applied class and it took 2x the time to get through the curriculum. it is not fair to teachers and it is not fair to students.
they should be bringing back the trade highschools. this is going the wrong way and will just fail to prepare even more students for life.
we need to add integral calculus back into the math curriculum. ontario is one of the few jurisdictions in north america that does not even offer integral calculus to high school students through the ontario curriculum.
i feel this is a similar measure to universities that have started to offer admission programs where students don’t choose a stream/major until after their first year, it gives 13/14 year olds a chance to adjust to high school and get a feel for their strengths and weaknesses in a way that you can’t really do in elementary school.
it’s been so long since i was in high school we had a 13th grade back then, so i might not get this detail exactly right: in the 11th and 12th grade the academic/applied stream changes to “university” and “college” correct? i think that’s an acceptable place to start the divide because that’s around the time students should have at least a vague idea of what direction they want to go.
so will these new grade 9 courses that aren’t academic or applied be at an applied level or academic level? or meet in the middle
i'm strongly suspicious that this is more about packing more kids into each class than it is about being 'fair' to students. it's easier to divide kids evenly into larger classes when they're all in the same group to start with.
i've have seen first hand that streaming in grade 9 can go very wrong. i nearly took the wrong courses and was corrected by my grade 8 teacher, thankfully. a friend of mine got bad advice, took applied and needed extra tutoring to catch up and enter the academic stream the next year. that's not a failure of streaming though, it's a failure of the administration to properly educate students and parents on what stream is right for them. maybe it's different now (but probably not) but there was no guidance at all for kids moving from 8 to 9 back then. the advice i got from my teacher was informal, and i only got it because they cared enough to actually pull students aside and tell them. a more direct solution would be to actually devote class time or a parent-teacher conference to helping choose the right stream.
as for why streaming can be a good thing... i hate talking about this kind of thing because it always feels like i'm just bragging but whatever, it's important for the point i'm trying to make: my grade 9 and 10 math class ritual was this: arrive, put binder on desk, use binder as a pillow for the next hour because the class was so fucking slow i could literally learn it in my sleep. i never did any homework or studied for tests either. the teacher had to accommodate the slowest kids in class and so it was piss easy, at least for me, probably for most others. this was *with* streaming btw. i can't imagine what hell it would've been with the applied stream mixed in. grade 9 had the extra cherry on top of getting fucked by the standardized test since it had material the class hadn't covered because it was going so slow.
those kids just barely getting along in the academic course all ended up getting turbo-fucked by the grade 11 course suddenly jumping up to *actual* university-level prep. 
this whole thing just reeks of the same kind of decision making that led another pc government to get rid of grade 13 against the advice of every education expert: save money, damn the consequences.
the fact that some diversity groups are praising this as being better for minorities is just a bonus for the pcs. it's complete crap. how about actually doing the work of addressing why poc are getting disproportionately shunted into the wrong streams rather than just exploding the whole thing and making everyone climb the rubble?
this is probably better overall, separating people on these types of lines causes misplaced superiority which lasts for peoples entire lives. to be good in school is not necessarily being naturally gifted and smarter than everyone else, but rather being good at taking tests.
this is a really terrible idea.
this proposal should be instantly declined.
isn’t the goal for canada to become more self reliant using its own trained people? 
so if that is the case, why on earth remove the stairs to the upper floor of education altogether? 
it makes zero sense to do that.
shame on you, shame tf on you.
as a student i was bored in the academic side of things, if you had of made it all just the same which would have been just basic i would have left out of boredom.
kids need the challenge and opportunity to learn at a higher level. taking that opportunity away will comeback to haunt.
anyone who has been through highschool in ontario since the last restructure can tell you the streaming is 100% necessary. i graduated from highschool in 2016. when it came time to pick streams in grade 8 i'd say a good 90% of us knew where we were going. the teacher sent home a recommendation letter along with our midterm report card, guidance councellors came in to explain the difference and what it meant, for the kids who needed it the teacher met with them to go over options - it wasn't just a shot in the dark. beyond that the students themselves could identify themselves into one of three groups - the smart kids, the kids who didn't care, and the kids that genuinely tried but had a hard time learning. group 1 went academic, group 2 went applied, group 3 - the smallest group - got fucked. they could choose to struggle through academic or get stuck with the misfits in applied. lumping all 3 groups together for an extra year will do nothing. the actual solution should be to find a way to remove group 2 from the equation. the only other thing i can think of that might work would be to expand the availability of m level courses. currently they're only available in grade 11 and 12 but expanding them down to grade 9 and 10 might provide the group 3 kids with the ability to separate themselves from the group 2 kids who choose applied.
i am a high school tech teacher.  streaming courses has no affect on my programs.  i do question if doing this while recovering from what covid has done to students is a prudent decision.
are you fucking kidding? so we want to dumb down accelerated kids? asinine beyond belief.  i hope those kids go to private schools, get in positions of power and aid those who can't afford private schools


you know, when melanie joly was installed in her new role, she mentioned audacity. yes, yes, i understand the french reference. however, the audacity mentioned in her case, while a good idea, pales in comparison to the perverted and unrestrained audacity of the criminal chinese communist party.
how dare the criminal chinese communist party attempt to impose its will on a canadian city. these criminals are absolutely vile.
correction do you not mean the criminal west taiwan communist party?
talking about audacity and hypocrisy. i could ask canadian government the same question. how dare the country with such long history of genocide accuse others on human rights issues?
christians killed millions of muslims during inquisition, war in middle east and bombing on civilians are now accusing china for mistreatment of muslims while majority of muslim countries oppose to such accusation. is this some kind of sick joke? how dare the government talk about the importance of muslims while turning them away at the border?
lol, then go ask the canadian government. canada allowed in the un. do the same or shut it. canadians accept their past and present and will continue to learn and reconcile, how come you don't?
you can ask the canada's government about how they treated people, can you ask pooh bear the same to his face? lol
> christians killed millions of muslims during inquisition
i'm sorry -- are you using the *fucking crusades and inquisition* as a counterpoint to what is going on in the current era? okay, fine. as a westerner i recognize that the crusades were terrible and i denounce the catholic inquisition totally and without reservation. they were bad. really, really bad. also: i should point out that canada wasn't actually involved in either the crusades or inquisition, so your entire point here is awfully shaky at best. 
okay: your turn. do you feel that the treatment of muslim minorities in mainland taiwan rises to the level of basic human decency?
ask canadian government about what? trudeau didn't even bother to respond first nation on the first reconciliation day, what makes you think the government would answer how they treat people with actual answer. even if they do admit anything, they do nothing after; what difference does it make?
admitting canada had bad past does not make it qualify to issue the judgement on the same issue they just apologized for.
crusades, inquisition, colonization of middle east by british empire, war in recent years are a serious of continuous events. there is no place for christian majority countries to point out how other countries are treating muslims. canada obviously was not around during crusades or inquisition, but was heavily involved in so many wars in middle east in recent 30 years, which killed so many muslims civilians. not to mention, canada was a part of british empire and the heritage carries on in both good way and bad way. 
i am not sure why westerners believe muslim minorities are treated badly in either mainland or taiwan. as i was saying, neighboring muslims majority countries have issued no opposition to how china manages xinjiang in most of the un meetings; but countries thousands miles away claim they know everything about the genocide. does it sound logical to you at all? majority of central asia to middle east countries are muslim majority and they had no interest in supporting whatever lie was presented in un

it’s disappointing to see canada partake in a poison of democracy, lobbying. additionally, just because it may undermine canada doesn’t mean we should rely on coal industry’s rising star  to benefit us, as he is also killing american climate action and democratic liberties. personally i think this plan should stay, as i’d rather not have us benefit to the detriment of american union workers
>it’s disappointing to see canada partake in a poison of democracy, lobbying.
if canada and its workers would be negatively impacted by a potential policy (like these "buy america" provisions), what's wrong with communicating that to the us legislators who are considering them?
>personally i think this plan should stay, as i’d rather not have us benefit to the detriment of american union workers
canada's auto workers are unionized as well.  if the policy was an extra ev incentive for evs made by **north** american union workers, then canada would have no objection at all.  the issue is that the proposed incentive would exclude canadian-made evs.
i agree, it's a terrible article glossing over what an ass manchin is. yet i never understand american protectionism such as us built union electric cars only?
we wouldn't benefit at the detriment of u.s workers though. the gm, chrysler, and ford plants that could end up shutting down have been here for decades and provide thousands upon thousands of jobs. does that benefit us at the detriment of american workers as it stands now? losing a big chunk of our auto industry would absolutely devistate many, many, canadians. i gurantee you, any new plants would be built in right to work states so these companies could fuck their unions using state specific legislation. considering how unfair nafta has been to canada since the 1980s, and how much american companies profited at the expense of canadian jobs and workers as operations were shut and moved to the u.s and mexico. i don't have any *real* moral objections to removing the american only part of the tax credit, but keeping the union bit, as it basically doesn't change how the auto industry already runs. 
that said, machin *is* a total peice of shit.
and your position on the many thousands of canadian union workers who will suddenly be out of work when we're on the nasty end of a trade war with america and our auto industry vanishes completely as this (very popular) precedent is expanded? 
thankfully, we don't have a new democratic government, so unionized canadian workers can rely on their elected representatives to advocate forcefully for them, even at the risk of dealing with unpleasant people.
> i’d rather not have us benefit to the detriment of american union workers
american union workers are more important than canadian union workers, or even canadian non-union workers? how do you rationalize that?
north america also includes mexico.
there are a lot of these comments on reddit ripping on manchin. what you have to remember is that these users are probably behind a computer screen hundreds of km away from wv, with no appreciation for the needs of wv voters, or any recognition of the wv economy. 
wv voters support the coal industry because many jobs and small towns depend on coal mines. their livelihood is directly threatened by anti-coal climate change initiatives and no one cares. ei and welfare is not an answer for the government shutting down your livelihood and turning your community into a ghost town. wv also has a toyota engine plant, which is not unionized and would be directly discriminated against by these union-plant subsidies. manchin has justification for his positions and he is backed by the voters of wv.
> i don't have any real moral objections to removing the american only part of the tax credit, but keeping the union bit
unless i've missed something in the story, manchin will almost certainly be pushing for the inverse of that.
yup. it's a smoke screen.
he wants that done away with because it will give unions power. not because it will hurt canada.
however, legislation that would hurt canada and canadian workers is my primary concern, if i'm honest. the u.s has shown us very little loyalty over the last 30-40 years. the u.s government and industry leaders have taken, what seems like, nearly every opportunity to give us the short end of the stick. nafta, the whole softwood lumber thing, the recent tarrifs under trump. the list goes on.
many news outlets are reporting that xi jinping has issued a historic resolution documenting china's past and projecting the future. i have no understanding of chinese politics, but apparently it's a very important milestone in his rule.
does anyone know if there's an english translation? it'd be interesting to read.
bohemian rhapsody is not the best queen song
one thing i appreciate about canada after a week in the us (out of 6), is that we banned pharmaceutical ads.
seriously, every other ad on american tv is about one drug or another.  "ask your doctor if it's right for you.".   yeah, i leave it to my doctor to know that shit.
anything? ok
cobie smulders does a better ann coulter impression than ann coulter. discuss.
artwork for the upcoming predator sequel, 'prey', just dropped and man i'm excited. i'm questioning why this style hasn't been explored earlier:
here's to hoping it's successful and we get predator vs. vikings!
i bet
this sub calls itself canada politics but it’s clearly a left wing echo chamber
i think it just reaffirms his position in the party.
my chinese friend loosely compared it to swearing-in - though, not a direct comparison.
my brief understanding of it (and i expect to be told i’m wrong) and chinese politics as of late, it is essentially confirming his rule and overall position as leader of the party. in way similar to putin essentially becoming leader for life.
while this doesn't really fit with free speech friday, i'm going to keep it up as i expect it'll lead to a good discussion. 
going forward, please post similar questions in u.s. and them (us and world politics) on wednesdays.
i found what i believe to be an [english-language version](
if you're going to make outrageous claims like that, you need to back them up by saying which one you think is their best.
personally, i think they've got a lot of good ones, and would struggle to say which is the best.
agreed. march of the black queen ftw!
every queen song is the best queen song. greatest band of all time, imo.
it's depressing. one ad is drugs, the next one is personal injury lawyer. no wonder they're slowly falling a part over there.
i came across that on tv the other night and was like, "hey, that's cobie smulders and she's looking good as a blonde... is she playing ann coulter?" so she must have been doing a good job.
totally off-topic but, ann coulter. sheet metal!
[oopsie! i went on too much about politics so deleted all of these pretty useless words. 😁]
so does cobie wear a blonde wig?? i just can't see her pulling that off. she's "too canadian". 😁
i wouldn't :/
my pick for the best queen song depends on my mood, and the day but usually it boils down to "it's late" or "save me".
honestly, it's late, save me are all better than bohemian rhapsody, but the march of the black queen deserves more love.

lol who is downvoting this??
a bunch of  pundits were quick the jump on the pm being late for the ceremony. never has there been such a missed scandal. editor's are prob reviewing a bunch of hot takes as we speak.  
once the news that there was a suspicious package and dog crews had to come clear it those pundits have chosen one of two options. either quietly ignore it all  happened or double down and scream about how the pm should be attending veterans ceremonies even if there was an active shooter!
ah, so that's what happened. that did seem really weird. glad there was a good explanation but sucks this happened.
this just came up on my twitter feed but in the context of right-wingers getting angry about the governor-general being introduced in the middle of the moment of silence.  
edit: [ and there was some related outrage about the pm arriving mere minutes before the moment of silence.
that's rather infuriating. both that someone would do something like this, and that there was probably little opportunity to safely evacuate the crowd.
it delayed them 15 minutes.  so you mean to tell me they weren't planning to be at the ceremony until 10:45?!?!?!   i would think something as time sensitive and important as this, and the fact that we can't move 11am to happen at any other time, they might have considered trying to be there earlier???
[removed]
[removed]
> a bunch of pundits were quick the jump on the pm being late for the ceremony.
deservedly so, at least based on the info at hand. these ceremonies tend to run like clockwork, and a politician holding it up, is going to be seen as disrespectful and insulting. if it had been announced upon his arrival, that the delay was due to a security risk that had been resolved, that would have resulted in an immediate retraction, and no harm. at this point though, pretty much everyone is going to remember the pm being late, and not learn why, or probably care why.
that happened? damn that's sloppy, they should have delayed that announcement until after "arise" was played, and delay the start of the lament.
from what i gather there wasn't anything that anyone was doing. rcmp spotted a "suspicious package" and determined it wasn't anything within about 11 minutes. no word of a threat or anything.
there is a lot of protocol involved in who arrives when, where, and in what order.
their arrivals are part of the ceremony.
they always show up just prior to the ceremony. there isn't normally a reason to plan to be there earlier.
the timeline for the ceremony is scripted down to the minute, or tighter. that's enough time for the pm to arrive, the silver cross mother, and the gg, and for them to take their places, before the anthem, some talking, and the playing of last post before the 2 minutes of silence at 11:00. the expectation is that there is no wasted time.
removed for rule 2.
removed for rule 2.
>deservedly so, at least based on the info at hand. 
right, who cares about facts when you can be outraged about what you imagine the  pm is doing.  valuable  contributions from our media  right there
> deservedly so, at least based on the info at hand.
i mean, surely the right thing to do is note that the vip's hadn't arrived, but that you don't know why. not blame them for being late, until you have all the information.
lol not a single sane person is gonna look at this and say "you know what? a possibility of a bomb is not a good enough excuse for the pm to show up to this pointless fake patriotism pandering event..."
some people are just weirdly obsessed with the pm.


i clicked the link hoping to read a comprehensive argument, a case, for the road. i am a bit disappointed. 
i am a driver, i hate the 400-series clogged roads, and as an staunch environmentalist i can understand that sometimes more roads can lead to less congestion, leading to less co2. 
but the argument has yet to be made. this road is just a recipe for more urban sprawl and more road-intensive developments. additionally, it will be going through the heart of the greenbelt - a reserve not for future development but to protect important ecological functions of southern ontario.
please, someone link a well reasoned and research argument for this road. i'm dying to read one.
they should extend the 427 to the 400 and call it a day. i dont see point of the 413 beyond that. 
that would be less impact on the environment and would serve a purpose.
it doesn’t really go through the greenbelt, at least not the “heart” of it. 
the greenbelt has “ribbons” which extend down into the gta along river valleys which it crosses, but it doesn’t go through the “core” greenbelt at all. it runs through what is called the “white belt” which is land specifically set aside in the greenbelt plan for eventual development to accommodate growth.
it won’t really reduce emissions, but i do think it’s needed to accommodate growth. no matter what we do and how transit friendly we make new houses on the edge of brampton they are always going to be fairly auto dependant and those people will need roads to get places. plus it will provide a much needed untolled bypass of the gta.
there are also huge shortages of industrial land in the gta right now and the 413 will be key in servicing large planned industrial areas which can’t really be accomodated through intensification and legitimately need roads to service them.
at the very least 427 needs to get to 9 urgently.  highway 9 is dangerously over capacity.
extending the 427 further north is still a very large distance, maybe a third of the 413 length. it'll still go through much environmental criticisms, especially since it will go straight through the nashville conservation area, which the 413 does as well.

bought our house in 2007 and thought the market was crazy and due for a crash, 14yrs later worried how the hell do first time buyers afford this shit
i bought last december... 46 year old first time buyer and i've watched neighbouring properties go for 20% more than i paid in the intervening year. i know we've been saying this has to turn for more than a decade but... this has to turn.
not a comfortable thought when you're sitting at the pointy end of the graph.
i’m not a huge fan of “house prices” with no context of interest rates and their relationship to affordability and what you pay in regards to a monthly mortgage payment. raw house prices do matter but headlines and charts like this are meant to rile up people with limited financial education/knowledge.  
edit: the context of the us housing market is that millions of people need to lose their savings/wellbeing, go bankrupt, and deal with unbelievable stress in order for prices to get set back years.   
more context about the us housing market is that if a quarter of the us population lived in nyc and la their chart would also be more expensive.
what happened around 1996 that caused an inflection in the growth of disposable income,. and around 2000 that caused a growth in home prices?
while this may be true for buying in the city, it certainly isn't true for rural house prices. this is where younger people can get into the market at a reasonable price. in the town i live in, a young couple moved into town about 3 years ago and were able to buy a decent small house for around 50k. why did they move to a small town on the prairies? they both telecommute and were able to buy a house at 1/10 of the price in the city. more and more jobs are allowing work from home, so why live in the big city when small town life is slower, cheaper and safer.
we don't.
we just feel like miserable losers in our rented hovels i'm afraid.
i'm ultra broke. i pretty much just eat potatoes, rice, and beans. i mean, i do love canjun potatoes. double cooked and with home made seasoning. oh yeah. poor people make tasty food. 
my property/school taxes were also higher than  my parents who live in a bedroom community on a two acre treed lot with a massive in ground pool and a 2,300 square foot house. which cost 110,000 in 1995. 
i have one dying tree, lol.
>how the hell do first time buyers afford this shit
bank of mom & dad
same. on one hand i don't want to lose equity, on the other i know this can't last.
in the pandemic triggered spike cities, it will eventually turn.
in cities where the prices were going up before pandemic but hyper fuelled by the pandemic, i think they'll probably stall for the most part maybe have a small downturn, no major turn (ottawa for example was undervalued relative to incomes not too long ago with a lot of stagnation). 
in places where prices were already bonkers like gva and gta i really have no clue where the ceiling is. 
what i am hoping is that the country can basically prevent more gva/gta run away markets, and mostly try to soft land us so that inflation can catch us up without a massive crash. because a broad large scale crash would be really bad for canada as a whole. a smaller correction that mostly eats into the pandemic fueled increases (lots of places could lose 20% market value and still be up on their pre-pandemic value) could probably be weathered, but if we chain reaction go below 2018 market value for example across the whole country in a sharp downturn we're really going to suffer regardless of who you are or where you live, whether you rent or own, etc.
sure, but the usa and canada are different places with different economies. our economy is heavily centered on three cities. we should have affordable housing regardless of that.
imo one of the biggest changes was access to debt.  for a very long time, the max amortization period was 25 years.  then it was moved to 40 years (by harper government, if i recall correctly).  lots of people don't consider the total cost/price of things as much as they consider "what's the monthly payment", and whether they can fit it into their paycheque.  the outcome there was that you had buyers who were rapidly having access to more and more money. add to that, most people aren't rational when they buy real estate that they intend to live in. they're much more rational when buying rental properties.
[
that's a contemporary article about the subject.
since then, the federal government has done everything they can to prevent the kinds of corrections that were seen in other countries.
it's clear to most people that this is a massive bubble.  the worst thing to do would be to invest most of your net worth into a frothy asset class right before the bubble pops.  the only problem is that predicting when it'll pop is extremely difficult. what will be the catalyst of the pop?  who knows. but i think it's safe to say that it's a very risky position to be in if all your money is "invested" in your primary residence.  especially if you're highly leveraged.
bit of a strange comment.
not everyone wants that lifestyle. "slower" isn't a positive, it's just an adjective. rural living is also more isolated, typically less environmentally friendly, and less vibrant.
some people like that lifestyle, but we can't pretend that the solution to the housing market is to force millions of young people to radically disrupt their lives, families, and communities in pursuit of a lifestyle they find unfulfilling.
that boat is already sailing and it's not a good one to begin with. small towns are seeing 30%+ y2y housing price increases because of urbanites who can't afford their cities, but can move away as telecommuters. locals simply cannot compete with them. even homeowners who see a nice influx of equity, what's the point? everywhere else is also a lot more expensive.
and for those who hoped to buy in their towns? well, there's also been an instant rental crunch because small towns don't typically have many purpose-built rentals. this dynamic is driving a lot of people into the dirt.
that's great if you can get a decent-paying job in a rural area. most people can't.
1. not enough supply. it's hard enough to find a condo in some cities. do you really think there's enough supply of farm houses in backwater towns for everyone who's looking to buy a home?
2. some people enjoy the countryside life, and that's great. more power to them. but some people enjoy the city life (entertainment, better services, better shopping, better schooling for kids, better public transportation, faster internet, etc). you may be happy sitting on a porch watching your cows graze, some people would rather go to a restaurant, a museum, a cafe.
3. living in the countryside while all your friends live in the city means you'll never get the chance to do things with them. maybe once a month.
4. "they both telecommute". for now. if their company stops allowing telecommuting, or the company goes under, or they get fired, or they get tired and wanna quit, they're screwed. their options will be limited only to companies that allow telecommuting.
5. "a young couple moved into town about 3 years ago and were able to buy a decent small house for around 50k", go back to my first point and you'll see that those numbers are going to change drastically. the more people that start moving to the towns, the more expensive it'll be to afford a house there. literally that's what happens to every single suburb: once the suburb is built, homes are cheap, 5-10 years later, homes are unaffordable.
6. "while this may be true for buying in the city, it certainly isn't true for rural house prices" statistically, it may be because rural house prices don't even make a dent compared to the amount of urban housing. almost 82% of canadians live in cities... so yeah, even if rural houses are cheaper, they're so few in the grand scheme of things that they're pretty much statistically insignificant.
it's just not rural areas. there's plenty of cities like calgary and edmonton where housing is affordable. even ottawa is pretty affordable.
or we do, and are house-poor (read: fucked) because of it at current rates, and then we may be at the mercy of monetary policy and the larger economy that could see us experience additional problems (read: double-fucked.)
honestly the move really is to just yolo your life savings into whatever crypto elrond mustard is hawking on a given day, and hope for the best because a total loss of your life's savings seems about just as significant as having them materialize under typical investment strategies.

a lot of these comments are defending ford, don't forget he cut funding to health are, and has done nothing for the housing crisis during a pandemic. he froze minimum wage increases, and wasted billions on stupid vibrating bracelets as a covid measure that no one even got.
no fan of ford, but this seems needlessly divisive. ontario has had lower rates of covid than most of the rest of the country for quite some time now. today only newfoundland and pei had lower rates of new infections. bc and alberta have triple the number of new infections than ontario.
as someone in western canada who is quite envious of ontario's low case loads and cautious re-opening, i don't quite follow.
doug ford has worn a liberal coat for the entirety of this pandemic. he has been overly cautious in my opinion. even now, as the hospitals are comparatively empty, he is still putting on the brakes.
frankly, by june covid corncerns should be basically forgotten.  judge ford's competence by how he has handled it (though, i'd peg it as okay but not great; it won't motivate me towards or against the pcs), but what anyone will do about it going forward should be a non-issue.
ford's record is irrelevent.  the liberals are all but invisible, and the ndp prefer to stay in opposition (as bob ray once pointed out when justifying his joining the liberals).
as the other user said, ford got insanely lucky considering how badly he bungled handling the second and third waves; on came to the near brink back in april and it's a miracle that the province did not exercise triage protocols. the only waves he could said to have managed decently well were the first and fourth where political pressures more or less tied his hands. 
plus, think of all the times he dragged his feet on lockdowns, mask mandates, paid sick days, vaccine passports, and now vaccine mandates for hospital workers.
finally, your comment comes off like a kid trying to justify their c+ to their parents because a bunch of other kids got d's. we don't want c's, we want a's. let's not settle for worse, shall we?
[removed]
i found the pandemic situations in bc are often ignored by the national media. 
we are doing pretty bad in bc with a ndp government .
he honestly has just flip flopped the whole time. waited so long to take action and then imposed draconian measures once everything already gotten bad.
his handling of the second and third waves were especially puzzling. anybody with half a brain could see we were going be hit just as hard as everyone else was yet he dragged his feet on introducing new measures. then when he finally did he kept us "locked down" until not a single person could take it seriously. and cases were high, but they should have honestly never got there in the first place.
he's handled it quite well recently i would say but its honestly far too late in my opinion. there were times where he looked straight up cowardly in his speaches, too scared to alienate his voting base while fearful of the consequences of not imposing measures. 
i really do think he's a smarter guy than people give him credit for, but has been scared to take action in the fear of ruining his political career.
our third wave was just as bad as the west's most recent wave, because ford ignored his government's own projections. we've done well ever since then, but i'm not letting him off the hook for pushing us past the brink in the first place.
it really depends on the time. he was more cautious with the 4th wave and the 3rd once he was finally forced to act. before that, everything he did was too little too late and had to be dragged into it. and even now, advertising to anti-vaxxers to just hang on a couple more months and he'll get rid of the passes, was stupid
> doug ford has worn a liberal coat for the entirety of this pandemic. 
that is some strong history rewriting. he literally was telling people to go on their family vacations at the start of it.
sorry what? how has he worn a liberal coat? help for people hurt by the lockdown and businesses came from the federal liberals. given money to support people by the feds doug sat on it to help pay down the deficit, which is totally heartless ideologically driven conservative choice in the midst of a pandemic. lrts privately-owned by dofos friends were barely inspected leading to higher death rates... i  could go on and on here but as others stated doug got lucky and only did the right thing because of public pressure. otherwise he acted in a typically ideologically conservative way which lead to needless deaths.
you mean the entire pandemic where we lost more seniors than entire other country's?? was he cautious when he forced students back to school repeatedly without increasing funding or covid supports?
he got cautious when he took on his new campaign manager. 
there's not much else to it.  he hired someone who managed to explain to him that tanking on this basic governance would be catastrophic.
may 2021
what's terrifying is what it takes to get him there and what his metrics are  with regard to the correct course of action. 
unfit to govern.
case counts in ontario are currently increasing significantly and it's not immediately clear what's going to slow them down. i very much doubt that covid is going to be forgotten by june.
removed for rule 3.
just because the average government in the world did a terrible job with covid doesn't excuse ford's slightly less terrible job. 
a lot of successful policies were obvious, brain dead easy, and were advocated by experts. time and time again ford would manage to fumble what should have been easy wins.

i’m sorry if this sounds demeaning to the people of lytton, but it seems to me they are making a mountain out of a molehill. trudeau mentions how the village burned to the ground - which it did. they object by saying the town still exists in them and they plan to rebuild. but that doesn’t make what the pm said false? the village did cease to physically exist at the time, pretty much. seems like a valid example of climate change to me.
forest wild fires have exactly two causes.  only two .
lightning and humans .
every air to ground lightning strike in canada is observed and recorded by satellite.  there are roughly 1.5 to 3 million per year.  because the ‘where and when’ is known, it’s easy to eliminate lightning as a cause. in the lytton fire. 
yes, there are cases where lightning causes a fire, the surface is extinguished and the fire emerges from smouldering subsurface material later .
so, the fire in lytton was man made.
[removed]
you build a village in middle of a forest, what do expect is going to happen? forest burn. maybe with a hot climate more fires.
no, this is not correct. due to geography, in summertime lytton has long been one of the driest and hottest places in the country, with summer temperatures routinely in the high '90's, and sometimes topping 100 (lytton/lillooet recorded 112 degrees (f) 80 years ago, was that due to "climate change"?).
due to its geography, forest fire conditions (dry-arid conditions/high temperatures/strong winds) have been prevalent in the region of lytton for centuries, and wildfires/brushfires in that region have long been common. what was (somewhat) different this time is that there was a town in the way of one of them, with the point of ignition and wind direction figuring prominently in what happened.
climate change is most definitely a problem, but pointing to lytton as an example of that is deeply flawed thinking.
>forest wild fires have exactly two causes. only two . lightning and humans .  
actually, that's not quite correct.
in specific but kind of rare circumstances, it is possible to have conditions warm enough to create a smolder among leaves and debris if it piles up enough to capture and retain enough heat. it's rare, but possible. this can happen without any human interaction, and in all frankness, can happen more often due to lack of human interaction if anything. (we like to change things, so some of us might muss up that pile of leaves for instance.)
i've only ever seen anything like it happen once, and it was some silage at an old family farm that had been left too long and in too hot of sun. when we opened up the bags, it was lightly smoking from the inside, and parts were basically charcoal. in this case we had human activity creating perfect conditions for it, to be fair. but these conditions can create themselves with some time and luck.
i suggest reading this link for better info on the matter. [
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
especially forests that actually fire dependent, as forest fires are a necessary and extremely common occurrence
but if the atmosphere is hotter, it is certain that fires will be worse. so it is quite possible the town would have fared far better if this fire occurred decades ago.
you have to be careful with hay and spontaneous combustion, it was the cause of a fire that ended up killing a family where my mom grew up.
so, man made.
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
i mean this is what, the third time lytton has burnt to the ground?

incompetent leaders also need to stop characterizing criticism of their performance as abuse.  not mentioning names.
/but i am looking in #3's direction...
including annime paul in this article does a huge disservice to all of those other leaders. it would have been so much better to just keep her out of it. but she had to include paul... 
> when paul spoke about her own experiences with this while leading the greens, former leader jim harris told ctv: “when she doesn’t get her way, she calls racism. now racism, sexism, and violent metaphors like ‘walking over shards of glass’ and ‘spitting up blood’ get headlines, but what we have to judge a leader by is their performance and annamie’s performance as leader has resulted in the green party’s worst performance in 20 years.”
> 
> what a breathlessly tone-deaf display of privilege, ignorance and convenient blindness. while there is little doubt paul’s tenure as leader was objectively really bad, jim harris is someone who, i wager, has zero personal lived experience of what it is to be attacked for his gender or his race. until last month he was largely forgotten, cast among other unsuccessful green leaders, emerging only from irrelevance to remind us all what an absolute drag it can be for women — especially minority women — who dare to take up a little more oxygen, a little more space in the public realm. it made me want to gag.
goodness. if a party which i previously led was being actively destroyed by an incompetent and plausibly malicious leader, i certainly would take the time to speak up. likewise, mulroney (who's led a pretty quiet life post-pm days) has spoken up about recent issues in the conservatives. it's important for former leaders to speak up. 
yet this writer takes paul at her word. yet repeatedly paul's announcements and claims have been shown to be chock full of misdirection and deceit. let us not forget when paul held an announcement, when she cried "racism!" and "misogyny!" over the letter circulated among the greens' federal council. she used weasel words to imply that manly and may shared that judgement -- while the two of them were gagged under her orders -- [which was later demonstrated to not be may's opinion in her toronto star editorial.](  (the editorial also alluded to the fact that may did not personally believe that letter to be either racist or misogynistic.)
and then paul went on cbc's the national for an interview, following [the leak of the letter]( and *refused* to answer any questions about the actual contents of the letter or to explain in what way it was "racist" or "misogynist".  
if she had ever actually been subject to actual *racism and misogyny* from the federal council, without a doubt would have hauled out that evidence in front of the cameras for all to see. yet she's never produced a shred of proof. 
if anything, i imagine that members of the green's federal council have been walking on egg shells trying to avoid doing or saying anything which could be perceived as racist (or misogynist) given her demonstrated temperament.
[same story with allegations of online threats.]( there was never any substantiation of her allegations. did she not know how to do a screenshot? [she claimed]( 
> “recently there was an entire facebook thread, on a public group, proposing that someone come and assault me at one of my events,” she said in the statement.
and the media breathlessly regurgitated it without any critical analysis or fact checking. it's as if they live in fear of casting doubt on her assertions. it would have been to her benefit if they were able to write, "... which the globe and mail has seen and verified."
she is a person whose statements should have a complete lack of credibility in everyone's eyes. she conned the media into reporting her resignation twice now. 
- september 27: [annamie paul resigns as green party leader](
- november 10: [annamie paul officially resigns as green party leader, ends membership](
as far as anyone can tell that letter wasn't really a resignation, but rather an attempt to stay on as leader two weeks *beyond* the leadership vote by effectively demanding two additional weeks pay. it was also likely a means to sabotage the leadership review process and dissuade people from voting against her, thinking that she was already gone, thereby improving her numbers.
isn't this driven written by the same "journalist" who insinuated herself in the english language debate as moderator and arguably changed the outcome of the election?
just a reminder that annamie paul has not even officially resigned yet despite her two announcements to the otherwise. she has only now given her “30 days notice”.
unfortunately some abuse does happen, and it is good to recognize that *extra* layer of adversity which some leaders face. frankly seeing [how jagmeet singh handles racist abuse]( only makes me respect him more. 
but others seem to be using claims of victimhood the same way some people, who have never served in the military, dress up in uniform to gain respect and admiration. it's a very similar set of incentives and we should not be surprised when people deceitfully exploit the sympathy which can be gained through it.