Vists
Exploitative industries are the backbone of the Canadian economy
What about when canada visits themselves?
Full disclosure, I'm a mineral exploration geologist, so of course I'm a bit biased, but I'm honestly shocked by the amount of anti-mining sentiment in all these comments.
The bottom line is a hard pill to swallow: Our modern society cannot exist in any form without large scale industrial mining.
We are currently in the midst of the worst environmental catastrophe in human history (climate change obviously), and we are causing it. We are literally watching our planet's natural systems collapse around us. The technology to stop our emissions and potentially fix climate change exists, but it requires metal. A LOT of metal. And right now, the only method we have to get that metal is to dig it out of the earth. Future technologies like asteroid mining might change that in our lifetimes, but for now, it's our only option.
Almost everything around you right now requires mined materials in one form or another. Your phone alone requires dozens of rare metals to function. The drywall of your house is made from mined gypsum. Roads, sidewalks, and buildings require mined lime, coal, and aggregate. Any form of renewable energy generation requires massive amounts of copper and rare earth elements. The list goes on infinitely. 
All this isn't to deny the deep flaws that exist in the global mining industry. But we can't do without it. That means that those of us in the industry have a responsibility to push however we can to make sure things are done better. Change takes time and pressure, but I do think that things are improving, and I think Canada is shaping up to be in the lead with mining practice reforms.
Here's some references for anyone who's interested:
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0921344920304249
https://www.bbc.com/future/article/20161017-your-old-phone-is-full-of-precious-metals
http://canadianminingjournal.com/featured-article/esg-focus-brings-risks-and-opportunities-to-the-mining-sector/
Hard truth.
What is this?
Ça nous fait bien mauvaise mine
To be fair theCanadian mining companies are not publicly owned by Canada. So as a Canadian I refuse to take responsibility for the shittiness of these (or any not publicly funded) corporations. Just because they came from here doesn’t make them ours or representative of us. 
Not defending open pit mines, or cruel work situations/poor wages/slave labour/environmental destruction. They are all abhorrent.
Hard pill to swallow: the Green Revolution is going to require a lot more mining all over the world than what's currently going on.
I don't get it this is just Banff and Drumheller??
[removed]
i dont get it?
As we all type on our tech with rare earth minerals….
Don't worry, they still do it here in Canada, just on untouched land the public doesn't know about.
I take what's mine. And take some more.
Meh. Canada does the same thing to Canada.
When I talk to some people of how corruption is low in Canada, they point out how that's whitewashing as Canadian companies bribe and participate in the corruption of many other places without interference from the Canadian government.
I do think that Canadian companies should have extraterritorial laws applied if they do something in foreign land for which they could be convicted in Canada.
Aid for trade.
What’s a Vists?
WE REQUIRE MORE MINERALS
Kahnawakeronon here. We're currently phasing out the Band Council and going back to traditional government. I suggest you do the same.
https://mckgovernance.wordpress.com/
The government of BC and Canada even recognized that the hereditary chiefs are the only ones that hold title to the yintah (traditional territory) but they ignore their own MOU and send in the rcmp mercenaries on behalf of the pipeline company. ([https://www.rcaanc-cirnac.gc.ca/eng/1589478905863/1589478945624](https://www.rcaanc-cirnac.gc.ca/eng/1589478905863/1589478945624))
Every time this comes up (which is all the time when I pay attention) I get ticked off at the narrative. The Indian Act is a horrid colonial POS that needs to be chucked and replaced with legislation based on the principles of the UN Declaration. We can't repair relationships (build them in the first place) if we are working from a broken, racist framework.
Just a 6th generation settler opinion.
> Hereditary does not mean a monarchy
Can you expand on this?
This is what I've always suspected, but didn't have the data to back it up before. Could I get your sources to cite whenever I come across someone talking out their ass about how the chiefs are "ignoring the will of the people"?
Thank you for this perspective.  There is much about how Canada treats the indigenous people having to change.  Part of that is learning about the systems of government that existed prior to colonization, and that continue to develop.
Thank you for the breakdown in regards to the structure. As a middle aged white male, I am on your side and am supporting through donations and writing my representatives. The biggest impact has been talking to friends and family to stop their racist rhetoric.
Your people really got the shit end of the stick and I find the opinion of First Nations people is entirely shaped by misinformation and government propaganda.
Canada has a very long way to go on reconciliation, but the good news is that people are finally talking.
How do these hereditary elections work? Who gets to vote?
White man here, a once proud Canadian, I do not really know how to express the shame I feel over the treatment of our indigenous people. The more I learn the worse it gets and I am sorry.
I can't bring myself to vote anymore because nothing ever changes.
Post to r/CanadaPolitics. Too many libs proping up the “democratic” system as if imposed systems on a colonized people are inherently “just”
[deleted]
Indigenous people generally divide ourselves up by clans (bloodlines) through the mother's or father's side of the family, and we marry other clans. In my community, it's the mother's side. So the clan elects a chief they believe is most qualified from one of their own members. I can elect one of my uncles or cousins on my mother's side of the family. He becomes chief and is our representative until he dies, resigns, or is removed for misconduct.
For sure,
Election results:
"Witset Chief and Council Election Results Are In | CFNR Network" https://www.cfnrfm.ca/2021/10/19/witset-chief-and-council-election-results-are-in/
Band population:
"Witset First Nation (Moricetown Band) - Province of British Columbia" https://www2.gov.bc.ca/gov/content/environment/natural-resource-stewardship/consulting-with-first-nations/first-nations-negotiations/first-nations-a-z-listing/moricetown-band-administration
Failed referendum:
"Benefits agreement asks First Nation to discourage members from hindering B.C. pipeline project" https://www.cbc.ca/amp/1.5238220
It is decided by consensus, and a single house can have over a dozen chiefs specialized in different areas of governance. Young people are groomed in laws, governance, ethics, protocols, and history, and over the course of a lifetime succeed to higher and higher ranking names. Everyone has a say, and anyone who brings shame to the ancestral name they carry can have it removed by the family at any time. It's based on merit, and community recognition. A chief does not inherit authority, but instead people will follow based on their achievements. Every individual has a duty to build up their name.
If you don’t vote, it’s a vote for the status quo. There are many options before you to get involved and bring about change and voting is only one of them.
Join a party that's also fed up with bourgeois electoral politics - the Communist party.
If people do not participate within a foreign imposed colonial system, it is probably the system that is at fault.
Just to clarify, so you can only “elect” a family member to be the leader?
It looks like you shared an AMP link. These should load faster, but AMP is controversial because of [concerns over privacy and the Open Web](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmputatorBot/comments/ehrq3z/why_did_i_build_amputatorbot).
Maybe check out **the canonical page** instead: **[https://www.cbc.ca/news/indigenous/coastal-gaslink-nak-azdli-whut-en-agreement-1.5238220](https://www.cbc.ca/news/indigenous/coastal-gaslink-nak-azdli-whut-en-agreement-1.5238220)**
*****
 ^(I'm a bot | )[^(Why & About)](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmputatorBot/comments/ehrq3z/why_did_i_build_amputatorbot)^( | )[^(Summon: u/AmputatorBot)](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmputatorBot/comments/cchly3/you_can_now_summon_amputatorbot/)
What do you mean by "higher ranking names"?   
Are those different from the ancestral names you mentioned?
Anyone who has taken the time to understand the issue and it's root causes supports the Wet’suwet’en. Those who do not either don't understand, or are on someone's payroll.
Oh this is funny. The reserves that the pipeline is going through are getting huge amounts of money and gave their permission. The people protesting are just there to stir up trouble. It's ridiculous. After a pipeline goes through they replant and you can't even tell it is there.
I admire your confidence in rationality. I fear it may be misplaced: some just refuse to accept that the Indian Act is a thoroughly rigged game, and traditional Aboriginal governance does not look like they want it to look.
Wildly inaccurate
You are so very, very wrong.
Seriously, go read up on the situation before giving your take.
r/confidentlyincorrect
Would you care to educate them then?
Nah. Why don't you.
Because I didn't make a claim and am not educated on it. I'm not disagreeing with you but simply stating "you're wrong" isn't a sound argument and won't sway other readers to your position. 
Didn't think I'd receive such hostility for simply asking for somebody to expand on their claim.
>Because I didn't make a claim 
Neither did I. The person I replied to made many claims, all without evidence. “That which can be asserted without evidence, can be dismissed without evidence.”  [Hitchen's Razor](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hitchens%27s_razor).
>"What can be asserted without evidence can also be dismissed without evidence." It implies that the burden of proof regarding the truthfulness of a claim lies with the one who makes the claim; if this burden is not met, then the claim is unfounded, and its opponents need not argue further in order to dismiss it.
Nickel6661 is the one making the claims. For someone so interested in sound arguments, you should also understand that the burden of proof is on the person making the claims.
>Didn't think I'd receive such hostility
"Nah. Why don't you." is hostile? I guess fragility is your thing.
Canada has an over 12yo two dose vax rate of **86%** and 75% of the whole population is fully vaccinated. How the fuck did they think this would work?
Wait, you mean to tell me a small minority didn't influence a much larger majority that they pissed off to boycott ice cream?!
Well of course it did. Those of us who aren't deluded, selfish, dangerous, morons are sick and tired of those that are deluded, selfish, dangerous, morons and are doing everything we can to thwart their evil plans.
I don’t usually buy ice cream, but today i did.. made sure it was Chapman’s.  
They make me feel good about being Canadian.
I listened to the interview on CP24 of full reason they made this decision. It surprised me and gave me more respect for the brand. They wanted those who feel uncomfortable being vaccinated to be paid the same as those who chose to be vax. 
Chapman currently pays the unvax people to take their test every 2 weeks. Whether that is actually paying for the test, or making allowances for the time off to get tested. Based on the calcs, unvax going for tests was costing Chapman about $40/week/employee. So they decided to off equality. 
If your vax, you can keep the $40/week in take home pay. If you’re unvax, we will continue to make provisions to allow you to be comfortable in your workplace. Fucking legends of industry.
You're damn right it did. I'm going to have to exercise more to make up for all the Chapman's icecream I'm eating.
I think I'll bring my antivaxxer dipshit brother and his equally stupid wife a Chapman's basket for Christmas.
That's because the anti-science crowd is not nearly as big as they make themselves seem. Common sense *usually* prevails, at least in this country.
Good for them.
It's freezing outside, but I guess I'll get some ice cream.
Some people are very intolerant. Lactose intolerant. AM I RIGHT!!!!!????
I’m never buying Chapman’s ice cream! (I’m lactose intolerant)
“ThE siLEnT mAjorITY!!”
Not even a fan of Chapman’s ice cream, but planning on picking some up just for the spite of it!
I will do anything and everything in my power to counter whatever stupid sh*t the antivax crowd comes up with. I’m done pandering to these idiots. If it means buying Chapman’s ice cream, I’m 100% ok with that.
Paywall. What’s the story? Chapmans supported vaccines, right?
Chapman’s. Check. Will be buying
The anti vax group are by far and away the smaller group. Most people are vaccinated. For the news media companies that decided to frame this as a boycott were doing so as clickbait to sell more advertising. This should always have been framed as idiots acting out and not a boycott. If the vaccinated were deciding to not use a particular product that would actually be a boycott. Honesty is paramount in journalism. At one time a single lie in a news article would be a reason to FIRE a journalist. Lets go back to that. WE DESERVE HONESTY IN THE MEDIA!!! The big story here, is the failure of the media to provide us with the service they CLAIM to provide.
I remember a post on here a few days ago where a bunch of the comments were talking about how this isn't actually going to help Chapman's.
Well, I've seen probably about 10 posts about this all from major news outlets so far and a ton of them bring up the policy as it stands (very gentle) and how they still paid everyone who worked there after the fire.
Just shows you how delusional these types are. The majority of people are fed up with the anti-vax nonsense as it’s the only reason we aren’t approaching a state of normalcy in what should be a pandemic that is in the rear view mirror.
That’s not how it works. That’s not how any of this works. 
( you spelled “scare companies shitless” wrong. It’s spelled “laugh their asses off at you” )
One can dream 😔
Lol
I thought this was r/insanepeoplefacebook. Good luck with this lol.
We can dream.
I want the living wage to be the minimum wage, with pension after 30 years in the workforce, not just at one company.  This means 3rd party pension companies.
I want an extra minimum wage for college and university graduates.  If your employee needs to have a degree to do the job, then you need to pay extra for it.  No more of this "Get $1/hr more with a bachelor's degree in science" garbage.
I need to get some of what op is smoking
How to make sure no one will be able to afford to open a business
This will never fly good luck 👍
Lol I hope this is satire, as it is comically out of touch
I'd like beer to come out of my kitchen tap too. I don't think either is happening.
This is utopia. The ruling class will never allow it.
Whoever thinks that this is reasonable does not understand how money, inflation, business or life in general works.
Cannot exceed 10times the lowest paid worker. Pay living wage lmfao.
Why not start your own small business and give all your workers these 'rights'? See how that works out for you
I dont need a government to control what I make. I got in to a growing trade and  I work for a smaller company that respects me. The pay was a conversation that we both agreed with. I deal with my own medical and dental plans and I invest my savings at much high rate of return then what a typical pension would pays out. 
I am not bragging i am just voicing that when you put energy towards your goals you are better off instead of relying on a government to help you out. 
Also I do believe some people need a hand and I think social programs are important.
Woah, what a high and reasonable wage. I really hope none of my other expenses goes up as well.
You do realize that that hourly rate equates to about $19/hr at 40 hours or about $25K/yr net.
Who’s interested in moving their company?
Four weeks vacation per year to start, after one year of service add another week and so on …
I think these goals are hyperbolic at best in our current method of doing things. 
What I would like to see is more protections for salary workers. As an example: 
So often I see people working 40-60h work weeks but only being compensated for 40h. My brother works so much harder than i do because his hours aren't submitted every week it's just assumed he worked 40 when I'm reality the company gets more out of him, usually about 50h. 
By contrast i work for an engineering firm and our time is direct bill to customer. when i work over 40h in a week the company expects me to work less the next week because there is a record of my hours the MLO can look at and slap them on the writs. 
At the end of the day i would really love to see some kind of legislation that forced companies to have employee submitted records of hours for their salary workers and for there to be protections vs company pressure to lie on those records. Maybe it will help curb this absolutely shity practice of "well we pay you well so you work what it takes to be seen as a 'good' employee"
Salary workers don't get union protection and while we have the opportunity to negotiate our contracts before we start at a company, I've not seen a point where I could go "hey this is bullshit, i want more money to deal with this shit". There are so many less checks and balances on corporate exploration of workers once you stop being an hourly worker under the guise of "well you don't make minimum wage, get fucked". 
An example i have was when I started at my current job i had a higher salary than my co-worker who had 6 years Experience at the company vs my 6 years external. To be frank, he was/is worth way more than I am, imo. When we got talking about it early on he realized the difference in pay and actually said something to his "talent manager" (too complicated to explain) and he got a pay bump to be on par with me. Had we never talked about it he would have been making less with "better" experience.
My grandpa was FN and I never mention I'm any part Native because I'm terrified of being called out like this.
Made me tear up, I love it. This is healing.
Fantastic. Good to see that at least individuals are taking reconciliation seriously even when their government fails to do so.
Very good to see
I have been wanting to visit this place, it looks simply magical.
Ah, victory!
Must not be an Oil rich area, or I would expect a different outcome.
I can't wait until land transfers happen with your place of residence on it.
Nice to see Scotia leading by example. Now for the rest of the country to take theirbcollective heads out of their respective asses.
My hope for what is possible in my lifetime is to change land taxation laws such that a percentage of each land transfer and municipal taxes be directed to indigenous coffers. In the meantime it is voluntary and this historic transfer is a good model. Our family has held large swaths of woodlot and are in the process of transferring back to the Mi'kmaq. But it takes time because local groups do not exist everywhere to be able to transfer ownership.
Well enjoy being homeless targets because that is what you're asking for.
I'm not sure why you feel the need to interact with me in this manner. I've done nothing but post a positive news item that I think is heading in the right direction. I'm not looking for a fight. I'm not looking for criticism. I'm not looking for sarcasm. I have no interest in this conversation at all. I'm literally sitting on my sofa on a chilly Sunday morning, drinking coffee, listening to the radio, and watching my half-sleeping dogs look out the window. I have no beef with you. You have no beef with me. There is no reason I can think of to create a negative energy here.
We've been conditioned to think that more stuff is the answer to whatever we feel is lacking.  Feeling unhappy or unwanted?  Retail therapy.  Feeling under-appreciated?  More retail therapy.  Entertainment sucks?  Need a bigger screen to see it on.  Your hobby not giving you enough satisfaction?  Obviously, you need better stuff (camera, cookpots, tools, etc.).  Love life not that great?  Must be the car you're driving - upgrading it will do wonders.  Kids misbehaving?  Need a bigger house.  
Given the lack of control many feel they have over their lives, acquiring stuff is one act of "control" that they can exert.  But the reality quickly sinks in - it doesn't actually change much.
There is also [research](https://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2020/03/200309130020.htm) showing that people derive more happiness from experiences than possessions.
I agree.  One type of experience that gives a long-lasting sense of happiness is helping others.  Give someone an opportunity to be heard.  Visit a shut-in.  Make a meal for someone who's struggling.  Volunteer at an organization serving the community.  Teach a skill.  There are so many ways to enrich one's life that don't require spending money.
Very much agree, creating personal connections with people and sharing your skills and knowledge is incredibly rewarding.
There's some severe conflict of interest going on at the moment.
Those that say disbanding or reorganization of the RCMP is impossible, we can look to other instances of national police being torn down and rebuilt to better serve the population.
[The Patten Report](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Independent_Commission_on_Policing_for_Northern_Ireland?wprov=sfla1) was produced to better create a police agency that reflected the community it served in Northern Ireland.
Something like this for the RCMP would be a small first step in the long process of reconciliation and decolonization.
Yea the RCMP have millions of dollars tied up in a pension fund that is invested in the company that's building this pipeline
Honestly, I'm a proponent of 'new measures' when it comes to policing (et al). The RCMP's roots are dubious af. Start a new task force with honest intentions. Where is the harm? The RCMP has its awful reputation for a reason. There's no hiding that.
Lets be real here the canada pension plan is heavily tied to big oil investment. The banks are. It is not just the RCMP. Tye government has 2 choices here RCMP or the Army. If you think the RCMP is bad wait till the other steps in.
Wait a minute... waaaaait, wait, wait...
So, not only are these jackbooted shits (indirectly) taking marching orders from pipeline shareholders, but they have a stake in the very same company? 
Have I got that right?
Not that I don't believe you, but do you have a source for this? cause that's some fucked shit right there if true.
That's true that its not just the RCMP benefiting from the profits of the pipeline company and that Canada's pension plan is invested as well in the pipeline.
But the government has more then 2 choices here they could also just cancel the pipeline and not steal indigenous peoples land and destroy the planet.
Lol what?
Indirectly through a well diversified pension fund. So pretty much like everyone else in the country.
[RCMP Pensions Are Invested in Controversial Gas Pipeline Owner - Vice ](https://www.vice.com/en/article/g5xwn4/rcmp-pensions-are-invested-in-controversial-gas-pipeline-owner)
They have 2 choices on the path they have chosen. They are not going to choose the other. So functionally they have 2 choices.
This only gives 10 days of paid sick leave for federally regulated workers not for all workers which is what we actually need. Theres no good reason to not extend this to all workers. Many healthcare experts have recommended we Introduced 10 days of paid sick leave for all workers and in most OECD countries 10 days of paid sick leave a year is the norm. In this respect Canada is way behind and needs to catch up by providing 10 days of paid sick leave this will allow people to stay home from work when sick without having to worry about not being able to pay the bills. which at the beginning of the pandemic would have helped stop the spread of the virus.
I want it to be criminal when they intimidate patients and cover it up too
Wouldn't intimidating people already be covered under assault statutes?
Agreed but I think that is beyond the power of the federal government and falls under the jurisdiction of the provincial governments. Given that the governments in most provinces is currently conservatives, I wouldn't hold your breath.
The feds don't have jurisdiction to implement that onto the provinces, hence why they are implementing where they do have jurisdiction (federally regulated workers).
Do crown corporation workers include federally regulated workers? We get remembrance day like federal workers.
> Theres no good reason to not extend this to all workers.
There *is* a good reason. That reason being that it doesn't fall under their jurisdiction. Talk to your province.
This seems like a statement that needs some more background information.
That would be illegal. So?
Why would this fall on the provincial government and not the federal government. The federal government very much has the power to do this and is well within it's rights to enact these pro worker laws.
Trying to get each individual provincial government to enact these laws just seems like a way to slow down progress on getting workers the necessary protections they deserve and would probably mean that it would never actually happen.
> Intimidation
> 423 (1) Every one is guilty of an indictable offence and liable to imprisonment for a term of not more than five years or is guilty of an offence punishable on summary conviction who, wrongfully and without lawful authority, for the purpose of compelling another person to abstain from doing anything that he or she has a lawful right to do, or to do anything that he or she has a lawful right to abstain from doing,
> (a) uses violence or threats of violence to that person or their intimate partner or children, or injures the person’s property;
> (b) intimidates or attempts to intimidate that person or a relative of that person by threats that, in Canada or elsewhere, violence or other injury will be done to or punishment inflicted on him or her or a relative of his or hers, or that the property of any of them will be damaged;
> (c) persistently follows that person;
> (d) hides any tools, clothes or other property owned or used by that person, or deprives him or her of them or hinders him or her in the use of them;
> (e) with one or more other persons, follows that person, in a disorderly manner, on a highway;
> (f) besets or watches the place where that person resides, works, carries on business or happens to be; or
> (g) blocks or obstructs a highway.
Yes federally regulated workers are covered as well under this law from what the article said
I'm ~~pretty~~ sure that labour laws covering things like mandated sick days, wages, vacation, etc. are provincial. The Feds can't override those except when the employees are working for, or charted by the federal government. Same goes for health care.
Edit: this Wikipedia page explains this.....https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Canadian_labour_law
I was mainly asking if employees of crown corporations are considered federally regulated workers. Bank of Canada, Canada post, etc.
Pretty much the best that the federal government can do is offer money incentives to get provinces to adopt the 10 day paid sick leave for their labour laws. Sort of like how our federal government does offer money incentives to provinces that meet a minimum standard for healthcare.
Well it's to bad they don't have the jurisdiction to enact this because it's not going to happen if we have to go province by province.
Yes, they are. Any federal crown corps and federally regulated industries (telecom, transport, banks, etc.)
Thanks!
> Cummings said the surgeon has also told him that "there's a window" within which the surgery should be done. If that window is missed, the ribs will start to try to heal and "connect themselves to the muscle tissue," leaving the patient in chronic pain.
> "And in [the surgeon's] words, we're at that window right now."
JFC. Is there no other hospital that can do it!?       
> Hospital is 'managing well,' minister says
Clearly not!
'Still' meaning for about a century now.
And conservatives and liberals are still justifying it
Canadian Heritage Moment
Nathan Cullen really had a fall from grace in ndp terms huh
Dude was beloved and seen as future premier or party leader and then he made snarky borderline offensive comments about opponents, lost his shot at a relevant cabinet seat to Murray Rankin, and now is a political nobody.
And evicted from Gitxan territory!
Indigenous sovereignty! Woot woot. Glad they are taking back power
Did he actually get forced to leave or is this simply a piece of paper taped to a wall?
The latter. For better or for worse, Indigenous assertion of sovereignty only works to the extent that the people with guns (the Canadian state) are willing to enforce it. Even if the RCMP weren't occupied bashing Indian skulls, I suspect they would have better things to do than enforce unrequited dick waving contests.
That's what I assumed, since I don't think actually forcing someone to move would be ignored as this is.
The union is looking for a $3,000 COVID bonus per employee, adding up to $6 million total, which Hesse pointed out is pocket change for a company that made $4.93 billion in profits this year. “
Fuck Cargill. Assholes didn’t give a shit about workers dying due to CoViD transmission.
Hopefully that plant burns down mysterious
Cargill will happily take the insurance payout and rebuild it somewhere else with a more deperate population.
Inflation is happening globally. 
Cant put all the blame in one place. It is due to many factors.
Economically giving Trudeau way too much importance than the reality of the current situation. 
Can Poilievre recommend any real solutions or is making a fool of himself his career goal?
Blaming Trudeau is the Conservative party chant. They don't have much else. Trudeau takes up a ton of head space in these people. Sad really. 
Reality is a nasty pandemic hit the world. Trudeau asked his econimic ministers and the BoC to try and mitigate economic disaster by various means. One could say the fact inflation is only this high and not significantly higher is due to the actions they took.
Does a Conservative understand how high inflation gets when your economy crashes?
There must be a Canadian equivalent of [this.](https://i.redd.it/50mx733ept8z.jpg)
Gotta love it when some folks think one person is responsible for every single thing that happens in Canada.
Other than getting back at Elections Canada? Probably not.
Conservatives tell everyone the truth what they want to do.
**Most people:** What?!? You want to tear apart healthcare and make the service so awful that you can bring in private two-tier healthcare? That's horrible! We're not voting for you!
**Conservatives learn their lesson, and post their new 'platform':** BUCKABEER! TRUDOPE BAD! IMMIGRANTS TUKYERJAWBZZZ!
Understanding complex issues requires a person to do research, to learn, to expand the limits of their own perception. For an unfortunately large minority, they have to boil complex issues down to their simplest elements.  For those unwilling or unable to work towards understanding, they just pick a bogey man and lay all their own woes down on that person's doorstop.
This is the result of predictable voters. The rot at the core of the entire UCP, manifested in Kenny and his cronies, has been fostered by decades-old blind support. There is no pressure for the party to improve when winning elections is all but guaranteed, Notley's short-lived success only bolstered the most ignorant of voters to get to the booths and make sure the status quo remains immovable. This also makes the party a prime target for corporate corruption, Kenny is a puppet who reached the top using the resources provided by those who stood to gain privlege from his position in power and its worked like a charm. I live in a deeply conservative area (read: the entirety of rural alberta) and no one is remotely up to date with the policies Kenny has introduced, they ignore the now uncapped insurance rates, the failure of the War Room and KXL, the discriminatory minimum wages faced by working minors and blame everything on Trudeau without ever referencing federal policy (with the exception, of course, of the Carbon Tax, which is solely to blame for all of Canada's problems). Nurturing that ignorance and keeping their uninformed base is the only way for the UCP to stay in power. This bill is a transparent attempt to keep critical media out of the hands of voters, because no responsible citizen would support the UCP at this point. Regardless of your socioeconomic stance, a government that consistently pisses away billions and  invites foreign interest groups to exploit Alberta's natural resources needs to be voted out.
Kenney has effectively criminalized protesting in Alberta. This needs to be resisted and not allowed to spread to the rest of the country.
He's really United the province, in hating him.
I want a new law too. If a government changes a policy like the NDP policies on dealing with the opioid crises and deaths increase the premier goes to jail.
Kenney is such a hypocritical charlatan. What's next? He'll congratulate gun-toting lunatics like Kyle for murdering demonstrators/protesters?
i might be making a purely pedantic and rhetorical distinction here but provincial governments dont make laws, they make acts and statutes and the punishments thereof are usually in the form of fines, not jail. That being said the intention of Kenney's government is clear and obviously this is, as McCowan states, to hamper labour and environmental activism to restrict participation in local elections.
edit: as an aside, these laws are close to what the federal gov under Trudeau have already passed to restrict TPAs during the writ. And this is not a defense of either.
Replace Kenney for Moe and Alberta for Saskatchewan and I wouldn't edit another word to describe the situation in Saskatchewan as well.
Not a ton different in Ontario with ford either.
At least Ontario has a history of voting Liberal, and (for Christ’s sake people, shut up about Rae Days) even NDP.
Honestly, the coverage from CBC, TorStar, The Globe And Mail, etc. has been absolutely atrociously non existent. 
How this isn't dominating the headlines right now is completely beyond me.
Candian government doesn't care to much for natives.
lol .... Satirical news sites, comedians and internet forums give me more relevant news headlines than actual paid journalists and their million dollar media companies. 
How do expect to get important news to the country if the same companies that own the media are the same ones taking part in terrible news stories like this? Would you report on yourself if you did something terrible to someone else? 
It's another example of how we all exist in an Oligarchy or Plutocracy, a government controlled by money and the most wealthiest elite ... we don't live in a democracy because that implies that the will of the people in a given country actually mean anything.
This is one of those Beaverton stories that is pretty much just the truth with no satire. 
The big media's absence from this conflict is reprehensible.
Al Jazeera has had more to say on the subject than any Canadian media, CBC included. 
Al Jazeera's focus has been entirely on the blockade and RCMP breaking it up, rather than merely reporting on how press was detained. 
That I have to leave the country to find a news source reporting on very important and relevant domestic news is frustrating. 
And of course Trudeau and Bill Blair haven't had anything to say on the subject because no one is pressuring them to explain the RCMP's behavior either. At the very least, the federal public safety minister (Bill) should have been forced to deal with this publicly last week as it was happening. 
Yeah the floods in BC are tragic and all, but that's being used as cover to keep people from focusing on the ongoing military action by federal police on behalf of corporate interests.
Beaverton doesn't even need satire anymore, just writing the truth is absurd enough.
Heard far more about this listening to Democracy Now than any Canadian outlet I follow. Just a blip of time after declaring cultural genocide and the day for Truth And Reconciliation. Fucking sickening to say the least.
Have any American celebs tweeted about it even?
Shame on the Canadian mass media for only feeding what they see righteous.
They knew that if people where really informed of what they were doing, it will not go well.
Groups needs to control territory and resources in order to become or maintain a society. Lose control of enough territory and boom, you're not a society anymore.
To avoid fragmentation into warring subgroups, societies make rules about who "owns" portions of the land they control, and the population accepts those rules and cedes enforcement of them to the society's powerful administrative class in return for predictability and stability.
Any internal or external threat to territorial control will by default be met with escalating violence by the dominant society, because at a fundamental level, control of territory is the basis for the power of the administrative class and the existence of society. This is what war is.
The Wet'suwet'en are in the unfortunate position of being a threat to the continued power of the dominant society and its administrators, because they are trying to take control of territory they consider theirs from "outside" the mainstream rules and regulations the rest of the citizens understand and are subject to.
They claim existing rights to the land that our society does not recognize by default. They are effectively at war, though they aren't fighting with guns or bombing anyone. The escalation has started. If court orders are breached and more people show up at camp to resist, Canada \*will\* escalate further. Most nations and societies are founded on violence, and require violence to maintain control of their resources and territories. Canada is no different. 
None of this is \*right\*. The natives are our neighbours. I think they deserve better from us after being abused, corralled in reservations, being experimented upon and having their children stolen, murdered and disappeared.
My only point is that if we view these conflicts as society v. society it all makes sense. It's up to the dominant society to choose: will we crush and suppress our neighbours or map out a better future with them?
Doesn’t surprise me that it’s getting no coverage, I’ve also been hearing of aborigines in Australia being displaced against there will by the military and police and moving them to “safer spaces” hard to find news coverage on that too.
Jane Fonda, Dicaprio and of course Matt Damon and the rezt of the Film Actors Guild from Team America.
Once the Kardashian's find out there will be a whole.line of cosmetics.
Fuck
Everything about this situation.
RCMP. ROFL!
Don’t go tripping over your clown shoes, Dudley.
Burn. Canadian media is a joke.
Honestly- American Celebs should probably pay attention to what’s happening in their own back yard.
I'm so deeply ashamed of the RCMP.
Across the borders they always (and I as well til recently) envisioned them as the stereotype nerds in red coats and hats on horseback 
The recent videos show they are legitimately NO different than ICE
Abolish them. Let the USA see us get rid of the RCMP as an example for them to do the same to ICE.
Fuck all oppressive anti-minority organizations
Can someone fill me in on what's happening?
FTA - whoever runs the smash mount account - is that supposed to be smash mouth? Or is it something different?
In an oligarchy, dressed as democracy, calling itself a parliamentary constitutional monarchy, this is to be expected
No shit Sherlock
Thanks to the Star for playing the role of Captain Obvious. Must be a slow news day to have to point out what everyone knows is going to happen...
Get a move in especially for the older folks wiring 6 mths is ridiculous
or maybe it's time to consider in-house development of a viral vector vaccine instead of relying on foreign experimental mRNA? I'm sure Trudeau can find the balls to say no to Pfizer and that ridiculous 10 year agreement they strong-armed him with.
Big problem, not a big surprise.
These are the people who are the reason we can't have nice things, and they're fucking proud of it.
Proof positive that conservatism requires their followers to be stupid.
Just the result of major parties pandering for votes, reinforcing the their followers distrust and conspiracy theories, making it even harder to get out of this thing. Perfect leadership qualities.
These statistics are also inversely related to of each party's average voter IQs.
Conservatives are the problem. They’re always the problem. Thankfully cons and PPC only make up a minority of the country.
Those numbers will go down once the new variant kicks in.  Because they’ll be dead.
Disinformation & charlatan era.
Steer clear from the PPC & CPC.
Darwinism at its finest
Since they love private health care so much, let the CPC and PPC supporters pay for their own care once they are sick. It's perfect for them. It's all about your own bootstraps and responsibility.
Yep
Thats because PPC and CPC are Qanon Conspiracy theorists!
I wouldn't judge on this too much... 12 and under not remotely at risk relative to the ages above them...
Namely the risk being offset is still hard to gauge, I'm getting my son vaccinated... but more so for not being sent home for 2 weeks from school
The data doesn't suggest kids under 12 really need this vaccine and have ever really been at risk from covid in general... 
Alberta's data at least
Where is the data that says we need to absolutely vaccinate all our children against it?
They are literally the reason we are still facing a pandemic while vaccines are readily available.
[it’s proven by science ](https://www.theglobeandmail.com/amp/life/the-hot-button/study-links-low-intelligence-with-right-wing-beliefs/article543361/)
This is unfortunately way too true.
They only need that minority to form government though.
It's the collateral damage that one has to be fearful for.
Nobody knows if the current vaccines protect against the new variant so everyone could be in trouble
I don't think Jason Kenney will care :(
All I can do is ignore the convenience and not order anything from Amazon this Christmas season.  I already told my parents my gift this year will be donations in their names and that I don't want any bullshit trinkets cluttering up my house this year and to not use Amazon or any other service to send me crap I don't care about.
Signed. And shared.
Lol. What if our rep is national shame Marilyn Gladu?
Why the fuck is this even in question
You are absolutely right. He won't, unless it benefits him.
The spideys in the circle know it just like the industry do, it's theatre, it's part of the system of assistance they give the industry.
I personally think Christy Clarke should be the one in the corner but still true.
Is that MarK Messier in the corner? Who would have known?
Why is Lex Luthor in this? He’s a Superman villain. Should be the Kingpin, damn nerds.
I'm suprised to see this sub acknowledging that it's not just the police who are responsible.
Accurate.
This is low key propaganda.
They are only pointing out one political party. 
Be wary ppl.
She is. She's on her knees behind those boxes
Ok, but how can we send the Fossil Fuel Corps back to the universe they came from?
Lex Luthor is more valid for criticism of Amazon anyways given he literally runs it.
This is exactly what I came here to say.
Wonder why they chose that party.  Hmmm….
Need to get Dr. Strange on the case.
Amazon runs the fossil fuel corps?
Edit: I think I misunderstood your point. My mistake.
So true! 20 years and no time at all.
I wish non-cow's milk came in bags.
I have seen bagged milk in quite a few institutional settings. They were huge bags inside stainless steel milk dispensers.
didn't think it was till ex from michigan said wtf is tht?
Bagged milk is a hassle. There, I said it!
Seriously, i hate continually buying cartons of oat milk.
Never been to the West?
Yesterday was international "make Amazon pay day" where Amazon workers all around the world went on strike in 20 different countries.
Here's a link to the make Amazon pay coalition website that has a map of the different locations that protests took place yesterday.
https://makeamazonpay.com/
We need to focus on food sovereignty. Too much of our food comes from the states. In Quebec we only produce 35% of the food the we consume. It wouldn't take much for us to be in a very very bad position. We need to grow more of our own food.
Ugh between this and the new variant maybe it’s time for me to put down my phone and hide under the covers.
If Trump runs and wins it’s the downfall of the United States. This is not hyperbole but the culmination of the decay of democracy in the US over the past few decades. This would be disastrous not just for American citizens but for world stability and security.
PC will all line up to swallow his load.
Oh fun. The most powerful military in the world headed up by the world's dumbest fascist right next door. 
Fuuuuun.
The most American counter to this would be to have another Celebrity run against him. Someone people will get behind more than Donald freaking Trump.
My vote goes to Dwayne Johnson. Good president name, tons of recognition and controversial enough to get lots of dumb engagement on social media platforms.
Next season of America is gonna be interesting.
USA obsessed with electing geriatric men.
Of course Trump is going to run again.  There are Trillions of dollars at stake for him to Hoover up.  Why would he not run?
If he runs, would he win?  Absolutely!  The system is rigged in his favour.  
What does this mean for Canada?  We are fucked.  We have only 35 million people and our economy is umbilical cord linked to the US.  Trump knows this and will ride rough shot over us. If we try hard ball retaliation Trump will invade.  
What can we do right now to prepare?
Start focusing on building our own infrastructure for necessities.  Food production, energy supply independence, Mfg of critical goods and medicines.    So that when Trump turns the screws, we will not be completely fucked. 
Good luck to us all.
First time you can say it was a mistake due to giving a notorious asshole the benefit of the doubt. But second time would be willful negligence and deliberate malice.
LOL Canada ‘protecting global democracy’ when our own national police force is doing the bidding of corporations alone.
How can we protect democracy? It’s been eroding away in our own country for years - this is a corporatocracy.
Lol how are we in any condition to protect anything? We can't even ensure Canadians can find a place to live
Great, another fuckin 5 years of daily Trump outrage from my father.
Trump may be the President that will try to Annex Canada. Canadian Commonwealth anyone? /s
He won’t run, he will raise funds then fuck off for what remains of his life, citing health concerns but thankful for the $upport not long before the election.
Hopefully he dies before that happens.
Too late, homes
...this is a bad joke, right? Or a bad dream?
...please wake up...
i seriously doubt he’d win again. after the whole jan 6th fiasco he definitely lost a lot of traditional conservatives. pretty sure his supporters now are mostly crazies (Qanon). also i dont think he’d even be supported by the republican party
I’m failing to see how anything actually changed for the average citizen when he was voted out. In effect the country replaced a capitalist with another capitalist. Whilst they may say different things and one may be better with the platitudes than the other, their end goals are remarkably similar; Serve the interests of the powerful and maintain the status quo so far as the capitalist class is concerned.
Defund the rcmp
The protest group is small and unarmed and obviously not violent.
The RCMP expected savage behaviour. Wonder why.
Obviously there wouldn’t be resistance. They will still March in with snipers and rifles because there is an off chance they could shoot a person.
Protestors should wear body cameras, and take care to make sure they aren't lost or confiscated by police. High-resolution, water-proof body cameras with reasonable recording times can be bought for $150 or so, and some body cameras even support night vision.
It’s almost like they *want* an armed battle so they can have an excuse to bring out the big guns.
I would love to see thorium salt reactors finally get their day. Their concept is perfect for small communities and their waste products will only be dangerous for hundreds of years VS thousands. 
As per the nuclear byproduct storage, these companies just love the idea of using the Canadian Shield to store the byproduct because everything is so geologically stable there is no risk of a massive earthquake damaging their site and releasing radiation. 
ITER is getting close to running their Fusion test and with the news out of MIT on their "high temperature" super conductor being extremely good we could see Fusion in less than the 30 years always promised.
Geothermal would be the way to go. 
One big Geothermal investment wherever the crust in the north is the thinnest ( I don't know if it actually works that way. Where it would make the most sense) and use some of the generates heat (which would be borderline infinite) to create attractions like heated roads, sidewalks and canals. 
Use some of the excess energy to attract people to live in the new northern city. 
If we can get a new Toronto or Edmonton up north it would eventually spawn its own suburbs and highways. 
I don't think heated pedestrian via-ways during cold months would be such a huge waste of energy given its source and the goal of attracting immigrants. If a city did spawn up around the energy plant it would be a worthwhile investment. Pay itself off. 
Venice has canals. Vienna has architecture. Rome has history and London has money. The best cities have a "thing". Watetfountains that don't freeze in -30 would be a cool thing. I think it would attract people. 
So, why am I the dumbest idiot in Canada?
Unless its a closed loop system, that can process its waste bugger off.
> I would love to see thorium salt reactors finally get their day. Their concept is perfect for small communities and their waste products will only be dangerous for hundreds of years VS thousands. 
A substantial problem with thorium salt reactors is that, like all molten salt reactors, the salt is incredibly corrosive. That corrosion, with a molten, radioactive salt, is going to contaminate pipes, pumps, etc., and then we're faced with the issue of nuclear waste management, which exists with current reactors. 
I'm not saying that should shitcan their development and use, just that we need to be honest about all facets of such technology.
From Wikipedia: Geothermal electric plants were traditionally built exclusively on the edges of tectonic plates where high-temperature geothermal resources are available near the surface.    
So unless you're city happens to be somewhere suitable for geothermal, you'll have to drill much further, which is often half the cost and most of the risk in geothermal plants.
Geothermal isn't feasible in most of the North. It's all big, stable Canadian Shield, which means drilling very *very* deep.
A problem with geothermal, like pretty much any thermal power generation, is that the waste heat is dumped into the environment. Couple that with increased CO2 in the atmosphere and we're just slowly going to cook ourselves. 
To me, geothermal projects needlessly bring heat, otherwise contained below the surface, out to the environment (sure, you have undersea vents and the like anyway, but adding to those outlets doesn't help).
The *amount* of waste is trivial. Way better than running diesel due to the [huge energy density](https://www.explainxkcd.com/wiki/index.php/1162:_Log_Scale) of uranium. You’d only have to truck it out once every ten years or so.
You do realize we don't used enriched uranium like the US reactors? We don't have these kinds of waste problems. 
We use Uranium 238. We take it out of the ground, use it, then put it back in the mines it came from, and seal them up. It's radioactive in the ground before we remove it, and it's radioactive when it's put back. It's uranium, that's what it does.
Our nuclear power plants are some of the safest, and cleanest designs out there.
For sure. I think nuclear fission is a stop gap technology but making specific choices re nuclear byproducts wise we can be confident we won't screw ourselves. I'm a thorium fan boy just because it's order of magnitude safer and the byproducts decay much more quickly. It's hard to think 500 years ahead(let alone the thousands of years U235/U238 reactors byproducts last) when there are so few countries that make it past 250. 
I had friend ask me once what i think Canada's legacy should be when humans study us in 500 years. It never dawned on me that we wouldn't survive that long as a nation but it's true that we likely won't. I mean, look at the USA now compared to 100 years ago. Look at the rise and fall of the British Empire. It's scary to think that our byproducts will out live our nation so it very important that whatever we do decide that the future generations can just ignore it's effects if needed. 
That is why fusion is so ideal and should be a major focus, imo. It solves so many of the long term questions and can be used to process nuclear byproducts to make them inert.
I did say right off the bat I don't know where the best place would be. We do have multiple fault lines though. Both in the Yukon and in Nunuvut near Greenland. Maybe somewhere else would be more feasible for reasons. Idk. 
Ofc the initial investment would be huge. A couple billion. But the money could from several different monetary packages like infrastructure spending, civil development spending, northern development spending, energy subsidies. 
A one time investment of a couple billion honestly isn't that much for the federal government. The gdp is over a trillion. 
It would get multiple birds stoned at once though. Solve the northern settlement problem. Solve clean energy (at least would generate a lot once its online. Might not 'Solve' it). And once the initial set up is complete the plants require no input. Just machine maintenance. 
Diverting energy for public works projects is technically not necessary for the plan to work but it's my favourite part. Like a city of artificial hotsprings and hot canals and hot ponds and whatever. Hot sidewalks. 
It's a pipedream of course. All our money will he going to rebuilding our highways every spring from now on
Fault lines? In Yukon and near Greenland I think
Edit: yeah in the Yukon and up in Baffin Island. Once the artic sea ice is gone a city on the artic coast would be pivotal. 
The artic silk road. 
Other counties are already challenging our claim to the Northwest Passage. And we honestly can't stand up to their challenges cause we have no one up there. It's unsettled territory that everyone just agreed was Canada's because it was useless. 
Like in the past how we had to force settle the west before the Americans did it first. We have to do it again with the north. Russia, China and even the States don't necessarily agree that our artic coast just belongs to us.
Waste heat is an added issue in the North, too, because you've got to get the geothermal heat past the permafrost without melting it.
I don't believe that waste heat would cause environmental damage. 
All power generation processes generate heat. Nuclear included. Chimneys output heat into the atmosphere. Campfires and just standing there breathing generate heat. It dissipates. 
One geothermal well isn't going to warm the globe. It'd be like trying to melt Pluto with a candle. CO2 which locks in heat and causes a greenhouse effect is the issue here. Not any process that generates heat. 
Under sea vents are not warming the earth either. They've been there for literally billions of years. 
Literally all power generation techniques generate heat. That's essentially the point. We need to heat ourselves. Natural gas an Nuclear are no exception. 
If we had like 1 million geothermal plants all across the globe doing nothing but dumping all their heat out into the atmosphere it wouldn't do jack unless we continued filling that atmosphere with greenhouse gases to hold all that heat in. 
Geothermal in lieu of coal and oil would literally solve the problem.
Well bury that shit in downtown Ottawa if its so safe.
I thought I remember reading that CANDU designs can be modified to accept other fuels as well like thorium or waste from other reactors.
Who is we? Canada currently stores all of its fuel waste above ground, not in mines.
If the Arctic sea ice is gone then the geothermal plants will have to be built by dolphins.
We already have existing closed mines for this. Nuclear is very safe. Radiation is everywhere.
There’s already enough shit in Ottawa.
"The traveller from South Africa used a mask with a valve that doesn’t filter exhaled air and may have transmitted the virus to his neighbour when the hotel room door was open, a health department spokesperson said Friday."
Kind of happy the theory is it's not in Canada yet and he caught it in HK. Kind of worried he caught it being in a totally other room than the infected person.
Goddamit
We're going to cycle through a few more alphabets if the rest of the world doesn't get a vaccine.
[removed]
> The traveller from South Africa used a mask with a valve that doesn’t filter exhaled air
FFS.... So a mask that's worse than useless.
That's how airborne transmission works. Delta spreads more easily but even the wildtype covid-19 can stay floating in the air for many minutes, with [some places saying for hours](https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/science/science-briefs/sars-cov-2-transmission.html). Add in some unlucky air currents and entire apartment buildings can be exposed.
Eh I'm not too surprised, I think the same thing happened with delta, didn't it? By the time we could identify it, it was everywhere, albeit in small numbers.   
But there's still so much unknown about this variant, I don't think there's any sense freaking out until we get more information about it. Apparently pfizer/biontech has started testing their vaccine on it and they should know something in a couple weeks
[removed]
[removed]
BuT iT’s So tHe PeRsoN WeAriNg iT cAn BreAtHe
Well it’s not much of a surprise, but I could’ve done without it in any case!
But ya know it does do both.
And it took a a lot of effort to get that polio vaccine to every corner of the world to eliminate it over the next 75 years. The COVID vaccines would be more effective if new variants weren't being created in unvaccinated countries because of the sociopathic greed of vaccine patents.
This is absolutely misinformation. Flagged.
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
Highly patronizing
This can really be boiled down to "the powerful have a soft spot for power". Facism is a mechanism of complete power, those who crave power become powerful, they like systems that give them more power.
Pretty sure every country with rich elites controlling media we would see a soft spot for facism. In old times and new. Why? It is a great system for the elites, gives them full control, they can live securely in their facist empire while simultaneously forcing serfdom back on the working force. Securing power for life.
Tldr; The rich elites con portions of each generation into supporting their wet dream of a fascist empire.
had?
Fascism is ultraconservatism, it's always been popular with conservatives. 
Look at the CPC, and Harper.
Neither fascism or conservatism should be tolerated.
Of course, fascism is a tool of liberal capitalism, deployed to maintain power and/or concentrate ownership and wealth into the pockets of a handful of oligarchs whenever it perceives a threat to the status quo, however real or imagined.
The rise of the nazi party and Hitler's brownshirts were bankrolled by Weimar Germany's economic & political elite because they saw the rise of the USSR and the growing labour union movements in their own nation and panicked.
Didn't this get posted like last week already?
This can be expressed with a simple formula:
[Growing contradictions of capitalism] + [Wealthy elite refuses to acknowledge capitalism can't cure capitalism] = [Wealthy elite sponsors naissant fascist movements to counter grassroots political action]
_______________________________________________________________________________________
Similar formula can express the liberal and fascist bargain:
[Growing contradictions of capitalism] + [liberals value capitalism more than their own liberal ideals] = [liberals who turn fascist  to counter leftist political action]
To the critical apologists; what is Fascism? Off the top of your head, don’t look it up.
This would be accurate if it just said "wealthy elites". They adhere to whatever system promises short term gains.
This article is getting a *lot* of reposts.  What's going on?
They are in fact it’s biggest fans and boosters.
Exactly how I read this headline. Like, here I thought fascism was what dirt-poor nobodys were using to remain dirt-poor nobodys.
I'm willing to bet money that Rupert Murdoch gets up every morning and does a quick Nazi salute and clicks his heels.  Or something similar.
came here to say this
It's haunting to read about Ur-Fascism and realize that every single fucking point describes conservatives to a tee.
1. Cult of personality.    
2. Rejection of modernity.    
3. Anti-intellectualism.     
4. Disagreement is treason.    
5. Fear of the other.     
6. Pitting the lower and the middle class against one another.    
7. Obsession with "a plot".    
8. Enemies are simultaneously "too strong" and "too weak".    
9. Pacifism is trafficking with the enemy.      
10. Contempt for the weak.     
11. Everybody is trying to be the main character of their story.
12. Machismo, and disdain for anything feminine.    
13. Selective populism.    
14. Newspeak.
Conservatives employ EVERY FUCKING SINGLE FUCKING POINT that Umberto Eco outlines as a sign of fascism. *Eco doesn't even deign to say that they're all necessarily part of fascism, just one or a few, but Conservatives use the whole fucking arsenal.*
[deleted]
[Yep.](https://redd.it/qw1zna)
You'd be surprised to know that this sub does not exist solely for you
Uberto eco's 14 points of fascism goes over it effectively.
Fascism is the right-wing, anti-liberal, anti-democratic, and anti-socialist corporatization of the state; the union of state and corporate power to enshrine traditional hierarchies and to combat the supposedly degenerate forces of democracy, liberalism, and socialism; and the exaltation of the state as an organic entity that is an end in itself, self-justifying and pre-eminent over society.
It is a modern right-wing reaction to liberalism and an attempt to correct what liberalism supposedly gets wrong about human nature and the relationship of citizens to the state and to state power.
It absolutely did. We give the disabled fuck all and they likely need *more* than CERB was providing. When our country has disabled people choosing a medically assisted death because we don’t give them enough manage that’s a problem and frankly an embarrassment.
Fucking right it did.
"Here, disabled people, take this and be glad we're giving it to you. It's all you need to survive."
"Oh, wait, able people need help? Here's twice as much money as we give the disabled, its the bare minimum amount you need to survive."
I have said this for decades. We tout to the world about our Charter and human rights, but we don't practice it at home. Shameful!
My moms odsp worker told her she had to go on crb, and then when it became an overpayment They neglected to actually tell my mom that there was an overpayment, or even how it works for 6 months and she now owes 5k to the government.
Bro people on welfare get 733$ and disability pays about 1100$. The disabled and poor get fucked super hard by this garbage country and people still try to pretend "oh its the not the US so don't whine".
told the CRA call-in line that my PTSD was making it difficult to fill out forms
bad idea
I got bounced of cerb as a person with disability because i hit that time limit. Provincial disability is cut after 3 months due to my wife having a half decent career (mid 5 figures). I was told to stay on regular unemployment and just say im looking for a job.. by a fucking telephone rep @ service canada.
I wish politicians and wealthy foke would just come out and say they want us all to expire quietly so they can pay less taxes because that is literally all this BS is. My own family bitch and bemoan my pathetic government support but when I tell them it would take potentially a little more tax money to buffer up these supports they shut right up..
[deleted]
I’m (mid 20s) disabled but have never been on disability assistance. After being let go from my full time job at the start of the pandemic, CERB was about $400 less than my take home pay but because I could actually rest and take care of myself without having to work 40 hours a week, my disability was MUCH more manageable and I was genuinely so much happier. It was life changing honestly, even though $2000/m is still hard to get by with. 
I’m working again as I have no choice since Canada can’t fathom to take care of its disabled citizens by providing proper healthcare and income assistance. Lo and behold, my disability is back to being extremely difficult to manage which worsens my mental health, quality of life and ability to contribute to society in a meaningful way.
We need to, at the very fucking least, make sure our disabled population is taken care of.
Join the club. It discriminated against every employed lower- and middle-class person in HCOL areas as well.
Well, given that they were for temporarily replacing income lost due to large numbers of pandemic closures and lay-offs in a short time (hence why it wasn't done through the normal EI system), why would anyone think that they would be going to people who didn't have jobs in the first place and who were already covered (if inadequately) by other existing systems?
That charter has been destroyed for years now just look at the rcmp.  We have no rights and thats what the government fucks want. Their pushing us to the worst possible situation. And if they keep it up they're going to get it.
Is CRA collecting? If so, if she has penalties get her to ask for fairness. No guarantee she will get it but if she does get fairness the penalties are forgiven.
Alberta did the same with AISH but also never changed the policy like Ontario.  Conservatives are cancer.
Canada is the US but less 
A barely coherent confederation of poverty based border cities and rural nightmares with a shitty legislated human rights code and a political system more apathetic then its voters
The worst thing about government is that to get, maintain, and seek help for disabilities, you need to fill out forms that are so complex and convoluted that are a barrier to access for the people seeking them.
In other words, the sort of people who are able to fill out government forms are likely the people who are high functioning enough in life that they probably do not require government assistance.
So it's frustrating because the system designed to help people with disabilities is also created in such a way that it prevents use of the system without somebody helping them jump through the hoops.
Perhaps it’s a typo. Your wife makes “mid 7 figures”? So 4-6 million a year?
dog they gave 2000$ a month to non-disabled workers that were put out of work.
Those aren’t protected groups though
Yep, why did JT give those in DT toronto the same money as those in the maritimes?
Because this was just another subsidy for Quebec and the maritime provinces.
Did they also update their policy on shooting up fire halls and lying to the public?
Or their policy on asking local police for help? Or their policy on attacking media that expose their lies? Or their policy on waiting hours to rescue children hiding under the stairs on the phone with 911 while a mass killer runs around?
This sub is becoming a propaganda hub for the so called "land defenders."
It is a well known fact that all Indigenous people agree with the subset of Indigenous people who oppose natural resource development.
Stay mad about it 🤷‍♂️
Tiana Berardi, get your shot, you absolute twaffle.
By the way, it infuriates me reading this because as a resident of Surrey, BC, I can't even GET a family doctor and I have serious health conditions.
I was able to get both my COVID vaccines and my flu shot because you don't need a doctor for that, but I don't have a doctor to treat my blood clots so I need a walk-in clinic to re-up my thinners.
Yep. Plenty of family doctors will end their relationships with patients if they feel their time is being wasted. 
I know a few people whose long term family doctors dumped them for refusing annual physicals, for example.
It’s no different with anti-vax people. It’s pretty clear they aren’t interested in genuine medical advice, so why should a busy professional have to offer their services to someone who will likely ignore them anyway?
yeah no sympathy. Get your shot.
Ha ha ha, excellent!
My business my choice!
> The College of Physicians and Surgeons of Nova Scotia policies regarding access to medical care state physicians cannot deny the unvaccinated in-person care.
It's unclear what the consequences are, but this doctor's office could be in some trouble.
There's a massive list of people waiting for a family doctor.  Take her off the list and give it to a vaccinated person in waiting.
Lol
Very logical
Kinda curious if she really has lingering bronchitis or something else.
I know quite a few unvaccinated people of various political persuasions. Despite what some think, they aren't all stupid or right-wing. They aren't a monolith. You know what they do all have in common, though? Not one of them has a family physician. Not one of them has ever had a relationship with a doctor characterized by trust. In their entire adult life. It is nearly impossible for a lot of millenials to get a family doctor. How are you going to "trust your doctor" "listen to your doctor" if you don't have one?
If you smoke, you should have known better.
If you are obese, you should have known better.
If you were in an accident caused by stupidity, you should have known better.
If you are crashing out with fentanyl, you should have known better.
It’s not up to doctors to pick and choose who they will treat.  This is a slippery slope people.
"Though she has concerns about potential side-effects, Berardi is now fully vaccinated because keeping her job depends on it. She says she’s not opposed to the COVID vaccine but believes people should have a choice."
She is still an idiot.
[77000 Nova Scotians can't get one either. ](https://www.halifaxtoday.ca/local-news/increasing-need-for-family-doctors-in-nova-scotia-as-waiting-list-grows-to-78000-4505996)
My family doctor told me about multiple patients who take her adivce for an hour and then refuse to even discuss getting vaccinated. The anti-vaccination movement isn't a logical one, it's an ideological one
>I know a few people whose long term family doctors dumped them for refusing annual physicals, for example.
Perhaps that's because [annual physicals are not considered a best practice and government insurance won't cover them](https://www.saltscapes.com/11-living-healthy/2131-the-annual-checkup.html)?
When my dad was in his 20s (some *forty*-odd years ago) he lost his doctor because he kept booking and then missing appointments. So not only is this standard practice, it has been for a loooong time.
If you are a professional and your client isn't taking your services seriously you have every right to dump them for someone that will take them seriously. Doesn't matter if your a lawyer, engineer or doctor.
I don't know how I feel about that. I do *absolutely* agree that doctors should not be able to deny a patient care for ANY reason other than logistical ones, or if they're, say, harassing you. Problem is, I ALSO think that not being vaccinated, ignoring the sheer stupidity, is actually a risk to other patients, the doctor and staff.
So I'm not sure how I should feel
Most likely a tap on the wrist to not do it again. Repeat offenders would likely have their license suspended.
Besides smoking none of those will infect someone else. Where as one person in a waiting room could place dozens at risk. Hell in Victoria at the start of this if you had flu or cold like symptomes you were told to stay the hell away. 
That said knowingly not getting vaccinated leaves me with little sympathy. Hell delaying surgies for months or years because of these clowns is disgusting. And i am to the point of saying 'let nature sort em out.'
[parliamentary report on rcmp ](https://www.ourcommons.ca/Content/Committee/432/SECU/Reports/RP11434998/securp06/securp06-e.pdf)
Love to see a pillar of basic human dignity be used to profit vulture capitalists.
Really funny how the actual policy in AB states that landlords can go fuck-nuts crazy when it comes to rent increases.  It's a virtual encouragement to increase rent as much as possible.
Fuck the tenants.  You in oil country.
Unregulated capitalism at work. That's it, that's all.
We need to abolish the practice of landlording. Landlords prey on the poorest people and exploit them as much as there legally allowed to get away with and often times they even illegally exploit them as well.
It’ll never happen. These assholes are soulless.
Nʉmʉnʉʉ→Comanche
Diné→Navajo
Haudenosaunee→Iroquois
Ho-Chunk→Winnebago
Lakota→Sioux 
Lenape→Delaware
Muscogee→Creek
Ojibwe→Chippewa
Nimíipuu→Nez Percé
Quechan→Yuma
Susquehannock→Conestoga
The only two I'm not entirely sure of off the top of my head are the endonyms for the Nez Percé and Yuma peoples. Lakota and Sioux are also not equivalent terms; the Dakota and Nakoda (Stoney and Assiniboine peoples) are also Sioux but definitely not Lakota.
I have to object to this post's assertion that exonyms are any less "real" than endonyms. I have absolutely no problem using the endonym if someone wants me to, however it would a stretch to assume that exonyms are somehow fundamentally illegitimate.
Only if the accused are the politicians behind the *War on Drugs*.
Calling it murder puts all of it on one party when there’s lots of bad actors.  If you want to look at it from a murder angle, it’s murder for hire with Pharma ordering the hits
No and what a strange idea
Murder? Probably not. Class warfare? Absolutely.
I’d accept gluttonous pharmaceutical companies who exploit addictions for immoral profit as well.
Who wants to bet on whether or not the RCMP do anything about it?
https://www.reddit.com/r/NovaScotia/comments/r2lscf/fire_destroys_new_edinburgh_ns_lobster_pound_days/hm9z4ld/        
No idea if there's any validity to it or not. Either way I hope the police can get to the bottom of it quickly... but I'm not optimistic. When it comes to insurance fraud or racism, not the greatest track record either way.... (New Brunswick plant owners have been burning down their buildings for years)
I'm going to go for...
Suspicious conduct but no charges pressed.
A few weeks later, some Mi'kmaw fishermen are attacked and beaten up, possibly by other fishermen and offduty RCMP. This also goes uninvestigated.
“Had anything to do with it”***
Great!  A “fix The Evil 😈 Teletubbie” bill
Good! Currently the government and private businesses do not have our best interests in mind. They are all looking out for themselves only. If we want change, we have to unite. Peacefully, but strongly. Plain and simple.
Could you imagine a Black Friday strike?
That makes my scrotum tingle...
There was talk of one on the anti-work subreddit but I don't know how much traction it gained. I told my wife we aren't doing any black Friday shopping to support workers who are fighting for a better situation.
I'm sitting here waiting to hear it happening.
it won't, not locally, but I can dream.
The very first time I ever heard of Black Friday I thought it was obscene. I have never ever seen one single thing to change my mind. I have never and will never shop on this day.
Buy Nothing Day strike. Hell yes.
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/breaking-extinction-rebellion-blocks-amazon-25550435
What did she say when you told her? Haha
She's fine with it. Generally we wouldn't be shopping for ourselves but for Christmas presents anyways. I think we have most of our Christmas shopping done already.
Honestly the deals aren't all that great anyways from what I've seen. I follow a lot of tool deals and all the ones I see right now went on the same sale % earlier this year
Take them down!
The monarchy has the go!
The crown costs Canada about 50 million dollars a year to maintain we should have the good sense to do what Barbados did and abolish the monarchy completely.
I don’t want King Charles on our Canadian coins
The Queen is a figurehead with no real power, so what's the point of abolishing Canada's constitutional monarchy? The most obvious effect would be on the legitimacy of treatise between the Crown and First Nations, and all the subsequent legislation -- including Canada's founding legislation -- that recognize the Aboriginal peoples as Canada's original land-owners. And I wouldn't be surprised if that was the real goal here.
Fuck yeah, bud! Let’s get ‘em gone!
As an Acadian,  I wholeheartedly support this idea.
I'm pretty ambivalent towards the Monarchy, but I can't envision who'd be on our coinage if we ever dropped it.
>Canadian republicans are discriminated against
Someone doesn't understand what discrimination is.
>The crown costs Canada about 50 million dollars a year
Can you provide a government source on that?
I’m absolutely against the monarchy, but I’ve  been unable to put together a financial picture that has us paying less once we’re rid of them.  I’d love to use that in arguments, so I’d appreciate a solid source.
> The crown costs Canada about 50 million dollars a year to maintain
And maintaining an elected, resident head of state would cost a **LOT** more, especially if the Lieutenant Governors of each province also gets elected.
>Canada about 50 million dollars 
Some reason you think the "President of Canada" would cost less?
And get this so called "queen" off the 20$ bill
The point is that the monarchy is an archaic useless waste of time and morally it’s worse
I'm sure we could find a few important Canadians.
Here's a a couple of sources.
1.) https://www.narcity.com/the-crown-costs-canadians-over-58-million-each-year-heres-how-it-breaks-down
2.) https://www.macleans.ca/news/canada/queen-costs-us-more-than-the-brits-pay/
No it wouldn't cost more we pay this 50 million dollar price every year it would only cost us to have an election every 5 years if we had an elected head of state. Plus now we wouldn't have an unelected foreign "queen" as head of state anymore.
Ridiculous take, want to back that up with some sources? The average Canadian couldn’t even name their own lieutenants Governor as well not exactly a highly publicized job
It would have to be replaced with *something*. 
So...which is the bigger waste of time and resources?
Then Woodward supports the continued recognition of historical treatise, agreements, legislation, and regulations enacted for Canada by "the Crown"?
An elected figure head would need security, transportation, discretionary spending and would wield real political power.
Which assumes a human being was appointed by god to reign over me
I’m sorry, ads for “gas guzzlers” are why we aren’t hitting our climate goals? I always thought it was primarily massive corporations I guess we just ban the ads and we did it, the climate is saved?
Typical passing of the buck from corporations and gov't projects (ie pipelines) driving the climate emergency onto us individuals.
Y'all I'm seeing a lot of "don't blame the individuals". Okay. I hear that.
But it has to be both. We have to change anything we can. Now. It's also going to take us in the richest countries changing out consumption habits and energy sources as much as we can.
I am right there with you in the frustration against the world's richest people and corporations who don't care -- but our actions both personal and political are necessary to cause change.
All the small changes are needed and we need to add up as many as we can and encourage the people around us to also change. And by that I mean political action AND consumer choices. We live under capitalism, we can't ignore the impact of that.
Check in with yourself and do your best and help other people do the same. Please stop this shutting down every conversation about small parts of the problem. If you have better suggestions go for it, but we gotta actually *do something*. And we can't just larp about it.
All the grumpy jeeps in the world are a drop in the bucket compared to international shipping, air travel, the cruise ship industry and coal power. Blaming personal vehicles for climate change is a red herring meant to shift the blame from our corporate overlords to the average consumer.
Love this article. I’ve long wondered why there’s no movement to ban all car advertising. We restrict ads for smoking absolutely and alcohol in many ways, so why not for ICE vehicles?
[deleted]
Canyoneroooo!
Wouldn’t transportation include commercial airline jets and cruise ships, But pickup trucks are the issue?
You have no right to own a vehicle of your choice and preference. Just get in line for your Lada.
I was looking at ads for EVs and plugin hybrids.  Do they really have to cost 45k for a hatchback?
Electric cars have no engine cooling system, no exhaust system, no transmission.  Do they really need to cost dramatically more than conventional cars or is this profiteering while taking advantage of government subsidies to the consumer?
There is another way to look at this.
Light truck owners are upgrading to more fuel efficient and lower polluting versions of what they had before.
I have recently replaced my 2000 F-350 7.3 L diesel that predated diesel particulate filters for a 2018 F-350 6.7L diesel with all of the latest emissions controls.
Rock crawling bad.  
4x4'ing bad.  
Racing bad.
How about we just get to the honest part and say envy is bad?
Old cars make much more damage to the environment than the new more efficiency ones. 
 Unfortunately, 3rd world countries have tons of old cars. We should help these people to replace their cars as we can in North America.
Advertising does absolutely influence people and help shape public opinions.
The authors didn't actually say that. The point is that banning ads of harmful products is simply one method among many that needs to be considered. Their comparison to tobacco is apt:
> As was done on promotion for tobacco products, another health threat, the advertising practices of the automotive industry must also be curtailed.
Whether or not this will have a tangible impact on consumer habits is another thing, but it's definitely something worth considering. Letting corporations market harmful products to Canadians is part of the problem (but not *the* problem).
You do know it's the corporation's that are putting the adverts out right? 
The article didn't say banning or heavily regulating ads will fix climate change in one, thats pretty facetious. It's just saying that it's incompatible to advertise the shit out of gas guzzlers whilst simultaneously trying to ween the market away from them. I think it's a pretty good point. Ads lead to sales, sales lead to increase greenhouse gases. Is there a part of that sequence you would disagree with?
It’s goddamn tiring, yes there are 100 corps that contribute X% of GHGs, but why do you think the Exxon’s, Royal Dutch Shells , and BPs are high on that list?  Our consumption habits are directly influencing just about every company on that list.
Transportation is one of Canada's largest sources of GHG emissions. Sorry, but personal choices matter. You're not off the hook. 
And personal choice includes who we vote for and civic engagement, or lack thereof
https://www.canada.ca/en/environment-climate-change/services/canadian-environmental-protection-act-registry/publications/automobile-truck-emission-regulations-discussion.html
Light-duty vehicles account for 11% of Canada's emissions. Personal vehicles account for many times more emissions than does passenger domestic aviation, passenger bus and passenger rail combined.
This isn't even accounting for the fact that personal vehicles also cause a great deal more emissions per capita per km travelled in terms of manufacturing.
Yes, just like plastic straws are - just an excuse to make the illusion of change and to shut some people up without having to do any of the actual hard work.
So when does this group get designated as a terrorist organization? After the killings?
Why hasn't she been arrested for this? She's inciting violence.
She has explicitly asked members of the military to start executing various groups of people and to accept her as the legitimate Queen of Canada.
[Criminal Code of Canada, section 53:](https://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca/eng/acts/C-46/section-53.html)
> 53 Every one who
> 
> (a) attempts, for a traitorous or mutinous purpose, to seduce a member of the Canadian Forces from his duty and allegiance to Her Majesty, or
> 
> (b) attempts to incite or to induce a member of the Canadian Forces to commit a traitorous or mutinous act,
> 
> is guilty of an indictable offence and liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding fourteen years.
This cannot be legal
She has a very loyal fanbase, and according to the article has over 70K followers.
How these QAnon conspiracy cults gain such a following is insane. It'll only take one person hearing this to do it. Hope there's increased security in testing areas from now on.
Also, according to her Telegram account which I had unfortunately gone through, it seems she has already recruited people for this, for what she is calling "The Hunt". 
Almost 18K people have viewed the message according to Telegram.
I am the TRUE Queen of Canada and I do not approve this message. Take her treasonous ass to the pokey.
[deleted]
How the fuck is she not already locked up? She's made several threats now for months against numerous people. This isn't the firs ttime this nutjob was in the media issuing threats or issuing inciteful statements.
Why is it that our law enforcement and security agencies are giving Anti_Vacc idiots so much leeway, when anyone else were to randomly issue statements like this, would be visited very quickly by the RCMP.
This woman is a terrorist's. And her Anti-Vaxx minions are terrorists.
This is why BoTh SiDeS arguments piss me off so much. The far right has gone off the deep end. Something needs to be done.
“Queen of Canada”
Doesn’t she live in Britain?
Jail? Like, now? This is blatantly illegal and extremely dangerous?
Isn't that illegal here? There better be someone doing something about this.
Edit: Just read the article, and it's even worse than the headline makes it sound. Wtf?
This lady calls for the Murder of multiple groups of people - the right is silent & the government is silent.
David Suzuki warns that the path we are taking may lead to a pipeline blowing up - the right is going crazy & the government is silent.
I am all for free speech but either we can all talk like this or none of us can, the conservative media should not get to pick and choose for us.
If we were a sensible country, this women would be charged with inciting violence and stochastic terrorism.
This woman sent hand-signed letters to the pharmacies around here telling us to cease and desist all covid-related operations. That was earlier this year. She put no death threats in those letters, just kept them online, but I never tossed the letter. I cant wait to get her next one. 😕
Hey RCMP, you've got someone displaying mental instability and insinuating violence.  Revoke their PAL/RPAL and take the weapons.  If they don't have one, take the weapons and imprison them for illegal possession.  Let's not have a repeat of Nova Scotia.
When do we start calling QAnon a terrorist organization? If we haven’t crossed the line, we’re DAMN close.
The far right and terrorism, they sure do love it.
This has been my favourite pandemic side-plot.
cant they arrest this woman calling for murder?
Yes let's go to a travel ban rather than vaccinate the idiots that are still hesitant. And share the vaccines with the world so we don't develop variants.
Dofo did it, he stopped all flights from South Africa to Canada. /s
Lol there were never any direct flights from South Africa to Canada.
New travel policy: All incoming travellers must have their fingers slowly, sensuously licked by Doug himself.
Think about it: 
* It'll cut down the number of travellers.
* It'll slow down the influx to a rate manageable for tests and other measures
* It'll show Doug quite literally taking a hand in helping prevent the spread
* it'll assert dominance over every country
* It'll provide entertainment for years to come
* Doug gets free food
You're welcome CPC.
[Good Twitter thread on why the variant isn't nearly as bad as the media will portray](https://twitter.com/sailorrooscout/status/1464222680731820043), from an actual vaccine researcher.
927 new cases and not one of those people is Doug Ford.
Shit.
That last part is so important. South Africa is 24% fully vaccinated. The whole world is only 42% vaccinated. Yeah, Canada is doing well, but we're not going to end COVID until we achieve herd immunity everywhere. As long as COVID can proliferate, it will mutate.
Can we send the unvaxxed to South Africa for a "holiday"?
Gotta shift the blame for rising cases to federal level. It's a true and tested dofo playbook.
Here's a [different thread](https://twitter.com/chrischirp/status/1463885539619311616) from another researcher that's far less optimistic. Hopefully, vaccines still afford a good enough level of protection though.
Yeah once a new variant comes into play all the other ones stop and leave /s
🤦🏾‍♂️
Well, it is federal jurisdiction, so he's not wrong...
And yes, I can't believe I'm defending that idiot.
They come to the same conclusion, which is that the vaccines are still are best tool to fight the new variants. It's simply two different interpretations of what little data there is, but there is *so little* data that any conclusion is not one you should trust. Which is the point of the Twitter thread I linked because the media *will* push the narrative that Nu is a 'vaccine killer' when it likely is not, and there's no way anyone can know that it is at this moment.
More mutations != more bad, more deadly, more infectious. Although Nu is *likely* to be infectious, it's also not likely to dodge our current inoculation effort. Will efficacy take a hit? Probably. But being 70% protected instead of 80% protected is still great. They will not *destroy* vaccine efficacy. It's still the same virus, even if it's mutated, it's still COVID. And we're likely to have another booster around Spring next year, so our vaccine efficacy will get a bump soon anyways.
Finally, the cases we have seen have been very mild. The one case in Hong Kong is asymptomatic. Most cases in South Africa are extremely mild. **None of those hospitalized in South Africa with the Nu variant are fully vaccinated.** These reports are coming straight from their respective governments.
https://www.theguardian.com/world/2021/nov/26/south-africa-b11529-covid-variant-vaccination    
https://twitter.com/miamalan/status/1464286066903552001
Vaccines is the best option we have available given that we're clearly not willing to take stricter measures. Everybody should absolutely be getting vaccinated. We also need to make sure that boosters get rolled out in a timely fashion as many people are starting to approach six months mark when initial vaccinations start to lose potency.
More mutations doesn't necessarily translate into more deadly versions, but do create the possibility for that to happen. Meanwhile, having large vaccinated and unvaccinated populations globally is the perfect scenario for breeding variants that can get past the vaccine barrier. Unvaccinated population drives the mutations, and then those get selected against the vaccinated population and ones that are able to evade vaccines start breeding amongst vaccinated people. Best case scenario is that a mild variant that spreads easily, but doesn't cause severe illness becomes dominant.
The reality is that the pandemic is not slowing down globally, and we still have no idea where things are going to go in the future.
Good thing we're banning travel now from places that need vaccines instead of lifting the patent on the vaccine and allowing mass manufacturing a year ago. Oh well I guess we'll all get shot number 3 while the rest of the world dies.
[deleted]
That new variant is no big deal...in completely unrelated news, we are banning travel from the point of origin of this variant.
Hey you have to consider the bigger picture here, how are investors meant to achieve infinite growth if they have to care about things like human life and the public good?
what do you want exactly?
On a serious note, with all the good information out there and access to good primary care physicians, incidents like this are totally avoidable. So when a group of guys choose to flout expert medical advise and do as they see fit, they have no one to blame but themselves. Although this is sad, it is also predictable. We will continue to see higher rates of death from covid occur in stubborn pockets of vaccine resistors. If you live by the sword, then expect to die by the sword. I wonder if this is natures way of thinning the herd.
Fuck ‘em
Nothing of value was lost.
>We will continue to see higher rates of death from covid occur in stubborn pockets of vaccine resistors. If you live by the sword, the expect to die by the sword. I wonder if this is natures way of thinning the herd.
It's how they self-reinforce their victimhood.  Same sort of folk who'll claim COVID is a bioweapon targeting \[their group\], refuse vaccination, and then use death statistics to "prove" that \[their group\] is dying at a higher rate thus confirming their conspiracy theory.
But forget getting them any new equipment.
Is BC getting any help?
to be fair, bulldozers haven't changed much in a long time.
Having a rustbucket military and a heavily militarized police force just doesn’t seem like it should be a thing.
Yes. Hundreds of troops will be away from their families this Christmas helping people in BC and now potentially Newfoundland.
Okay, good. I've seen a dozen stories about the road systems but not too many about what's actually being done.
>CONSERVATIVES vote against 10 permanent paid sick days
Why does the media do this? It's not "Ontario", it's the conservative government of Ontario. Internet headlines are free, it's not like they don't have the room.
Ontario didn’t vote against this. FORD and his conservatives did because they work for corporations not us. Fuck Doug ford and his crack smoking antivax family
Of course the cons did. They dont think low wage workers are working real jobs.
Provincial election in June. 
Get informed and vote.
Shitty headline is shitty.
Worthless politicians voted against 10 permanent paid sick days.
If the conservatives could vote on slavery, they would be all for it in a heart beat.. they are against the middle class as a whole. They just want power and will fight to make sure no one as an once of power to fight back against their friend's corporations.. they are a disgrace to the human race and I wish they have wet socks for the rest of their miserable lives.
Good, than any day they cant work because they are sick must be deducted from their salary.
Oh was there a public vote by citizens?
No?
Oh so it’s media bullshit again.
The capitalists continuing their work of slowly  killing us all.
What a bunch of fucking morons, biggest pandemic in over a century and they voted to reject a SMALL amount of sick days. Fucking gross. No wonder Ontario is STILL doing so shitty with Covid. People are going to work sick because they can't afford to take time off while sick. WTG Ford.
Can we appeal this in any way? Petition? Workers in Ontario deserve 10 paid sick days
Anyone have suggestions on news sources that don't have shit headlines like this?
Can't be true, Ford always said he is always for the little guys!!! Fake news!!!! /S
Get that dumbass Ford and his dumbass cronies out of here in June.
I will never see the logic in voting against giving people better health outcomes, whether physical or mental.
If you want your health care system to collapse under the brunt of physical and mental exhaustion, by all means continue this American-style system of government.
Wonder how many paid sick days the people who made this decision get? 🤔
Your PC  capitalist  government at work folks and of course unregulated capitalism revealing one its' most important  characteristics ......cheap unregulated labour without any protection . We need to change our goals.
WTF why would government vote against this I thought it was already put in place for employers they have to give it. Government says one thing and does another ... Very sad when it's like this
When there were 2 paid sick days over 120 guys at work took a Friday/Monday extra long weekend. Only 43 of us manned up and didn’t abuse the privilege. I’m glad the 10 days paid holidays are off the table now.
Misleading title.  But Ontarians did voted in their dick of a government.
I guarantee that this expenditure data will be used by the Conservatives to spew their talking points about deficits and how we need to have severe austerity at the expense of the poor and middle class.
Looking at a list of countries' government spending to GDP ratio illustrates that this isn't as scary as it sounds. We're still pretty normal for a Western developed nation, with an annual GDP of \~$2T CAD and government spending of \~50%.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List\_of\_countries\_by\_government\_spending\_as\_percentage\_of\_GDP
Does every penny of government spending contribute a penny to gdp? I thought that would be 1 to 1 but i noticed a couple countries were at >100%
That's a scary number.  Even divided over our 33 million person population, that's $30,303 per person in the country.
I'd be willing to entertain some austerity for the rich.
Population of Canada is 38 million so it's only $28,157.  /s
Whats scary about it to you?
Thank goodness. That's way more manageable.
That's still more than I make in a year.
> Even divided over our 33 million person population, that's $30,303 per person in the country.
It's more than I make in a year, and I wondered how long it can go on.  
Even if all 38 million Canadians (A figure corrected by someone else) pay 30% in taxes (Which they don't because of tax brackets), it still means an average salary of 88,000 per year is required to not run a deficit.
The beauty of that is that if that's the case, you're also contributing almost nothing to the government spending since you're taxed at a highly reduced rate, while still benefitting from the spending.
We do run a deficit every year. I think weve had a deficite for every year for at least the last 30 or 40 years. Pretty much every developed country works like that. I think the media likes to scare people about government debt that its something that will cripple society in the future but 30 years after I was hearing that in the 90s our debt doesnt seem to be that big a deal. I certainly dont understand it and i wish i did better. Its probably hsrd to find non politicized information on it because it gets to the root of what a government is and what role it plays in society.
I know, but I still wonder how much the government makes in taxing rich people.
I really like the push to make it a requirement to consult the public before the sale of public lands.  That needs to happen.
This is fantastic news.  At the rate that BC is cutting down old growth forests and here in Alberta the unimagineable damage of the oil sands and god knows what else across Canada, please, please lets keep my home of the maritimes clean and full of nature!!
Congratulations!
This actually seems like good news.
We need more "feel good" stories of billionaires being shown that they can't buy everything. We don't need more fucking golf courses. I don't care if it brings in "revenue". Not when biodiversity loss is at stake.
https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2018/may/21/human-race-just-001-of-all-life-but-has-destroyed-over-80-of-wild-mammals-study
Good.  Eat these greedy fucks.
https://i.imgur.com/uJSAJRr.jpeg
Beckwith and Kitty Gilbert are just like…cartoon-level stereotype billionaire names lmao
Doesn't NS have a serious brain disease to investigate and track down. I suspect it will be named the Irving syndrome.
Ontario has entered the chat....wait
NB ain't that clean tho let's be real
NB, actually, but I get the sentiment.
Alberta in this case.  It's a common theme.
Dont paint the whole province with the Saint-John brush.
Sorry I am as far away as I can be from your side of the country and can barely keep track of what is going on here.
It is a requirement especially on greenbelt areas.  Ontario gov. just Ignores it or waters it down in favour of condo/ develop companies or campaign promise of a new highway
https://globalnews.ca/news/8392054/ontario-environment-audits-reports-general/
Well it ain't just Saint John and hell we even got something in the environment here causing a mysterious brain disease the provincial leaders have shut down federal and international research on and are now dismissing so...
last time I checked your fresh water fishing regulations, they recommended not to eat the fish, or...1 per week, or 1 per 2 weeks.
I remember seeing that actually about that desease.  But...just let me remember NB as a clean beautiful province, not ruined by irving haha.
Hugs dude. Sorry, I hear you. I think sometimes on reddit I get caught up on technicality and didn't even consider the emotional part someone was coming from in their comment. I grew up in Maine next door before immigrating here. And Maine had cleaned up a lot since the 70s, and I grew up in the woods and loved the nature and diversity. I know NB has some environmental & ecological healing to do, esp for forestry and wildlife. If I were you it'd be heart wrenching for me. When I'm more settled here I'd like to be part of the movement pushing back against corporate interests fucking this land.
Yeah and then i moved to Alberta and the oil samds break my heart but i know they are a necessary evil.  But the current provincial gov was proposing strip mining the eastern slopes of the rockies....that got shut down so quick thankfully.
As is I need another reason to eat ice cream
Is this the Canadian company that treats employees well? Nice
Anti-vaxxers wouldn't know good ice cream if a spoonful accidentally slithered down the crevice between their flaccid trouser hams.
An extra bonus of supporting Chapman's awesomeness, is it's money not being given to nestle.
Anti-vaxxers are anti-ice cream now too. They really bat shit crazy
Shit well now I’m sitting here tired after work and I have to get back in the damn car and drive to the grocery store to buy some chapmans ice cream… brb
The irony of wishing death on ~~un~~vaccinated\* people as you walk around completely exposed to a deadly virus
\*edited for mistake
I doing my part! Bought a extra thing of chapmans ice cream at the grocery store.
They just need to jump on the dairy free train and I’m on board
I fucking love thier popsicles.
Huh, it’s like their objectively loud minority is really very minor in comparison to the rest of us “sheeple” who did the commonly decent thing and got immunized.
i actually bought some chapmans icecream because of it
Can you list all the ingredients in ice cream? Big dairy is up to something sinister, I can feel it in my bones and tinfoil hat!
I really like the Chapman salted caramel and vanilla bean frozen yogurt, that is some seriously good stuff.
Much like the opinions of this bizaro world sub, the presence of antivaxxers are greatly exaggerated.
I know, I hear you, but it's winter and my excuse is I'm late getting ready to hibernate.
Also apparently they make hot cocoa ice cream cones, so we're stocking up for a stay-home party.
Your user name is amazing. Take my upvote.
They famously held business interruption insurance so when a fire destroyed a factory they were able to keep everyone paid while it was rebuilt.   Many of their original recipes were lost in the fire but they had employees who had been with them for so long that they had the recipes memorized.
They might be a good company to work for, but the ice-cream is a disappointment.  I would rather not have ice-cream than Chapman's.  It is that over-mixed whipped air texture that really cheapens the experience. It sucks because they are national company that is muscling out regional dairy farms that have traditionally made some outstanding ice creams.  (Farmers and Scottsburn from NS) Good job paying employees and keeping them safe, but could you figure out how to make good ice cream while you are at it?
They all buy that cheap "frozen dessert " that wreaks havoc on the digestive system. 
Yes Breyer's I'm talking to you.
So what's going to happen when the working class can no longer afford to work and live here? We seem to be getting closer to that reality everyday. Not sure people are gonna care about working when it won't even afford them a home or basic necessities of life.
Really need to bring in more of those unlived-in taxes.
We're already starting to see this happen in major cities right now. Minimum wage is nowhere close to covering the cost of living. If things keep going the way they are then Canada is going to look at lot like Brazil or Mexico where there's a small rich oligarchy and with everyone else living in abject poverty. [This](https://elpidiovaldes.wordpress.com/2018/02/12/citigroups-plutonomy-memo-there-are-rich-consumers-and-there-are-the-rest/) memo from Citigroup has a good insight as to what to expect.
So how do we prevent this from continuing? Especially when govt's have chosen to completely ignore these issues when presented. The majority of the public is not happy and that is becoming more obvious daily. So how do we break this chain when our public officials, elected to act in our best interest, refuse to do so?
There's nothing the average citizen can do.
Eventually something will give. Either the government will step up and make some sort of plan out of this mess or something else will occur that will spur some sort of change. I'm just hoping for the best.
We are the majority in need. They are the minority who has.
Individually there might not be much, but there has to be something we can do collectively. Allowing it to continue without at least trying seems like insanity. I mean if we're all going to suffer and die in abject poverty anyways, what do we have to lose? It honestly baffles me we have allowed it to come this far without much pushback in general.
As soon as you create that movement how long until it dies? What will the RCMP do to you? How will you be vilified by the media? Do you have a cohesive voice or are your goals all over the place? Do you have a leader? What's the worst thing these leader has done and will they mind everyone in public talking about it so much that it begins to feel like it defines them as a person even if that's incredibly far from the truth?
Do you remember Occupy Wall Street?
A movement such as what you're describing will have to find a way to deal with all of those factors and more - it would theoretically have the best chance of success if it could surmount those things.
While it isn't impossible there's a lot of people with money and a vested interest in never seeing something like this happen. I'm all for this if it isn't full on treasonous but my hopes aren't high.
Every social movement meant to better the majority, has been considered and called treasonous. That's part of how the powerful keep us conflicted. Fighting for human rights and equality for the masses should never be treasonous. If the govt is against the people they supposedly represent, that is the real treason. Otherwise I fully understand what you are saying and agree. Finding cohesion amongst the masses and keeping the path clear, would be the hardest part.
Really glad this didn't end up as Nu (which is a name that has or should have been skipped because it would just be confusing).      
Also, we're so fucked....
Well, probably better than Unicron.
The Autobot Matrix of leadership will save us!
I like omicron; has a nice ominous ring to it. Just in time too, I just started to have hope that we'd eventually be done with this pandemic stuff. 
Though in my heart I knew either a variant or a new bird flu or something would pop up. Vaccines squashing this thing this fast was too good to be true
Or Ultron
Yeah!!! Omicron is a dope name!!
It sounds like a new Optimus Prime enemy with like, ancien samuraï aesthetic.
My first thought was Futurama
Stupid asses. A modernized f-18 super hornets with the latest packages would have been fine. No need to retrain our pilots or mechanics. No support program that's just as expensive as the damn jet. 
Better than that f-35 that was supposed to work 3 years ago...
So all of a sudden the jets we have been flying, don't meet Canadian requirements? Wtf? 
God our governments are dumb.
Good, the F18 Superhornet costs more than the F35.
I really hope the government decides to go with the Gripen instead of the problem-plagued F35. Sadly, I don't realistically see that happening...
Minimal retraining for pilots yes, Maintenance not so much also the other support equipment would be different.
The F18 Hornet and F18 Super Hornet are 2 different aircraft that share a similar architecture.
When it comes to jets.... Yes, it has been a mess. However when it comes to APC's it does alright.
>So all of a sudden the jets we have been flying, don't meet Canadian requirements? Wtf? 
Well yes, our needs have evolved between 40 years ago and now. Which is clearly why the Super Hornets were dropped. This is a clear sign the winner is going to be the F35.
>the problem-plagued F35
This is something that happens in every new jets early life. Wide usage reveals flaws, which are then fixed in upgrades. The release of every jet generates bemoaning in the media about how much of a waste it is and how the new design is. It's not special about the F35.
Lol so being fully functional now isn't a requirement?
The only aircraft I ever remember having as many problems as the F-35 was the V-22 Osprey. And that was because they were literally trying a new engine configuration.
Never heard about all these kinds of problems with the Gripen, that's for sure.
Jen Gerson and reaching conclusions that anyone actually paying attention already did. 
Name a better combo.
This article felt like 99% fluff, 1% content. I feel like I wasted my time reading it as I learned literally nothing. Uhh, supply management bad, Andrew Scheer bad, Bernier good?
All of the products in Erin O'Toole's picture shouldn't be eaten by people, anyway. Fruit-flavoured sugar water, a carcinogen, products that increase heart disease, and a sugar syrup. Is this really what the average person eats for breakfast? Yikes.
Not everyone wants fruit and oatmeal every day.
Wow is coffee still okay?
All staff must use those bathrooms as well then.  No separate staff bathrooms should be allowed.
They did this at my old school because of vaping schools always make weird, nonsensical and pointless decisions because school administrators don’t do shit all day but grow to hate the youth
The principal just likes to watch the girls use the toilet.
I fucking hope so.
Yet another subsidy for oil and gas. WTF??
No firm should be getting water subsidies. 
Hey, Nestle: Stop bilking municipalities of their water.
they're not adding a subsidy
BC is reviewing the royalty rate on natural gas to determine if the government should get a bigger cut. Groups are asking them government to consider in this review that the companies are getting subsidized via the water they affect, which they're doing for free. If considered it should result in a higher royalty.
Right. But the frackers are getting the water for next to nothing, and leaving it polluted. Not the sort of subsidy that I would expect in oil and gas. Hence, yet another subsidy.
externalities may be the most common subsidy
We need a party that will impose cradle-to-grave plans for any natural resource use, including reclamation after projects are complete. Firms should have to put up x% of the project, earmarked for reclamation, before approval.
Maybe we should remember thet the first R is for REDUCE.
It won’t happen until the government mandates the use of recycled materials in manufacturing and import.
I think other countries recycle more types of plastics than we do, and i think that should change. Look at what Finland is doing!   https://youtu.be/yiNQq_f_LzA
"Personal responsibility" is always bullshit. 
It's a corporate PR line that deflects responsibility from the people who actually control the amount of packaging, reusability and durability that products have. 
If companies were 100% liable for the full financial cost of cleaning up all their products you'd see changes overnight that would actually stick.
Why? A robust carbon tax will lead toward better choices by consumers, but often times, the carbon cost of making a new product (including disposal) is less than that of recycling
I want to see plastic bottles in vending machines barred. What was wrong with aluminum cans?  Aluminum has a nearly 100% recyclability.
Why bother, just make new stuff and bury the rest.
Agreed. I wish someone (other than me) would tell that to my family members who just *have* to buy a new phone every year.
Internalize the externalities? What are you, a commie?
/s
Remember, though, that those costs are passed onto the consumer. I have no qualms with that, but you're invariably going to have the "tHiNgS cOsT tOo MuCh!!" people flipping shit.
Forcing firms to pay 100% of the costs, environmental or otherwise, for the goods they produce is an important step to pushing the rest of the population to reduce the amount of useless shit they buy in the first place.
This is particularly true of recycled paper. The bleaches and detergents that go into recycling paper has a much higher financial AND environmental cost than cutting down managed forests. Add to that the limited market for recycled paper and the cost of the recycling process just isn't there. We'd be better off making new paper and using old paper in biomass power generation...
Eventually this will not be true as we start binning everything. Whay not encourage development of better recycling infrastructure focused on improving that?
When I was a kid, my primary source of income was returning glass Coke bottles to the store for the deposit return. Coke, in a perfectly rational capitalistic maneuver realized they could save a ton of money by ditching the collection and processing of all this glass by switching to plastic. Boom in the trash it goes, and it's off to help fill up the local dump, or choke an otter.
Guess which is infinitely recyclable? Hint: It's not plastic.
Don’t forget each new phone also needs a new charger because it’s not compatible with the last one so now you have a draw full of cords you can’t use anymore.
> Remember, though, that those costs are passed onto the consumer. 
The counter-argument to that is just remembering that costs are passed on regardless - they don't go away. The only difference is whether the person using the product sees it or not.
Personally, I'm going to continue wearing a non-medical face mask. I'm not at particular risk of COVID-19, I practice social distancing in public, and I cannot possibly justify the environmental impact of disposable medical masks.
Our household buys masks from Costco. We purchased 3 layer masks and KN95 masks.
We made some cloth masks and added a slot to put in a filter, so I’m happy not going through tons of disposable masks but if I am going to an event or place with many people I can add in a filter for a bit more piece of mind, just like using a disposable mask like another commenter mentioned
I'm mostly still wearing my reusable cloth masks, but I have picked up some medical masks for occasions when I know I'll be indoors in a public setting for an extended period. I don't use them that often, but it does give me some extra peace of mind.
But think of the jobs!
/s
The way this country completely disregards the environment for profit is 🤨🤨🤨
How is it possible to have the purest water?
I'd watch cbc, ctv, and global if this was the news they prioritize. It's too bad this will get forgotten in the 24 hr news cycle. Especially considering Canada's most valuable resource.
Oh man we have two different cottage stays in Tiny. It's the most beautiful water !
Ok so hear me out. Sell the water to PepsiCo then open the gravel mine. Still messes up the water but 2x the jobs.
I wasn't serious :(
It isn't, but it makes a good headline
Naturally occurring water is always going to have more stuff in it than water hydrolyzed in a lab
And Pepsi wouldn't give a shit if the water was contaminated. Better yet, sell it to Nestles for pennies.
Yeah, nothings going to top distilled water in purity.
Wouldn't a decent consumer-grade filtering system do a way better job than any naturally occurring water?
It's ideal if we don't damage the ground water tables to the point people require these systems. Depending on what gets into the water it can be very expensive to filter out.  It's not just like filtering your allready treated tap water. It's wells .
Loud guys with bad opinions often get told “you should be a politician” and they’re often too thick to realize that they’re being insulted. This is the result.
We’ve been in this shit for almost two years, aren’t these idiots tired?
I live in a village of about 300 people, we haven't had a mayor fill a complete term in many years, its not an actual job, you don't get a salary or an office.  You get somewhere in the neighborhood of 100 bucks per month.  The position usually involves a weekly evening meeting and most people end up quitting because they want their Thursday nights back or they get mad because they have no power to actually do anything as the village council runs things and most members have been on the council for decades.
Lol his face looks like the Facebook profile pic of someone who would do exactly this.
Cool, maybe they will get someone competent to soak up that jobs money.
Good.
When northern Ontario is like 12 hours south of you….
When I see stories about people like this, I want to ask them something like "Ok, just how many people have to get sick and suffer in ICU, have long-term health issues, or outright die before you think a mandate is necessary?  We've already had about 30K deaths officially in Canada from this.  So 50?  100K?  500K?  1 million deaths?"
Thankfully enough people take this seriously that we're not going to get anywhere near 1 million deaths.
I also want to remind him that the "low" death rate is in part because people can get ICU treatment.  If the ICUs are full and you're seriously sick, you don't have a high survival rate.  You're probably going to die.
Good riddance. Make room for someone with some sense.
Sometimes the trash takes itself out
Another asshole hits the dust. I'm so happy we get to see because of this pandemic who they are.
Why can’t West Lincoln’s mayor do this?
/r/byebyejob
Good, if you're not willing to comply with professional standards, a replacement must be found. This is so easy, I can't believe people are voluntarily leaving good jobs because the job requires being vaccinated. Mind boggling ignorance and shows the depths of over confidence.
The comments on the CBC website were a *lot* better than I was expecting, which is a pleasant surprise.
Fuck, Roland, the Mayor of Schitt’s Creek resigned?
Oh well, I'll live.
Bye Felicia
I wonder what he has on the back of his pick up?
Not to dogpile on this guy, but surely if the stress of the pandemic has been difficult and overwhelming, particularly for your private business, maybe get the vaccine that helps you stay open and keeps caseloads down?
Doctors not fully vaccinated have no business being a doctor.
I wouldn’t see a doctor who actively refutes science. Can doctors just choose to not wash their hands now too?
Better idea pull their license and fire them.
If you're a medical worker and aren't fully vaccinated, you are not suited for the medical field
Another Tory monster.
Seems like abortion isn’t exactly a settled issue, despite what our conservative friend might like us to believe.
Evangelicals are on the push in the US, so the Dollarama Canadian Conservative versions must follow suit, as is their duty.
I didn't know about this promise. Good! They shouldn't be charities.
Lewis is quickly pissing away any chance at leader and PM with garbage like this.
Not that she had that big of a chance anyways….
CPC supporters everytime the Abortion discussion comes up: "STOP bringing it up! it's only the leftists using it as a boogieman!"
CPC: "hold my beer!"
In the last 365 days the CPC has now raised the Abortion issue at least twice. They tried to pass a vote on sex selective abortion, and now they're raising this stink
I don't want to hear another conservative try and blame the abortion discussion on the "LPC using it as a boogieman" again. Repeating that shit should get you banned for misinformation. The CPC actively (at least many of it's members) pushes to reopen and change abortion regulations in Canada. This is fact.
When this person was eliminated from the CPC leadership race, she got more votes than McKay and O'Toole but lost on points.  Ridings decide the CPC leader more so than the individual members.
Each riding gets 100 points and those points are split according to that riding's vote.  Slightly winning a lot of ridings can be worse than dominating in fewer.  
She got 60k votes in the round she got eliminated when O'Toole got 57k and McKay 54k.  She got the most individual support that round.  Her votes were 35% of the total but her points were just 30%.  
She was very close to being the leader and most of her supporters ended up supporting O'Toole.  Derek Sloan was in that race as well but had been eliminated by then.  
I wonder who is going to be in the next CPC leadership race.  Do you suppose it will be before summer?
With everything going on in the world...
Jebus don't you people have some climate change to deny or some racists to placate. Just go away.
The Cons can't claim that they are not bringing back the abortion debate while still having people like this around in their party
Which part of the conservative party do you think backed her? They love this move even if most people don't
Well I know a number of 'moderate' cons in my immediate family thought she would make a great PM and don't follow politics closely enough. My FIL even holds party membership.
This kind of thing would still fly right under their noses.
Yeah more broadly which branch of conservative party even backs the idea of a female as party leader in the first place.
Authoritarian are more than happy to make exceptions for useful people who don't precisely conform to their standards. The Proud Boys are led by a Cuban-American (Hispanic) and a Canadian expat.
_I am Jack's complete lack of surprise.jpg_
If we only had transparency. But we only have backroom deals and bribes. How? How can we be transparent? /s
For every Hamilton there’s a city doing a far better job at keeping bribes hush hush. Canadians are really focused on highly visible politicians but most of the corruption is happening at lower levels where no one is looking. I even find people turn a blind eye to local issues that they’d have a huge problem with at a national or international level because there’s a huge incentive to support any and all local economic growth.
His work email is hookersnblow@hamilton.ca.
I want holiday booze.
Apparently not everyone with the most greed wins.
Same here in Calgary
Politicians attempt not being corrupt challenge (IMPOSSIBLE)
I’ll have to watch it on the local news tonight. I’m not paying to get free news. That’s what advertising is for.
Surprising no one.
Oh, Ontario.  You're just trying to compete with Quebec for their coveted "most hated province" trophy, aren't you?
edit: No, Alberta, you can keep YOUR trophy.  Looks like you're ALL fucking winners here.
Gee, after the way they clusterfucked the Cannabis rolleout? How can it be?!
Oof, Madon'!
I wonder if Pfizer could also be wining and dining our bureaucrats in  the same way?
"Remember lads, it's only illegal if we get caught!"
You mean Alberta?
You mean [insert province you are from]?
The BC NDP is either shockingly incompetent or straight-up evil. Possibly a mixture of the two.
Its cuz the gov doesn't care about the plight of the native. Despite its rhetoric to the contrary
Much rather make sure the pipeline goes through so we can have more climate disasters
While I won’t discount anything that was said in the article, I will add that ESS has dropped the ball for everyone. People went to ESS in person, waited hours, then sent away and told to wait for a call. Some have still not received that call, while others eventually got called, but supports were not back dated to the evacuation and only started the date of the call. It is a broken system.
Wow that's just shameful completely disgusting
I don't think they're missing much.
It is incompetence. They didn't bother to use the emergency alert system for the wild fires during the summer or for the floods that happened. Even tho it is tested I believe once every 6 months.
I would've thought that BC would have had a more progressive party tbh. The liberals are conservatives and the NDP is a liberal party. Where's the NDP for BC?
The BC goverment is too busy attacking native rights using the RCMP as their bullies. 
This indicates that RECOCILLIATION is a joke to them and actually helping natives will be a they come last situation.
THE GENOCIDE CONTINUES!
In Civ6 Canada gets extra diplomatic victory points for sending aid during emergencies, so naturally I burn as much coal and oil as possible to ensure there's plenty of disasters to profit from!
Greens
I had to double check which sub I was in for this one 😂 thanks for that!
Is the green provincial party more progressive then the federal party?
Yes! BC Greens’ leader, Sonia Furstenau, is definitely further left than the BC NDP I would say.
Huh, interesting info to chew on. I would've thought that the NDP is as close to a labour party in Canada as we can get. I guess if I lived in BC I'd vote green instead of NDP
Yeah the bcndp under Horgan are probably more right wing than even the federal liberals to be honest. The greens here are the only progressive choice.
Of course it is but a large part of the Canadian population like to treat lower class people like shit as some sort of punishment for being poor.
For all the effort she’s put into generating all those fake identities and conning her way into healthcare jobs… she could have just finished nursing school and done it legit.  
SMFH.
Despite the headline it doesn't only apply to Vancouver, since allegedly this woman also did fraud in Ontario and also the US. Absolutely wild to me that this is even a thing that could happen for so long at so many places.
Simple solution throw the fake nurse into a real jail.
Dangerous Offender status would put an end to her shenanigans.
Right? Lmao. She could have done nursing school a couple times by now. I'm gonna need a whole book or documentary on this woman and how healthcare facilities kept hiring her after she was imprisoned, had a warrant out for her arrest, and there were warnings made about her using a fake identity to get hired as a healthcare worker. She's been at this kind of thing for 30 years, it's just astounding.
It’s very comforting.
As a provincial NDP voter... what? How did I miss this? Why would they do this?
There shouldn't be fees to access information that's your right to access. They need to come up with a better solution to fund this access if there's a money issue.
The BC NDP are really something, this is pretty sus.
This seems really shady
Yep. Keep hitting that last coffin nail NDP. I am never voting liberal or ndp again. Harper could run again and I will never vote Liberal ever.
I get why; they were being swamped with bad faith political fishing expeditions, but I agree their solution is out of line
The BC Liberals are not at all the same as the federal liberals in ideology, just in case that's not clear. This post is about the BC NDP which is also separate from the federal NDP. The Liberals here in BC are more like the federal Conservative Party.
What does this have to do with the Federal Liberals who have no relations with the BC Liberals.
I'm in Alberta. The NDP here are just as full of shit as BC's and the federal party.
Hard disagree. The NDP were better than their predecessors and the light-years more competent than the current catastrophe. 
They wanted farm workers to get workers compensation for work related injuries? What monsters!
My point is....we are in a time of desperately needed change and the Liberals and NDP are playing like it's 1999.
And my counter point was the provincial NDP in Alberta are not "full of shit," they've done a pretty good job of being exactly who they say they are. They fought for workers, social services and even a pipeline or two.
The conservatives have been in charge in Alberta with only one break since 1965 and you think you desperately need a change from liberals and NDP?
Exactly what the conservatives want.
An uninformed population is easier to influence and control.
"I love the uneducated"
How to find your paid off politicians.
~~tone deaf~~ ecocidal.
> opposition critic
The "opposition critic" here is Jim Dinn, the interim leader of the NDP. Poor guy couldn't even make the title.
Capitalism is a death cult.
Oil funding announcement ~~just 10 days~~ after COP26 'tone-deaf', says opposition critic
Generally they are standing infront of a blue or red back drop.
And it’s sad how many folks making 50k a year defend a system that isn’t going to be there for them when the frequency and intensity of extreme weather events leaves them in the dust.
In BC it's an orange backdrop.
Not even that, they're the demographic that are going to get fucked first and the hardest. You think rich folk are going to care that poor people are suffering from climate change? Pffft, back of the line you dirty poors.
We need a different colour all together. One with the best attributes of each colour.
As if red was that much better?
Perhaps a brick wall...
Puce.
>“Taken together his report and our submissions confirm the existence of systemic racism and the impact of certain policing practices in British Columbia and demonstrate that its effects are pervasive and severe,” Govender said.
This is my shocked face.
> Solutions will require a broad and proactive approach, Govender said.
Broad and proactive approaches are not something I associate with police forces.
I say nothing, they have effectively removed themselves from polite society.
Ignore them. That’s a good start. When they do something illegal, arrest them. Until then, they are just irritating white noise. Unfortunately, at some point, they will get Covid. Only then will they understand why the rest of us chose to be vaccinated. 
The anti-vaxxers remind me of when my kid was a toddler; she would refuse a coat and hat in the middle of winter then go outside and complain she was cold. She had to experience the cold to understand why dressing for cold weather was important.
What do we do with drunk drivers, or people who make booby traps, or people who otherwise endanger the public?
*~~Nu~~ Omicron has entered the chat*
Edit: Omicron sounds like a name that will happily destroy our civilization.
Keep the restrictions on them for life. They already have the title of Antivaxxer for the rest of time so let's just lock their useless asses down.
When people threaten the general public, they typically are arrested and put in jail. So that's basically what you should do with anti-vaxxers which threaten the general public.
Deportation and jails spring to mind.
If people would only listen. Most are not anti vax, they are pro choice. Big difference.
[removed]
>Ignore them. That’s a good start. When they do something illegal, arrest them. Until then, they are just irritating white noise. Unfortunately, at some point, they will get Covid. Only then will they understand why the rest of us chose to be vaccinated.
Statistically, most of them won't get covid, and most of those who do will be fine.
upvoted comment on *"no hate" subreddit*
*Getting COVID to own the libs*
*Protesting at a hospital because they're "pro-choice"*
I'm against mandates, these people are retarded. Big difference.
They might feel indestructible, but when they give COVID to a family member and get a dose of guilt for Christmas because they're the reason Grandma's dead does their belief in "natural immunity" really matter?
I have no idea. These people are batshit crazy with questionable logic. That is all I am able to deduce.
>Statistically, most of them won't get covid, and most of those who do will be fine.
Statistically, no one has a rebuttal for this 🤣
Found an Antivaxxer
My posting record is clear and well-established, I'm not new here, my anti-authoritarian politics have not changed since the pandemic started, because I believe coercion is wrong period. I'm fully vaxxed and strongly encourage others to get their shots.
What I'm commenting on is this gleeful "*fuck them*" stance that is not aimed at improving things for any one in any way, but at punitive vengeance. In what universe is this not hateful? Eyeroll, indeed.
Glad you're vaccinated, fuck those who aren't.
I know too many of them to take a stance like that. They're good people. But I would hope that I would say this even if I didn't know any of them, because "they're good people" is pretty much tautological as far as I'm concerned. People *are* good.
I agree that the majority of people are good people, that's why antivaxxers are a minority. The people joining in on antivax protests aren't good people plain and simple and as vaccinations increase those protestors become more of the antivaxxer majority. 
That's my reasoning behind fuck the willingly unvaccinated. Could be flawed, but im tired of them.
Live tweeting is already kinda stressful you gotta be a quick typer as well as concise and informative AND live translating is also pretty hard (I've heard, not done it myself) so this sounds pretty difficult.
Yup. And none of our viable political parties seem to want to do anything about it.
It'd never fly for newsprint but it'd be more accurate to have that trunk a foot or so up the dudes ass whilst shaking.
At least it sure feels that way.
Is this cartoon ever *not* relevant?
Amber Bracken, the journalist who took these photos, was arrested by militarized RCMP and detained for 3 days.
This shit has been so disheartening especially on other Canadian subreddits 
People shit on these protesters for being passionate and disrupting the economy like wildfires and natural disaster don’t disrupt the economy and it feels like it’s just aversion to change.
People would literally rather watch the province get worse EVERY YEAR because of the global extraction industry. Towns wiped off the map, families dead, communities cut off, supply chains disrupted 
But they won’t think about it. They’ll just bask in smug victory when the police break apart the minimal protesting like they somehow benefit from it.
I guess it’s better to watch tree huggers get arrested then have a functioning society
A fucking chainsaw.
Was she not arrested in the forestery protest on Vancouver island, a where the injuction was removed?
Are the RCMP basically just security-for-hire for these huge corporations at this point? That's how it's starting to look
This is the true history of Canada.
My Retired officer husband is weighing in on everything they’ve done. Especially since they’ve done a shit ton of illegal things (the officers, not the people) he says the tactical team is guilty of false arrest, break and enter, etc… 
So he says just because they said “you are under arrest” repeatedly, doesn’t make real. They are required to say what they are being arrested for. The warrant wasn’t produced in paper and physically presented to them at the time of being removed. They are required to use “the key” which is a proper police battering ram on the door, not scavenge shit around the place. “Or my foot,  if it is an emergency and someone inside needs assistance, but other than that, no… because you are making yourself into a criminal at that point… there was no tactical communication and no reasonable discussion… especially without a warrant being presented after she told them they needed one” (he’s ranting too angrily for me to type everything out). So, he mentioned section 10 part A, I had to look it up so I’m gonna copy and paste it from the Canadian website
“Section 10 - Arrest or detention
10. Everyone has the right on arrest or detention:
to be informed promptly of the reasons therefor;
to retain and instruct counsel without delay and to be informed of that right; and
to have the validity of the detention determined by way of habeas corpus and to be released if the detention is not lawful.”
He’s also mentioning how much trouble it’s going to be that they need to go to court now (which is a shit-ton of money, time, etc…) to fight it and he’s right, it’s probably not going to get proper justice. 
That this is happening is bullshit and even if this has all been done with warrants and things ahead of time, the best they need to happen next is a sheriff for eviction and he said he didn’t see anyone identifying themselves as a sheriff. 
He’s saying the worst thing he sees is that officers making an assumption that just because the indigenous people were here before the constitution, that the constitution doesn’t include them and they are afforded just as much rights and protections as everyone else since the constitution is based on universal rights and freedoms. 
We both hope, as a family, that the indigenous people will get proper justice and (just as he always does when he meets indigenous people) we want to thank the indigenous for the use of their land. 
And my weigh-in: Seriously what they are doing is bullshit… and I hope their children know what they do and are just as ashamed of them as the rest of us. And the petty part of me hopes they accidentally have their pepper spray explode in their pockets because my husband said in police college it can burn for days if it gets on your “junk”.  >_<
EDIT: 
I just thought I should add this since I was a little careless as we’ve been accused of spreading information that isn’t correct as per jurisdiction and we’re given the offer to be educated further in the manner by a private message. Especially since it was in regards to being “…directed to his brothers and sisters…” in policing. My husband was a former officer in Ontario, not RCMP, so yes we are not clear about ALL of the processes and laws beyond certain areas of Canada. Just as much as it was not as widely accessible to everyone to view the Police Acts/Laws governing each policing organization until the internet was as widely available. 
The Section 10 part A that I cut and paste was taken from the government of Canada’s website in the section about the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms 
I’m reading now the RCMP Act from the Canadian Law website now and finding a lot of it vague when it comes to RCMP conduct. Especially on the parts of conduct/integrity ( I’m making supper sad faces right now). 
So I know in Ontario they are required to make a statement as to why entry, why arrest, etc… (No they can’t ask you like “Do you know why I am pulling you over. Otherwise a judge will just be like “entrapment bye” which barely means much to the officer since he is gonna still be paid some hours for just showing up for 30 mins at court.) So I invite everyone to go to view the Royal Canadian Mounted Police act and view Part 4 on Conduct and Responsibilities. There’s stuff on accountability there and whatever too. (Also, check out on what CSIS is allowed to do by way of loopholes but I warn it can be mentally exhausting.)
There are a lot of good officers out there. Then there are bad officers. Then there are the ones who “do their jobs” because they have to eat, feed their families, etc… everyone has reasons as to why they do things or continue to do things. But, as I know, he has found over the years despite all of those things being really hard to navigate around and my husband has admitted to being guilty to some too in the past, being able to participate in positive change that gives dignity to people(s) who have difficulties made him feel better, especially when it has gained the sparkle in our young daughter’s eyes and the words “I’m proud of you.” 
Extra> on a lighter note: I’ve asked him for years to get onto here on Reddit so he can share directly, but he keeps refusing. Any advice is appreciated on how to convince a spouse to join Reddit is appreciated. Lol!
Fuck you B.C Supreme Court. And fuck you RCMP for complying.
Here's a link to a [CBC article](https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/british-columbia/15-arrests-journalists-wetsuweten-cgl-1.6256696) about the arrests.
While the actions of the RCMP were provocative and the force they used unnecessary, it sounds like they were enforcing a BC Supreme Court court order to remove protesters from a work site they were occupying. There's some troubling stuff there, particularly coming armed, breaking down a door with an axe, and arresting journalists. The context, that the blockades were cutting off access to 500 people who had started to need to ration water and food after supplies couldn't get through, does give some explanation, but certainly doesn't justify it.
I really have mixed feelings over these protests and the reactions they generate from the government and police. On one hand the RCMP is terrible, with an even worse history in the area, stopping fossil fuel pipelines is always a good cause, and indigenous rights need to be respected. However, the pipelines are supported by the elected council of the Wet'suwet'en and only opposed by the unelected hereditary chiefs, and the RCMP is there enforcing lawful orders in support of that. The entire thing is a big mess.
The police says "get that out of my face" regarding the camera, failing to see the irony that she asked for the drawn guns to get off of her in her home. This is sickening government enforced  violence against people protecting themselves, home and land
This is fucked up.
Are their any protests upcoming in Ontario?
Clearly the message is not being received. 
Canadian indigenous laws are barbaric and out dated. 
This has to end. Now.
I have a genuine question. 
I heard the nation chiefs did endorse/permit the pipeline. So how come there is now protests and blockades?
How is this shit not all over the damn news?! This is fucking outrageous.
Need to put some names and faces to Coastal Gaslink.
So frustrating they chose a time to do this at all but especially when the province is entirely shut down due to flooding. These RCMP officers and their stupid plane could’ve been used to get people out of dangerous situations across the province
I really don't know how to feel about this. 
But I have a question related to the media.
I understand under our laws media is protected.  They are not to be arrested.  Unless they start to interfere and become 
an issue to what ever is going on.  Like if there is a car accident they can stand to the side and report that is fine. But if they start blocking emergency vehicles or pushing a camera in the face of a victim they can be arrested.   
I have seen two video related to this conflict where when arrests start someone declares themselves media and are mad they are arrested.  But yet they are in the middle of everything. 
I want media to have protection.  I believe in free and open media even if it's bias because it is our right.  I don't want reporters getting arrested.  But I also don't want protestors (who have the right to protest) to use media to prevent consequences.  Because that can cause the freedom of media to be diluted.  
So where is the line?  How involved is media allowed to be?
Fucking ashamed to be Canadian
Let these people enjoy there rightful land and have domain over all aspects
Fuck you Canada. The country I normally love deeply
It’s interesting that they don’t tell you about the 500 camp workers they were holding hostage past their ‘legal’ blockade. How they weren’t letting the people leave the camps nor were they letting supplies like food or water up to the people…. Almost like hostages or something
The wetsuweten are the only people I see standing up to the government. Thanks to them.
RCMP, proportional force is a thing, stop pointing guns at unarmed people.
How is this not in news?
[removed]
This is shameful. This is not the way. The older I get the more ashamed I am of my country.
What can we do? Is anyone out there knowledgeable on how I can help?
Honest question, what can I do to stop this when I'm on the other side of the country?
Won’t anyone think of those poor oil and gas companies?  They’re struggling to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions and be responsible for the damage they have wrought so the government is giving them blanket subsidies that will totally be used to GHG reduction.
“Natural Resources Canada “vastly” overestimated the expected GHG reductions, DeMarco added, and did not account for companies increasing production and how that would cause an increase in emissions.”
lmao giving oil and gas companies money to get oil and gas produced resulted in more greenhouse gas emissions??
> All provinces agree the increased funding should come without conditions set by the federal government, so that each jurisdiction can target their own unique needs.
You're getting strings whether you like it or not.
I do NOT want our province to get no-strings-attached funding.
Yeah exactly. For decades we've been ignored. No strings is because they don't want to invest in mental health care but buddies pet projects. Ontario has let us down both in conservative and liberal rule.
They need to make actual therapy covered. Hardly any of us struggling can afford the 150/hr to get needed therapy.
No strings attached money? sounds like more money to gamble on pipelines!
I agree that therapy should be covered by healthcare. I've also seen studies that suggest that directly giving people the money it would cost to go to therapy does a better job at improving their self-reported wellbeing though.
It's just a coincidence that we lost 1.6b gambling on that pipeline, and then are cutting 1.5b from universities right?
Are companies that hard up that they can’t float 10 paid sick days…..
Don't worry the liberals will get in again one day and will claw them back.
Its no about hard up, its about greedy bastards.
Apparently so it's pretty bad when you consider that ten paid sick days is the norm for most OECD  countries for number of sick days.
The average company got a 0% interest pandemic loan of $60k, and $20k of that will be forgiven in late 2022 if $40k is repaid. Basically a gift of $20k to each corporation.
That's not accounting for CEWS, other targeted benefits for hard-hit industries and increased government spending that indirectly benefit thousands of businesses large and small.
I’m a socialist but this article is way out to lunch. The conservative brand in Canada is still incredibly strong no matter how big a douchebag conservative leaders are.
I highly doubt that any economically liberal party is even going to touch this with a ten foot pole. It says more on the state of our society then it does of our politicians.
Mike Harris and Steven Harper 2 of the worst Canadians to have ever infected this place. Their stench still lingers after they're gone.
18% child poverty rate first world country btw
It's okay comrades. When the revolution comes, the rich will make great food /s
Income gaps  between the rich and poor ( the 1 true dividing line)  has been this way forever , this is not new and will continue to get worse. The 1 way to combat this is to build a better social system safety net. Food , clothing , shelter , complete healthcare and complete education must become human rights. We need to change our goals for a better society.
Who is going to pump gas, slave away in kitchens, and be the emotional punching bag for customer's frustrations in retail if their parents aren't desperately scrambling to make ends meet, nearly guaranteeing their kids work in the same low paid frustrating industries to the direct benefit of people richer than god????????
So can we admit that having two parents is actually helpful or am I still going to get metaphorically shot on this sub for saying something like that.
It’s 24.3% in Nova Scotia currently: [Article](https://www.google.com/amp/s/beta.ctvnews.ca/local/atlantic/2021/11/24/1_5679663.amp.html)
We had our rates down to 18% just a few years ago but the increase in living costs over the last two years really sky rocketed our rates.
You'll have to forgive Justin "No one has ever missed a meal, alt right dog whistle to say you're hungry" Trudeau for not thinking about fiscal policy.
Would samurai for this cause. Banzai!
Well no shit two incomes are better than one. Being a single parent is difficult as fuck. But you’re not bringing this up in any sort of genuine way and are just trying to slag people for mistakes or things outside of their control.
Oh they are still using 2019 data. No-one wants to use pandemic data.
It looks like you shared an AMP link. These should load faster, but AMP is controversial because of [concerns over privacy and the Open Web](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmputatorBot/comments/ehrq3z/why_did_i_build_amputatorbot). Fully cached AMP pages (like the one you shared), are [especially problematic](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmputatorBot/comments/ehrq3z/why_did_i_build_amputatorbot).
Maybe check out **the canonical page** instead: **[https://atlantic.ctvnews.ca/nova-scotia-s-child-poverty-rate-worst-in-30-years-1.5679663](https://atlantic.ctvnews.ca/nova-scotia-s-child-poverty-rate-worst-in-30-years-1.5679663)**
*****
 ^(I'm a bot | )[^(Why & About)](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmputatorBot/comments/ehrq3z/why_did_i_build_amputatorbot)^( | )[^(Summon: u/AmputatorBot)](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmputatorBot/comments/cchly3/you_can_now_summon_amputatorbot/)
Justin "concerned about left-wing white supremacy" Trudeau.
No I say this because some people think that the two parent family is dead and these people are dead wrong. We can be compassionate to those who are in situations where there is one parent but to say that everyone doesn't need two parents is in contradiction to what we know about raising children.
Good bot
Thank you, AnExcellentChef, for voting on AmputatorBot.
This bot wants to find the best and worst bots on Reddit. [You can view results here](https://botrank.pastimes.eu/).
***
^(Even if I don't reply to your comment, I'm still listening for votes. Check the webpage to see if your vote registered!)
Why should he apologize? As much as it's troubling to think about and as much as I wish it weren't so, he's quite possibly right. There'll likely be people who will try to destroy the pipelines.
This whole situation is just an excuse for the Conservatives to attack a prominent environment activist he clearly wasn't suggesting that he wants to blow up the pipeline and even the NDP jumped in on this ridiculous circle jerk that the Conservatives are  engaging in it's just sad that this is what gets Media attention.
People hate that the world has come to what it has and Suzuki is someone they can yell about it
I hate these pointless arguments. He was right. Let’s watch and see.
Folks in Prince George taking pot shots at the RCMP, seems to me it is only a matter of time.
The problem with what he said is that coming from him it legitimizes the action to a degree. I don’t disagree that he was likely just making an observation that given the recent events in BC (both the flooding and the Coastal GasLink issue) that there is potential that certain people might take more drastic actions.  
However given his relative fame in the environmental movement it’s a bit of a dog whistle to people on the fringes.
He's not wrong. Genghis Khan was one of the greatest environmentalists of all time for a reason. 
Canada's natural beauty is being raped and the profits aren't being used to make life better for Canadians. Violence is effective, that's why the government brings out a militarized police force to protect these pipelines.
Whatever.  We have to become more militant when it comes to global warming, otherwise O&G industry and royalty hungry governments will continue us on our path to destruction.
If COP26 showed us anything, it's that governments still don't get the urgency.  I'm tired of the lip-service they pay to the issue.  We're not that fucking stupid, people.
Mankind has not been taking climate stats long enough to have experience all the extremes. When you settle anywhere on this planet on an old lake or flood plain, you are asking for trouble. Climate probably is changing. The question for me is what exactly is causing it? A natural cycle, or us, or a bit of both?
he apologized for claiming violence is inevitable in order to address climate change.
*"Any suggestion that violence is inevitable is wrong and will not*   
*lead us to a desperately needed solution to the climate crisis. My words*  
 *were spoken out of extreme frustration and I apologize."*
But you are right.  It's likely pipelines will be bombed.  It sucks he will get blamed by a lot of people.  He likely gets enough death threats already.
He’s a kook
Its funny how just about all major change in history was brought under the threat of violence, yet nowadays everyone pretends violence has never been an answer
Status quo i guess
So is lumber about to get cheaper here since we'll presumably have more of it?
Fuck America.
Does every president need to lose a softwood lumber war? This is getting tedious.
The USA can't produce enough for their construction needs so stop shipping until they beg for it.
Sighs...They'll lose *again* when this goes to a tribunal.
Anyone remember what happened the last time? Canadian firms won large, then used a ton of that money to buy American sawmills...
God I hope so
No, meat didn't get cheaper during the mad cow scare. Farmers sold for cheaper but the supermarkets did not lower their prices at all.
I'm sure they will charge more for keeping in a warehouse.
My city has had massive migration from the GTA and we've had less development due to a labor and material shortage. If we can get our hands on that lumber it'll help ease our cost of living issue. 
We've absorbed more Toronto real estate millionaires than new homes built in the last 3 years. With house prices now greater than 10x median household income.
It's already back to the old pre-pandemic prices afaik.
Mills will just scale back production even more
Hey, remember last time?  Canadian firms won, got back billions, then used that to buy up American sawmills.
That's just heaping a win on the win.
They can, it's just not geographically and conviently located.
My landlord physically assaulted me in Montreal because, I believe, he felt entitled to occupy whatever space he wanted to despite repeated boundary warnings and multiple calls to the police. The police called me from down the street after I made the call of the assault, calling me and asking me who I was, why I was calling them, and that they'd had a record of a call placed previously for this residence related to drugs.
I knew this, of course, because the previous phone call was from me regarding one of a number of roommates taking amphetamines/drugs in the shared dwelling in the past, and it was becoming an issue when the drugs lead to a pattern of harassment. Forgetting for a second I called about a literal ongoing physical assault in the household and they decided to call me for questioning before they arrived, the officer who arrived also informed me that if my story was different than my landlord's, we would both be arrested.
While I can understand that courts like this might alleviate some pressure on the absolutely ineffectual justice system we're currently suffering under, I have no faith in anyone near that system to actually have the interests of victims in mind. The amount of controlling and obstructive systems of contact to be overcome for someone in an unhealthy and unsafe environment is not going to land them any nearer to regaining control of their life in the timeframe they'd reasonably need help. While I'm sure cases will move through faster than they were (relatively), you're not going to see an end to these cases when nothing is done to address why they're getting so bad/hard to deal with in the first place.
The average timeframe for anything through the new regie du logement process of the justice system is equally about 2 years on average, if that hasn't gotten worse since the pandemic/last time they reported on average waiting time. No one in the province who's going through an issue of violence or abuse in their dwelling can guarantee they're still going to be renting 2 years later with no ability to have moved on before then, or survive in an unsafe environment for an equal length of time. I draw the parallel because I feel it's important to highlight how absolutely ineffectual a lot of these developments seem, like they'd help anyone suffering through abuse in the present. Unless the only outcome Canadians actually want is monetary restitution years after abuse happens.
I don't want compensation. I want the behaviour to be held to account, and to stop. I'm not convinced this is anything other than logistics to accommodate what is probably a very poorly managed decision making process in provincial justice sectors with a lot of bloat.
> Transportation Minister Elvis Loveless
I always enjoy being reminded that one of our cabinet ministers is named that.
> According to a Marine Atlantic media release on Thursday, the company has implemented its contingency plan to temporarily resume the Argentia ferry service — on the island's east coast Avalon Peninsula — at the request of the provincial government.
That should solve the supply issues for most of the island at least. Having only 1 highway across the entire island has its flaws. This will probably be used to push the [tunnel to Labrador](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Newfoundland%E2%80%93Labrador_fixed_link) idea that the provincial and federal Liberals both support.
A new record! (Repeat daily but vary the location)
Must suck to be him...
>Elabi, born in Montreal in 1988 to a Quebec woman and a Syrian man, left Canada to fight in the Syrian civil war in 2013.
So he was 25 when he left and the first group he joined was an Al-Qaeda affiliate. Yeah, fuck him. Looks like he’s just straight up not having a good time. If he had joined as a teenager I’d be much more empathetic, and be willing to believe he was lies to and made a mistake. However at that age, he should be held criminally responsible for his actions.
Bring him back to Canada, put him on trial and sentence him. I would prefer if he was left in Syria, but when people like this are left in the battlegrounds they travelled to in order to fight they’ll just migrate to other ones and continue to hurt people. Bring him back and put him on trial.
Good. I believe the correct term is poetic justice
Don't bring him back. He burned his passport, he must accept the consequences of running away to join literal fucking terrorists.
Regardless of whether we bring him here or abandon him in Syria he’s going to be living with the consequences of his actions. Bringing him back to Canada however permanently removes him from the battle field and stops him from travelling to another conflict zone to kill more people or potentially even rising to a leadership position.
Foreign fighters who join Jihadist groups wandering to different conflict zones is a major problem, its what led to the birth of Al-Qaeda after the Soviet War in Afghanistan concluded. It’s what led to the radicalization of rebels in Syria as tens of thousands of Jihadists, many of whom were veterans of other wars flocked to Syria.
If we don’t take this Canadian back and put him in prison here, its entirely possible that he could end up blowing himself up in a restaurant in Ethiopia or leading a group foreign fighters in Pakistan 5-10 years down the line. If we take our own citizens back and imprison them, then they’ll stop hurting people and destabilizing more countries.
There is no guarantee he'll be imprisoned once he gets back. We don't need the potential for a terrorist coming home to terrorize us.
If there is not enough evidence to convict him, then there is also not enough evidence to keep him out of the country. Despite these fears, their likely not valid. Germany is prosecuting former ISIS followers for their crimes in Germany, evidence and witnesses just had to be brought to the country. This man can be prosecuted.
I think leaving the country, burning your passport and joining a terrorist group is enough to keep him the fuck out of our country. He if comes back and walks what will stop him from continuing the fight over here?
I completely understand that. However if we don’t take him back and put him in prison here, then he is free to continue hurting people in other countries.
If we don’t take him back and imprison him, then he even more likely to re-emerge a few years from now and have hurt even more people. He’s a Canadian even if he burned his passport, its our responsibility to stop him from hurting anyone else. Which includes not just other Canadians, but the population of whatever civil war stricken country he travels to in order to make things worse.
>On November 14, members of the Gidimt’en Clan – one of five in the Wet’suwet’en Nation, with each clan being made up of several houses – along with members of other Wet’suwet’en clans and supporters, had served an eviction notice to CGL.
>The hereditary chiefs representing the five Wet’suwet’en clans have rejected the CGL, which only has the approval of the band council leaders.
>The band councils are part of a system established by Canada’s Indian Act, a racist law imposed more than 100 years ago to try to dictate every aspect of the political, economic, infrastructure and community development of the First Nations. But many First Nations reject this colonial institution and instead look to their hereditary chiefs, part of a traditional system of governance that has been in place since time immemorial, for leadership.
>When TC Energy, the parent company of CGL, and the provincial and federal governments signed deals with the band council leadership, they circumvented the hereditary chiefs.
It's important to bring up this fact that it's the colonial imposed government that supports this pipeline not the traditional governmental of the Wet'suwet'en.
Imma let you finish, but it is still illegal to be gay in Qatar.
The article is actually pretty good and very informative it doesn't bash gay people
I noticed in 2014 after the murder of Eric Garner and Michael Brown the only mainstream media giving the protests the time of day was AJ and RT. Why would state run media ignore their own issues to push ours? Maybe we could get Abby Martin to teach us some gymnastics.
I could ask the same thing about the BBC and radio free Europ.
I was under the impression they had taken care of their bigoted laws decades ago.
Lol, right
I like the second option. These people are something else.
Finally made a move.
If only we’d been warned!
Chronic neglect of infrastructure doesn’t help.  They’ve done very little to improve hwy 1 3 or 5 in the last 40 years. What do you expect?  
It’s like once you’re past Hope all the money stops for some reason.
Who knew that our countries carbon emissions being equivalent to 50% of South America’s could have longterm consequences?
Our two largest political parties represent climate crisis denialism, and ineffective, symbolic gestures.
We need to abandon right wing politics.
Canada has to keep 83% of the remaining oil reserves in the ground in order for the world to meet 1.5c target. Our government trying to build new pipelines is quite literally a crime against humanity.
>[Unextractable shares vary substantially by region, relative to the global estimates (Fig. 1, Table 1). The largest reserve holders, such as the Middle East (MEA) (for oil and fossil methane gas) and Russia and other former Soviet states (FSU) (for fossil methane gas) have the strongest influence on the global picture, and therefore have estimates close to or marginally above the global average. For oil, Canada has much higher unextractable estimates than in other regions, at 83%. This includes 84% of the 49 billion barrels (Gb) of Canadian oil sands we estimate as proven reserves. By contrast, the FSU region has a relatively low unextractable share of total oil reserves (38% in 2050), reflecting their cost-effectiveness.](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-021-03821-8)
Meanwhile the RCMP is busting heads for a pipeline..
Canada’s climate reckoning is upon us. The costs of ~~ignoring~~ having ignored the warnings for 40 years ~~will be~~ are enormous.
FTFY
"We told you so" just doesn't seem to cut it. Coming from the Grope and Fail is especially rich; when corporate propagandists have their "come to Jesus" moment, you know its bad.
But we will ignore the warnings as always and many thousands of people will genuinely believe it’s just ok
https://www.canada.ca/en/environment-climate-change/services/environmental-indicators/greenhouse-gas-emissions.html
I'm sure zero people here are surprised Alberta's greenhouse gas emissions are more than Ontario and Quebec combined.
With a little bit of artificial flavouring I’m sure
Pretty sure we're already screwed. We had time, we squandered it. Keep buying electric cars and thinking your making a difference though.
Guys, guys wake me up when this shit shows over will ya.
Canada’s climate reckoning is upon us. The costs of ~~ignoring~~ having ignored the warnings for 40 years ~~will be~~ are enormous.
FTFY
"We told you so" just doesn't seem to cut it. Coming from the Grope and Fail is especially rich; when corporate propagandists have their "come to Jesus" moment, you know its bad.
Imagine thinking the govt can stop this let alone slow it down 😂
You battlewalrus ( nice handle btw) Let me guess; You have a beard, your American, you love the idea your informed but also antagonized by the fact your life is difficult and your dreams seem far away.
Oh yes we now must all pay carbon taxes to “fix” these issues, oh please oh please help us fix these issues government. Oh how can we live on without our mighty saviours the government, please carbon tax / green pass us so we can be safe from global warming and ( i don’t mind getting only 3 eggs a week) the cows farts that contribute to global warming should also be taken into consideration
I'm all for a WE TOLD YOU SO climate movement. Environmentalists have been talking about this for literally decades and have been ignored and ridiculed. Basically, any politician and pundit who ignored and much worse ridiculed environmentalists the past 2-3 decades should be made to pay the political price and have their careers ended.
It's amazing how funny I find this...and also sad.
Bc had the carbon tax for ages, can't believe this happened!  /s
If only you realized that it’s not from us and it’s fucking India and Chin. We emit less that 1%.
Has Quebec commented on this suggestion by Singh? I’d be shocked if they would look favourably upon the suggestion of federal interference in such a core area of provincial jurisdiction (health care).
Why just quebec?
Because the dental clinic pilot project for low-income people and those living in remote areas is an initiative from the QC provincial government alone.
The program was officially announced last week and will be funded by provincial revenues. It is neither conditional on federal funding, nor has the QC government made a single demand of the federal government.
Singh is clearly only asking the federal government to step in as a springboard to a wider national debate on the inclusion of dental care into universal health coverage. 
But I guess it isn't going to work because "Québec" in the headline is triggering to most people.Instead of a fruitful exchange and a serious discussion on the deficiencies of our health care system, we'll only get a handful of whiny "why Québec?".
I read the article, however Singh should have the intelligence to note that many see Quebec as already getting preferential treatment.
So terrible imaging.
Did you?
Singh is making about a point about dental care; you're the one making it all about Québec.
That attitude is exactly why the ROC is getting daycare 25+ years after Québec. Continue working against your best interests.
This is a clear, well-reasoned article in favour of community action against a pandemic. The photos show protestors holding signs that call vaccine passports “genocide” and the PM (name misspelled) “Canada’s Hitler”. I find it nearly impossible to believe that anyone looks at these two points of view and thinks of them as equally valid, or chooses the latter.
You don't have the right to put others at risk. Period
Seems pretty simple to me, in times of war, the right to freedom of expression can be suspended in the interests of the nation - locations of training grounds, supply depots, manufacturing plants etc can all be censored from public reporting for understandable reasons. 
A global pandemic is akin to the nation 'being at war' with a virus (as has often been said) - and therefore we should not be surprised at the suspension of freedom of movement/commerce on order to control and fight the virus, just as we would try and control and fight an opposing nation in a war. 
It's important for the people to always hold the government accountable and the resist government overreach - but the context of the situation matters as well, our personal freedoms are not endless and the bounds of society matter.
I think it's a silent crisis because the suicides are a symptom of other issues that we do talk about sometimes although maybe not enough. Capitalism, environmental destruction and conformity.
I am not an expert in this area. I think a lot of societal problems can be helped with a better social system safety net. Imagine knowing everyday that food, clothing , shelter, complete healthcare and complete education is not something you have to stress about.
Like that Twitter post said, “therapy helps but what majority of people need is money”
I'm amazed that this is the one topic (and article) that both /r/Canada and /r/onguardforthee can agree on.
It certainly doesn't help that the previous generation taught boys to "Man up, never cry, don't talk about feelings, provide for your woman."
[removed]
[removed]
Economy, too.  For many men their feeling of self-worth is wrapped up in their ability to provide (work), and not having good economic opportunities can be a devastating blow for them.  They might be tempted to think their families would be better off without them, if they're not contributing anything of value to the household.
Bingo. We often view suicide as a problem, not a symptom in itself.
What does capitalism and environmental destruction have to do with it?
Too bad your free education is now worthless. We no longer live in a society where higher education is rewarded but you are also not getting a decent paying job even if you rack up at least 50k in student loan. It's realy insulting spending that kind of money on education to just be able to qualify for a starting position in your field that maybe pays 2 to 4 dolars more an hour than a minimum wage job.
Agreeing on problems is easy. The real difficulty is agreeing on solutions.
I'm tempted to believe r/canada only cares about all the domestic serfs dropping dead, because then they'd have to buy their groceries from "bRoWn PeOpLe" and they couldn't care less beyond that point.
Don't agree? Read more of their comments and read between the lines of their solutions and backhanded comments about it.
No we don't agree. R/Canada is blaming Feminism.
>Observe any piece of media in the modern world, including the most casual print or outdoor advertisement. How many of them feature men in a positive light, as opposed to women?
Practically everything, what world are you living in?
[deleted]
So incredibly insensitive, look up fallacy of relative privation. Caring about a war and caring about rising suicides is not a one-or-the-other endeavour. You can do both, you don't have to "choose".
It's also our society that pushes this viewpoint too. You're only granted worth if you can provide something. You are your paycheck. Ive heard people call men failures if they don't make enough money. I was injured on light duty at my last job, and a few of the ladies in the office with me were going on about how one should divorce her husband because she made more than him, and it's not the first time I've heard the sentiment. 
Have mental health issues? "Man up" I've experienced this one myself on more than one occasion.
I'm not one of those "men's rights" guys cause most of those dudes just like bashing Women most of the time, but sometimes I feel like people actively dismiss Men's issues as meaningless or unimportant, and if you try and address this at all, your're automatically assumed to be some crazy alt-right nut job.
I vote NDP, and donate to more than a few social causes that don't effect me personally, cause I give a shit about other people. It almost seems as if I'm "not allowed" (for lack of a better phrase) to care about or stand up to issues I (and many others) have experienced directly, while also caring about people who suffer from issues that don't effect me. As if they're mutually exclusive things. They're not. It gets me frustrated.
A lot of my anxiety is tied to housing prices. When I started saving up for a home I though I needed 260k. Well 12 years later I have 300k invested, houses are now 730k and the maximum I can borrow is 250k. I feel like there is no light at the tunnel, I haven't taken a vacation in my adult life and the goal posts are strapped on the back of a rocket that's already over the horizon.
I just want space.
Typically when doom news is piled upon the masses it negatively affects mental health. For probably the last 20 years all I have heard about the environment is that we are already to far gone to fix it and it's changed my stance on having kids. As for capitalism it's very crushing to work 80-100 hours and see very little gains due to housing costs, food costs, transportation costs, along with people not wanting to work till they die (retirement isn't an option for many middle class people). Throw a global pandemic and the threat of WW3 or another global economic collapse onto the mix it's a pretty nasty disparaging mix.
And what is Canadian politicians actually going to do about it????  Ummmm I have a pretty good guess. 🧐
*shocked pikachu face*
Are any throne speeches all that meaningful?
Devoid of any real meaning just like everything else that comes out of his mouth.
Expecting anything of meaning from a bobblehead is going to disappoint.
Cry more
Is this any surprise? This guy is gonna coast out of the PM’s office into a corporate position I guarantee it.
Exactly. They are vague, high-level  statements of general direction-setting and priorities.
lol bobblehead
[deleted]
Easily. He's the Canadian Obama. He has everybody fooled.
At no point have I said I’m a communist. Anarcho-syndalist, sure. I didn’t defend china’s social credit score, I just said we effectively have the same system. Here in the western world the concept of a credit score was cooked up as a method to bar minority groups from getting loans to purchase property in order to maintain the desired status quo. Sure, china’s is much more draconian but the effect on the individual’s life is very similar. Dunno why y’all are defending our butt nug PM or doubt he’ll slide into some corporate job after he’s done with politics, cuz he most likely will.
Edit: lol dude your entire shtick is lurking around livestreamfail and wow just so you can dredge up post history to lazily “dunk” on people. Sometimes you’re pretty on the nose but you had to go back a month through my history to find me equating the western credit score to china’s social credit score. You’re a hack. What adult plays world of warcraft?
What's wrong with Obama?
He has 30% of the voting population fooled.
eh, I would say its less than 30%, just because people vote liberal doesn't mean they think Trudeau is going to be effective or believe anything he has to say. Voting ABC is still a thing and sometimes that means voting liberal unfortunately.
Its hard to do anything when the last two PM's have oil stains on their chins.
It's not failure, it's a feature.
I would think actual things done and not carbon trading bullshit, lotta talking but no real movement that I have noted.
TLDR of what I consider the important bits from the commissioner:
>Canada has the worst emissions record in the G7 since 2015, contradictory policies and has been slow to implement the plans to meet its current targets after three decades of missed climate-change pledges, the federal environment commissioner says.
>Commissioner of the Environment and Sustainable Development Jerry DeMarco released a report Thursday that chronicles three decades of federal government failure in translating talk into action to cut emissions linked to global warming. Spelling out the affects of climate chance on Canada today, his report warns of deaths linked to extreme heat and wildfire smoke, and says the frequency of natural disasters is going up along with the costs of responding to them.
>Mr. DeMarco told reporters at a press conference that he’s optimistic Canada can break its streak of “unfulfilled promises” but he said there has been a lack of urgency and sluggish leadership from Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s government.
>“Not everything that could have been done was done. Canada was relatively late at the federal level in taking a leadership position on carbon pricing,” Mr. DeMarco said.
>“We can’t continue to go from failure to failure. We need action and results, not just more targets and plans.”
To read the full article, despite the paywall, open it in a private window. This works for pretty much any article actually.
It’s okay, everyday folks are the real problem and should change. Not big corporations and billionaires. Still not driving an electric car or your house still uses gas for heat? You are literally the worst human being out there and you should be sentenced to hard labour for life.
One look at the r/IdiotsInCars subreddit is why we as a species, need better public transit instead...
Time to make electric motorcycles easier to license and insure.
That would require us build more than McMansionland as far as the eye can see.
The only problem with electric cars is the Canadian winter. In most urban environments, they would probably be ok but anything rural and north they are utterly useless. 
There are no good stats on cold climate battery energy retention, read into that as much as you want, except every owner complaining they lose 30-40% of their range. 
On the other hand my wife's hybrid uses 5.6 L/100km and I'll take that as a win for the next 8 years. (My gas powered uses 8.8 L/100km as my contrast) She wanted a Tesla so bad but i asked her to do some research on the battery life in cold weather. Her conclusion was her 600km range would drop to about 400km and if she ever drove to work and had to stay an extra day her car would be dead as there are no charging stations anywhere near her work. 
I do think electric cars are the way to go for urban environments but in the short term they aren't replacing gas cars until they can solve the cold weather problem, something we have a lot here in Canadaland.
Then you will need to redesign Canadian cities.  
If you want to get rid of cars you will need to build cities around train/transit stations.  Make shopping on the lower levels and upper levels is housing.  Have parks surround the buildings.
Have electric charging stations everywhere.  Make gas stations hard to get to.
Tax parking spots.
Another option is taxes, and rebates.
$5000 rebate on a small electric car
$10000 and up tax on gas cars.
Look to small cars like what Japan has with the Kei car.
As well have pollution standards on all cars, if the car can't meet the standard it can't be driven on Canadian roads.  Have exceptions for some commercial vehicles.
All taxies/ride share/delivery/buses have to be 100% electric. Make it so that all the fleets need to convert with in the next 2 to 5 years.  
Long haul trucking needs to move to trains or 100% electric.  As well as any other large vehicles.  Make goods more of a point to point with trains and then smaller trucks to do the final delivery.
Make it so that in 2025 no new pure gas vehicles can be sold, hybrids are allowed.  Canada will need some transition time.
This is just some ideas
Train good, car bad
Repeat after me:
We don't need to work in offices
We don't need to work in offices
We don't need to work in offices
We don't need to work in offices
We don't need to work in offices
More e-bikes is best.
I’d argue that urban sprawl and wasteful use of space is a bigger problem. To drive from my family’s (suburban) house to West Edmonton Mall, it takes about a half hour. To bus, it would take one hour and eighteen minutes. That’s… not great.
Time to make more streets one-way to make room for electric bicycles and trikes, like the Organic Transit ELF and Better Bikes PEBL.
>There are no good stats on cold climate battery energy retention, read into that as much as you want, except every owner complaining they lose 30-40% of their range.
Seems like you're presenting some good stats here!
>I do think electric cars are the way to go for urban environments but in the short term they aren't replacing gas cars until they can solve the cold weather problem, something we have a lot here in Canadaland.
Seems to be working fine in Norway though. We just need that level of infrastructure first - like for example, preferably your wife would have slow chargers available at work.
Does your wife commute 200km each way to work?
True office buildings could be converted to housing. The problem I see with the notion of intensification in my city is there are no grocery stores in the core. Years ago I had 2 close by along with a liquor store in the lower level of an apartment building. I'm not going on public transit several times a week to grocery shop. I never see the city planning for services & are still approving the building of big box stores in what once was a covered mall that you have to drive around to visit stores. I live in the downtown & need a car, sad. Maybe we just have more than the normal amt of idiots running the city.
I have family that lives near houston texas. 
I have seen them drive 40 freaking miles (round trip) to do their grocery shopping. The end result of urban sprawl is utterly horrifying.
We need better support and regulation of PEVs (personal electric vehicles)/micro-mobility devices (i.e. electric scooters, e-bikes, EUCs etc.).
Better transit is all well and good but considering how much urban sprawl we have, electric motorized last-mile devices will serve as an essential component.
That is something we need, however that is something we don't have and buying an electric car right now is just not a good move unless you can guarantee access. You also have to understand how massive Canada is compared to places like Norway. Effectively you need a fast charging station every 300km on every road, everywhere. 
As per stats, those are awful stats. A bunch of random people on the internet is not a good source of data. So far no government bodies or consumer good bodies havent done any studies. All we get is articles like the above or the CBC ones like this:
https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/manitoba/electric-vehicles-cold-weather-canada-1.4996501
If the government wants to push electric cars they need to really look into these issues and plan the infrastructure accordingly. How are people in towns that are kilometers away from the larger cities going to deal. My personal example is i lived in Ingonish NS over a winter one year. You are about 2h from Sydney mines (125~km) or baddeck (120~km) If you only have 300km range, to be safe you have to charge when you get there. Now, at the end of day that doesn't seems so bad but what happens if all the charging stations are full or out of service? Do you risk going up the cabot in the winter without max range? My hybrid could do that trip 3-4 times before I have to fill up. 
Electric cars are the future, but def not the present outside of major cities.
Norway isn’t as cold as Canada other than BC, and the population of Norway, Sweden and Finland is also concentrated in the south (along the coasts), and Canadians are accustomed to driving much further distances than Norwegians (same as any European country). 
I was surprised by how much warmer it is in Oslo and even warmer in Stockholm, compared to Montreal, because our latitude is much further south.
150k but frequently has to stay 1-2 days. Usually she crashes as one of her co-workers but didn't want to deal with slow charging her car off of someone else's power.
I'm not saying you don't need a car, I'm saying we don't need to drive to work hundreds of days a year. We can continue to work from home just as we've been doing during COVID. Yeah, there's people who need to still go to work, but it would reduce the number of cars on the road.
As well, many jobs are forced to be in person because they want to own you. It's not about efficiency of working from home, but about asserting their ownership of your time.
Part of the solution should be denser housing, Build up not out. This will make cars less useful and public transit, walking and bicycles more useful.
Concern is not the same as action.
Then fucking do something about it, leader of the country.
More and more families are having to alter food budgets or make cuts in other spending to cover food .
More and more pressure on food banks.
Food banks shouldn't have to be relied on so much In  this country. It makes the food security problem harder to recognize. And it's not just low income families going to food banks. Many high income 'house poor' families are finding themselves having to augment their food with a monthly food bank visit.
Then fucking do something about it, you coward.
Please do something about it.Limit foreign and investor buying power.
Absolute criminal that 25% of home ownership is now investors, crooks, snakes, and vermin.
It will be interesting to see what plays out. The feds can raise the minimum wage for the fed employees as much as they want, that won't force the provincial govs to do anything. I suspect investment in transportation and logistics that won't be realized for a number of years as well as potential gov programs to reduce cost of every day items. 
Unfortunately many of the things that are a part of the CPI would be best handled by a provincial gov applying programs and resources. I have 0 faith any of the con govs would do anything to help the people of they were given money for progams. Perfect example is how douggie sat on a billion of covid funds. 
For now, i will continue to donate to the food banks and shelters until we can figure out affordable housing and access to food are a must in our society.
*rubs nipples* oh nooooooo mmmm did investors buy up all the housing?? Mm yeah oh noooo *keeps rubbing nipples*
Lmao tell us another one Justin, go on!
He's full of shit.
So he's gonna go surfing again and mull it over.
All aboard the austerity train!
The prime minister furrowed his brow when asked the question, said he was "extremely concerned" and then proceeded to board a plane for a family vacation in Tofino.
Just like he’s concerned about a lot of other things, but takes zero action? That PM?
Did he frown while saying it?
Hopefully he can express his extreme concern to the leader of the country and ask him to do something about it.
Lol.
"If you were looking for an image, it was probably deleted."
I refuse to believe that's not the best joke ever.
Haha..hahahahaha!!!!
Ya......right.
[removed]
Look at the funding models he's providing. All center focused. Killing oil and gas, which have paid for this country as a whole. Supporting the globalist agenda and saying forestry is bad yet does nothing about china.
From the release:
>A new report released today from Canada’s Auditor General is a scathing criticism of a new program set up by Natural Resources Canada in 2020, the emissions reduction fund. While this program is ostensibly aimed at reducing methane emissions, it has actually led to increased production of oil and gas. In fact, it’s not clear that the $130 million spent led to any additional greenhouse gas reductions – it could have actually led to more emissions. So it’s not surprising that the Auditor General’s criticism included calling out the greenhouse gas reductions promised by Natural Resources Canada as unreliable and an overestimation.  
>  
>At COP26, we repeatedly heard federal ministers promise that subsidies that boost production would be eliminated – and this program does exactly that. The premise was flawed from the start: keeping harmful pollution out of the environment should be considered a normal cost of business and not an “extra” that requires government subsidies. In fact, we have methane regulations in place that do just that. The program should be cancelled immediately.
> The government's Made-in-Ontario Environment Plan, issued in 2018, laid out specific reductions from various sources of carbon emissions to achieve the targeted cuts by 2030. Some examples: 
> * 2.6 MT from having 1.3 million electric vehicles on the road by 2030.
> * 2.3 MT from utilities offering customers the option of purchasing (more expensive) renewable natural gas. 
> * 2.2 MT from what the plan described as "future innovation." 
> In her report, Lysyk [Ontario's Auditor General] reveals the Environment Ministry currently forecasts that none of those reductions will be achieved.
Well, I know for many of us here that this news is unsurprising, but it's honestly kind of funny that the original 'plan' counts on large emissions reductions from unspecified 'future innovations'.
If they could just stop talking ... that alone would reduce the amount of toxic greenhouse gas emissions coming from their mouths.
If only she could lead a party with an environmental policy...
I mean she's right. I wish Trudeau would take the climate emergency seriously, and that Singh would put more pressure on him.
Maybe she can get drunk and spew some more silliness.
Weird
"again"
Did you forget the alt, or are you the drunk one?
How about we arrest this terrorist? This is infrastructure sabotage.
looks like everybody's least favourite party is still up to their scumbag tactics
"A failed local PPC candidate..."
Could  have just said PPC candidate, the rest is implied.
PPC are human garbage.
Fuck this guy. It’s bad enough we have to deal with these anti-vaxx idiots making bad choices for themselves, but trying to impede someone else’s choice to keep their kids healthy is just monstrously evil. They claim “my body, my choice” but apparently that also means “your kids body, my choice” too. I booked my sons first appointment yesterday for December 2nd. The person I spoke to at WDG Public Health told me they’re getting about 200 calls/minute since the vaccine was approved for 5-11 year olds. The booking system is already clogged and what these assholes are proposing is dangerous and should be considered some form of terrorism. Put some bars in front of them.
Fuck these parasites.
>Windsor police say they are aware protests are being planned at COVID-19 vaccination sites. 
How much of an asshole do you have to be to plan on going out to yell at 5 year old kids?
People who vote for this shitshow of a party are the dregs of society. Change my opinion
Imagine our kids looking back in 50 years and hearing that a not-insignificant number of people sided with a virus over humanity
What happenned to peoples right to choose?
PPC = Pandemic Party of Canada
Another anti-vaxxer who  is a PPC member? I'm shocked /s
Its like they scrape them from the bottom of a filthy toilet.
A cryin shame we can't dump these assholes on an island in the middle of nowhere.
I’m pretty sure this qualifies as endangerment to the public as well as criminal negligence and would not be protected under section 2b of the charter. It may even fall under section 59 of the criminal code “seditious conspiracy”
Criminal Code (R.S.C., 1985, c. C-46) 
section 59
Seditious words
59 (1) Seditious words are words that express a seditious intention.
Seditious libel
(2) A seditious libel is a libel that expresses a seditious intention.
Seditious conspiracy
(3) A seditious conspiracy is an agreement between two or more persons to carry out a seditious intention.
Seditious intention
(4) Without limiting the generality of the meaning of the expression seditious intention, every one shall be presumed to have a seditious intention who
(a) teaches or advocates, or
(b) publishes or circulates any writing that advocates,
the use, without the authority of law, of force as a means of accomplishing a governmental change within Canada.
Ugh. 
My wealthy neighbours put this guy’s signs all over their yard. What a creep.
Wow, such a mature attitude, evidenced by   
>"I’ve got no love for the media. Until such time as you start telling the truth then you and I are not friends anymore. It’s simple as that. Good bye" 
Loathsome.
people who won't get vaccinated are bad enough, this guy is advocating sabotaging people who want it.
What's the freedom being defended here?
fuck this guy in the ear.
Can these dumb boomers just die off already?
1. Piece of shit does shitty thing
2. Media calls him to ask about it
3. Too cowardly to defend his actions, he says problem is media honesty
4. They report his comments
Sounds like the general public should clog his voicemails amd DDoS his email. He seems okay with sabotage so this seems appropriate for him.
The RCMP should get off indigenous peoples land
🤲🏼
Good to see local BC Liberal MLAs going after Leonardo diCaprio. I was worried they had nothing to do.
Corporate overlords make the rules
Great experience with Teksavvy.
That's what happens when they buy up the competition and aren't regulated in their pricing. I think Canadians pay quite a bit more for Wireless and Internet compared to any other country if I'm not mistaken.
Because none of you vote NDP, pretty simple
Well unfortunately the Liberals and the Conservatives aren't the biggest fans of trust-busting, especially when they profit off of the duopoly in this country and have invested in them. The only party that has spoken about this issue is the NDP and their plan was to create a public service to compete with the giants to force them to become more competitive. That's a good plan but we need to be willing to break these companies down as well.
At this point, what's the alternative? We just re-elected a party that has done exactly nothing to curtail Canadian telecoms or introduce any sort of competition to the market. So why do we let them charge this much for phone and internet service? The same reason we let them send the RCMP to pillage the wet'suwet'en, the same reason we do nothing about homelessness, the same reason we let investors own more and more of our housing, the same reason we let antimask protesters block hospitals with no repercussions... We don't have any way to stop them or hold them accountable. They know we're just gonna re-elect them again, and maybe make some angry posts on reddit. 
I wish I had better answers, I'm worried that increasingly our only options are violent, but the system is working very very well at continuing its existence and I don't see it getting better for anyone except the ultra wealthy
Boomers pensions are tied into the telecoms, can’t make it easier for the relevant working generation when you’ll upset your voting base
The Liberal Party of Canada placed an ex-TELUS lobbyist in charge of the CRTC.  Dancing the same Liberal dance, promise one thing and do the exact opposite.
[https://blogs.teksavvy.com/the-liberal-government-must-fire-crtc-chair-ian-scott](https://blogs.teksavvy.com/the-liberal-government-must-fire-crtc-chair-ian-scott)
Last week, the CRTC — Canada’s telecoms regulator — released its long-awaited decision on the wholesale prices paid by small, innovative ISPs to access the facilities of Canada’s telecoms monopolists.
It’s the worst such decision in history.
Ian Scott (a former teleco lobbyist that Justin Trudeau’s Liberals put in charge of the CRTC) shocked the nation by reversing the Commission’s own policy, dramatically raising wholesale prices, signing a death-warrant for Canada’s entire independent ISP sector.
Because it would be "unpatriotic" to let t mobile and Verizon in to help lower prices
I worked in a Rogers call centre for a year. 
So hard to have to push that shit on ppl. Had me super conflicted about myself for a while I’m ngl. I have no problem in sales. But when it’s predatory you can’t feel good. Just waiting for the customer to complain enough to cancel so they can get better deals was exhausting too. A waste of consumers time and labour costs. I think that was my worst job.
I use Can Com out of BC (though I'm in Alberta), charges me about $60 bucks a month for just internet. Super small company, so support is limited, but when I've needed it it's been great.  They operate in BC and Alberta, worth checking out.
https://www.can-com.com/Bundles/Internet-TV-Phone-Bundles
Teksavvy all the way!
Direct your complaints to the CRTC
I'm stuck with Xplornet because nobody else offers service out here; basically price gouging. Now the municipality is working on a social internet network, but it's still some time away.
Some areas of southwestern Ontario have Wightmans.  Great experience with them.
Because they own the large majority of the telecom market and have both liberals and conservatives by the balls. Just look up the concept of regulatory capture
I can confirm.
What province(s) are they operating in?
Yes, but I’m considering switching to one of the big companies bc they seem to drop out more often than Rogers (whose like they’re using).  
My neighbours almost never get disconnected while it’ll happen prob once a month for me.  I’m also downtown in a fairly large city, not rural.
I find teksavvy to be garbage I tried them out for a year and my internet kept dropping and streaming websites almost never worked, not worth the cheap price I was paying for internet. I have a great deal with Rogers for 2 years and no problems, never had to call them once.
Not really shocked. The right does not believe in healthcare spending, only shifting to private provides after letting it all fail.
Cause fuck the people, just pay your taxes so politicians can have more PTO that’s why
Ducking lol
[removed]
Ethereum's main purpose is to push scams on the technologically illiterate. You guys who actually believe this nonsense are weird as fuck lol.
I **will** feel it? Motherfucker my wallet is empty before payday regularly NOW.
Everyone except for millionaires and billionaires.
Because we monetize our debt and allow inflation to screw over poor people instead of increasing taxes on the wealthy.
Well no shit. We followed the globalism stupidity too. This is all supply chain problems. And corporations jacking prices under the guise of "inflation."
[removed]
Quick question, do you know how much money in rent one would have to pay near that restaurant? To really be able to gauge if 50k a year is worth to be a dishwasher, you need to be able to break down the COL.
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
Can we find a way to appreciate indigenous people, culture and myth without embracing superstition? Can we not critically examine how religious communities use prophecy and its apparent fulfillment as a way of empowering the leaders at their followers' expense.
The bison were, shall we say, the central component of the Prairies indigenous economy. It's not a hard prediction to make that things will be better if your cash cow comes back. 
Great news that it has.
Fucking cool! I hope this is true. As a First Nations appreciating white boy I hope the same people victimized by government and capitalism, can restore some fucking order. That or at least plug a few MP’s with a Modern arrow (lawsuit)
Minor nitpick: The bison were reintroduced. But all the same, their natural behavior did result in the discovery (by humans) of ancient petroglyphs relating to indigenous hunts, so hey.
This.
Every culture has had its prophecies, portents, interpreting of entrails and reading of tea leaves. The Greeks, the Indians, the Chinese, you name it.
That’s not all there is to them, nor are they taken seriously or literally. Attaching indigenous culture to its superstitious aspects is infantilising and regressive.
How is that a nitpick when it's in the first sentence of the article.
Pretty sure anythin Charest has tsay isnt really worth lisening to.
His bias is apparent.
Hmm it’s almost like they had an option, and made a choice. 🤔
Choices were made, and chips fell as expected, not really sure this dummy has a pulpit.
Who the hell cares what Doug Ford's kid thinks
"god wins every single time" ah yes once again a religious antivax  fruitcake.
So the party replaces a Jewish POC lawyer with a trans POC astrophysicist.  This party   can trigger some bigots just by showing up.  They certainly are inclusive.
Best of luck to Amita.  I hope they can manage to not derail the party over some religious conflicts on the other side of the planet.
Good luck.
Summarizing a land-access, border-control and "we were here first" v. "we have state power" debate (sounds awfully familiar) as a "religious conflict" is a terrific way to derail the conversation, that's for sure.
One substantial difference is the RCMP or CSIS didn't bankroll infant fundamentalist organizations whose primary platform is the total destruction of Canada.
[removed]
> One substantial difference is the RCMP or CSIS didn't bankroll infant fundamentalist organizations whose primary platform is the total destruction of Canada.
I mean....
It's not funded through RCMP or CSIS, but isn't the Federal government gonna be sending money to the PPC next time there's an election?
'woke' is just right wing nut job talk.  
you might as well sign every post with 'lets go brandon'
[removed]
and I have a black friend so I can't be racist.
[removed]
you see a trans person in a position of power and assume that person is in that position for 'diversity' or some other reason beyond capability.
you diminish that person based on how they see themselves.
'woke' isn't a right wing invention but it's mostly only used as an insult by the right.  Similar to how you only hear the words 'Trudeau' and 'feminist' together is when it's some right wing comment on how he isn't one.
I watched some of the footage from those arrests and heard a journalist very clearly identify herself. The RCMP are lying liars.
Context for anyone out of the loop:
Wet'suwet'en territory is unceded indigenous land within rural British Columbia. Things are currently heating up between local occupants and a developer trying to build on the land, which is of course backed by the RCMP. 
Photographer Amber Bracken and documentarian Michael Toledano were there documenting events when they were arrested during a raid last week by the RCMP, along with the indigenous land defenders. This is illegal in Canada and not the first time they've done it. This footage clearly shows them identifying themselves immediately after the cops broke down the door with axes. In the RCMP's statement they claimed at least part of the reason these reporters were arrested and held for several days was because they did not immediately identify themselves as press.
Why would the RCMP lie?
The RCMP's [extremely carefully worded statement that clearly implied wrongdoing](https://bc-cb.rcmp-grc.gc.ca/ViewPage.action?siteNodeId=2130&languageId=1&contentId=72215). 
As well as sidestepped the issue of media other than the 2 arrested reporters being denied access to the site - notice the ultra precise language used here "On Friday Nov 19, the two individuals, that later identified themselves as journalists, were not denied access to the area"
Media wasn't allowed in once RCMP's tactical team entered the site, media present within the zone was subject to arrest and seizure of their equipment.
Keep in mind that the RCMP knew these reporters were at the site as their employers had informed the RCMP - and in case there is any doubt that RCMP knew, it "just so happens" that RCMP also [tracked these reporters via an active investigations database known as PRIME](https://thenarwhal.ca/rcmp-coastal-gaslink-journalists-tracking/) on Nov 19th (we know this based on affidavits the RCMP filed on Monday)
There is also this part of the wordsmithed statement "The RCMP does not question or dispute that the two individuals who identified themselves as journalists while being arrested, were in fact journalists or on assignment. In fact, the RCMP responded to one of the media agencies on Thursday night on the importance for their journalist to identify themselves to police at the first opportunity and to adhere to police requests or directions moving forward."
Additionally...
> The RCMP stated the reason for arresting the two was because they had “embedded” with the protestors, **which has never been illegal in Canada.** Newfoundland and Labrador Supreme Court Justice Derek Green affirmed these rights when he found in favour of journalist Justin Brake who faced criminal and civil charges after spending several days inside the Muskrat Falls site covering a protest that shut work down at the project in 2016. The civil charges were dismissed in 2019 by Justice Green. The criminal charges, too, were subsequently dropped. 
https://caj.ca/blog/CAJ_calls_for_immediate_release_of_arrested_journalists_reporting_from_Wet_suwet_en
The RCMP has already lost a case about their extensive media suppression efforts in cases where first nations protestors were involved - a ruling from earlier this year "[instructs the RCMP not to interfere with media access unless it has a valid operational reason for doing so.](https://thenarwhal.ca/fairy-creek-rcmp-media-court-takeaways/)"
Edit to add, Mike Farnworth made this statement prior to Amber Bracken and Michael Toledano were released. It's unclear whether Farnworth was lying about their release, or whether other media was detained and released. 
It may be the latter, there have been some reports of media being turned away from the site while the team did the work, but no video of that yet. Not sure if we just have some press under orders to stay quiet so their parent company doesn't get blackballed by the RCMP or what. Hopefully there will be some clarifying information.
https://twitter.com/carollinnitt/status/1462207644647624705
Wow, this is completely censored on r/canada.
Who would’ve thought that an agency that were created to “maintain order” now control the working class / poor for their rich overlords.
I have family and friend who are police officers, and I respect them a lot, but cops do stuff like this and then wonder why people generally don’t like cops....
If the RCMP started suddenly respecting the right to protest, freedom of the press, or indigenous rights, people would complain that they’re being inconsistent. The poor jackboot servants of our colonial state just can’t win smh.
This was very helpful. Thank you!
Sheer force of habit.
Because that’s what they do!
People miss the point to much of this...
The journalists will be released. The RCMP will get a slap on the wrist. Constables might get paid vacation. Hell, they might get a few days *unpaid*...
The thing is, they've already been successful in accomplishing their aims: Removing the media from the scene and preventing them from recording. 
No lawsuit will be able to provide coverage of the scene after the journalists were arrested and their gear confiscated, which is what the RCMP sought to deny, and which they were successful in denying. Damage done.
They'll do this again in the future. They'll face the same limited punishment. And, again, they'll be successful in denying documentation of their heavy-handed tactics.
From my experience, that sub is very much right leaning.
They're actively deleting posts related to this? That's really twisted
Ah yes, if the RCMP actually upheld the law, yeah, people would think they were inconsistent because, well, their actions *would be inconsistent*. Funny how tautologies work...
Yup, over and over again.
That’s the joke
LFG First Trans Party Leader!
Umm. Can we vote to make her leader?
No it's my understanding interim leaders can't run for leadership.
I wonder if that’s why Manly backed out…
Love the user name.
I think it's more likely that he discovered he and Amita were the only two candidates being considered and he was happy to have Amita as leader.
Seriously considered maybe, but there were twenty applicants.
Nevermind white, most prominent jounolists come from the same few families. This is much more a story about nepotism than race. 
https://readpassage.com/breaking-down-family-connections-in-canadian-journalism/
It’s great to have this data, there’s definitely been a lot of concerns about racial diversity in newsrooms. The only part that seemed really odd is:
>Women, who make up 50.4 per cent of the country’s population, according to 2016 census data, are also at the margins of the industry, the study found, even though the national data shows women journalists outnumbering men (52.7 per cent compared to 46.7 per cent).
>That is because most women are working either part-time (61 per cent) or as interns (64.9 per cent). “Among full-time staff, women make up 50.7 per cent of journalists,” the report states, “compared to 48.9 per cent men and 0.4 per cent non-binary.”
I strongly believe in diversifying the work force, but making up 50.7 percent of full time staff and 60+ percent of interns/part time isn’t what I would call being at the “margins of the industry.” I think pay gap among each type of staff is a better place to look at in this case, but they are certainly well represented in overall numbers across the board. 
It sounds like they’re trying to make the argument that women are over represented in lower paying positions, but if anything it’s a call for more male interns now, as they’ve already hit good gender diversity between men and women (not sure what percentage of the population is gender non-binary though). Part time/internship roles might also be an indication that they’re on track to overshoot gender representation reflective of the population, as I assume they’re near the front of the line for hiring into full time positions.
Edit: just to add, these are aggregate numbers, so certain work places are likely still pretty behind on gender diversity and should still have equity measures to increase hiring of women. Also, beyond just the need to look at pay gaps, that analysis should also look at who’s in senior decision-making roles as well.
>Just days away from the anniversary of an Ontario Provincial Police officer fatally shooting a baby and his father during an alleged child abduction, the province’s police watchdog has still made no decision about criminal charges in one of its highest-profile cases.
I'm shocked that the case where cops recklessly shot at a guy with a baby in the car, and then killed a baby, is being stalled longer and longer.  Shocked I say! ^/s
Something tells me these weren't exactly the guys who turned their homework assignments in on time.
>Denette confirmed that the SIU has not interviewed the three cops who opened fire. The SIU has requested statements from them in the letter designating them as subject officers, Denette said, but “none of the officers have to date stepped forward to provide a statement.”
OFC not.  Cops almost never cooperate or provide their notes with those that supposedly-police them.  Can you imagine a doctor did that? "Sorry I killed your son under unusual circumstances, but nope, you can't look at any records or details of the procedure leading up to it even though proper documentation is part of my job"
Given the enormity of the fuck up, I'm wouldn't be surprised if the SIU was giving the OPP ample time to shake the right hands, pad the right pockets, dig up the right dirt, so at the end of it, everyone "looks" like they did their job and the SIU can just throw their hands in the air and exclaim "well, we did the best we could!" *shrugs*
Not unlike the recent revelation of the Waterloo cops investigating the TPS Danfonte Miller SIU cover-up - a report that was released a whole year after it was done, and they chose to conclude that the only TPS cop who was responsible, is also one who conveniently retired, thus, no charges.
*Cute Curb Your Enthusiasm theme*
The SIU is a joke. Until we get an investigatory body that isn't full of ex-cops and is capable of compelling (under penalty of contempt) officers to give truthful testimony (under penalty of perjury), there's going to continue to be no way to hold officers to account.  If they want to have a lawyer present during their testimony, that's fine, but as things stand it's extremely obvious that the best route for an officer who abuses their position is always going to be to say absolutely nothing to anyone.
> SIU says its ‘major’ investigation needs more time
Code for "We're having trouble wording the press release in a way that allows us to sweep this under the rug without triggering public outrage."
Is that the investigation where the officers in question have flat out refused to participate in any way? 
Why it's even up to them to decide they won't participate....?
refusal to participate should force them out of the police (not this BS leave with pay) and then they can face charges as civilians.
Charge then with manslaugter. They are obviouly guilty
Presumably the OPP is still trying to find a gun small enough to believably plant in a baby's hand?
"He was coming right for us! We shot in self defense!"
r/LEO 
They gather in private groups to laugh and share tips about this shit. Public servants should know their fucking place in society.
That doctor thing you mentioned is happening, and has happened in New Brunswick. We need positive change .
"We're having a really, really hard time parallel constructing a scenario where we weren't the ones that royally fucked up. We need more time to at least write some plausible fiction."
It's designed to fail. They can't even compel the murderers to be interviewed. Like "not self incriminate" ok, but how are they not immediately fired and facing criminal charges if not complying? Fuck this country.
It’s interesting how much more attention the military justice system has been getting, including significant reforms that are currently in work, when it’s less shit at its job than the SIU is.
They think their place is above the "sheep" they protect. It's enforced by the hero worship built into the job by every kids cartoon ever.  Further enforced by warrior style training in a lot of places. 
They are the good guys, anyone they shoot is the bad guy and society will fall apart without them. End of story, please don't look behind the curtain or ask questions.
Oh?  Do you have a source?
"...Also the community will be more willing to accept this blatant misconduct as several years have passed and the outrage has died down."
Look into the Lexi Daken case . Very sad , I understand she was under the age to disclose information. But even her parents could not get any documentation based on what happened at the hospital. The hospital months later said they would allow the parents to read it but would be under a gag order for information that had been disclosed to them.  Worst of all this has happened to many other parents in the province of New Brunswick. 
Also the province of New Brunswick seems to be denying a mystery brain disease. Which they say has no links to things in the environment such as moose , and other game , blueberries etc. But has no evidence or testing that they are willing to share with the Canadian centre for disease . Nor are they willing to communicate with them to find out what may or may not be happening . It was shrugged off as another illness/ disease , and closed off from the province as an ongoing issue .
Why haven't we thrown her ass in the slammer yet?
She's still around? I'm an elder at my church, and got an e-mail from her or one of her followers, including a C&D for administering vaccines, which we were not doing. It was super bizarre that someone went to the time and effort to look our small church's (~100 people) elders contact info, but here we are.
Is it too late for me to declare myself the King of Canada?
She has explicitly asked members of the military to start executing various groups of people and to accept her as the legitimate Queen of Canada.
[Criminal Code of Canada, section 53:](https://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca/eng/acts/C-46/section-53.html)
> 53 Every one who
> 
> (a) attempts, for a traitorous or mutinous purpose, to seduce a member of the Canadian Forces from his duty and allegiance to Her Majesty, or
> 
> (b) attempts to incite or to induce a member of the Canadian Forces to commit a traitorous or mutinous act,
> 
> is guilty of an indictable offence and liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding fourteen years.
More like Queen of the memes.
*Grifter grifts brainwashed mentally ill conservatives*
I was curious how weird the Canadian branch of QAnon rhetoric would get. This does not disappoint at all.
This is basically the beginning of the end. People are actually following a mentally ill person’ ranting.
What
Lemme guess...she tweeted that all from her boardinghouse bathroom throne?
The headline should be “crazy person actively fucking nuts”
Alrighty then, I declare myself god empress of canada and my first decree is every qanon supporter should be kicked out of country
that's how that works right?
Please stop giving this lunatic media coverage.  Mentally deficient people like her - and her 'Q' friends - absolutely feast on having their names in the news - hence more violent and freaky declarations, the more outrageous the better.
Stop it for crying out loud.
Can we stop platforming a quack? We really don't need a Chris sky 2.0
But Canada already has a queen.....
Well if she deposes my queen then resigns I might like her
What a fucking moron.  Why are they allowed to just walk around when they clearly need serious mental health.
…………🤨🤨🤨u do u crazy lady…u do u
Is it illegal to unilaterally declare yourself to be the legitimate authority in all of Canada and then enforce your territorial claim with threats of paramilitary violence?
I'm not really sure how that works but [I think the spot did recently open up.](https://www.bbc.com/news/uk-11437314)
As the Emperor of Canada… I will allow it.
I'm now a life long Chapman's consumer.
I bet the free advertising Chapman’s gets from this article brings in far more customers than the small minority of idiots boycotting them.
Me also. Back lash from such a small segment of the populace too.
Chapman's frozen yogurt is in my house year round. Now I am only going to buy even more.
There are a lot of reasons to support Chapman's, but this makes it official; they are my favourite.
I went out and bought some Chapman’s ice cream the day this story broke. Not only is it a good product that’s cheaper than most of their competitors but they do a lot of good for their community and employees.
I wouldn’t be surprised if lots of people did the same. It would be awesome if their sales actually increased as a result of the attention these mouth breathers are drawing to this. They can’t even do “cancel culture” right.
I will be buying more Chapman's ice cream from now on
Their ice cream just started to taste even better. All their products are peanut free too!
When a couple of Ontario-based websites popped up that listed all of the ~~anti-vax~~ freedom companies out there, what did I do?  I looked it over, and didn't shop at those businesses.  I didn't phone up owner's dads, send nastygrams, or mail bags of poop to employees just because I disagreed with their corporate policies.  
This behaviour is idiotic and plain childish.
I've been a Chapman's lover for as long as I can remember. I will proudly carry on enjoying their products.
Who is putting this out there. There is no backlash against this amazing company. I will continue to buy their products. And they were correct in their vaccine roll out.
No sugar added lactose free Maple Walnut is the bomb.  And I never would have known if not for this pants-on-head boycott.  So, thanks to qanon nutbars.
Is it really a boycott if a small % of the population, who likely never purchased your product, whines about it?
If anything, this might help the company with press. 
"Yes, I will continue to not win the lottery!"
I’ll happily buy more delicious Chapmans ice cream. Stupid hillbilly anti-vaxxers.  The world is so tired of these cry babies.
Sigh...I don't even like chapman's but I'll give them business for putting people's health and safety first.
Fyck the idiots. I love Chapman's ice cream
More Chapman's ice cream it is!!
Will have to buy some Chapman's tomorrow
My god! They stand to lose dozens of sales! Dozens!
Wow I have always loved the ice cream, but this makes me really proud to eat it, also just found out about the fire story so I'm pretty hard for Chapman's right now.  Gonna be shitting my brains out I'm so proud to eat this ice cream.
Sigh sigh sigh 
This is absolutely the truth. As a big time Horgan fan at least during his 1st term it sort of disappoints me but it should be expected.
BC is a resource rich province and it is the immovable agenda of the corporate class to extract and destroy those resources to sustain out of control overproduction.
At least Horgan has done some nice policy changes and worked towards decriminalization, definitely a step up from triad Christy Clark, but it’s hard to give a shit about any good fears of the Horgan NDP when they are simply unable and unwilling to prevent the ecocide of  British Columbia.
The disasters, Lytton, show that BC is vulnerable to climate change and Horgan response to them has shown the BC NDP is against climate action and pro-destruction. 
For what? Probably “the economy” but reality is if Horgan woke up tomorrow with new drive to fix these things BCs own business sector would destroy our economy, credit rating, and anything else to stop the change.
Really putting the "democratic" in the so called "new democratic party"
Horgan’s shown his true colours the past twenty months. I am appalled by how greedy and unethical he & his government have been.
NDP campaign from the left and govern from the right. Not surprised.
Horgan has been lucky to avoid the debate on forestry and natural gas in this province. Unfortunately his chickens are coming home to roost because his brand doesn't necessarily want either of those things. 
But I think we all need to remind ourselves who really got us into this mess with this natural gas pipeline. It really all starts with the previous Liberal government and their efforts forcing Site C though. We've been forced to find an industrial customer for BC Hydro and without that you don't have this huge push for Coastal Gaslink.
Apparently that's the BC NDP philosophy - I'd wait to pass judgement on the federal NDP though.
All BC political parties are one shift closer to the right than what their party names indicate.
BC liberals are conservatives. BC NDP are liberals.
Hello from BC.
We can just expect more frequent and more intense natural disasters now -- this is the new reality thanks to poor climate leadership around the world.
My heart goes out to all of you
We did it first
The guy in the pick up truck from Doyle was damned lucky, glad he’s ok.
[Map of closures here](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/FE-Rl6zXEAAY6v6?format=jpg&name=medium) (as of 1:00 PM)
[Bite in road here](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/FE833nWWQAErmLL?format=jpg&name=medium)
We'll need to spend some of the money we plan to use on climate change on mitigation.
Kinda have a Loki from Thor Ragnorok moment. Know you know how it feels! But seriously this has been crazy. Here on Vancouver Island and feels like the first mad max some days lol.
why is nature trying to kill us
Hello from the other siiiiiiddee~
Yeah, we have parts of Newfoundland and NS getting washed away too. At least it's smaller scale, fewer affected, but always terrible.
This happens in Newfoundland whenever there is a hurricane. There is only 1 road across the entire island.
We kinda started it
Because we killed nature with fossil fuel emissions.
That got an audible chuckle from over here in BC.
Dito
we realllly need to stop posting paywall sites, kinda forces users to rely on the headlines. Which have a tendency for being sensationalized.
Just stay out of this conflict the weapons we give to the Ukraine just end up In the hands of Ukrainian neo Nazi's anyways way get involved.
The last thing we need is another war. Just stay away from it.
Ah yes, let's just stand by and watch as a dictator with visions of empire conquers a democratic nation that we are actively supporting.
We wouldn't be directly involved in conflict, military aid refers either to funds or to selling them weapons and vehicles.
War is a severely undesirable outcome, but this is a case of a hostile dictator state--one which has been waging digital warfare against Canada and the U.S. though election tampering, and stoking/manufacturing alt-right militancy via social media--potentially preparing to invade an ally state which has already had part of its territory annexed by said hostile state. This is not unrelated to us. Everything Russia does plays into its goals of eroding western geopolitical power. Action to prevent further Russian hostilities in Ukraine must be taken.
I would even argue that more action than aid should be taken; NATO forces should be deployed to the area in sufficient numbers to dissuade Russia from invading, because Russia does not want to start a war with NATO. They will not intentionally engage NATO troops. Of course, this doesn't stop exisiting russian-backed militants in Crimea from continuing/expanding their insurgency, but it substantially limits Russia's options to waging their conflict by proxy, where the achievement of meaningful objectives will be difficult for them.
Oh boy if this works I LOVE the precedent this sets. This is bad ass.
This is the way. This might be the only way.
That’s some justice league style shit and I am
H E R E
F O R
I T
o7 Full steam ahead!
This is a very important intative
Good, I hope they're prepared for a very dirty fight.
> Ontario Superior Court (to) determine whether the conduct of the Government of Ontario in relation to climate change has violated the Charter of Rights and Freedoms of Ontarians.
Your Honour, I used to sweat a lot less when Kathleen Wynne was Premier.
Might as well start fight now .... because young people today will spend their entire lives fighting for every part of their lives from now on.
Signed with a capital "S". Love to see young people taking a stand against this government BS.
This is awesome. Signed!
Signed.
Hope it works.
Are people outside Ontario permitted to sign this?
There's been a couple of these haven't there? Any go anywhere yet?
This will go nowhere.  The best option is to kick out the Cons and stop voting the rat bastards back in.
All those have been imagined for a long time to be dependent on an oil based economy so that will likely be a tough sell
I'd love to put my name on that document, but the information provided is shallow and doesn't actually detail any aspects of the charter of rights being infringed upon. If they want more support, they need to be able to properly represent their claims to the public.
The Ford government passed a new law called the Crown Liability and Proceeds Act, 2019 which effectively makes it almost impossible to successfully sue the government on issues like this.  They claimed that the new law codified changes to the law since the 1963 Proceedings Against the Crown Act, but many commentators have suggested that the new law is pretty overreaching.
None of this has been really tested in the Courts, particularly the higher Courts (Court of Appeal or SCC).
My guess is this is not going to go too far.
They have my support!
Toss housing affordability in that lawsuit too, and you can wrangle a couple of million young Canadians along.
One of the core mandates of the CTA is to "provide consumer protection for air passengers."
This is the most weak-ass, toothless decision they have ever arrived at.  
Go do your fucking jobs, CTA.  You've failed Canadians again.
Ooh this is an easy one
If you support conversion therapy you are a giant pile of shit
Hopefully
Wait this is currently legal in Canada?!?!?!?
Not clicking. 
Adults should be next, yes. Plenty of harmful “therapeutic” practices are not legal— for good reason.
Probably not. 'Freedoms' or whatever. But it should be. It is a fact that it is harmful with no objective benefits, besides trying to fit in with a bigoted community.
Shit article
And you want queer people dead!
We don't allow people to perform other dangerous medical quackery, why should this be any different?
How can you be embarrased when you have no shame?
Fucking EMBARASSING *kicks garbage can
This is why I like Signh.  He's right.
Conservatives should be embarrassed about a lot of things. Like opposing human rights, their racism, sexism, ableism, classism, homophobia, transphobia, their climate crisis denialism, and enabling fascism, too.
It would be better for everyone if there were no conservative political parties.
I mean I'm a teacher and thankfully the school district I work in has a staff vaccination policy. But if teachers need to be vaccinated you'd think that MP's who would need to do a lot of flying and mixing with people from all over Canada would also need to be vaccinated. I never thought the cons existed in reality but this takes the cake.
Sure, it's a bad look.  But when you are pro-AGW, anti-science, pro-Trump, anti-mask, pro-O&G, anti-immigration, pro-corruption, and look to *churches* for your financial and moral support, we're really talking about a minor issue with just the vaccines.
Since Trump made it OK to abandon the filtering of your frontal cortex, and fully embrace any knee-jerk emotional reaction, prejudice and ignorant idea that forms in their pea-brains, the right-wingers seems to have no ability to feel shame, nor see themselves in context of the rest of the world. (Imagine a narcissist doing that, hey?)
It's OK to be a racist, a fascist, a discriminator and a bigot. It's OK to support the wealthy getting welathier and the poor getting poorer. It's OK to destroy the environment and leave no future for our children. And most of all, it's OK to be Stoopid and be proud of it.
Then he needs to support the liberal bill to tighten the rules
TBH being a conservative should, in itself, be embarassing.
Yeah, call them out!
O'Toole wouldn't even answer how many of his MP's are vaxxed and instead tried to hide behind privacy. Like, just say some or most, 20%-80%. How is that violating anyones privacy? Fucking pro-covidiot. 
Also, said to give money to the hospitality/restaurant sector that pays below minimum wage and cut covid support for people. The 'poor' business owners who take advantage of people's labour can go fuck right off out of business.
Singh should be embarrassed for pushing childish ideals without the intellect to provide means of achieving said ideals without undercutting canadian socio-polotical standards, (standards responsible for the entirety of his success and existence, like all canadians) even more shamefully sabotage future generations to far more financial ruin and less freedoms than their predecessors.
Does anyone else feel like this guy would have won the election if he would not wear that turban?
He also said that it’s embarrassing that people question their official narrative. Thea right fellow Canadians, don’t ask questions and do as your fucking told.
I agree. I just can't take this dude seriously after his vote NDP crying in the shower tik toks. holy cringe
&#x200B;
Oh the downvotes. Forgot where I was for a second. You guys should cry about it in the shower then.
As a New Democrat, I'm embarrassed to have this guy leading the party. Complete lack of understanding of what people are going through, indeed. What the hell do the floods have to do with vaccines?
I don't care what other people think about what I say so I'll say what a million other people are thinking (but won't say.. because they DO care what other people think.. about what they say).....
No one cares what you or any other $5000 suit and Rolex wearing "MAN OF THE PEOPLE" douchebag has to say.
You blatantly pander to those who give you what you crave.
You shamelessly virtue signal to appease the same crowd.
And you've all but said the actual words (blackmail and extortion) to the liberal party in response to them trying to make their (yet again) minority government functional.
What a terrible way to spend your time on earth.
You must feel so empty when the day is over... the cameras are all gone... and it's just you alone with the no-bullshit truth.
You need a mind bigger then a lizard brain to comprehend shame...
> should be
No one is surprised why they aren’t embarrassed, but they absolutely should be, he’s right. I can’t believe this is happening.
Omg this is exactly what I was going to write… word for word. Not only that their followers will gladly go along with it. It’s a sickness
The irony is, I think suzuki was trying to warn people of the *Potential* of violence occuring - not incitement. But UCP, with their mental problems jumped straight to inciting. Its linked to paranoid delusional...interpreting a warning as incitement.
They didn't misinterpret what Suzuki said, they're using his words as ammunition so they can get their way. If one were to dig deep one would see how evil and satanic these people are
Kenney will be lucky to be premier next week. Albertans hate his guts (dude’s got a -80% approval rating) and his caucus is revolting.  He’s just trying to do anything to delay the inevitable, and if that means attacking someone who is smarter, more accomplished, more respected and more liked than him then he has no qualms about that. It’s a sad sight to see, but if he thinks this will turn things around he’s delusional.
That is how I took his words as well. And it's just a fact. People will feel like they have no choice but to take matters into their own hands. And they'll be correct. That's not incitement, it's a plea for governments to do something.
Well the higher ups in the Alberta legislature seem to be constantly drunk, so I suppose such a bad misinterpretation makes sense.
It's hard to see David Suzuki doing otherwise.
If that's the case, you still have to admit he worded it very poorly. It really comes across with a strong "gee, nice pipeline you got there, it'd be a shame if something happened to it" vibe.
I think you have to be a particulary obtuse Suzuki hater to interpret this as incitement.
Its not too hard to imagine that eventually all these drought-stricken, fire-stricken, flood-stricken people will turn their gaze to those that are responsible for climate change - the biggest contributors to co2. The climate attribution models are already turning the gaze the right way: 
'Successful lawsuits due to weather attribution models'
https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-021-02424-7
Its simply a matter of time. Look at the chart in that article.
Well i mean you had an albertan blow up pipelines crossing his field in the past. So why can't others take pointers. Just saying.
They’re not. The people most affected live in solid conservative ridings.
If people are entertaining thoughts of blowing up pipelines it will be some climate activist living in metro Vancouver.
Blowing up pipelines would just mean more crap in the water we drink. The climate is already making for oil leaks all along existing pipelines nevermind building more toxic infrastructure in a flood zone near a river. Whose stoopid idea was that, anyways? 
8. Major pipelines currently being built and airports projected to be under water under low carbon scenarios:
https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-019-12808-z#change-history
But i digress
But did someone triple-dog-dare him to? Cause if not this whole things gonna fall apart!
Why did they choose 50% I wonder?
They voted in favour of this at the AGM, does that mean that union members were voting or is it the reps that vote?
What kind of decisions do they make using this voting system?
[removed]
Here comes the national Post with their shit takes on whatever social issue.
[removed]
The “G” in AGM means that the meeting was open for General participation of the membership. 
Attend your union meetings, folks. It’s where the democratic business of your union happens.
It does say it had the support of 68% of delegates though so that makes me wonder whether it was a member vote.
Either way, I feel like there has to be some information missing from this article to explain where this idea came from and what problem it’s trying to solve. Has the union put out any kind of statement about this besides these slides?
I’m all for improving diversity and representation but this seems like such a simplistic and controversial way to go about things.
Well, it was a single individual local in Halton, not the whole provincial union. I don’t know any union that requires delegates for local general meetings.
The National Post’s headline here is extremely misleading, and they’re intentionally trying to spin it as a provincial thing, when really it’s only a single local bargaining unit. There are hundreds of units in the province.
Edit: I’m not sure why my response is controversial. I haven’t stated an opinion on the actual vote. I just don’t think that anyone should have to scroll down to the third paragraph to find out that it’s just a single local out of hundreds in the province.
God damn the boot licking neoliberals are out in force today. Jesus fucking christ, depressing.
Yup. RCMP are still a bunch of jackbooting racist quasi totalitarian pricks. What they were founded to do! We need reform in policing in Canada!
[**Let the boot licking begin...**](https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=KiLdke50FOM)
Yikes this sub.
Used to be a place where legitimate discussion could happen. Definitely more of an echo chamber than the obvious right wing equivalents now. Gross.
Honestly, reflect for a bit.
Struggling to see the issue people have with this arrest. Seems pretty well executed to me. As far as I can tell, nobody in danger and nobody hurt.
The RCMP have the authority to arrest people. If you're found not guilty of the charges brought against you, you're set free. If you believe the RCMP broke the law you seek damages in court.
[removed]
While i applaud your attempt to bring note to the situation none of the people were attacked.  They were arrested.  This has been going on for years now.  One side blockades the other makes arrests.  Leave the dramatics for when the violence actually happens.  Otherwise it just draws criticism.
I also get the funny feeling that alot of these "THIS IS LEGAL, NOTHING WRONG HAPPENING HERE TYPES" will also go off on the horrors of stalinism and the state imposed violence, moving people out of their homes and reassigning their lands to collective farms. 🙄
Expand, what legitimate discussion could be had here? Supporting the actions of these officers is *a* take, for sure, but I don't know what you'd say about it. "They were totally right to steal that chainsaw and start carving apart a shelter with people inside, and having their guns trained on the unarmed occupants was totally valid and safe"?
> As far as I can tell, nobody in danger 
Breaking down a door with a stolen axe/chainsaw while training guns on the people inside is *absolutely* putting people in danger.
>If you believe the RCMP broke the law you seek damages in court.
I don't know if you're being intentionally naive or just uninformed here.
> As far as I can tell, nobody in danger and nobody hurt.
On site? Because when they [arrested two trans women](https://twitter.com/Gidimten/status/1463292963891531779), they sent them to a men's side of prison and have completely denied them access to their medication. That's absolutely dangerous.
If the bar is set to not killing or hurting women and children..... Do you not see an issue with that rationalization?
The stole axes and a chainsaw found at the camp to cause damage to private dwellings. Go find a new place to lick boots.
The video depicts the RCMP breaking down the door to a dwelling with an axe. That is an attack by most standards, mine included.
Shut up already with your boot licking.
It's interesting to see someone make the connection that the "other side" wholly owns the RCMP and not be horrofied by it.
" BuT NoT ALl tHe ChIeFs ARe aGaInST ThE PiPElInE!" 
Yet somehow I feel like they also shit on conspiracy theorists who say "not all scientists agree about man made climate change"
Fucking hypocrites, you just want to look the other way and talk about how great canada is while the military industrial resource extraction complex rapes and pillages freely. Disgusting, and you should feel ashamed of yourselves (but obviously lack the self awareness.)
[removed]
[removed]
This, entirely. I genuinely don't understand if people would have no reaction reading a headline like "RCMP go to Detroit and chainsaw open a resident's house because while in Canada he ignored the ruling of a private injunction."
That would be insane, especially because you're going to what is essentially a neighbouring nation and just imposing violence in their environment that they could not reasonably stop. "Well I didn't see anyone bleeding so there's nothing wrong here and this has actually been happening forever" is just an intellectually stunted way of avoiding the ethics of world powers using violence and intimidation simply because they know no one can stop them.
Far from financially bankrupt, she means.
In terms of moral bankruptcy though, the Catholic Church is second to none.
Oh no  ... not criticism. 
That will get them.
They are morally bankrupt though.
Perhaps taxation on properties and income will. 
Churches have proven they need to be taxed as corporations on all income and assets.
Capitalists use big words like "externalities" to explain this away
I'd like to see the RCMP punished for violating the freedom of press. The media blackout that was imposed is unlawful and those responsible need to be held accountable. I'd also like to see the Government of BC be held accountable.
When people speak of humanity and of being humane. I immediately imagine the worst possible outcome. With the maximum amount of suffering.
Horigan and the BC government's form of RECONCILLIATION, and Justin's also his silence indicates approval.
When the pipeline line company breaks the Environmental rules that's ok the government does nothing but if indigenous people don't want there land stolen and Watters poisoned the government brings the RCMP in to point guns at people.
We can see who the government workers for
I'm just glad all the pipeline protesters have stopped using fossil fuel burning vehicles, stay at fossil free only accommodations, eat at fossil free restaurants,  only use fossil free generated electricity. Leading by example is the only way to encourage people to stop using fossil fuels.
When this happens, I too will shut the natural gas off to my abode. 
 Until that happens, violence during protests, endangering life's during protests, inflicting injuries,  damaging property during protests, lttering, jaywalking resisting arrest etc etc are all crimes. 
Reporters, by-standers and anyone else that impedes a peace officers performance of their duties  can also be arrested and charged with a crime or simply  be arrested and thrown in jail for 20 years. (Just checking if you are still reading)
As far as companies and violations, isn't that what we have courts of law for. If there is evidence a violation has occurred , report the violation to the proper authorities.  Trying to justify one wrong with another wrong still doesn't make it right.  Keep Safe
hm
In my experience capitalists avoid this term, it's almost always brought up in a critique of capitalism.
"We need a carbon tax because capitalism doesn't address externalities of burning carbon." etc
The leaking of methane or creation of a tailing pond aren't external at all. They are inherent to the current extraction systems and polluters should be held to account.
Especially because we know these pipelines get built through the poorest communities in their potential path
Starting to really piss me off how Trudeau and Blair haven't had a damn thing to say on the subject, and apparently no one is even bothering to ask the federal public safety minister, who's directly responsible for the RCMP, why the RCMP is just doing whatever the fuck they want
Province has a lot to answer for as well, but ultimately the buck stops with Bill Blair and Trudeau.
Two peas in a pod.
[Curious! ](https://i.kym-cdn.com/photos/images/original/001/259/257/342.png)
Fun fact: Jaywalking is not in the Criminal Code and is not considered a criminal offence in Canada. No law on jaywalking exists at the federal level, although several provinces and territories in Canada, as well as municipalities, have enacted regulations and/or by-laws that restrict when a pedestrian may cross a roadway.\[64\] Most of these provincial regulations and municipal by-laws do not use the term jaywalking to describe when a pedestrian unlawfully crosses a roadway. In Manitoba for example; you can jaywalk freely as long as you do not endanger anyone including yourself. According to Section 88 of the Manitoba Highway Traffic Act, no pedestrian can leave the curb when it is deemed unsafe. This can mean anything from leaving the curb when the red hand is flashing to crossing an intersection on a red light.
Another fun fact: Your post is full of flaming liquid refuse. Our infrastructure is built on fossil fuels. One cannot simply stop using it without a large reform and alternatives. This is on the government to introduce, not on the individual. Unless you are insinuating that every pipeline protestor return to the earth and live in the bush and off grid? We have started introducing EVs and Solar power, but we are a long ways away still.
>Reporters, by-standers and anyone else that impedes a peace officers performance of their duties can also be arrested and charged with a crime or simply be arrested and thrown in jail for 20 years. (Just checking if you are still reading)
Canada. Section 2(b) of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms states that everyone has "the freedom of thought, belief, opinion and expression, including freedom of the press and other media of communication
I believe you are living in a fantasy world or perhaps some fascist dreamland that may have once existed or perhaps in another dimension/universe where freedom simply does not exist. Perhaps everyone eats and drinks fossil fuels and lives in huts made of oil and gas in your timeline? I'd love to study your anatomy if that is the case because once our water is tainted, our trees cut down and our farms and land eradicated from climate change we will definitely need that ability. I mean we can always live underground, off-world or in domes though! So that is a plus.
Edit: I see you have a brand new account as well, welcome to reddit.
Yeah externalities is literally a term to describe the impacts to anyone or thing outside of a market transaction or a good being used.
The externalities of buy gas is that your going to burn it and increase emissions which harms out environment so its a negative externality.
Corporations under paying there workers creates negative externalities with increased poverty rates, people falling behind on bills and not being able to pay them off, needing more government assistance.
Like it's all used to put market actions into other terms which is great for critiquing capitalism.
Lmao this guy doesn't think we should be able to work towards changes in society unless we go 100% all-in, but has a snoo avatar that suggests he's using a video game retailer's shares in a cult-like fervor to take down an unsatisfying economic system. But they're taking down the economic system by participating in that same economic system. Hypocrisy! He should be able to take down the global economic status quo *without* contributing to it by buying shares in the corrupt stock market!
Nice response,  Jaywalking, yes you can be arrested for Jaywalking in Canada. No your point is well taken. Not sure what a shoo avatar? 
Different points are always welcome in my world, saying one thing while doing another, well that is just two faced.  Mud Huts, half the world population live in Mud Huts.  Sounds like you are a want to be environmentally friendly person. To quote Mrs Brown, "That's Nice".
I doubt anyone would be arrested by jaywalking. You'd likely be fined, same with littering. It would be a fascist state to send someone to jail over littering or jaywalking. 
And you had a blanketed statement saying that jaywalking is a crime in Canada. It is not, as I previously mentioned. Some Cities and Provinces have enacted regulations and/or by-laws that restrict when a pedestrian may cross a roadway.
I never said mud huts, I said huts made of oil and gas, which in this dimension/universe is likely not physically possible. 
I'd love to be environmentally friendly and agree that we need to phase out oil and gas. I'd own an electric vehicle too if I could afford to, but in my province there are no rebates and it is simply out of my price range. That is a fault to the Province I am in. The Feds have a great rebate, but other provinces offer their own rebate alongside the Federal one. I don't even own a vehicle right now because my rent is too high. It's tough being a single person of the working middle class in Canada. I'll likely need to get another job on top of the fulltime 40-hr one I currently have or downsize to a tiny bachelor apartment to afford anything.
It should not be hard to hire based on diversity and still get a qualified candidate. If he is truly open to hiring based on merit he should still be able to within diversity practices.
If his lab is all white except him or all people from his culture then he is probably not hiring on merit alone.
The is anecdotal but the majority of people  I know who talk about merit hiring have almost all come from privilege and have had help in some form getting where they are.
Him saying diversity practices hinders getting the best candidate is not definitely true. Also the best fit on paper may not actually be the best fit since having a different perspective on how to approach things may be helpful. If the entire staff is male they may miss out on insight into variables they had not taken into account.
Sally Ride the astronaut was asked if 100 Tampons for a week in space would be enough.
 If the mission planning team had more/any women they would have known that 100 tampons is way overkill for a week where she may not even be on her period.
What was with the drive-by on Dr. Lana Ray's research in the middle? It's not relevant *at all* \- it's meant to stand in for an argument that some research that is interested in diversity/anticolonialism and science is inherently nonsense...but the article doesn't actually make that argument, it just assumes that you'll agree that talking about Indigenous knowledge and cancer in the same breath is an oxymoron.
Whatever you think of the politics, it's a shame that we're letting it get in the way of research.  We should be funding the best research.  Otherwise, why spend money on research at all?
Hope he finds his money elsewhere. Ridiculous he was denied for something like that. Evidence based policy!
This was the DEI portion of his application:
> The academic team consists of the PK group. Our group is highly diverse, being populated by men and women from many countries and religions and cultures. Our group is also highly diverse in terms of intellectual background and research areas of expertise. Our group has a long history of inclusion of women into ultrafast laser science, which has some of the lowest populations of women in STEM. The corporate partners are also highly diverse, spanning several countries of origin with a number of women in STEM in key roles for Photon Etc and few-cycle. We will recruit a diverse array of students and HQP during the course of this project. We will hire the most qualified people based upon their skills and mutual interests, with outreach activities to help. We will advertise in Women in STEM organizations. We will recruit via word of mount, noting my recent female PhD is now on a tenure track position in Physics in Germany. She is now one of the leading young women in physics in the globe, who was trained and mentored in my system.
https://twitter.com/DorianAbbot/status/1461447368491028482
Shut up NatPo.
He lost to a researcher who got 1.2M grant to explore why cancer is caused by colonialism. His research positions haven't been filled yet, but in the application he indicated that he would use the grant to hire anyone who was mutually interested in the subject and had the merited qualifications to contribute. I.E he didn't promise to reserve positions for people of specific various minority ethnicities regardless of ability. And you're correct, hiring off of merit would have likely created a diverse group of researchers anyway, but we'll never know because the federal commission refuses to let him do so without mandating special interest toward minorities.
>It should not be hard to hire based on diversity 
Right her. In your first words. It absolutely \*is\* hard to hire in higly specialized field like this.  
Diversity hires is very importants, because most jobs tend to be given by 'I got a buddy of mine'. I know \*all\* my jobs I ever have were like that. Good jobs too!  
But in fields like this, you must go by actual capability. He unfortunately uses the word 'merit'. It's a poor choice of word i'd say.
That level of ignorance goes beyond not having more women on the mission planning team. That's almost self-parody. One step away from not knowing what tampons are used for. "Ugh, I don't know, female stuff?"
> If his lab is all white except him or all people from his culture then he is probably not hiring on merit alone.
http://www.kambhampati-group.mcgill.ca/people.html
I leave to decide how to interpret this, though we can't realistically know whether this group is more or less diverse than the population of people that he had to choose from just by looking at this one web page.
>“We need to stop framing prevalent risk factors of cancer as such and start thinking about them as symptoms of colonialism,” Dr. Ray said.
>“When we do this, we also begin to think of cancer as a symptom of colonialism, which allows for expanded approaches to primary and secondary cancer prevention.”
Do you really think someone who thinks cancer is a symptom of colonialism is doing good work?
To me it seems like pure grift. Two bad things. Cancer and Colonialism. Let's find the link between the two.
Oh wow! The government letter sound f’cked up! Thanks for the link!
Why? Because the truth goes against your narrative?
That's not what the article said - the other grant was UNRELATED to this one. It was added as racist bait, which you bit. Also, the other grant was exploring whether or not indigenous medicine had any beneficial effect on cancer. Which is a reasonable thing to study considering this is Canada.
And here's the most important thing - this professor is lying about his actions here. Granting bodies in Canada (let's assume it's NSERC) don't mandate that you hire based on diversity concerns, they only ask that you place it as a FACTOR in your consideration. 
The professor could easily have marked "YES", then simply hired whomever he wanted to hire. But he wanted to make a point, so he marked "NO" on this formulaic thing. He made sure these grants got rejected because he wanted to make a point. 
And here we are listening to him.
Is that really where our grant is going?  Jesus
There are probably many researchers who would help hit diversity quotas (Women, POC and Queer) that would also be capable. This guy is doing cancer research I am sure there are top candidates of all race, gender and orientation in the medical cancer research field.
If he was researching something more niche like fluid dynamics on another planet or certain astrophysical subjects maybe the pool would be smaller but this is cancer research. Not including covid, currently it is easily in the the most funded medical research topic.
Reminiscent of a certain "all female bridge"
I think that neither of us know as much about it as the researcher who designed the project and wrote the grant, or the ~~scientists~~ health research experts at ~~NSERC~~ CIHR who read the proposal and gave her $1.2 million.
If we think about risk factors for cancer including environmental factors, including ones that influence epigenetic predispositions for cancer, and if we acknowledge that those environmental factors include those which are generated and supported by colonial capitalist institutions, industries, and governments - then why *wouldn't* cancer be connected to colonialism?
No, because NatPo is fucking toilet paper printed at the behest of American billionaires trying to push Canadian political dialogue ever further towards the far-right.
[deleted]
[deleted]
Play stupid games, win stupid prizes.
Don't resist then, if you just complied this wouldn't be happening you worthless muppet .
Bye Felicia.
Love it when the garbage takes itself out.
Oh is that the OPP’s mandate? I know the RCMP has a different idea of what their job entails.
Ottawa did it recently, no issues. Other, bigger branches have done it as well (very recently NYC). It's a good move and hasn't had any negative effect on the library at all.
As the article points out, fines disproportionately affect people of lower income and discourage the use of library systems among people who would most likely benefit from it. Late fees do not encourage people to return books on time, or even at all.
There's a book I'm in the hold queue for and there used to be only one loanable copy, and that was due in September 20*20*. I complained about it in early 2021 and they ordered two more copies… which became (over)due in May 2021 and July 2021.
Currently sitting at 2/14 holds, and still waiting.
WTF people?
Completely agree with all your points.  I used to be somewhat for the fees because I thought, at least the funding is returned to the library, but I learned the fees in my city (Winnipeg) just go to general city revenues.
Go buy the book. Read it. Donate it to the library.
It’s not a paradox it is a fuckin a reality. In Canada  we have the cleanest form of hydrocarbon energy in the world and we will be leading the energy revolution in tech that revolves around resources, reconciliation, and environmental protection. The truth is that we already are but our prime minister is a twat waffle. He is obsessed with chasing these values and but is ignorant as to involving the west to get their. He is trying to start hydrocarbon investment ( which is tied to clean energy) to import foreign petroleum products and get his ego penis blown on the world stage. Big tech isn’t about cleaning up the planet it’s about brilliant marketing design towards making huge sums of cash and they do that because everyone believes in the “idea/dream” that companies like Tesla help the environment. It’s fucking beyond frustrating for anyone in the resources sector. Unfortunately  most people don’t know, don’t care, or are you too dumb or lazy to educate themselves This country is a pocket pussy for the wealthy because we are too resources rich, politically split, and economically weak.
Be on guard for that and the downfall of the liberal government is the best for this nation.
RCMP need to be reigned the fuck in.
I'm relieved (/s) to know that the RCMP haven't forgot their original purpose, to oppress colonized Indigenous peoples.
Throwback to December 2019
[**Exclusive: Canada police prepared to shoot Indigenous activists, documents show | The Guardian**](https://www.theguardian.com/world/2019/dec/20/canada-indigenous-land-defenders-police-documents)
> Canadian police were prepared to shoot Indigenous land defenders blockading construction of a natural gas pipeline in northern British Columbia, according to documents seen by the Guardian.
> Notes from a strategy session for a militarized raid on ancestral lands of the Wet’suwet’en nation show that commanders of Canada’s national police force, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP), argued that “lethal overwatch is req’d” – a term for deploying an officer who is prepared to use lethal force.
> The RCMP commanders also instructed officers to **“use as much violence toward the gate as you want”** ahead of the operation to remove a roadblock which had been erected by Wet’suwet’en people to control access to their territories and stop construction of the proposed 670km (416-mile) Coastal GasLink pipeline (CGL).
This is an Intimidation tactic that the RCMP is using the RCMP is nothing but the paid thugs of the oil industry
This is such absolute bullshit. We need to shut these pigs down, this has all gone way to far.
That’s not a very nice thing to be ready to do to any human being. I wonder if the heat was aware of being in the sights of a warrior or twenty. Why do cops think they’re the top dogs?
The RCMP really out here unhinged like Lahey on the liquor. This is pretty fucked.
~~More Practiclable~~ More Fun to play soldier
Sounds like a recipe for another Ipperwash Crisis. The RCMP in BC are entirely off the reigns, both acting and looking more like missionaries than federal police.
For those who don't know. The Ipperwash Crisis was a standoff between Ontario Provincial Police and the Stoney Point Ojibway band who were reasserting their rights over land that had been expropriated under war rule during WWII. It led to premier Mike Harris calling for "the fucking Indians out of the park" and the pressure being applied led to unarmed Dudley George being killed by an OPP sniper.
https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ipperwash_Crisis
They have always done this to First Nations people. When ever you notice other people protesting you’ll see just regular cops maybe some in Tactical gear, but with First Nations you’ll see Militarized vehicles and more of a presence of their fire power to intimidate and oppress.
Our tax dollars at work, everyone.
*"Because killing Natives is too much fun!"*
This pisses me off so much.
yes blunt fascism usually is simpler than actually solving an issue democratically
Is this surprising to anyone? The exact same thing happened last time the RCMP went there. They had a sniper who was authorized to used lethal force.
Can’t believe we’re paying Pinkertons who want to play army to violently suppress Indigenous people.
Serious question because there's plenty of outrage against the RCMP: what do we do about it?
I don't believe the RCMP can (or should) be reformed. It needs to be abolished. What are some tangible things people can do to move our country in the right direction?
Not surprised, still disgusting
Because they hunt deer and feed themself? /s  How the hell is that justifiable?
Than being on the front lines of the flood and mudslide rescues?
Yes because automatic weapons are most effective against the unarmed women.
What a bunch of bitches the RCMP are, I cannot believe they garner any respect anywhere.
This guy's entire campaign was fueled  almost entirely by "attacking the other guy" and he wants to talk about division?
Get your entire caucus vaccinated before talking shit, Erin
Literally his own party is drowning in divisions over whether or not to believe facts or conspiracy theories.
Pretty much every Western nation on earth is doing worse than Canada in the division department. It would be far worse with Cons at the wheel.
You mean the shit your party started?
When does the Conservative caucus decide whether to keep or toss Erin O'Toole as leader?
I guess until then we'll just have to get used to him spouting off in an attempt to remain relevant.
A couple days ago I listened to Lisa Raitt say without pause that climate policies weren’t divisive or partisan  until 2015 including when Harper beat Dion in 2008.
I guess anything other than conservatives getting their way is divisive.
When your party has no plans to actually lead, all they can do is criticize the other parties.
No no Erin, once again, Canada is more than just the CPC.
It ok when his party is the one doing it.
the next guy won't be any better. and will likely be worse given the direction they're heading
My prediction is Pierre Poilievre. If I could only find a bookie that will take that bet.
I wonder if any of these companies got subsidies already :( 
Oil subsidies are getting out of hand 1/2 a trillion every year
https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-021-02847-2
Quick Google: $733 per month
I lived on $425 a month on welfare in the early 90s in Ontario. To think it's only come up a few bucks in 25+ years is pretty amazing. 
As well, $1169 for people with disabilities. Fuck you for being disabled, eh? Go suffer in the gutter until you stop being autistic.
It never fails to amaze me how easily people get baffled by bullshit non-answers like the one Fullarton gave.
Not the point of this post, but I love the fact that Karpoche is using library books as a stand in this picture. 
She's one of the few Ontario MPPs willing to speak, seriously and plainly, about some of the most pressing issues facing us.   
Raise the rates, Ontario!
Welfare in Canada is an archaic, outdated system that costs much more to run than it ever helps anyone.  Not even enough for rent for a single person.  Welfare is designed to keep poor people poor.
I’ll further that and ask why aren’t wages rising? Why is it not legislated that employers are required to keep wages in line with inflation. Required to pay not just a living wage but a thriving wage. Bare minimum is a living wage that rises at the rate of inflation annually. No family should have 2 parents working full time and struggle to make ends meet. Nothing left over to save for their kids, retirement, or even an unexpected expense. Shit is getting real bad.
Hey thanks for reposting this been looking for this video and talking about this to everyone i know. Everyone is being sold the 15$ narrative right now minimum wage for 2015 like a month from 2022. Need to see more politicians that understand that thanks to how accessible information is now its easy to tell when people are lying. Old politicians are in for a wake up call in the next decade when we have more people in government and less carpetbaggers. Thanks to this lady for being a badass.
I've been working since I was 16 at 38 myself,  I a Type 1, bipolar person with Cyclic Vomiting Syndrome and PTSD is put on ODSP, given pennies to sit on the sidelines and rot. The government of Ontario wants me to kill myself. If it wasn't for my wife, I would be fucking homeless or dead.
$497 for rent? I was paying nearly that much for a bedroom in a shitty storefront 15 years ago. And people I knew were jealous that my rent was so cheap (at least until they saw the state of my apartment). I cannot imagine there is *any* housing in Toronto, no matter how crowded or unlivable, that costs so little today. That people are expected to live off that is obscene.
As a recipient of such funds, all resources are tapped. My bills eat every dime and I have no more than a donated box of food to feed myself for a month.
Make every politician live a 6 month term below the poverty line at the end of every 5 years, watch how fast shit changes.
Blah blah blah. Can that constituent afford rent after all that? Yes or no? No. They probably still can't. 
Can we here from whoever the fuck is in charge of housing to explain what they are doing about the affordability of human existence?
I fucking hate politics. Generic answers with no specificity, no accountability, no cooperation, no visibility and no solutions that work.
Her answer boils down to "yeah we know it's fucked, waddya want us to do about it?"
Beyond frustrating
🔥🔥🔥
What’s the minimum wage in Ontario? Cause, even at 15$ you can’t afford rent.
Why have liberals in charge if they arent gonna raise the rates of social assistance.
Sounds like it's the perfect time to start working out some UBI legislation and making it happen. Stop wasting money on an inefficient, cruel system and start spending on one with a focus towards helping people.
How on earth do you think saying something like “we will continue to stay as committed as we are” is a good response to someone raising objections over how the current commitments just aren’t enough? Like?
I was on social assistance 10 years ago, and as a single person with no kids, they gave me $685 a month. The breakdown was $385 for rent, $200 for bills and food, and the rest for "spending money". My rent alone was $690. I told them that it wouldn't even cover my rent, let alone food and bills, and they just shrugged. 
You can't even get a room for $385 a month. I had to use my credit card to buy food until I was able to get a job. I wasn't able to pay my cable/internet/phone bill for 3 months, and dreaded every day that that was going to be the day they'd cut off my service.
And there are people out there who think that people on social assistance are just sitting around doing nothing and raking in the dough. It's laughable.
They gave $$ to the food banks! Had nothing to do with raising limits on social assistance 🤬
The classism of the conservatives and liberals is actually deadly.
We need a UBI.
Corporations should not be able to own housing.
Housing ownership should be limited to only citizens and PRs, and only to owner occupied housing. 
Landleeching is exploitative parasitism and should be criminalized.
Time to treat real estate as the monopoly industry it has always been and bring in strong sweeping regulations and nationalization.
I remember the good ol' days when investors built homes and created products instead of just scalping.
It's time to end preferencial tax rates for capital gains and have disincentive tax rates for passive incomes. Make people and capital productive again.
What do you wanna be when you grow up? "A dividend investor with several properties highly leveraged rental properties managed by somebody else."
Tax the hell out of second properties. Tax the *ever-living fuck* out of additional properties. Make it hilariously non-viable. Ban foreign home buyers like New Zealand's done.
This is me laughing and laughing at all the gas lighting assholes that tried to pretend that investors weren't that big a deal in the housing market and the "real problem" was the lack of new units.   
These assholes need to be driven out of the market.
This is fine. No bubble here. /s
Seize all investment properties, hand them over to a social housing crown corporation, and ban the purchase of housing for investment purposes. It's not hard to do. As Canadians, we need to come together and say enough is enough.
I've said it a thousand times and I will say it again:
#HOUSING IS A HUMAN RIGHT, SPECULATION AND INVESTMENT BY PRIVATE ENTITIES (INCLUDING FOREIGN ENTITIES) IN HOUSING DOMESTICALLY SHOULD BE ILLEGAL. RENT SHOULD BE CAPPED AT A MAXIMUM 18% OF THE TENANTS MONTHLY INCOME AFTER TAXES AND DEDUCTIONS ADMINISTERED BY THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT. PRIVATE LANDLORDING SHOULD BE OUTLAWED. THERE SHOULD BE A RETROACTIVE 5 YEAR MORATORIUM ON FLIPPING HOUSES FOR MORE THAN THE ORIGINAL PURCHASE PRICE, EXTENDING 15 YEARS INTO THE FUTURE.
Canadian voters: *Spend decades supporting policies that limit housing supply and turn it into a scarce asset for building value*
Big investors: *Start buying housing*
Canadians: *Shocked Pikachu face*
Until we ban corporate ownership of residential property and start charging an extra annual tax on properties held beyond the first (increasing % with each additional property) the problem won't be fixed. Until we actively dissuade housing as an investment, it will just become a bigger problem.
Can't stand the ones buying homes for this reason. Buy it because you need a place to live not because it's a personal business. Ruining the whole damn thing for everyone.
Ban foreign buyers and corporate ownership. Add exponentially increasing taxes on multiple homes.
One house on our street sold for $1.5 million.The new owner painted the front of the house a different colour now its being listed again at $1.65 million.6 weeks between sales.
The problem will never be addressed until we decommodify housing and put laws in place that forbid politicians seated from being landowners. It will never happen. We are slaves.
I'm barely able to afford rent right now in an urban area in Eastern Canada. Forget ever being able to buy a fucking house here, let alone Ontario or BC (places we desire to live). Fuck the old rich assholes who continue to let this happen
Someone needs to obtain & publish a list of empty units and we need a squatters revolution.
My old landlord from brampton is buying a new house.His third house. I moved to vaughan for work but i went back to collect my mail and found this out. Just kill me already.
There needs laws put in so nobody can own more than 1 home, or at the very least they have to be lived in.
There's a whole tv channel dedicated to this.
This. All I keep hearing is immigrants this, foreign buyers that. No, investment properties are the problem and always have been. This is what needs to be addressed.
Better give the RCMP more money for tactical gear so they can invade Wet'suwut'en Territory and attack land defenders.
This story keeps happening again and again. All I can say is 'increase genomic surveillance' which is hard to do when you stop testing at the border and elsewhere..https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-021-01285-4
Boy maybe we shouldn’t have backed up the patents on this and denied countries like India from making their own. This will continue to be a problem as COVID mutates and spreads cyclically. But a lot of profit was made and that’s what matters 🙄
Unregulated Capitalism at work folks. Food , clothing , shelter , complete healthcare and complete education must become Human Rights, globally , not just in Canada . The stresses and indignity of poverty are revealing themselves for all to witness. We need to change our goals for the betterment of all humanity.
For a country with such a low birth rate, you'd think Canada would take better care of it's future.
[258 Million kids around the world will never step foot in a classroom and with that 1-in-5 primary aged children in Sub-Saharan Africa don't attend school. It's well known that many children can't attend school, but we haven't done as much in the last few years that shifted our worldwide education. Helping anyone, anywhere will make a difference in the world's interest. So what can we do to help? Sign a petition, learn more about this education problem, educate others whether online or not. Create a better world with what we have.]
There are dipshits advocating for 100 million Canadians and we can't handle the ones we got.
I'm not one of those, but I am fully on board for anyone wanting to come here for a better life from where they were should be welcome.
More working age people contributing to taxes might actually help. Maybe the problem is the boomers?
Maybe the problem is unsustainability in the social, political and ecological sense.
r/Canada definitely leans heavily towards favouring the "right" as it were.
The National Post and Bloomberg doubly so.
I doubt this is a case of manufactured mass upvoting or anything like that. These topics are easy click-bait and high engagement topics for these news outlets. Articles like these validate struggles or difficulties for those who perceive themselves (or others they know) as having been "casualties" to diversity.
I will however say, as someone who actively dislikes both of these news outlets in terms of how they operate, where they sit on the political spectrum and how they engage in journalism, that the cases they cite are pretty valid points of criticism for policies of diversity and inclusion (in the case of the two articles). The immigration one also makes some valid points that I agree with but the tone of all of these articles is, of course, inflammatory.
Do Canadian's really feel this way when 60% of voters cast a ballot for a progressive party?
Obviously r/Canada is a poor representation of Canada at-large. Just as r/Alberta is not representative of Alberta, and I presume many of the other subs are in a similar state.
Just downvote all of the shitty people you come across and move on.
Garbage sub posts garbage , just the usual  filth from the same bunch of fascists and racists that run that sub.
Not approving of “racial voting” and racism in general seems like a pretty left leaning thing to do. (Ops third link). Same with carrying about the economy and it’s ability to support all the diverse people that currently live here.
Honestly thought this sub was more “right” until I read your comment lol.
Generally agreed, but I was wondering if there was some kind of coordinated manipulation/score boosting going on -- beyond social engineering and shitty people. It feels strange to see three of these at once in the top 25
Did 60% of voters vote for a progressive party? I must have missed that.
The third link is literally about racist voting they’re implementing in schools, so I can only imagine the type of person you are to be offended by it lol.
Between the NDP and liberal parties progressive parties made up 49% of the vote.
Are the liberals actually a progressive party, or are they simply not a regressive party?  Not advocating a position, but unsure if the policies they're enacting entirely qualify.
Oh I didn’t know the Liberals were a progressive party
Ehhhhh they are generally consider to be but it’s subjective. In comparison to the conservatives or block they are.
I agree they generally have been considered (especially in comparison) to be progressive, I'm just not sure they actually should be.  I know conservative parties would absolutely refuse to be labelled "regressive" despite the accuracy.
All this thanks to the heavy handed approach by the BC government,  the RCMP, and thier owners, the corporations paying them.
Stand strong in solidarity, we will protect ourselves and Mother Earth. Only we the people can stand up for ourselves in this trying time .
If you too would like to support the efforts of the land defenders:
[Become a donor](https://www.yintahaccess.com/becomeadonor)
[Take action](https://www.yintahaccess.com/take-action-1)
[Help fundraise](https://www.yintahaccess.com/fundraisingprotocol)
This should be an alarm to all.
We cannot allow drilling without prepayment of cleanup costs. Too often the taxpayer pays the cost.
"This is the first time in a very, very long time that many of our small businesses – who really quite frankly have been on the edge of insolvency and bankruptcy"
Both coasts are pretty much cut off from climate bombs, we just came back from COP26 and it’s business as usual.
Humans are really idiots despite being the smarter creatures on earth.
we are fucked
Don’t worry by 2025 we will only be on our 8th BOMB DOME ATMOSPHERIC CYCLONE RIVER this week.
'Exploits NAFTA provision' is a pretty fancy way to say uses free trade agreement as intended/written.
I’m sure they deserve each billion.
What else could it be used for?
Well it shouldn't be followed
Why not? NAFTA is an agreement. If one side doesn’t follow the Agreement, why can’t steps be taken to enforce it?
I don't feel that the agreement is legitimate nor is this agreement more important than the ability of a country to exercise its sovereignty.
If the USA feels it not in its best interests to build a pipeline During a climate emergency they shouldn't be fined for that. It's not the publics job to pay investors that are destroying the planet.
What's the point of any free trade agreement if nations can always claim sovereignty to block free trade they don't like?
If the US didn’t want NAFTA,  it should not have signed NAFTA. You can’t just sign a contract and then renege on it.
Building a pipeline has nothing to do with free trade
The contact doesn't say anything about building an oil pipeline
Yes it does. It’s part of transportation of goods, but what would a communist know.
Obviously it says enough about it for a claim to be filed.
This guy is a pro at moving the goal posts.
Well this is going to be an awkward conversation with our grandkids. “I know, I know, the summers filled with wildfire smoke and the torrential rainstorms and the droughts and the ocean filled with plastic is not so great, but for a brief period in time a guy with a high school diploma could make 150k per year!”
The statement says the company is also challenging the status of Hereditary Chief Woos’ daughter, Jocelyn Alec, as a Wet’suwet’en person. 
This seems to be an absurd stall tactic
The laws, approval process, consultations, all designed to protect corporate/industry interests. The whole process is corrupt.
Pipeline too lazy to doxx protesters: requests protesters doxx themselves
Maybe they can just follow them into a bathroom like they do with transgender children.
This must be a joke right? Fucking hell
Not unless they prove they're not paying the police.
As if defending land in your country is a native only activity
Expecting that reconciliation any day now, right Justin Trudeau?
I expected this to be the Beaverton...
Show us your papers, itll be easier knowing we are shooting purely indigenous later
Wow just wow
So they're admitting then, that if these people are indeed First Nations individuals, that CGL and the RCMP are violating their rights? I mean, claiming that rights aren't violated if they AREN'T, would be accepting that if they ARE, the RCMP and CGL have broken laws.
How about they prove that they aren’t destroying the environment first? We’ll wait…
Ah, yes, the republican method.
Stall tactic indeed, the goal likely being to keep the defenders tied up in court long enough to finish the contested portions. Counting on the sunk cost to keep a court case from going against them. Would be brilliant to see them lose and have to dig up and remediate the land
Every day I come to this sub and play "Beaverton or Not?"   
It's such a simple game... all you do is look at a headline, and guess "Beaverton or Not" before reading the link.
I am getting worse at it by the day....
The level of crazy increases by the minute.
You can find parasites in most places on earth.
It's no wonder pipelines usually get built where the poor live
Ok ignoring the obiviosly terrible nature of this story, for a moment.
Do you have any idea how much pipe is in the ground in North America?  I have a high pressure gas line less than 30ft from my back fence and I live in a solidly middle class neighborhood. 
Pipelines are way more common than people think they are.
> Liberal House Leader Mark Holland said his party believes some Conservative MPs have offered up medical exemptions and the Liberals want the rules to be tighter.
Good. Real medical exemptions are extremely rare.       
> Holland said a hybrid sitting would allow MPs who test positive or are waiting for tests after displaying symptoms to participate virtually.
Agreed. It should be an option when needed. Hopefully the NDP backs it.
Is it because the Conservatives have proven themselves to be reckless liars on the vaccine issue? I bet it's because the Conservatives have proven themselves to be reckless liars on this issue.   
Hey.... if Conservatives are willing to lie about something like vaccines, it sure makes you wonder what else they lie about....
> Agreed. It should be an option when needed. Hopefully the NDP backs it.
All parties should support it.  The NDP because it is just, the CPC because they have a large contingent who remain resistant to vaccination and so this policy would prevent them from temporarily losing power in the Commons due to an outbreak within their party....
The CPC and Bloc have already come out against it.
3.Misunderstandingthecharterofrightsandfreedoms-itis
🤣
Unable to wear a mask due to ‘foot in mouth’ disease.
Wow, crazy how all the medical exemptions are conservatives. What are the odds?
Low quality article for the Beaverton.  Normally they are bangers.  Just this one feels too forced and uhh not funny.  I’d normally love to bash the cons too.
And: 
2. Chronic fatigue caused by listening to Pierre Poilievre speak
Can confirm. Listening to him makes me sick too.
[removed]
Well, now is the time to make a joke about them and Reddit will provide feedback on the quality of your humour.
I agree. The title was top notch but that's pretty much it.
Rude…
edit…are you actually being rude? I am not sure, noticed your earlier comment…so confused…🤦🏻‍♀️
Barking up the wrong tree here.  The Evil 😈 Teletubbie is fixated on destroying public education, not improving it.  If you truly want better public institutions, vote for a party that actively pursues public institution excellence.  
And that ain’t the Republican backed conservatives.
Every other group has failed, they will too.
You know that vaccines protect your membership, right?
Considering PSAC can take years to get things done, I wouldn't be holding onto my seat if I were unvaccinated right now.
I think we're at the point where it's going to be hard for anyone to stand with the RCMP. They are militarized, federally funded goons fighting for private corporate interests.
And we should care why?
EDIT: To be completely clear, I care about the abuse of police power in service of corporate interests.  I just don't care about the opinion of a party that struggles to get 200 votes in the three ridings it contests every election.
**[[The Internationale intensifies]]**
I do too.
My girlfriends Father was training to be an RCMP about 20 of so years ago and he dropped out within 3 months because they train you to profile and abuse your authority. Just like the FBI they're all a bunch of bumbling morons.
Lmao I was at the legislature occupation in Victoria the day the fascists were supposed to show up against the indigenous youth. The organizers had no idea who the communist party members were and thought they were working WITH the fascists. So tasteless for them to release this and center themselves when they've done nothing to actively support indigenous issues.
Surprising to see the NDP come out against the RCMP like this.
Justin Trudeau probably begs to differ.
It's actually the BC NDP and Horgan that are to blame. The feds can only condemn the actions of the Province of BC in this case.
Obviously, if the tankies were in power they would not repress anybody through force like that, that never happened ever in the history of authoritarian leftism. To say otherwise is revisionist propaganda from the CIA.
I don't think we should be taking the ideology of starvation's opinion seriously on anything. This ideology runs over people with tanks, imprisons and kills journalists and civilian activists, oppressed religious groups brutally like the Falun Gong, regularly kidnaps children from Chinese families, the genocide of Uighurs and Tatars and other indigenous peoples in Communist countries, brutally oppressed any dissidents and has been responsible for some of the greatest atrocities in the 20th century and let's not get into the spy state bullshit communism created, bar only the 3rd Reich.
This is why noone supports communism in Canada. They struggle for 1 single seat.
Fuck Communism for trying to capitalize on the Wet'su'weten conflict to drum up supporters. Opportunistic pricks.
It's the BC Government that is to blame and their hired RCMP dogs.
TLDR: Blame BC Premier Horgan and Jagmeet Singh for not condemning and stripping Horgan of his NDP membership.
Source:
"Thank you for writing.   
I want to be very clear about this - the entire Wet'suwet'en Conflict is due to the actions of the provincial government of British Columbia, which is majority NDP.   
What is happening has nothing to do with the party I lead - the provincial, Manitoba Liberal Party, or with the Liberal Party of Canada. When this issue exploded not long ago, the Liberals had to step in to clean up the NDP’s mess.   
The RCMP in question do not work for the Federal Government. They work for local municipalities or the BC government.   
At issue is an LNG project that is entirely within the borders of BC as a province: it is up to BC whether all these permits happen or not. The Federal Government does not have jurisdiction.   
It is a project that has been promoted and supported by NDP Premier John Horgan and his party, as well as Jagmeet Singh, the Leader of the Federal NDP. It is the corporation and the BC government that have been seeking injunctions, not the federal government.   
As this article makes clear “ based on the comments from BC NDP politicians to land defenders occupying their offices, Premier Horgan, and later, Federal NDP leader Jagmeet Singh in the media, it appeared that the NDP had greenlit the police attack on the hereditary leadership of the Wet’suwet’en nation”  
https://www.thevolcano.org/2019/01/30/provincial-party-politics-and-the-invasion-of-wetsuweten-the-bc-ndps-special-role-in-the-settler-colonial-state/  
This article goes on to explain:   
“…in repressing Indigenous peoples’ resistance against incursions of resources extraction corporations, it has been the BC NDP that has excelled.  
The reason the BC NDP tends to be more fierce than the Liberals in their attacks on Indigenous people is that they can get away with it. The civil society groups that would oppose BC Liberal government assaults on Indigenous sovereignty tend to be silent, or slow to respond and quick to apologize for attacks waged or overseen by the BC NDP. Why? Because the NDP is intertwined with the leadership of civil society organizations. The NDP uses these organizations as “farm teams” to train and recruit their future organizers and politicians. Many activists and leaders of trade unions, civil liberties groups, environmental organizations, housing advocacy, feminist, and anti-racist service groups have gone on to become NDP big shots. Others who are still leaders of these civil society groups have personal histories and relationships with these NDP politicians.”  
The fact is that this is a problem that has been created and made worse by the BC NDP and they, along with Federal NDP politicians, are shifting the blame to the Liberals, who are not playing a role.   
If I can add two more quick points, which in my view are also key issues relating to living in a free and democratic society with the rule of law.   
A core principle of justice is that we must presume innocence until all the evidence is in and due process has been followed. You write in your letter that people are breaking the law, and that these actions are definitively unconstitutional. I cannot say that and be sure it is true.   
What you are saying may be accurate, but I am not going to jump to that conclusion. I have an obligation to withhold judgment until I can corroborate, either from multiple sources, or a an ironclad, trusted source that the law has been broken.   
Second, I have to address the question of what people are suggesting when it comes to the police, and politicians stepping in either to tell police what to do, or what not to do.   
There are huge numbers of checks and balances in our society to prevent politicians from barking orders at the police: it is wrong no matter who is in power. If you would not want a political opponent ordering police what to do, or what not to do, then it is wrong for everyone, including the politicians we agree with.    
I am not defending or justifying the actions of the RCMP, the BC government, or the courts: I am seeking to explain why it is that politicians must exercise extreme caution when it comes to challenging the courts and police actions, because it treads dangerously close to being an abuse of power, and we are not going to fix NDP abuses of power by having Liberal ones.   
I have, in the past, publicly condemned the militarized incursion by the RCMP. What is required is de-escalation and peacemaking.   
Dougald Lamont  
Député de Saint-Boniface / MLA St. Boniface"
He can beg all he wants, their actions prove differently
This  is OBVIOUSLY justins idea of RECONCILIATION.
Horgan is getting away with a lot because he is NDP, he gave CGL financial treats to keep this project alive, he isn’t just complicit he is the driver for this project.
I was wondering about this. I made a comment recently about the RCMP being a federal police force, but are they not controlled federally?
Are you saying each province has control over the RCMP in their province and it's not federally controlled?
What's the point of them being a federal force? How are they different than the OPP in Ontario, or other provincial police forces?
[deleted]
Wow I can't believe the BC communist have commited all those crimes!! Crazy!
>Fuck Communism for trying to capitalize on the Wet'su'weten conflict to drum up supporters. Opportunistic pricks.
A political party made a statement about an important event in the jurisdiction they seek to represent. Regardless of their ideology, that seems to be pretty normal for a political party.
"Opportunistic" could be a slogan for any Capitalist.
Sign me up for more communism, please
People talk about the bank of mom and dad like it's a new thing when really the majority of wealth is historically passed along genealogical lines.
Notice how much higher this figure for rich kids is than the average for all Canadians ($82K). I wonder what the average for poorer families is...
Nothing to see here, just rich people passing wealth down .....so that their children can get richer and control more wealth ...you know.....the way it has been done for a very very long time . We need to change our goals folks. This can be done through the lens of Human Rights
While not directly giving me cash, my parents allowing me to live at home has enabled me to build an investment portfolio well over $145k. I wonder if they're only counting gifted cash or if other privileges are included in this figure
I think that number could be a lot higher(easily double) than stated if you start including contribution to tuition and inheritance. Heritage is the number 1 determining factor of lifestyle in Ontario.
I’m curious about why they organized themselves as an corporation. Doesn’t that imply some type of profit motive to their actions? Wouldn’t a non-profit have been a better option if their ultimate goal was effecting positive change for Inuit people?
Please feel free to educate me.
Corporations are just organizational structures that have certain legal definitions. Cities and not-for-profits are also corporations as well.
Impatient?
Fuck them.  Our kids and grandkids will very shortly no longer have any option of debate or semantics or political games but will soon have to do everything they can to mitigate the damage.  And we should give a voice to those who say 99.9% of the scientific community are wrong because it snowed early this year?
And yet, one third of Canadians are dumb enough to vote for the climate crisis denialist CPC.
Additionally, another third of Canadians are dumb enough to vote for the LPC, who acknowledge that the climate crisis exists, but refuse to do anything meaningful about it, because it might affect their lifestyle in a few small ways, and they're petty and shallow and entitled and stupid and only slightly less racist and imperialist than the CPC.
We're fucked unless we abandon the right wing politics which created our problems.
As they should be.
I'm impatient with leaders that don't/ won't act, as they are the ones with power to change things.
**BREAKING NEWS** People watching their loved ones being killed by extreme weather events are increasingly less likely to be willing to listen to people denying the seriousness of the events which have caused the deaths of their loved ones.
This should bode well for the Conservatives.
They are not listening. ( Our political leaders)
This is the fuck around phase of ignoring the will of the Canadian people.
I don't want to see the find out part, it's going to be ugly, and then we'll all be even more sorry than usual!
My federal MP is from a party that voted to NOT recognize climate change. They also have a racist base.
We did not inherit the world from our ancestors, we are borrowing it from our kids and grandkids.
What flavour of denialism are we talking about, though? I think outright denial of anthropogenic climate change is somewhat uncommon (except in conservative circles), whereas "climate change is real, but \[is not a problem / is actually beneficial / will be solved with nonexistent technology / it's China's fault / Canada can't do anything\]" is still climate denial but "softer". I think a lot of people would not call "carbon dioxide is not a greenhouse gas / pollution, it's beneficial to plants which means the continued usage of fossil fuels will actually be good for food production" climate denial, even though it is. These same people don't realize that carbon dioxide also causes ocean acidification.  
>“Strong agreement” with covering climate change as a crisis reaches 66% among  
>  
>scientists and 76% among journalists but drops to 34% among all Canadians. British  
>  
>Columbians are more likely to believe that climate change should be covered as a crisis  
>  
>(41%) than residents of Quebec (37%), Atlantic Canada (36%), Alberta (also 36%), Ontario  
>  
>(30%) and Saskatchewan and Manitoba (25%).
66% of all Canadians are climate change deniers. We as a society will never do anything to reduce emissions and mitigate climate change. I think we will see conservative parties turn to ecofascism when the reality of climate immigration (it will not be a temporary migration) hits Canada, and I think the majority of Canadians will listen and vote for them.
Our government is the biggest climate change denier.
You mean like all of our useless politicians?
BC is being ravaged by climate change. The Prairies had such a poor growing season that they killed whole herds of cows rather than pay high feed prices. The Maritimes are over-fished and will be under water soon enough.
We the people need to do SOMETHING. I honestly don't know what we can do. Protests don't work. Voting doesn't work. But this is urgent and necessary.
 I don't know how future generations will view us if we just passively sit back and blame politicians and corporations while we change nothing and do nothing.
fuckin boomers man.
> Most Canadians believe it is time to stop the media – mainstream and social – from becoming a repository for the musings of the uninformed. 
Unfortunately this view is not shared by the billionaire owners of the media, and the fossil fuel industry billionaires who send them ad money. 
Nothing will change as long as we allow a financial aristocracy to rule over us.
This is why Suzuki talked about pipelines getting blown up. People will only tolerate government inaction and half measures for so long. When people's homes are getting wiped out and lives lost due to climate change, there's a level of desperation that comes into play that falls under "nothing to lose".
People will only get so desperate before they start acting in extreme ways (much like our climate). Climate change is on the forefront of so many minds because we are already suffering the severe consequences.
The quicker that governments realize how pissed off people are getting about the lack of appropriate action towards climate change, the better chance they will have of preventing another torches and pitchforks moment in our history.
We're watching new pipelines being approved and built, fossil fuel industry subsidies continue, corporate lobbying is a constant cancer, and there have been no major shifts in public policy as our world burns and/or drowns around us. Yeah, we're getting a teency bit impatient.
I simply no longer pay them any attention. I work with one of the largest consulting firms in the world, who in turn work with the world's largest corporations. Every single one of them is working on reducing climate change.
Climate deniers are irrelevant. They're read and seen everything and continue to deny and deny, and I now deny that they matter.
If you want to go to-to-toe with them, I respect that. I'm focused on my donations and advocacy and the deniers are denied my time.
Yeah, although its tradition to be nice and bask in the awkwardness in 30 years when everything is undeniably beyond fucked. I'm already aware they will just come up with new excuses.
It’s not just climate change deniers, it’s our government at every level. We know what we need to charge, hell we even HAVE the ability to make the changes but we won’t because “it’s too expensive!” Tell me how expensive it is when water shortages make Canada the number 1 target on the planet or when due to lack of pollinators our crop yields fall to historically low levels. It’s only going to get worse. If I could go back in time I’d redo my degree not in Environmental Science but in anything where I don’t have to spend half my days convincing people my field is real
Who in Canada actually doesnt believe in climate change ???
Like anyone who has lived more than 10 years has inevitably seen climate change first hand
That we allow big name climate deniers to remain at liberty is a damning indictment of Western democracy's inability to deal with threats to itself that weren't elected.
ACAB
I look forward to the day where the SIU finally releases their report:
"The FBI found that the father shot himself and his child, from approximately 50 feet away from where he was sitting. Case closed".
Holy fuck, we need to trash this shit and start over.
> SIU spokesperson Kristy Denette told CBC News Tuesday that the officers involved in the case "have not agreed to be interviewed."
Murderers don't want to do an interview? Guess we'll just keep more explicit murderer cops.
The police shot the child ...don't know what's taking so long here.
Well you see, they've got to figure out how to blame the father for it.
It always takes longer when there isn't a convenient nearby Person of Colour to blame the crime on.
Enter the Canadian Forces, the RCMP, Federal Politics the Provinces, most municipalities etc...
.... Yup...
The 80s/90s saw huge advances towards equality in the workplace in North America.
In the 00s this resulted in a general perception that equality or near-equality had been achieved, and that things were generally good now. A typical person probably felt like women were somewhere around the 95% equality level and that things would naturally even out over time, no more work to be done.
In the early 10s, a strong surge of online anti-feminist culture, backlash against straw feminists who "had nothing to do now that feminism had achieved its mission" and "only wanted to put men down". Alt-right pipeline on youtube is at it's strongest here. Gamergate happens. Shit like that.
In the late 10s it was starting to become clear that we were not nearly so close to equality as we thought. An online culture countering the recent flavour of anti-feminists rose up with things like the #metoo movement and lefttube, progressive responses to gamergate, etc. Celebrities "coming out" as having been abused, major corporations and artists being outed for enabling or committing harassment or rape. Police and military institutions being boys clubs. All that stuff.
In the 20s now I think we're seeing a response to this. This pessimism isn't so much an indicator that the workplace is getting worse as it is an indicator that our perception of it is getting worse. i.e. the illusion is gone and we realize there's a lot more to do. Hopefully this means moving on to the next step for feminism. (spoiler, the next step is dismantling the patriarchy)
>hospital protest ban
now this is a terrific idea. lets get it done
Unfortunately, corporations don’t listen until you squeeze their supply - one way or another . Maybe people will suffer, but are we not already at a boiling point ? They were protesting for better living wages among other things . Now we would not be allowed ? To protest ? I thought this was a democratic government?
We already have it for abortion clinics. If you disagree with provincial healthcare direction - protest the Provence. Not the healthcare workers. Not the patients dealing with awful health problems.
Anyone who has used their political power to support the CPC or the LPC have given their at least tacit approval to the fascism and continuing genocides in Canada. 
We need to abandon right wing politics. The only hope for any kind of future is a radical shift to the left.
The RCMP’s response was such BS. They claim that the journalists never identified themselves as journalists until after they were arrested. WE LITERALLY SAW the videos. People were identifying themselves as journalists before the RCMP rushed them like a bunch of goons. Pigs gon’ lie
Would it have made sense to send more and more reporters after this scandal? Like you took two of our own now there's 10 on site, gonna arrest us too? Make it harder for the RCMP to continue or repeat these actions, and defend their previous arrests?
Violations of press freedoms? That's the least they've done in the last little while
This is the Province of BC's doing. They have leased the RCMP to do their bidding. Therefore it is the NDP that needs to be held accountable, not the CPC or LPC.
Source, my local provinces Liberal leader.
Don’t forget that you will find fascism if you go too far left as well. It will always be a balance, but I agree, we need not go too far right.. ever
Look what happened at Fairy Creek. Far higher presence of journalists there, didn't stop the RCMP from being repressive fascists.
https://www.readthemaple.com/the-silencing-of-fairy-creek-journalists-rcmp-threaten-and-obstruct-free-press/
Horgan is behaving like a Liberal
Horseshit theory.
It's incredibly just how much subjectivism people normalize in politics when when the political spectrum is taken this seriously, or god forbid, as an _objective_ measure.
There's nothing innately "left" or "right" about an idea, they're largely arbitrary categories humans made up. Just as your fallacious appeal to a golden mean (centrism) is just as pointless and arbitrary to rely upon.
Go evaluate the actual _ideologies_ you find in what people call the "left" or "far-left" nowadays. How does that _ideologically_ relate to fascism? I have yet to see any argument here that doesn't boil down to some inane and completely useless dogma of "far-anything bad, centre good".
[removed]
Hahaha.
Horseshit theory.
Are people not taught anymore what a think tank is and why you shouldn't actively treat them as serious sources?
Cringe. He’s right.
people don't want to hear that neoliberal government policy drives citizens to break the law
Cowards
So your solution is to transport oil by train and truck? Both cause pollution and can tip over and cause spills.
No the solution is to leave the oil in the ground this is what needs to happen if we want to get the climate under control there can be no new oil projects and in 10 years we need to be off oil.
whats your solution to replace oil in the millions of products it's used in within 10 years
how do you plan to make things like all electric passenger jets and cargo ships within 10 years (please dont say the birkeland lol)
how do you plan to dispose of all the batteries from these things
That’s NEVER going to happen. 10 years is living in a fantasy world. We can’t even get cars electric, places all over the world don’t have reliable electricity (including places in the US and Canada) and no one has viable alternatives to freight trains, aircraft, long haul trucks, ships… 10 years is a fantasy that’s never going to happen.
Well to be honest that other commenter was right 10 years isn't going to happen I was being overly ambitious in last comment but we can definitely make big strides towards that goal in a single decade.
But to answer your question we are already seeing that transition in some places like for instance with the paper straws vs plastic straws recently.
There's also things like bio plastics that are being developed that could used.
But whats really going to have to happen to fix the problem is that In the wealthy western countries were are going to have to lower our level of consumption greatly we simply produce and over consume to much in the western world and the planet can't take it anymore. places like Mc Donalds can't continue to operate all you have to do is look at the level of garbage because produced all the plastic they throw out every day. It's unsustainable.
And with the jets and cargo ships again there is no alternative what's going to have to happen is that we fly much much less and we stop shipping things halfway around the world we need to produce what we consume locally much like we used to do before WW2 before globalization theres just no way around it.
If I remember correctly the greenhouse gases from cargo ships make up about 2-4% of total greenhouse gas emissions and we have to reduce total emissions by at least 50% in the next ten years if we want to limit warming below 1.5°C globally.
And don't even get me started on air travel it's the worst most environmentally destructive form of travel we have. probably what's going to have to happen is that we will have to make the cost of the flights reflect the amount of environmental destruction that is cased which will make flying unaffordable we also need to limit the amount of flying Trips Individuals take in one year and ban private jets.
Well in Costa Rica they have a plan to run there electric grid on entirely renewable energy by 2023 and they will almost certainly be able to do that because in 2019 they ran there electric grid off of only renewable energy for 300 straight days
Also we definitely need to not start any new oil projects it needs to be left in the ground we need an oil pipeline like we need a hole in the head.
good luck on your quest to convince everybody to take a severe hit to their quality of life
I do like your enthusiasm, but we didn’t get here in 10 years and we won’t completely get off of fossil fuels for some time yet. What we need to do is talk, complete small goals, and we will get there together. What Dr. Suzuki did was a dog whistle which can incite violence, property damage, and even death. This is no different than any other extremism. It has to stop. Anyone can point out problems, we need to get together and work for a solution.
Yes. You can maybe get it to work on the grid.  But the transportation sector is where we burn huge amounts of fossil fuels.  To power the grid, you can have all sorts of generation, whatever you want.  That still doesn’t mean you can use all that power on moving vehicles. There’s no good storage method.
Well I wouldn't say that having slightly less stuff means your quality of life is necessarily worse.
And this has to happen or else we won't have a plant to live in anymore.
The amount of consumption in the western world is just completely unsustainable
Don't worry, the ones who care more about the lives of our children than they do their own toys and gadgets already do.
Dog whistle isn't the correct term. That's when people use an innocuous sounding phrase with a hidden meaning that will be recognized by their target audience.
What Suzuki did was state the obvious. Climate change is already driving extremism in parts of the world, and it's only going to get worse if we do nothing. Ignoring this and preserving the status quo will INEVITABLY lead to violence. It is irresponsible to suggest otherwise.
You could accuse him of stochastic terrorism, but that's a major stretch. He didn't say, "these oil companies are evil and somebody should really go out and blow up one of their pipelines." He's saying that systematically driving people to a point of utter desperation by ignoring the largest existential threat to our species will have no other possible outcome but violence.
Yea maybe we can't get completely off oil ln 10 years but we can make great headway. We need to reduce emissions by 50% by 2030 if we want to keep the rate of worming below 1.5°C 
And He's right tho the pipeline being considered on stolen indigenous land is a form of violence. The pipeline is already leading to violence, property damage, and even death for indigenous people who are having there land stolen. These pipelines leak all the time and it's going to leak into indigenous peoples drinking water not to mention what it's going to do to the climate.
Building a pipeline during a climate emergency is a form of extremism far far worse then any form of property damage
If someone was going to Puch a hole into the atmosphere is it ok to try and stop them?
> What Dr. Suzuki did was a dog whistle which can incite violence, property damage, and even death. This is no different than any other extremism. It has to stop. Anyone can point out problems, we need to get together and work for a solution.
extremism is what's required if you want any chance at saving the planet
moderate climate change policy shouldve been enacted 30-50 years ago, now it's far too late for that. if you're not willing to be extreme you may as well do nothing.
Well we definitely need a system of renewable green public transportation we have to many cars on the road as is we need electric trains and buses as for airplanes not much we can do there so we need to be flying less.
And also we can do things like tax credits for people to buy electric cars.
Also we need something like the Manhattan project but for building the green technology of the future with the government taking the leading role.
its a lot deeper than "just having less stuff"
if you have children you're already completely and utterly failing
if you think the change needed is only "less toys and gadgets" you're also failing
With a macho attitude organization, I don't think it'll ever go away. The women I knew in the military all had a hard time with it. It was a major reason why I quit.
Hopefully the NDP can extort pharmacare from them. I'm not sure why we don't have it already.
Perhaps some real RECONCILLIATION and not empty words.
It was a throne speech, not a budget
throne speeches are typically the incoming governments way of declaring their agenda and focus for the coming term. things that get left out should be viewed as less important to the incoming government than the issues they specifically mention.
Wow, i didn't even know we had a british army presence here in canada
Good. Can we fucking get rid of the monarchy, too?
Does this mean our forces and new citizens no longer have to pledge their allegiance to the queen?
For much of modern history (since the Second World War), the largest tank force in Canada belonged to the Bundeswehr (German Army). There’s nowhere in Germany large enough to train with large tank formations, so they did it near CFB Shilo.
They do lots of training at CFB Suffield in southern Alberta.
Why would it? The Queen of Canada of is still the Queen of Canada, and that has nothing to do with the British.
I mean historically it has a whole lot to do with the British, but the legal reality of Canada is that it, as an independent sovereign state, recognizes Elizabeth II of the house of Windsor as its monarch. The fact that same natural person happens to also be Queen of many other places is, from the legal perspective, just incidental and unrelated.
> The audit also says the ministry’s species-at-risk advisory committee “is now dominated by industry representatives.”
There it is. Lol. Industry lobbies run Canada, don't get it twisted.
Paywall
Keep in mind that this is a government, that, during a world-wide zoonotic pandemic, decided that animal-ag operations needed *less* oversight.
Keep voting for Cons if you want your civilization to go down the shitter.
Cons loved Bonnie when she was gunning for the Libs, but watch as the Sun, Globe, NP, and every TV news except CBC attacks her now.  And the CBC will do it a bit too because 'balance'.
Dougie will attempt to have her replaced by his mistress or find some other unemployable rich kid to pretend to do the job, betcha
Because 'new conservatives' like Dougie are basically libertarian sociopaths. He and his supporters are only capable of caring about their own self gain.
Well of course,  it is dirty Doug Ford and we all know he doesn't give a damn who he harms as long as his welfare Queen corporations get all of our tax dollars.
It was a sad day when I was PLEASED to receive a deeply idiotic policy statement from my Conservative MPP in response to my email RE: endangered species protections instead of just being ignored like usual. Nice to hear that Doug Ford and Co.’s actions are unlawful in addition to being criminally insane.
Nothing new. CRTC is dominated and run by former employees and executives from Robellus.
They don't even try to hide it anymore
Pretty soon all species will be at-risk with these greedy bastards behind the levers.
Here you go: 
https://12ft.io/proxy?q=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.theglobeandmail.com%2Fcanada%2Farticle-ontario-automatically-approves-permits-for-developers-that-harm-at
(12ft.io and Outline.com have saved me many times haha)
That isn't new conservatism, that's just how conservatism has always been.
Hear, hear!!
It’s a huge problem when everyone is seen as an enemy by the police.
Fascists attack the press and political dissidents.
The RCMP began as a militarized forced representing colonialism and white supremacy. They have never changed.
The RCMP must be abolished.
Who knew a racist sexist paramilitary organization wouldn't be able to objectively police it's self ? The time is well past to tear down this broken organization and start over .
We'd be wise to recognize the French translation of the RCMP: 
*Gendarmerie royale du Canada*
It's important to realize the historical and contemporary differences between "police forces" and "gendarmes". It's not just a quaint difference in language.
Alright,  so do the three speeding tickets I got in my life, that time an officer asked me to get rid of that open beer can in a park, the two occasions I called them to report a crime, the time they came to assess I had crashed into a mailbox with my car ... constitutes enough to say I had "extensive history" with the police and attack my character to justify illegal incarceration?
The RCMP were created to solve the "indian problem" for the colonizers.   
They were created to be horrible, a tradition that has continued to this  
 day.
They’re not police, they’re mercenaries and thugs
r/LEO 
Private groups and private laws. What a great combination.
RCMP running militia style warfare against court orders. About white.
I sigh because people have been talking about how easy it is for the gov to track people now for a while and they’re worried about what else they might be doing with their data.... been worried for years ain’t changed nothing
So are we forgetting that when the injunction was ordered revoked the rcmp immediately stood down? When the courts reinstated the injunction only then did they move in.
You all are acting like the rcmp is some roaming beast feasting on the lives of “innocent” people, and yet when the courts issue an order they obey.
Would you prefer the rcmp only obey court orders it feels like obeying?
feels so dystopian now a days that it doesn't it feel like enemy of the state but corporation.
It's proof that the police are the enemy of the people.
The "red flag" to me was members of the RCMP wearing "Blue Lives Matter" pins in their uniforms.
It's something that I would've expected more during the Harper regime.
When all you have is a hammer, everyone looks like a nail.
gendarmerie:
A military body charged with police duties among the civilian population.
Dude, I know no emojis and all that but 🤯. Worst is I'm actually bilingual too.
>There's a reason you separate military and the police. One fights the enemies of the state, the other serves and protects the people. When the military becomes both, then the enemies of the state tend to become the people.
> so do the three speeding tickets I got in my life, that time an officer asked me to get rid of that open beer can in a park, the two occasions I called them to report a crime, the time they came to assess I had crashed into a mailbox with my car ... constitutes enough to say I had "extensive history" with the police and attack my character to justify illegal incarceration?
To fascists, yes.
The lobbyists for big companies are dancing on people right now and the politicians are holding the lobbyists pockets as they do so.
Yeah... just like alcohol and any other vice because people who live in poor areas want an escape from shitty often inescapable realities.
Not the shocking news they think it is.
Surviving economies rather than striving economies.  You get pawn shops, liquor stores, pay/cheque loan places (ie money mart) fast food and now pot shops.
Yeah because if you can put together a $100 you can just do mail order and get a way better deal
I agree. Noticed all the fast food restaurants are heading to the low income end of the city where I live.
Cannabis is much less damaging to individuals, families and communities than alcohol. If we can get oppressed people to substitute pot for alcohol, it's a win.
I grew up pretty wealthy, or middle class in a very wealthy area.
But I had a stint in my 20s where me and my husband were  dirt poor. And when you don't have enough to pay your bills or make ends meet, and you're going to skip paying one bill this month and it'll leave you with and extra $50... you're not being smart and saving it. You're going to spend that $50 to buy as much happiness or ability to forget that next month you're just as screwed as you were this month.
And that, folks, is how people get trapped in a debt/poverty cycle with a poverty mindset. You start to think about today and tomorrow because next week or payday or next month is an eternity away. So you do what feels good now. It's a trap. But even knowing what I was doing I still did it.
Luckily the economy rebounded, I got another job that used my education, skills and connections. But not everyone even has that kind of hope. Always be kind and understanding before judging.
And build pot stores near the most disadvantaged areas, apparently.
100% agree.
I used to work in addictions treatment and alcohol is pretty damaging all around. Most people just don't see it because it is so normalized in our society.
So, really we can count on them handing fat government contracts to their buddies to do just that, for twice the price as their competitors with a fraction of the efficacy rate, right? Complete with millions missing and another scandal?
Man, it's like I've seen this one before...
Like reconciliation with the indigenous, lotta meaningless drivel, zero real action.
imagine watching a throne speech
It feels like there’s no real choice in Canada.  The Cons will sell out our environment, the Libs will make grand promises and not follow up, and the NDP don’t seem to have a cohesive plan.
What about their platform wasn't cohesive to you? Or at least, what wasn't cohesive enough to deserve a vote you'll gladly flush down the toilet to keep them out?
Lack of an explanation were the money would come from to pay for their plans.  I like the ideas the NDP put forth, but with half the population voting exclusively Conservative,  which is getting more Americanized, I feel like the only option is to vote Liberal.  In addition, it seems the older people get, the more they drift Conservative.  It sucks, but that’s where we’re at.
If they’re worried about kids using them then how come alcohol is allowed to look fun and taste different? How come they get to have commercials that show the use of alcohol being a positive experience at a party or gathering but no you can’t show vaping and you you can’t show someone smoking cannabis that’s bad! Think of the children!!
Edit: getting some tasteful dms nice job, “alcohol is regulated kids can’t buy it” ok same with vapes?? You can’t buy one at a dispensary or a gas station without getting carded so your arguments are invalid on that.
Nah.
Great lets drive it underground. Black market here we come.
If they want to smoke, then they can taste it.
Why not? They seem to make a compelling argument against the ban, no?
No they do not, the purpose is to discourage use in teens flavours do the opposite.
> No they do not
Well, the article links evidence that supports their case [(including from Health Canada)](https://gazette.gc.ca/rp-pr/p1/2021/2021-06-19/html/reg2-eng.html), and there's this recent study that wasn't linked, that also supports their case: 
[Bans on flavoured e-cigarettes could see some vapers return to smoking cigarettes](https://uwaterloo.ca/news/media/bans-flavoured-e-cigarettes-could-see-some-vapers-return)
Why would we want to force poor health outcomes over puritan nonsense? 
> the purpose is to discourage use in teens
Is this a big enough issue that we need to restrict what *adults* can access? Is nicotine even known to cause cognitive deficits?
Edit: Additional links, if anyone's interested
[Ban on flavored vaping may have led teens to cigarettes, study suggests](https://news.yale.edu/2021/05/25/ban-flavored-vaping-may-have-led-teens-cigarettes-study-suggests)
[Flavoured vapes less harmful to young people than smoking and could help teen smokers quit](https://www.uea.ac.uk/news/-/article/flavoured-vapes-less-harmful-to-young-people-than-smoking-and-could-help-teen-smokers-quit)
"flavoured Vapes may help teens quit habit they started because of flavoured Vapes" 
it's why we need more craft beer in the AA meetings.
This might be an unpopular opinion with some people, but hear me out before you knee jerk react. I grew up in Wet’suwet’en territory and they were my neighbours, friends and classmates. Some Wet’suwet’en oppose the pipeline and some favour it. Some have a claim as hereditary chiefs that others are disputing (it’s actually quite complicated). So as non-indigenous environmentalists, be careful about saying you stand with THE Wet’suwet’en or even THE hereditary chiefs. You stand with SOME Wet’suwet’en and in doing so stand against others. Be careful about co-opting an entire tribe into your world view. Please respect that Wet’suwet’en are a diverse people who don’t all agree with you. Maybe go there some day and actually meet them and ask them what they think? But if YOU oppose oil and gas expansion, maybe keep your commentary about YOURSELF.
What's the significance of RBC to this issue...or is it just chosen as a high-visibility location?
Don't often see issues here that have indigenous parties on both sides 
Regardless of everyone involved, cutting down those trees should be illegal, and it is the failure of the governement and justice system thay developers are given the freedom to pave over precious ecosystems with our world spiralling downwards.
Very positive stuff to see the national recognition of the Wetsuwetan.  I live on wetsuwetan territory about an hour or so out from the hotspots of these protests. 
International corporations/greed death cults have militarized our police against the national interest and against self determination. I know little of the hereditary chief system but I know a little more about the wetsuwetan and I know that the anti-oil and gas cause is only served by supporting the wetsuwetan traditional leadership. Solidarity is needed because a bloody class war is fought in the open.
It's time for us all to stand with Indigenous communities across the country. You don't have to look far to see how much has been taken from them by force.
If we do and say nothing, they will be arrested, oppressed, and wiped out. We have to change the false public narrative. We have to bring attention to this if the media and government are going to try to sweep it under the rug.
Don't worry. A non-Indigenous person from /r/canada or /r/toronto will come along shortly to tell us ALLLLL about hereditary chiefs -- something they care a lot about, and have always cared a lot about.
If rumors are true and RBC has crazy exposure to Evegrande they won't exist for long.
I completely divested all my banking from RBC last year.  Changed to a local credit union that explicitly doesn't invest in fossil fuel or weapons manufacturers.  It was a hassle to do as I had been with RBC for decades, but im very glad I did it.
RBC has a long history -- they also were major investors in South Africa during apartheid.
RBC balls deep in China's Evergrande upcoming collapse. This bank is in big trouble.
Nice glad to see it
Can someone tell me what RBC has to do with this?
RBC is a shitty Company, they have a deep history of funding questionable things. Pretty unethical corporation.
Isn't RBC about to get bought out by Scotia Bank because they were overexposed on Evergrande?
Hundreds lol
When gas hits $7 a litre in 10 years and nobody can afford natural gas for their homes were all going to wish the banks didn’t divest in O&G
[removed]
Should be protesting NDP headquarters who organized the police  invasion of sovereign indigenous land... why is Jagmeet Silent? What happened to being the "champion of reconciliation?"
Hundreds, no.  I went by there.  Maybe 60 people at most.
I’m probably going to downvoted for this but their seems to be a belief usually by white hippy leftists that the only true measure of success for First Nations is if they lived exactly like it was hundreds of years ago. like a First Nations Mormon style community. Which is just as racist as telling First Nations to assimilate into “modern society”. While the idea can be appealing to a few just as it is to Mormons and other such groups. Your just as likely to find individual First Nation members who like technology. Who just want a high paying job, and drive a big Ford truck to roll coal in front of cyclists because fuck cyclists. I am not trying to change your opinion on the issue only to not view it as simply black and white. Where wet’suwet’en who support the pipeline are not real wet’suwet’en members or have zero legitimacy. Or that the hereditary chiefs are also not wet’suwet’en and have zero legitimacy. Based on democratic principles if the majority of wet’suwet’en support or don’t support the pipeline that is their right to do so. Regardless of whether you like it or not.
30 days house arrest and a 100$ surcharge is a joke after trying to overcharge ~700$/month
yep
If only other provinces would do this!
Let them merge ^(then nationalize them because telecommunication is fundamental infrastructure in the 21st century and is a natural monopoly anyway.)
Driving home I almost had an aneurysm.  Radio announcer reads the official statement: the merger will lead to increased competition, Rogers says.
IT LITERALLY CANNOT!  A merger, by definition, is removing competition!  You can't just string a bunch of words together and hope for the best! They have meaning!
We should just nationalize the telecommunications companys they have a crown corporation for telecommunications in Saskatchewan and it's much cheaper then the private sector and the quality is the same or even better then the private sector as well.
To be clear, everybody opposes this merger except benefitting parties at Roger's and shaw. Only place where there should be reducing competition is....I dunno
These providers should be nationalized, we are being held hostage by oligarchs and their greed.
Shawgers? No, wait, RAW. All caps, new logo is an angry tiger.
I just switched to Shaw in order to get away from Rogers… Saved about $50/month all said.
Telecoms should be nationalized, Bell took a lot of tax money to do just that.  And Rogers has received more taxpayer largesse (additionally to their corruptly-obtained position in the corrupt duopoly) than Alberta
But why isn’t he opposed to BC NDP sending police to invade foreign Wetʼsuwetʼen territory?? 🧐 seems like a convenient distraction
It’s not like they’re pricing gouging outside the merger …
Bring in the American telecoms on conditions they can’t buy Canadian telecoms. Let’s cause real competition instead of monopolies. They will help construct additional infrastructure.
So they're opposed to *something*
Ok yeah downvote me like the BC and fed NDP haven't just occupied and militarized Wet'suwet'en territory while claiming they were totallllly different from the federal Libs folks.
Edit a second later: and comment to say you don't know what the fuck I'm talking about! I bet that orange looked real nice on you, smh.
Edit after clarifying that I'm being critical of the BC and fed NDP's decision to permit police violence on Wet'suwet'en territory right now, but not the NDP in more general terms, which I have otherwise supported my entire adult life, and getting downvoted to hell anyway: ***A***CAB. All of em. Not just when it's politically expedient for you holy shit you rat bastards. Jagmeet Singh is displaying a blatant disregard for Indigenous lives, as well as the future of the planet, to violently lick corporate boot and you're ... just fine? Absolutely nobody else will do as your fed NDP leader and he is beyond reproach, even after something like this?
I'll decline your performatively orange Kool Aid, but thanks. Jack Layton would have never!
Nobody cares what jaggy says
The big problem there is the cost to eminent domain something when you nationalize it.
That said, I'm all for paying that cost.
Agreed!
And then the first conservative majority will sell them off again to their friends to "balance the budget".
If we nationalize them(which I'm 100% all for), there need to be failsafe mechanisms in place or the conservatives WILL fuck it up in favor of short term profits first chance they get. That's what nearly 40 years of living in Alberta has taught me and its a process thats repeated itself so much and so frequently you can practically set your watch to it.
[deleted]
Yes. Taxpayers quite litterally paid them into existence. While we’re at it Nationalize the airlines as well
We should do what Australia does: a crown corporation owns the telecommunication backbone: i.e fibre cable, towers, etc, and private companies run the "last mile" connection to customers. This keeps cost down, ensures all of the country gets coverage, and allows for new entrants.
Australia did this recently (like within the previous decade, IIRC). Why doesn't Canada do it? Taxpayers are cheap, and Bell/Rogers/Shaw/Telus call the shots.
The thing that frustrates me about Canada is that there are so many innovative solutions around the world, and Canada says nope, let's just do what the Americans do.
Why do you think bell/Telus is so opposed? Because they don't want Rogers to compete with them out west
Rogers and shaw don't really compete, they have infrastructure in different parts of the country. Rogers wants to be a real national player why they want to merge and get shaw's assets so they can compete with Bell
Shaw's wireless (freedom) is totally inconsequential (and terrible and should be folded with how bad it is) and Rogers doesn't want it and it's basically known they'll trash let anyone else have freedom if they can be permitted to compete nationally
This was created so the public can sign too:
https://protectpressfreedom.good.do/stopillegalarrestsjournalists/mendicino/
They will investigate! And maybe have an inquiry! Oooh! And the RCMP will ignore it all as usual... They know they can get away with it. Who's going to stop them?
one thing that's interesting is how we arrogantly differentiate ourselves from americans, except when it comes fascistic policing. 
that's a global problem. it's the same everywhere.
Did they also ask for native rights to keep their land pipeline free?
This is abysmal. Needless to say this kind of shenanigan's are happening under Trudeau's watch and not some Republican US states (think of Florida).
I don't think journalists should be arrested but I wish this level of outcry happened every time the RCMP arbitrarily arrested someone
If the G20 protests and their outcome means anything then whoever ordered them to arrest the journalists is probably going to be a minister in the next Liberal cabinet.
Does anyone know if Canadian Press is still at risk of being used as Pay Per Play? Brian Timpone turned 1300 newspapers or so in the US into just this. I cannot see what the Canadian impact is today.
r/antiwork
I’ll sign it if all those journalists report accurately on the BS oic gun ban that turdeau implemented without parliamentary debate.
[deleted]
I’m confident that the RCMP will investigate themselves and conclude they did nothing wrong
Yea good point.  I'm not even going to bother looking into this now because what is the point really.
For the vast majority of Canadians, the game of "Whose freedoms should we violate the least?!" is ordered:
1) Freedom for journalists to report on a company's trampling over the lives of Indigenous peoples
2) Freedoms for companies to trample over the lives of Indigenous peoples
3) Freedoms for Indigenous peoples
It's also happening under the BC NDP, and I haven't seen a single NDP politician mention Horgan as of yet.
Pretty fucking depressing.
Gotta ask, what do this have to do with that sub?
Yeah , I guess we all know how that works
want to be treated fairly?  they were arrested covering a story.  
so its 'quit their games' or get arrested?  
You do understand what kind of country you want to live in right?  You 'know' which reporters should be arrested and which ones tell the tales you want to hear right?  
Arresting journalists reporting on the scene of the story as it unfolds is the actions of people on the wrong side of history.  I hope what you want for Canada never unfolds.
Unless you're a fascist, arresting journalists for doing their job should not be excused.
There are tons of inquiries that pretty clearly say what's wrong and how to fix it. 
What happens is the RCMP says "golly jeeze bad apples blah blah blah oversight blah blah we're working on a fix, internal changes or something" and they keep saying it until something distracts the public long enough that they stop asking.
Tbh this is really a poll of which countries got the best attention in international media. The perspective from Canadians on this will probably depend on what province they live in.
As an Albertan, I'm going to have to say this is pretty subjective.
Taiwan and South Korea did very well pre delta too.
Trump is taking the credit for this leadership. He says he pushed them to the top.
Have they seen how divided our provinces are?  Kenney is playing slalom with people'a lives. Ford's LTC report ain't exactly exhonorating him.
Didn't Sweden stall locking down for months, experience many deaths, and eventually admitted regretting that choice?
This is garbage. Who paid for this poll? Did they ask the questions that gave them the results they wanted.
It looked great until you look a little closer to what was actually done.
Trudeau shut down travel by land, yet, continued to allow infected to fly in on a daily basis.
Early on, Sweden’s health minister did not want to impose any restrictions and left it up to the people to do what they wanted. They had a high death rate in spring 2020.
Or which party they vote for.
Irrespective of that, by the numbers Canada is one of the very best out of North America and Europe.
[According to the independent commission set up by the Swedish government](https://sverigesradio.se/artikel/delayed-testing-cost-sweden-precious-time-covid-commission-says):
> * Sweden’s handling of the pandemic has been marked by a slowness of response. The initial disease prevention and control measures  were  insufficient  to  stop  or  even  substantially  limit  the spread of the virus in the country.
> * The path chosen by Sweden has placed the emphasis on disease prevention and control measures based on a voluntary approach and  personal  responsibility,  rather  than  more  intrusive  interventions. 
> * Sweden’s pandemic preparedness was inadequate. 
> * Existing communicable diseases legislation was and is inadequate 
to respond to a serious epidemic or pandemic outbreak. 
> * Sweden’s system of communicable disease prevention  and  control was and is decentralised and fragmented in a way that makes it unclear who has overall responsibility when the country is hit by a serious infectious disease. 
> * The health care system has been able, at short notice, to adapt and to scale up care for people with COVID-19. This is largely thanks to its employees. Adaptation has been achieved at the price of extreme  pressure on staff and of cancelled and postponed care. We will therefore live with the consequences of the pandemic for 
a long time to come          
> * In  several  areas  there  is  a  problematic  lack  of  data,  making  it harder to monitor the pandemic while it is in progress and to satisfactorily evaluate its management when it is over.
The conservative "response" to global warming is either denial + austerity or literal fascism. Either way, it is an ideological death-cult and has nothing to offer humanity but more suffering.
He’s right.
On Canada politics lots of faux progressives mad at the audacity of Suzuki to correctly point out that if egregious ecocide and corporate denialism continues disaster will continue and the disastrous effects will only get worse.
Weather disasters will continue to set yearly records. People will continue to protest in larger numbers. People will be radicalized by the destruction of their home in real time and yes, amongst all the natural disasters and blowing up people may very well turn to thoughtless violence against the thoughtlessly violent industry attempting to murder the human species ecosystem. 
It’s simple history that unaddressed injustice, inefficiency and disorder causes exacerbating crises in every sector of life. People can pretend Suzuki said something wrong and watch him be right in real time.
But hey…. Shouldn’t economic development go hand in hand with preventable archaic and mindless mass destruction?
Uh oh, Jason Kenney has now found his anti-oil boogey man! Beloved environmentalist and educator David *fucking* Suzuki
Things have already blown up … and it was the RCMP who did it:
> "Operation Kabriole" was planned and executed with the direct involvement of a Calgary based oil and gas business. Alberta Energy Company has a big operation in the Peace River country.
>The RCMP's original plan was to blow up one of AEC's trucks. The company convinced the police to change the operation even though AEC had already given its approval, offered up a truck to be bombed and said it would pay for any major damages. Company officials were having second thoughts.
>According to the RCMP's own files, the head of AEC's northern operations met with the police to say his bosses were concerned that bombing a vehicle would cause 'undue stress and fear' for employees driving company trucks.
>So the company offered an alternative, a shed covering one of its "out of service" well sites not far from the suspects' property.
>The bomb was set off Oct. 14, one week before AEC hosted two tense and emotional town hall meetings. Worried residents who turned out, were told by an expert, who was flown in by AEC, that they were the victims of 'eco-terrorists'.
https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/more-details-of-rcmp-dirty-tricks-revealed-1.168362
Further listening on this tale of all our futures as has already happened in the past can be found here:
https://www.canadaland.com/podcast/crude-2-bombs-blood-the-battle-of-trickle-creek/
He’s not wrong. A lot of folks hate the messenger, but the message is correct.
> *“If the oil companies run roughshod over your lives, you have to take defensive action against them, whatever is necessary. You can’t just let them kill your children.”*
> Wiebo's War is a feature documentary that tells the story of a man's epic battle with the oil and gas industry. In the 1990s, natural gas wells were drilled near the home of Reverend Wiebo Ludwig and his clan in Alberta. Soon after, livestock began to die, and the Christian community started experiencing health problems, including a series of miscarriages. After 5 years of being ignored by the oil and gas industry, Ludwig decided to fight for his land and his family's survival.
[Weibo's War](https://www.nfb.ca/film/wiebos_war/)
He's right, and it won't just be here, and it'll kill a buncha protestors when they call in the Army.  We'll see regional wars over water getting hot in the next ten years too, and I can think of a couple of those who have nukes.  Interesting times
He’s like 80 years old and gives ZERO fucks right now. If he says that’s a thing that might happen, I would believe him.
He’s right and he should say it. People are going to wrongly blame him or assume he’s involved with what he’s speaking on, but he’s simply pointing out the clear progression of events should this pipeline be completed
> “There are going to be pipelines blowing up if our leaders don’t pay attention to what’s going on”
I bet there'll be a lot of "paying attention" in the future. There'll be a suffocating amount of greenwashing and promises and sombre press releases - enough to keep things chugging along for another decade; wallpapering over the underlying conditions and making people unsure as to whether drastic actions are *really* necessary. Maybe some more tax-based austerity measures that *accidentally* only hit the bottom 80-90% of people ("Hey, if you wanted to afford the plane ticket to your uncle's funeral, maybe you should have done something more valuable like sell real estate or be a lobbyist for for-profit retirement homes.")
Here's the thing - the government, despite all its flowery words and virtue signaling, will keep going with whatever allows for GDP and tax revenue to increase. It needs growth because, to put it stupidly simply, capitalism. The threat of becoming Venezuela within a few years looms larger to them than the threat of being a wasteland in decades (international finance can currently crash a country faster than mother nature). And on a personal level, I suspect most of them don't *really* want to risk rocking the boat. 
IMO, with the current pressures and incentives the way they are, we aren't *really* going to do anything until the costs of climate change actually hit. Doing things for future generations is just too slow at generating any ROI to be worthwhile.
The fossil fuel industry needs to be shut down.
Based and Suzuki-pilled
Pipelines rupture and spew oil ("blow up") on their own
So like...we get cool Eco-terrorists here in Canada fighting for our future then? It'd make a good Netflix show. Captain Planet or something.
[removed]
Not disagreeing with the sentiment but I hope he has a better idea than literally blowing up pipelines. Talk about ecological disaster
Weibo Ludwig 2.0 might be out there right now. And with 20 years of knowledge, might be vastly more effective.
Doesn’t this goof own two or three mansions? The sell out should follow his own advice and reduce his carbon footprint. Guaranteed he has a bigger carbon impact than I ever will in my peasant life.
If anyone is wondering what the fuck is going on with this comment section, most likely case is that /r/canada and/or /r/omegacanada got wind of this post and are now running interference. Just in case you were confused as to why a bunch of fucking dumbasses are flooding the comments with chudbabble.
LETS GO DAVID!
uMkhonto we Sizwe, but everywhere.
"Listen, we can show a scan of a breast, but we can't show the actual nipple, so put your hand over one side, and we'll use an overlay for the other side."
More than $20 million wasted and the RCMP gets a futher PR shitstorm.
Ah yes, the PR. That's the real concern here.
No I am in full favour of having the force disbanded, they are a disgrace and an embarassment to the country
"I dunno randy, does the tin man have a sheet metal cock?"
I had a professor at UBC that specifically was researching this topic. They found that logging didn't increase the severity of flooding events that we have but it increases the frequency with which we have peak flow events. Essentially the research indicated that logging (clear cutting in the study) basically increases the frequency that we have historic 100 year storms. So what used to be a 100 year storm may now be a 70 year storm. 
Overall, the effect of our logging practices and climate change are making the frequency of these peak flow events increase significantly.
Does Dolly Parton sleep on her back?
Yes.
Is it not financially viable to switch to hemp paper production, like the volume required for similar yield is a lot lower. 
Logging and forest management practices have done a lot of the legwork in North America for floods, erosion, and fires.
We need to let small fires burn out the smaller trees and dead fall. We need to let mature trees stay rooted in the ground.
It's a shame nothing will be done.
Obviously yes, but we already know money and power are more valuable than human or any life, the only reason they will stop logging, is because there will be nothing left to log.
Yes because no shade.
However it makes the forest fires less severe
So now that we're done destroying our entire oil economy are we going to destroy our next natural resource economy?
What do you expect people to do in this country exactly?
Wood is a sustainable and replaceable resource that builds houses
**Betteridge's law of headlines**
 "Any headline that ends in a question mark can be answered by the word no."
The alternative to building with wood is steel and concrete, both far more detrimental to CO2 emissions.  Did logging in BC cause the biggest rainstorm in BC recorded history? Think the answer there is no... can forest management be better? Of course, but a study showing the possibility that over logging can cause increased risk of flooding is not evidence that logging in BC did contribute to what we've seen...
Hmmm lets drain a fucking lake build 4 pumphouses to keep the water out then replace it with farm land and call it Abbotsford. Must have been the logging…
Damn what version of The Wizard was Ricky watching
Thats greasy
Does a tuna with a boner drag seaweed?
In other words, yes… it is making flooding in the province worse. Eek.
So just to clarify. It isn't that there's more water falling,  it's that the water isn't being delayed on its way down the watersheds. Thus more of the water is arriving in the river at the same time.
[deleted]
Forest management has been a distaster. We are out of old growth, that is HORRIBLE management.
You mean yet. When the environmental disasters start piling up, we'll see what the cost of not switching up will be.
*Very* slight addition from the article to the title ("and the LGBTQ population"), so it might violate rule 2, but I only had to stitch in part of the nearly identical introductory sentence. I figured the 1% difference between the populations is so small it isn't worth excluding the other half of the lede from the headline.
[removed]
25% of home owners are now investors for profit, and rising
Think that’s just an Ontario stat but yea insane
Solidarity is the enemy of the powerful.
I certainly hope so.
Civil disobedience can be self defense if you're doing it to protect the environment that you have to live in.
Oh no someone think of the oil barons and billionaires 😰😓
Good. As it should. The shit the RCMP is doing is completely unacceptable. Our tax dollars shouldn’t be going to pay mercenaries to enforce gas pipelines, especially not on unceeded First Nations territory
Then maybe fucking listen to the Indigenous voices and actually play ball rather than sending in militarized cops to beat the crap out of the Wet’suwet’en people on their own land and arresting journalists.
I hope it does spread across Canada the government can't just be allowed to steal indigenous Lands like that and get away with it.
Good.
The fossil fuel industry are the most evil people in Canada, and they are the financial backers to the growing menace of fascism here. They should be stopped.
from an old SNL skit: "the last thing we want saddam to do is light the oil wells on fire"
saddam hussein <as played by dana carvey>: "i think i will light the oil wells on fire!"
Hope it does!
Whether you think the pipeline should or should not happen, one thing we can hopefully all agree is that sending 50+ armed RCMP officers down there to harass, intimidate, and violently attack protestors and journalists, *particularly* right now while they could be providing much-needed help to people suffering from the current climate disaster in the province, is wrong.
If it did?
[deleted]
Seriously. If they were actually worried about it, maybe the federal government should be more concerned about the fact any RCMP detachment can decide to enforce private law against nations we share the land with and willfully cover up anyone's attempt to document it at the cost of, you know, due process. At least the RCMPs pension doesn't rely on them making the problem go away....
[removed]
[removed]
Hi there. I am a human that works in the energy industry. I don’t think I’m evil. Be open to chat if you are open. Not a big deal and don’t work for the owners.  Like any resource, be it forestry, fisheries, mining, or energy, we are luckily living in abundance. I have a job that I feel contributes to our collective society. Winter coming in Canada and all. Anyways, happy for some discourse without hate.
[removed]
The people who approved the pipeline do not own the land.
There you are pushing your little narrative again. It seems really important to you that everyone believe that Indigenous people on unceded land unanimously wanted this pipeline and that there were no environmental concerns raised by anyone of consequence. 
I wonder which groups benefit most from your narrative?
Bro why should we be subsidizing Post Media? Like seriously? They are a profitable company. Now, if it means that small worker oriented papers like the Maple get in on the action I'd be more inclined to continue supporting this. Would have to get a breakdown of where the money is going though
Should the government be funding media? Doesn't that cause a conflict of interest whereas the media has a reason to support a government that supports them?
I knew this was a scam from the beginning.
Yeah, lets keep giving tax-payer money to American hedgefunds.  Save jobs?  Nope.  Improve media coverage?  Nope.  
We've been lied to by the likes of Postmedia and by our own fucking governments.
Socialism for me and not for thee!
Seriously. Instead of handouts he should have made news conglomerates outright illegal.
lol if that were true then explain NatPo.
Classic liberalism at play here.
We should be breaking up these monopolies
Why don't you go ahead. My thought was expressed hypothetically whereas you seem to have something specific you'd like to share. Plz explain National Post.
NatPo bashes the government on an hourly basis to an irrational degree of apoplectic rage and paranoia despite taking as much of the government's money as possible.
Interesting. I still think the media should be independent the gov. It just makes sense to keep them separate given how bias each can be
So, this year, in BC, we've had a 1 in 100 year drought, and then a rainfall that exceeded the 1 in 200 year expectations. And now Newfoundland will be experiencing their own 1 in 100 year event.
Gee, I wonder if there might be some worldwide phenomena that could be contributing to extreme weather events? I just don't know what it could be - maybe some force causing rapid worldwide climate change?
Nah. Couldn't be.
“1 in 100-year” you keep using that term. I do not think it means what you think it means. (Anymore.)
can you imagine if it were just a bit colder?  the ratio of snow to rain is about 10 to 1.  So for every centimeter of rain you get, that would be 10cm of snow.  
350mm of rain would be over 11 feet of snow.  with 100km winds.
Currently getting this here in mainland NS, it's a lot of wind and rain and going to get worse, and we are likely getting it easy compared to the Newfies and Capers.
So, same thing two years from now?
For all the 1 in 100 year events going on, I must be at least 1200 years old.
> along with sustained winds of over 100 km/h that could gust to 150 km/h.
That's just any day of the week in that area.
> Marine Atlantic crossings for Monday night and Tuesday morning have already been cancelled.
That's Newfoundland's main connection to the outside so this probably means supply chain problems. This is the main reason we will hear about this because otherwise, it's a storm hitting an area with a low population and far from any population centres.
Lake Ontario had a 1 in a century flood event in 2017
And another one in 2019
It definitely couldn’t be so let’s continue to arrest climate protestors so an oil company can build its pipeline. /S
we’ll be ok tho
Pet peeve of mine is that not many people typically understood what it meant anyways; 1-in-100 year storm means a 1% chance of occurence in a given year, not necessarily once every hundred years.
The east coast of Newfoundland [had something that happen](https://www.saltwire.com/nova-scotia/news/newfoundlands-snowmageddon-named-canadas-fifth-biggest-weather-event-this-year-531909/) right before the pandemic. [Fun times](https://i.cbc.ca/1.5434867.1582836539!/fileImage/httpImage/image.jpg_gen/derivatives/16x9_940/downtown-st-john-s-snow.jpg).
Only 90 cm of snow but much higher wind speeds.
Don't forget the nasty journals who are covering it!
1% chance on any given year means, in expectation, once every hundred years (X \~ B(100, 0.01) ==> E\[X\]=1). The reason people are taking issue with labeling these weather events as "1 in 100-year" occurrences is that they don't have a 1% chance per year of happening any more. The models are based on historical data, on weather that occurred before the climate crisis and before we started dumping metric fucktonnes of CO2 into the atmosphere.
Here's an analogous story: "Old man Robert has suffered three once-a decade falls this year alone! According to the almanac, old Bobby fell over a total of 5 times between his fifteenth and sixty-fifth birthday. Now that he's seventy-one, he's fallen over three times since his last birthday! Inconceivable that he'd have three once-in-a-decade falls in such a short period!"
Using outdated data as the baseline for non-stationary timeseries data is a recipe for a bad time, and even non-statisticians can tell that something's up. When you see something that your model says is unlikely, your model is probably wrong.
exactly
Canada Border Services have one damned job.  That's to know about the rules, as they change, for Canadians crossing the border.
The govt broadcast out that BC'ers would be exempt from quarantine or having a negative test to cross back into Canada.  If this was not communicated within Border Services, then someone needs to lose their fucking job.
It's really not that hard, people.  Do your jobs.
>Langan said his family was under the impression that people with COVID-19 were supposed to "ride it out at home" and avoid health facilities. He said no one told them differently and he had expected someone to check up on them.
... What?
and of course:
>Langan said they had chosen not to get vaccinated because of what they had read on Facebook, which he now considers to be myths and conspiracy theories.
And the last line just feels like a writer who has resigned herself to writing at least one more of these articles:
>If anyone is confused about what to do, he said, seek medical help.
The real tragedy here is how right-wing messaging on social media has become to define the worldview of so many uneducated people. Reading between the lines of this story I see a family with limited critical thinking skills who consider everything they see on Facebook to be the honest truth, and that lack of critical thinking boosted by recommendations of like-mixed people in their friend and family group plunked these people into an alternate reality.
>Langan said they had chosen not to get vaccinated because of what they had read on Facebook
&#x200B;
Fuck these people for abandoning stealing away a parent from their children with their absolute stupidity. Those kids don't have a mom because these horrible people believe facebook over doctors.
I think it's important to remember that these poor people have been lied to and tricked by bullshit online propaganda.
Between the anti-vax nutjobs and the right wing bullshit we see down south, we really need to tighten the reins on misinformation.
>*"A 911 operator told Langan and his teenaged daughter to attempt CPR, but he had no breath to spare.*  
***"I couldn't do it because I couldn't breathe..."***
Dear god that's grim.
Didnt get vaccinated.
Ate up all the misinformation on Facebook.
Avoided doctors.
Died.
>*”Saskatchewan health officials first flagged in early October that some people were dying from COVID-19 outside of hospitals.*
>*On Thursday, the province's chief medical health officer said there is no "consistent pattern" of home deaths, but hospital admission data shows too many people with COVID-19 are waiting too long to seek medical help.*
>*In the second week of November, two-thirds of people admitted to hospital with COVID-19 were moved to the ICU within 24 hours of arrival.”*
Reminds me of when a paramedic came on this sub and essentially mocked people for calling 911 for covid when they were well enough to walk to the ambulance. Bad advice can come from anywhere
Edit: it was actually /r/ontario, my bad.
Probably choking on her own lung fluid. I have 0 empathy for this people anymore and that is a very, very sad thing.
Not vaccinated, believed shit on facebook, 100lbs overweight.
That's how she died.
At what point do unvaccinated people realize they need to get vaccinated after hearing all these stories?
Do they not realize the other side is not going through these issues?  we don't have stories of vaccinated people calling 9-1-1 over their dying relatives due to covid-19.
A classic r/HermanCainAward winner
her poor kids! i wish people would stop being so stupid and listening to people on facebook of all places.
The fact that this family and others are being hoodwinked by American conspiracy theories is disgusting. The government should have more strictly regulated American content coming into Canada when covid ramped up and the first conspiracy theories started. I know logically that there's little you can do to stop conspiracy theories from spreading, but the fact that this conspiracy theory is from the states, and that the government has the power to control how much American media we get, makes me really upset that these people who don't have the critical thinking skills to sort through conspiracies on their own were left to the mercy of American (likely republican) conspiracy theorists.
Ok they did choose to not get vaccinated because of FB bullshit but I want people to really read the article and see the major issue here is they are not clear what to do. According to the article SHA made regular  calls to COVID positive people to check on them and that went away, probably with people like this family who are not the most up to date not knowing. 
Aside from that they didn’t know they can go to the ER because they thought that will infect other people there. This is easily a misconception people can get due to the fact that most of the information out there advice the patient to stay home and isolate first and foremost, while suggest going to seek medical help in the bottom line (or not at all). Many clinics will not see you if you are symptomatic. You would think to just go to ER or call 911 but this woman died 9 days after testing positive and apparently both she and husband faded into incoherence quickly. It’s hard to put yourselves in their shoes.
RIP Idiot
I feel bad for thinking it, but could you imagine how tik-tocked all of society would be without darwinism.
“How 18 year old boy rides out the covid shot in a hospital bed with an enlarged heart, dies from covid vaccine” same to me just different narratives lol
this person looks like they have a lot of health issues
She would die either way, being way beyond morbidly obese. My guess about 400-450lbs.
Best we can do is ramp up oil production and beat indigenous people so we can get it to the coast to sell.
Cool start charging the carbon tax on fuel manufacturers and fines against vehicle producers that aren't creating sustainable vehicles with jumps in efficiency. As well start funding high density development and efficient city development with high foot travel access. 
Oh wait they don't care and never will because the people of Canada fail to realize the politicians sold out the the billionaires and dont care. 
And they will never rise up because they are dogs who are happy with getting less and less all the while getting kicked in the ribs.
So sit back and relax like good dogs 🐕
**Canadians who haven't been flooded:** that's terrible! But the environment? Meh, waddaya going to do?
But it's more expedient and fun to have the RCMP arrest protesters.  Isn't it?
yeah, way too late for reactionary measures
And here I was hyping myself because I was going to move out of worst case Ontario to get AWAY from flooding risks. FML
No kidding. BIG disconnect going on.
A higher carbon tax should help.
We need to stop saying the RCMP is corrupt or "has rot". It's doing exactly what it was designed to do. To further Canada's colonial interests.
Website really needs some kind of dark mode. I have minor light sensitivity issues, and between the bright yellow and tiny font choice, I honestly can't read this site.
Wow, didn't know that Walt Disney co did marketing/PR work for them
Does every episode consist of a 10 minute intro blabbing about how no one pays for his content?
This is like saying a moldy mound of soil in the shape of a log that was once a tree many years ago is a log with a bit of rot.
Like the Chinese Covid Lab episodes, I'm now always going to wonder if there'll be a followup episode after Jessie gets around to doing his journalist thing
r/antiwork
We don’t need to stop saying that an inherently corrupt institution is corrupt on technicality
Should shoot them an email about that, they're usually pretty on the ball about that kind of thing, or at least quick to get back to you.
I use Opera GX browser, it has an auto-dark mode you might be interested in. Dark modes sites that don't have it, I mean. It's for PC and Android.
> Does every episode consist of a 10 minute intro blabbing about how no one pays for his content?
No, they make a crowdfunding push every fall for a few weeks (not sure how long). So, during crowdfunding season, every podcast has an intro making a pitch for becoming a patron. Outside of this period it's just a regular intro with ads for mattresses and shit.
Like any other podcast, we have to endure ads/fundraising or pay for the premium option.
This is the last week of their 4 week crowdfunding. You can skip ahead ya know
This is one of the best independent news outlets canada has right now. I enjoy the various programs and am happy to contribute to continue to read well sourced news. Check out canadalands commons podcast on police in canada if you really want to see behind the curtain.
I think we do. It misses the point. It's not a system designed for good that has been corrupted. It's a system designed for colonial interests. We should call it out for what it is. Corruption can be weeded out. A racist system cannot be fixed, it must be replaced.
Oh thanks, but that's not really the UX I'm looking for.
Not this blatant. I’m not a regular listener but this seems over the top. 
25% of the episode should be fast forwarded though.
Turned it off and came to Reddit to complain to strangers instead.
I think of it as less “behind the curtain” and more what our media would be like if the majority weren’t endorsing conservatives to win elections:
https://readpassage.com/election-endorsements/
Exactly. A square (RCMP) can't be jammed into a circular hole (reconciliation). You need to throw the square away and use a circle.
Every city across the entire country should be doing this
Boggles my mind the way Toronto is out to make housing more expensive.
They fight you at every corner during development to reduce density and have something 'more appropriate'.
One of my sites is a large lot at Victoria Park in Eglinton surrounded by 7 and 12 story apartment buildings.
Right now it has a s***** old single family/commercial property on it that does the neighborhood no good.
At first we proposed high density 12 stories.... they said it was terrible. 100 units...
We reduced it to nine stories a perfectly reasonable height between the two adjacent buildings 65 units.... They said it was still terrible.
We have now gone in proposal for 28 luxury townhomes much lower density more expensive and not as good for the neighborhood and they're pushing that it's too much density.
So what exactly do they want me to do with this piece of land that could be turned into many affordable homes for the neighborhood just build a few luxury homes on it?
This is within a thousand meters of the Eglinton LRT on Victoria Park surrounded by large apartment buildings.
These are the counselors and planners that are elected in our city.
Any we wonder why housing is expensive.....
The final funny thing about it is that we will end up winning at the lpat and getting the development but instead of it being in the ground in one year it'll be four... That means our costs are higher so we have to charge more or rent for more, and it also means that housing that could have been available within two years will now be available in 5.
Again I say these are your counselors and these are your planners making these choices.
Our governments don't work for the citizenry. They work for corporations. They don't even pretend anymore.
We switched our fucking slogan to “OPeN FoR BuSiNeSs” of course that meant we’re not going to listen to the “downtown elites” (or anyone) about environmental concerns. The only people that matter are the friends of the OPC.  We voted to give all the power to business, why are we surprised that regular people are ignored?
What do you expect out of the Cons? They are always very up front about it.
Not just the Cons pretty sure the Liberals "forgot" to consult the public on things too
Specifically the Cons introduced a lot of bills to gut oversight and expedite the process, things the Libs had introduced. 
Not to say the Libs were awful in their own right on many matters.
Doug Ford promises aren't worth the cheesecake-scented bagel breath Doug uses to speak them with.
“Doug Ford said no one would lose their jobs," said Terry Dorgan, an inspector who has been in the job since 2013. "We trusted him."
Welp, there’s your first mistake.
>The Ford government is dissolving the agency, but all its duties continue. Its inspection role is being shifted to the Ministry of Labour
If you're getting rid of inspectors then you're not really interested in ensuring tradespeople are properly accredited, which begs the question: why bother even requiring credentials for tradespeople?   
Bear in mind, I think that tradespeople *should* be accredited. There's just no point if you don't have inspectors ensuring that everyone is behaving as per the law.
I’m an electrician. A decade ago, I remember my paperwork being checked often and my license meaning something. When OCOT came along, it held so much promise, but the government tied its hands so tightly they couldn’t do much besides hand out warnings. 
Unexpectedly, after the creation of OCOT, the Liberal government took a position that trade scopes themselves didn’t really need to be protected, and that if an individual task didn’t carry much risk of harm, then that task could be performed by anyone. They started pushing this batshit policy, lobbied for by big contractors such as Ellis Don and generalized labour unions like LIUNA whose members don’t carry compulsory trade licenses. At the tail end of the Liberal era, contractors had hired *huge* numbers of general labourers and high school students, never signing them up for apprenticeships. There was suddenly a flood of young workers all across Ontario doing dangerous construction work illegally without supervision, surrounded by other inexperienced labourers. Vadim Buschel was one who died. There were others. 
Doug Ford tried to fix this situation by lowering compulsory trade journeyperson:apprentice ratios from 3:1 to 1:1. They figured that it would motivate contractors with illegal labourers to sign them up for apprenticeships. The government still wouldn’t give OCOT the power to enforce, only to educate. It was the perfect storm— contractors fired many of their licensed journeypersons that they required because of the old ratio, and continued to hire general labour and force them to perform tasks that are protected scope under the compulsory trades. 
Contractors lobbied hard to make these general labourers legal, further removing the requirement to employ licensed Red Seal tradespeople. Merrilee Fullerton, then the Minister responsible for trades training, announced that Ontario would be moving towards skill sets instead of trade licensing. Every aspect of any trade, even dangerous ones, could be trained out on an individual basis. No longer would tedious apprenticeships be necessary, she claimed, as any worker can now do any task, as long as their employer certifies that that worker has been adequately trained.
This model had been adopted with disastrous consequences across the American South and in parts of Western Canada, where we saw sharp increases in worker injury and death. Ontario’s building trade unions, Electrical Contractors Associations, and even CLAC saw this as a bridge too far. They lobbied hard to reverse that plan but we still don’t know who was the ideological push behind it. After significant public outcry and lobbying dollars extorted, the government appears to have reversed course with new legislation(and a new labour minister).
For the last decade, Ontario’s provincial Liberals and Conservatives have been making disastrous attempts to de-skill the construction trades in Ontario. It doesn’t make much sense to me; someone senior or extremely influential in both government circles clearly has an ideological agenda. When labour and employer are both on the same page saying that you’ve gone too far, then clearly there’s something else going on. 
I’ll give Doug Ford something: his government has been willing to respond to public pressure in a way that the Liberals under Kathleen Wynne weren’t. Both of them let the highest bidder set policy, but Ford seems to actually want people to like him. Unfortunately, that means we’re just lurching from foreseeable disaster to foreseeable disaster, with lots of cheery press conferences between them for Monte McNaughton to take credit for correcting the mistakes that his government made in the first place. 
I really hope folks in Ontario wake up and realize that both the Liberals and Conservatives have been complete disasters on this file. I’ve had a sword dangling over my head for a decade now. I just want to make a decent living and to stop hearing about kids getting killed because they wanted to become an electrician. I don’t think that’s too much to ask.
What!? Doug Ford is a self-serving two-faced lying rat??? No way!
When he said "no one will lose jobs", he meant people who handle food carelessly, or people who order others to handle food carelessly, not health inspectors.
If you're a DoFo fan, nothing he does will turn you off him.  Venn circle among his supporters for another couple of hot button issues as well if you know what I mean.  Remember when we had politicians we could respect?
Doug Ford doesn’t think inspectors are people so for him this isn’t breaking a promise
I just want to point out that if you voted for "Buck a Beer", you also voted for this.
I audibly cackled after reading this.
Don’t forget the strong scent of tonsil stones
As a trades person I've never been asked for my credentials in eight years and I've definitely seen a lot of unlicensed work being done illegally I would have welcomed them to be more active if any just to put some of these cowboy operations in their place. I've definitely been asked to do stuff I'm not qualified to do on multiple occasions. It's just going to make this donkey show worse. It's bad enough they screwed with the Ministry of health recently by reducing their office locations. It used to take MOH 20 mins to get back to me, now it's sometimes 24 hours in a health emergency.
Having gone back to school for electrical engineering, I'm seriously considering just moving to the USA for work after graduating.
The perfect metaphor and encapsulation of Canada's current economic/industrial situation is:
In Mississauga, AstraZeneca's head office sits across the street from what used to be its extensive manufacturing and research facility. That building is currently used by Ellis Don for storage.
Is this why nobody could seem able to build a landing to the proper spec at the developments I worked at?
Thank you for taking the time to write this out. This was super informative.
C’mon now, don’t be like that.
Rats actually clean and groom themselves
So gross! Gargling helps prevent that.
The grass is not necessarily greener, my friend.
Probably.
Just ask someone from Humboldt Saskatchewan what happens when a politician says "Anybody could do that job."
>Rats actually clean and groom themselves
BURN!
Hes got a very good point mathematically and the cons are known to be liars. I'd want an assurance as well.
What the hell? Most obvious whataboutism I've ever seen
>"Instead of disparaging the House of Commons officials and medical experts tasked with overseeing the vaccination verification process, Mark Holland should instead focus on the systemic failure of the Liberal government and (Prime Minister's Office) in supporting Liberal staff members who are victims of sexual misconduct," Bergen said in a statement.
They might be able to get away with 2, even though I still wouldn't believe them personally. If it's 3 or more then no, we know they're lying.
I actually have a medical exception, so I can offer something here. I have a blood clotting issue, so I have an exception due to that, BUT its only for J&J and Astra Zenica. Its no big deal as Pfizer and Moderna are just fine, which is what I was given. This is something that's not covered, different vaccines have different exemptions. This is also how you can tell SOME of these people are lying. Ask them what vaccines they are exempt from. You'll likely be met with a blank stare.
Yes, if any more than say 1 or 2 have an "exemption" I bet you anything that means we have liars in our midst.
Is there a major issue with Liberal staff members that are sexual misconduct victims.  
Is it something that should be looked at, do rules need to be changed or people charged?
I don't want to say too much, but I personally know one MP has the most bullshit, unethical reason that allowed for their exemption. I'm shocked something so brazen was allowed to pass. It goes without saying that the other "exemptions" are 100% horseshit and they should be ashamed of themselves.
Also, any conservative mp that refuses to say whether they're vaccinated=they're unvaccinated. Full stop.
They're being wildly reckless. It's as bad as you can imagine. These MPs are anti-mask, too. Behind the scenes, the anti-vax/anti-mask MPs are also constantly meeting together--in person--with most of them traveling back and forth from COVID19 hotspots. They are a ticking COVID time bomb.
>	Also, any conservative mp that refuses to say whether they're vaccinated=they're unvaccinated. Full stop.
I’m willing to bet a surprising number of those who won’t say are just pandering to their base but got the vaccine themselves, which is still shitty as it contributes to emboldening people to not get vaccinated. That said, I’m fully expecting that a number of them found (a) doctor(s) willing to write dubious exemptions.
Canadian police and RCMP out here this week really improving their public image.
Wtf. That should be a clear cut firing at least.
What gets me is not the cop doing the assaulting. I get that cops go on power trips and attack people. What gets me is the other cop, who doesn't do anything after watching this obvious assault for no reason. If cops were really about defending the law, they'd be arresting each other all the time! But it never happens, because they're about defending privileged in-groups, like their fellow cops.
The original poster also included a link to the article.
 https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/montreal/police-montreal-pepper-spray-mental-illness-health-1.6243500
Yeah. Our cops are racist as shit.
The longer version of the video:
https://twitter.com/davenewworld_2/status/1462542616721952777
And still the man just stood and took it. He knows that if he reacted at all that he could have been beaten. Imagine what strength it took to just stand there. It is heartbreaking
I wish I knew better how to make a real difference and stop things like this from happening.
This cop should be fired and have assault charges come his way. I'm sure he'll just get suspended with pay though.
ACAB
[https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/montreal/police-montreal-pepper-spray-mental-illness-health-1.6243500](https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/montreal/police-montreal-pepper-spray-mental-illness-health-1.6243500)
Reading the article, it becomes hard not to be pulled towards Defund the Police proposals. The police in this incident were called by the man's friend who was concerned for his mental health. The man was clearly in distress and not coherent according to the article, but also didn't act aggressively. He was just resistant to being restrained. To remind folks, being in mental crisis is not a crime.
If policing were done differently, the officers would perhaps be trained in mental health de-escalation, or there would be sufficient and available resources they could call to get someone on site who is.
As a social worker and a person with family members who have psychotic disorders, this makes me sick. I want to be sitting on a board of review of incidents like this and training cops on how to deal with them.
I love how I could get fired for giving the wrong person the wrong look at work, or swearing a little too loud but these pieces of shit get paid mad money to assault helpless people. ACAB.
And if you were to fight back you would be considered the "criminal"
I'm glad he could protect himself from that clearly aggressive man 🙄
STOP RESISTING! TAZE HIM!
As punishment, this officer needs to be repeatedly pepper sprayed. Absolutely need to do this to this person. Treated him like an animal.
Remember the cop that kicked the teenager in the head, putting him into a coma - he's still on the force, still being paid, likely just as unhinged as that day.
ACAB. Even the good ones are bad because they stand by and allow it to happen.  
FUCK YOU EPS.
I'm so glad that someone captured this video. This was totally unprovoked. 
That cop is out of his mind, drunk on power and needs to lose his job.
Defund the police.
And the other cops just stand by and watch, say nothing.  ACAB
Meanwhile, local PPC reps met to discuss how to deny the floods are the result of climate change and blame them on immigrants in a manner where they can plausibly deny they're not ignorant bigots and science deniers, they're just telling truths, and they know they're truths because they did the research.
IB4 the NDP do more to influence the government on climate change than the Green party has done since it's inception.
Another quality memepost by the beaverton
I think I saw this plotline in Dog Man.
On matters is firearms, giving out money, and immigration they already skip government process. What's the point
For those unaware, Romana is a Qanoner and most likely mentally ill woman that has been building a social media presence where she claims to be the true Queen of Canada and has been threatening violence for months now.
With respect to the last one in the screenshot, which is addressed to members of the Canadian Forces:
[Criminal Code of Canada, section 53:](https://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca/eng/acts/C-46/section-53.html)
> 53 Every one who
> 
> (a) attempts, for a traitorous or mutinous purpose, to seduce a member of the Canadian Forces from his duty and allegiance to Her Majesty, or
> 
> (b) attempts to incite or to induce a member of the Canadian Forces to commit a traitorous or mutinous act,
> 
> is guilty of an indictable offence and liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding fourteen years.
Would someone please commit this loon to the psych ward? She clearly has severe problems.
Can this chucklehead just be committed already?
Imagine being THIS FAR into LARPing as a monarch and not knowing that HRH is for princes, not the Queen.
I know there's much, MUCH more that's wrong with this, but that stood out to me.
I was wondering why Romania had beef with FN..
Yesterday's thread:  https://www.reddit.com/r/onguardforthee/comments/qzemvc/romana_didulo_orders_the_kingdom_of_canadas/
One thing she at least has in common with the REAL royals.
A burning and seething hatred of the FN.
Good. The way Cargill handled the outbreak was deplorable.
Solidarity with the workers ✊
Yay for them.
Boo for all the complaints about meat prices coming soon.
These guys have better military kit than we issue our infantry in the army.
Fast MT helmets, Crye chest rigs, and if I'm not mistaken, head to toe arctyrex leaf and those definitely aint the same WW2 era handguns and C7 I carried.
These guys are kitted almost the exact same as we kit out our military special forces units.
The fact that I've only seen two stories on this from major news outlets, both biased in favour of the RCMP is so very disturbing. Considering the amount of news coverage surrounding this in 2019/2020 and the fact I've heard they arrested a reporter trying to cover the situation this time around, all just screams media suppression.
Damn.  Imagine had they been this vested in providing clean drinking water to communities.
We need to wake up for who Canads is really governed for.....and it's not for those of us who go into the voting booth every election.  .
“Photographer Amber Bracken was on assignment for The Narwhal when she was arrested. Filmmaker and photographer Michael Toledano, a freelance reporter who has been living in Wet’suwet’en territory in order to create a documentary about what Indigenous people face in the region, was also arrested.”  
The RCMP is also arresting journalists. This should terrify all Canadians. Without freedom of the press we have no democracy.
A few native people peacefully blocking roads: Guns and body armour! Arrest anyone regardless of if they are breaking the law or not! Thousands of violent white anti-maskers threatening and physically attacking people: send a couple of guys down to watch. Do nothing. Arrest no one. Give out two tickets. 
The police aren't racist at ALLLLLL /s
why do cops need that much fire power?
The phrase "militarized RCMP" is highly redundant
So just to recap:
Invading native land and setting fire to native fisheries is fine.
Natives protecting their land is not fine.
If you would like to support the efforts of the land defenders:
[Become a donor](https://www.yintahaccess.com/donate)
[Take action](https://www.yintahaccess.com/take-action-1)
[Help fundraise](https://www.yintahaccess.com/fundraisingprotocol)
Social Media Links:
Facebook - search for "Gidimt'en Checkpoint" (can't link fb in this subreddit)
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/Gidimten)
[Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/yintah_access/)
[Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCICWaFiRaxXtO-AebWMjxBA)
Meanwhile a declared emergency is underway, I would think these resources could have been better dispersed elsewhere.
Incoming weather events will probably make this a moot point.
I read somewhere that legally, the hereditary chiefs have 'veto' rights, which stem from the 2014 Tsilhqotin  decision that recognized they had never ceded their land.   
As a result, the elected band council only has jurisdiction for the Reserve lands, not the rest of the unceded territory. So the band council could not legally give permission. Once it works it's way through the courts .....
RCMP, continuing source of national embarrassment to Canada. I think they could have added a few extra shortbusses full of guys to arrest that 1 dude lol.
Heroes 🙏/s
When the RCMP arrested elderly people during this raid they then refused to let them have there medicine when these elders were in jail casing them to have health complications that sent one woman to the hospital.
This whole situation is disgusting to me, we talk about peace equality and making our 'special days' for remembering history. What is the point when this takes place not even 2 months after? Where is this great fair country we always talk about? Because all I've seen lately is the same hate from the same people with power and money, getting so sick of this fucking country
ACAB.
I see the RCMP are returning to their roots of capturing native people.
This country's fucked.
I mean, in the RCMPs defence, what were they going to do, follow the law? 
/s here, obviously
Fucking pigs
They also don't have jurisdiction on unceded land.
So 3 companies would acquire all telecoms power in Canada, the second largest country in the world.
This is the end goal of capitalism, not the Big Lie that it brings more competition. It cannibalizes industry competitors and creates monopolistic corporate oligarchs controlling the entire market.
Thank goodness the Conservatives aren't in power!
&#x200B;
Our benevolent Liberal caretakers saw fit to install an ex-TELUS Lobbyist to run the CRTC.  
&#x200B;
There's no doubt in my mind we-the-people will finally have good things coming to us when it comes to mobile communications!
&#x200B;
https://www.cbc.ca/news/business/ian-scott-telus-telesat-crtc-1.4210590
> This is the end goal of capitalism
Nah. Under capitalism, you'd be able to fire up your own competing communications network without the CRTC beating you down for it. This is the end goal of state-sponsored monopoly.
AH yes, Its all evil baby-eating Trudeau's fault. Too bad every other board member he has appointed has ZERO experience with the Robelus consortium. Don't believe me? check for yourself:
https://crtc.gc.ca/eng/acrtc/organ.htm
With the exception of the chair's experience with Telus, the rest are all ex-Gov and NGOs.
Nonsense, CRTC is merely complicit in what the oligarchs want, which is complete domination and control of the marketplace.
Capitalists don't want competition, that's a bald-faced lie.
Quit huffing that LPC paint.  I didn't mention Trudeau anywhere.
&#x200B;
Never, EVER should we have foxes managing the chicken coop.  And it's cute you believe ex-Gov officials are incapable of moral malfeasance.
The CRTC would not exist under capitalism.
> Capitalists don't want competition, that's a bald-faced lie.
Right, but that doesn't change the fact that under Capitalism you should be able to start up a competing business.
I don't suckle on anyways teat and I haven't voted LPC in ages. I'm old fashioned. I look at the FACTS, and make a decision on that, instead of the ramblings of internet strangers. FACT is, only 1 of 9 CRTC board members have telcom experience. Somehow that still makes you cry. Not my problem anymore!
Your "free market would fix everything" bullshit argument is duly noted
“Only one of them (coincidentally the leader) sexually assaulted a girl.  Checkmate!”
Reply to the wrong thread by mistake?
Care to provide evidence of that serious claim? Or are you just making shit up?
edit: just looked into it. Yup you are making that up. Google has no record of your claim ever happening. I'm not saying it didn't, just there is no record of it.
The quotes indicate some sort of analogy in play.
&#x200B;
If you need me to spell it out, or what an analogy means, by all means, ask away.
Of course we had a huge crop this year that was already going to be tricky to sell. And now this.
We need to protect journalists like her if we want a healthy society.
> Perhaps the tenant has a concern that we have overlooked.
Yeah, it's called corruption/mismanagement lol
Must be working, keep up the pressure!
Atira seems like a very sketchy "non-profit" organizations imo
In before the antivaxxers blame this on shedding or something something vaccine.
I feel so bad for this kid, I had a stroke as a baby too and I know the pain and depression he is likely to go through because of it
> They point to a photo taken of three of the accused teens at a graduation party, posing with the principal.
> Seeing that, they said, was the final straw for the Sullivans' son.
WTF? Seriously dude? I mean, even if his hands are tied as far as what he could do with the accused, which is questionable, to be posing with them in fun photos? When they're accused of severely beating another of your students!?
You think that's bad? What about the st. Mike's college in Toronto? They stuck a broomstick up a child's ass and they let the person walk. Not even a single charge. Not even one day in prison. They literally anally raped a minor. One of them is 18 years old and technically an adult.
The school probably can’t really do much. It’s a hard spot to be in. 
Meanwhile what the fuck? Maybe it’s time to put the bullies under boot? Everyone wrings their hands nowadays and the little shit punks love to make their victim miserable. I won’t be going to the press if someone beats my kid like this. I’ll be going to the baseball section in sport check.
If that level of violence happened to me....I would have taken them all out on my own. 
It wouldn't be the violence that tipped me over. It would have been the unfair impudence. 
I KNOW who is guilty and they would pay.
A couple of excerpts from the article:
&#x200B;
>And there is a plan afoot. Since 2016, the federal government has been working on a national plan for adapting to climate change, and working to update standards for building critical infrastructure such as roads, highway bridges, water and electrical systems, as well as for resilience against specific natural disasters such as fires and floods.  
>  
>The goal of this project was to have those standards completed by this year. Some guidance reports, including one on best practices for flood-risk reduction, and a technical guide for flood-resistant buildings were published in 2021. The national adaptation strategy, which will set out the responsibilities of all levels of governments in preparing for and responding to climate-related disasters, will not be finalized until the end of next year.  
>  
>Meanwhile, previous building codes, according to the government of Canada’s own website, are leaving the country’s most important transportation links and resource services vulnerable to disaster.  
>  
>That’s because they were based on historical climate data that just doesn’t stand up anymore, and, “In many cases, this has resulted in assets that have not been designed to withstand the extreme weather events we are currently seeing, let alone the future impacts of climate change.”
...
&#x200B;
>Eyquem said that building back stronger is not just a nice sentiment, but imperative to protecting people now and in the future.  
>  
>“Climate change is often seen as a future problem but, actually, it is a now problem,” she said. It’s affecting people’s health. It’s not an environmental issue only, and it’s adversely affecting people’s lives.”
We won’t, as demand for claptrap suburbs continues our infrastructure will be safely ignored so long as road widening is completed.
Well, NOT paving over wetlands and building them up with cookie cutter suburbs/warehouses is a good start. How about having a provincial government (I’m looking at you Ontario) that is in denial that climate change is even happening? How about a provincial government (ahem, Ontario) that overrules local Conservation Authorities with (misused) [MZO’s](https://ontarionature.org/campaigns/mzos/) at the behest of short sighted developers who have no fucking idea what an ecosystem even is?
The suburb and the car. 
It’s amazing how even the most stalwart eco activist will defend that unsustainable model until the heat death of the universe.
That’s how you know we are doomed. 
Blame it on Vaughn.
Good work Unifor.
Note some of this is tied to previously negotiated contact clauses - Lolaws had to pay up. They didn't give 16% out of the goodness of their hearts. What is negotiated now can matter heavily in the years ahead.
Loblaws Owners: No problem, we'll just make up the difference by overcharging for bread.
Do the rest of Loblaws workers get a pay increase as well? It seemed pretty guileless of them to take away that 3 month only pay increase last summer
Huge gains!
I work for loblaw warehouse.
This contract would feel better if unifor and loblaw hadn't worked together to cram through a contract full of concessions on working conditions, stagnant wages, worse overtime agreements and a 13-50% raise for top-level union reps three years ago.
Tbh most of this stuff is what we should have had last contract.
Only because they haven't figured out how to automate warehouse employees yet. Shame on this company, for so many reasons. It's better by all means to be a Wal*Mart employee, and that's obviously not saying much.
Sucks that 16% is only $3 but it's progress
Only warehouse workers?
Excellent, 
Remember, it’s not political parties that get changes, it’s people.
r/antiwork
Don’t know why Sobeys doesn’t have a union they have poverty wages and high prices
Great news
That's great but this story is 3 weeks old?
[https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/toronto/ontario-minimum-wage-hike-fifteen-dollars-1.6233521](https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/toronto/ontario-minimum-wage-hike-fifteen-dollars-1.6233521)
But how will this affect their stock price????
They gave that starting wage raise to remain competitive. In the last three years two warehouses (Amazon and Gordon Foods) have opened within 5 mins of this DC that had starting wages at $21 - 22
It had nothing to do with unifor or loblaw doing right by its employees.
False. The warehouse workers get 11%. The office staff are getting 14%. At the end of the 4 year deal office workers will still make less than the warehouse workers. We also voted this contract down and Unifor bullied us into taking it anyway. Shame on Unifor. A raise less than inflation is not a raise.
Good work "labour shortage", at least.
so they shouldnt fight for better pay?
Fat chance if they’re not in the union. Loblaws isn’t doing it out of the goodness of their heart.
Can't speak for all of Canada, but can sorta speak for my hometown. I used to work for Superstore and  still have a couple friends to who are there. They've been saying there has been a lot of talk about wages since our local McDonalds restaurants have raised their starting wage to $18.00. they've brought it with their Stewart's on multimedia ple occasions. They said if they can't get a proper raise, they'll probably strike, and if they don't strike, they may disolve their their union.
Canadian tax payer to bail out air Canada again.
In the infinite wisdom of our jackass premier they’re going to allow people who think they have Covid because they have symptoms into some of the most popular pharmacies in Ontario instead of hospitals and medical testing centres where you would have to go now. What could possibly go wrong?
>“Hello, Canada, I’m Ramona Didulo, I'm the founder and leader of Canada1st. As of February this year, 2021, I am the head of state and commander in chief of Canada, the Republic,” she said in her announcement video. “The people who appointed me are the white hats and the U.S. military, together with the global allied troops and their governments—the same group of people who have helped President Trump.”
>She speaks to her audience either through Telegram posts or via poorly produced videos in which she sits on a couch in front of an empty beige wall. In a follow-up video to her initial decree, Didulo declares herself not only the “the head of state,” “commander in chief,” and “head of government,” but also the “Queen of Canada, replacing Queen Elizabeth II of England who has now been executed for crimes against humanity.” 
At what point does simply being uneducated and uninformed turn into full blown mental illness? 
Like I am 100% certain that this woman is deeply mentally ill, but how do 20,000 people on Telegram see some of these claims and think "Yeah this totally reflects reality"?
Does this count as threats of violence?
My favourite thing about this moron is that she both claims to be the Queen of Canada and that Canada is now a Republic.  Someone really ought to buy her a dictionary.
Also, I'd love to hear an actual lawyer's opinion on this one: clearly it's treason to plot to murder the monarch.  What about a case where (as Didulo claims) this has already happened?  She claims that Elizabeth II has already been executed by her people and that Didulo is the new Queen of Canada.  I don't for a moment think a treason prosecution is going to actually happen, but does the law support this as a possibility?
For  background:  
https://www.vice.com/en/article/3aqvkw/qanons-are-harassing-people-at-the-whim-of-a-woman-they-say-is-canadas-queen-romana-didulo
Didulo needs to be institutionalized. I'm not sure if said institution should be prison or a mental health facility, but she cannot be left to her own devices.
Please, tell me more of this *republic* of which you are *the queen*. The concept is... puzzling.
I'd forgot this quack existed.
She should be arrested for posting this shit. That's dangerous. Inciting violence.
Is this person serious or trolling?
Man if anyone belonged in the loonie bin...
The account has been suspended.
Ok , enough is enough, this lunatic needs to be arrested for her own benefit and the safety of everyone else.
That's enough threats she's made against the people of this country.
ex...cuse me?
She doesn’t play politics she just plays make believe and house
This twat has more issues than a newsstand.
Still insane then? Good to know.
Well the only oath we take is to be loyal to Queen Elizabeth II, her heirs and successors, 
She may find that they won’t listen to her.
Who is she exactly?
Because there are many other people with untreated mental illness who can now share and reaffirm misinformation in forms that create a false sense of legitimacy, instead of having that misinformation kept in relative isolation. I don't know how far it would go towards treating the problem, but we should really bring mental health care in line with physical health care in terms of how we support and treat it. We should have done that long ago, but it's becoming a lot more urgent as a result of social media.
She said months ago that anybody administering the vaccine was committing "crimes against humanity".  
Separately she said the punishment for that is two bullets to the head.
Now she's at least lumping the bits together for easy-to-read death threats.
So....it sure as hell is.
Yeah the RCMP dgaf.
r/LEO 
Cops in private groups, what could go wrong?
I’m gonna say my thoughts on this… I’m currently in this town for work( No I don’t work for the PipeLine!) I supported these protesters over the pipe line but now they are making my life difficult because they are now protesting on the tracks. I had some guy come up to me saying do you work for CN, told him no because I work for a American company then he proceeded to say you better not buddy!. Like excuse me! We have nothing to do with the pipe line. Right now we currently trying to get supplies to these northern towns while we lost so much infrastructure near the lower mainland! 
Those are my thoughts/feelings
Tensions and stakes are high so I don't blame the protestor for saying something like that. Have some patience when dealing with land defenders who's home and friends are actively being destroyed and imprisoned.
Unfortunately making life difficult is the only way protests can get attention. Trust me when I say they have worked through other channels to stop this from happening but this is now the road they are forced to take (or block in this case). Disrupting the general public and creating enough attention is the only way politicians will listen, and hurting a companies bottom line is likewise the only way. Companies and government know this so they try to villanize protestors instead of addressing the issue at hand.
During the nationwide CN blockades a couple years ago, CN started laying off its workers to pit the workers against the indigenous protestors. This took away from the real issue (infringing on Indigenous sovereignty and arguably Canadian Law) for the sake of profit and keep the machine moving. Similar strategies have been done with other protests like the BC teachers to get the voters on the govt's side. 
Thanks for you thoughts/feelings though.
Good. May this be just the start of the workers of the world realizing their power as a collective. It's time that we show the greedy capitalists that their time in the sun is over. People deserve far better than they have been receiving as workers for a very long time.
It's time we all come together and demand better treatment, better pay, and sustainable business practices.
It would be awesome if part of their strike conditions was making Bozo pay his taxes.
This is great! All the power to them. It is time to standup to people like Jeff. We no longer want to pay for his trips into space!
Shop local, reuse, resell, up cycle, do the plank.
This is interesting. I’ll try and talk some of my coworkers into striking as well.
I plan on buying absolutely nothing on Friday and Monday. I'm tired of  "shopping" holidays ruining my otherwise peaceful week with a glut of advertisements about "how I will save big".
[deleted]
So Amazon employees in 20 countries plan on quitting their jobs with a wildcat strike.
Good luck with that.
A lot of our quality of life comes at the expense of people in developing nations being exploited on our behalf by capitalists. We don't deserve better it's the people picking out coffee beans and making our phones that deserve better whereas we should be consuming less if we want our planet to remain liveable.
He’s not the CEO anymore
It's all bullshit anyway.   Very few actual deals.
Ok boomer. I do t care about your age, that's boomer mentality.
Your comment is quite ironic, considering almost all your posts are bitching lol.
But yes, we can all tell that you're very confused.
edit: When are you finally moving out of California?
On one of their busiest days of the year.
That's a losers mentality. Them deserving better does not mean we don't deserve better too.
Should Amazon employees keep working in shitty condition just because someone have it worst? Of course not.
That's the mentality that makes people think 'why are these people paid more then me? They should be paid less'
Instead of thinking 'i should be paid more'
This this this. I wish there were more people who thought like this. Keep doing you, you amazing human.
Maybe, just maybe, we *all* deserve better.
He's the Executive Chairman.
That and the products that are "on sale" are terrible. I bought a multi-tool from Amazon a couple years back. It was terrible and lasted me 3 months broke when I had to pull industrial staples from a heavy box. I went into Lee Valley and bought one for a much higher price but I could immediately tell it's going to last me the rest of my life and will only fail if I'm doing stupid stuff with it.
I'll pay extra for good quality.
[removed]
Tldr wealthy family outraged socialized medicine won’t serve them and them alone. There is no mental health or addictions system here unless you’re a millionaire
As long asaddicts are criminals because of prohibition there can be no real help.
They haven't looked into all the options. I know of a program in southern Ontario that accepts private pay around $7000 and the wait is less than a month.
Families get desperate when they want to help their kids and believe that some programs are not up to their standards.
The kid is hurting and the parents are scared and  I feel for them but the system or the info they were givin was not 100% correct.
We do need better care and more resources for mental health and addiction. The system has to be overhauled but there are options,,, problem is finding the resources that are actually out there.
I don't get your point. They need help and can't get it within a reasonable timeframe and cost they can afford. This seems like a failing of our system, rather than anything to do with them being rich.
If your talking about Pine River that program is shit and lots of those kids end up dead or in jail.
It’s capitalism as well. The system isn’t designed to help people long term
It's both.
No not pine river, Westover Treatment center in Thamesville.
Amazing program. I know tons of ppl who got sober there and great aftercare also included in the program.
After the 19 day program aftercare is included for life for free.
Also offers a stage 2 program and codependency treatment As well and they are covered by OHIP.
I don't understand the "them and then alone" bit. You seem to be criticizing them for something but I don't understand what or why.
Sure. What's the "them and them alone" bit apart? I don't see anything in the article indicating selfishnesszl, etc that OP seems to want to criticize them for.
19 days seems reasonable. At Pine River they would hold you hostage for years. Drove alot of kids crazy.
They seem to want highly individualized care in canada immediately but don’t want to pay for it/don’t have the means/don’t want to understand the system is socialized. It’s very selfish because they’re not the only people in the position they’re in, in fact they’re in a better position than many with disposable income to go to another country to pay for rehab
>They seem to want highly individualized care in canada immediately but don’t want to pay for it/don’t have the means/don’t want to understand the system is socialized.
Yes, it's a systemic proboem. I don't think they ever said that they don't want to pay for it, just that it's a problem affecting them and many others.
 >It’s very selfish because they’re not the only people in the position they’re in, in fact they’re in a better position than many with disposable income to go to another country to pay for rehab
Yes, others have the same problem. That doesn't make it selfish.
What are they supposed to do instead? I see three options:
1. Use the existing system, to their own detriment.
1. Fix the existing system.
1. Work outside the system, using their own money.
This is a pretty weak attempt at hating on the rich.
Tense situation at the moment in unceded Gitxsan territory. RCMP just arrested Denzel Sutherland-Wilson, the spokesperson for the Git'luuhl'um'hetxwit wilp.
Background- the RCMP has stationed large numbers of heavily armed police in Gitxsan territory to prevent rail blockades.
It’s just fucking disgusting. I can’t even.
>Division Liaison Team
>The RCMP in British Columbia has created a liaison team responsible for outreach efforts to various groups, associations and communities. The Division Liaison Team was formed to build relationships with various interest groups and communities so that we may assist in facilitating a safe environment for everyone exercising their charter rights. It is the goal of the DLT to work with all groups that are planning and executing events so that they are able to fulfill their objectives in the safest manner for everyone
... Right. In case anyone else was curious about DLT/ELD was. This doesn't seem like relationship building with communities, so you might want to contact your MP and ask that this "team" be disbanded and investigated
This tweet in that thread left me gobsmacked:
https://twitter.com/CBCPitchbot/status/1462469377664733200?s=20
Edit: so good; I believed it!
[deleted]
Pro-Ecocide Bootlickers: “it’s their fault because the RCMP won the wrestling fair and square and uhhhhhh shouldn’t economic development go hand in hand with historic forest fires and flooding?”
Tale as old as time. Awful.
[deleted]
These people need to stop halting progress on this country
In case anyone isn’t aware, CBC Pitchbot is a satire account.
LOL!
Hold on though the two systems are  not overlapping. The band council has jurisdiction over the reservation and the house chiefs (who are not exactly hereditary) over the unceded territory. 
Unless I'm wrong the House chiefs aren't opposing the band's right to agree to the project.  They're opposing the construction of it on their own land. 
Of course this practically kills the project,  but if they theoretically found a way around the Wet’suwet’en Nation they could build it. 
The band's agreement gives them no more right to bludgeon those on unceded land any more than that of the district of Kitimat. 
**Indigenous jurisdictions hold the right to agree to or oppose projects independently.  It needs to operate by consensus,  not tyranny of majority. **
1. That progress currently has people and farms underwater. 2. The protestors position is supported by the courts, look it up.
Lol
3. the clock has run out on climate change and now we have to adapt. You stop halting progress. (to the op, not you not likely)
Standing on train tracks & hoping the Lord will save you. Its ok...stay there.
It’s almost like there are consequences for supporting an anti-science ideology…
People who believe in invisible sky fairies are less likely to believe in science?
Colour me shocked!
Surprising no one
Why am I not surprised?
Yet Catholic schools are not on the list. Why do Catholics get vaccinated but other Christians don't? Funny most Christians don't consider Catholics 'real Christians'.
I’m shocked! Who could have imagined that institutions based on magical fairytales would be anti science?!
“Huinink said at least two-thirds of students come from outside of Hamilton, meaning only about 10 students are included in the data.”  This is a pretty important piece of the puzzle. If one or two families who reside in Hamilton are hesitant at these schools, the data is completely skewed in their favour.  The opposite would be true as well of course. I wonder if it might have been more productive to work with the other public health units to get more useful data for these private schools who pull from a larger area outside of Hamilton.  If the number for the eligible enrolments is truly ~30% then the alarm would be justified, but if it’s actually closer to a ‘typical’ number then this is nothing more than shaming these institutions. The fact that HDCH and Calvin, who pull much more students from within Hamilton than some the schools mentioned in the article, have more typical vaccination rates might indicate that this is the case.
Ok. So they don’t understand that salvation is about eternal life after death.
Weird
Shocking.
So this is why provincial mandates are required.
This has more to do with politics than faith. Time to start taxing these morons.
Religion should never be allowed consideration  for anything pertaining to laws, public health, and any decision to be made based on reality and truth and science.
So people that are like “oh I’m so shocked,” or “they believe if magical sky faeries”…. when I tell you that a disproportionate amount of the black or native community is unvaccinated, would that be your reaction? Fucking bigots. And r/onguardforthee should be ashamed they allow this bullshit.
Haha wow. I just found this thread and saw the description saying “the only Canadian Reddit thread that doesn’t allow bigotry or hate!” And I got excited but then I see this….or does this not count cause hating on the unvaxxed and/or Christians is what the cool kids are doing these days 🙄
I respect other religions even if I don’t agree behind closed doors. That’s what makes us Canadian.
No Jewish schools either. Not sure if there are any in Hamilton, but I know at the Jewish non-profit I work for over 95% of us are vaccinated, and no unvaccinated person is allowed in the building.
Catholics, similar with large chunks of the Jewish faith, seem to have a good relationship with Science and tend to attribute Science as help from God (gods will manifesting through Science or scientists). Mind you that's not all, but a lot.
Definitely "and".
I don't respect them when they put the vulnerable at risk and put a preventable burden on the public healthcare system.
The RCMP has been arresting journalists after they've been informed they are on assignment and carry a formal letter of assignment with them. In a just world they -- well as all the others unlawfully "arrested" would already be released. This entire militarized "police" action needs to be called out and condemned. But let's face it, they're doing exactly what they're meant to.
Didn’t they go after the logging protesters as well? Equal opportunity fuckery and all.
In the long run, a hierarchical society is only possible on a basis of poverty and ignorance. The government must work to maintain the opulence of the wealthy, in this case corporations. And the hand of the federal government is the RCMP. 
No one that has been paying attention is surprised. Always remember that the militarization of police is not for the protection of the general public, we bear the brunt of their force. It’s to impose the will of the wealthy and protect the opulence of the upper class from the wrath of the poor once our ignorance is gone. 
Class solidarity is the only way to cure this condition
Tell me more about how much Trudeau hates the oil industry...
If the people don’t want a pipeline through their land, why can’t they just build the pipeline around it? Ethics aside, is the cost of building a longer pipeline less expensive than using the RCMP to control people?
Hey man. Why is everyone surprised. We’ve been going down hill for a long time.
Yeah that’s exactly what happened.
Took less than 72 hours for the the valley and the island to start a hoarding frenzy due to supply chain break down. These circumstance would be a medium on the disaster Oh shit meter. 
How much more tax would need to be levied taxpayers in order to replace the lost revenue from oil and gas, in order to fix the aging infrastructure and modernize it for the next 30 years?
The RCMP is rotten to the core. Fuck every single one of them. How do we replace them?
I sometimes wonder if infrastructure like the Trans Canada highway or the coast to coast railroad in 1886 were to be built today if anything would actually happen? I doubt it would
That's what you get when the RCMP pension is heavily invested in the parent company of the pipelines
Edit: https://www.vice.com/en/article/g5xwn4/rcmp-pensions-are-invested-in-controversial-gas-pipeline-owner?utm_source=reddit.com
A true indicator of how bought out the govenments of Canada and British Columbia by the corporate powers that be.
The RCMP have a conflict of interest such that their future lies with this pipelines succeeding, pensions and all that.
Daily reminder that indigenous led direct action has halted 1/4 of Canada and the United States greenhouse gas emissions.
These protestors are doing more to prevent climate change the both governments.
1.https://grist.org/protest/indigenous-resistance-has-cut-u-s-and-canadas-annual-emissions/
2.[quoted study - pdf warning](https://www.ienearth.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/09/Indigenous-Resistance-Against-Carbon-2021.pdf)
First thing eh. I mean no troops in Abby... No air lifts right?  What they did was bad indeed but let's not lie to promote our agenda.
Frustratingly convenient how Vancouver announces fuel rationing the same time the raids happen. Stirring up extra shit at just the right time.
Fascism is here in Canada, and it wears a Mountie uniform.
I also like the complete silence we're getting from our leaders about this. My opinion about them totally isn't nosediving right now. /s
Sometimes I am so disgusted by Canada.
[deleted]
Now imagine if China did this, the news would be headline over the flood.
I'm not going to call the study flawed but they buried this at the end:
"While the WindRiver boot offered the best traction, Li said the other brands offer similar treads, just not on the boots Marketplace tested. "
So basically, they tested 1 boot with a treat suited for ice, and others that did not have a similar tread despite having models available.  Sketch...
Do yourself a favour and get a 6" work boot. I have a black pair of Dakotas that are waterproof and warm with Tarantula slip resistant soles. You'll spend 150 but they'll last you years.
I just use my work boots lol
Best use of journalist time ever.
I think that's a good point, why wouldn't they try boots with similar treads for the study, or even each type of tread from each brand?
Also the windriver brand is *shitty*, so poorly constructed they'll just be in a landfill in a year or two
Good stores for that? I want to focus on safety more this winter, after taking a painful and slightly costly fall this autumn that reminded me I should care about these things.
That's what I've done too.
It's marketplace, this is what they do...
I'd start by wondering who funded the study?
Mark's has great selection or Mr Safety Shoes, they're a bit more expensive.
Best use of their budget.
Definitely suspicious. Though I doubt that whoever preformed the study has proper qualifications to make this a truly scientific study.
Before making dumb comments like that you should try actually watching it first.
Best show on the network.
I dunno what's more sad, that it's the best show our public broadcaster has to offer, or that you think that "what boot should you buy?" is a worthy use of time and effort for our public broadcaster
It’s likely only a two minute segment of an episode, but you clearly haven’t watched a single episode of the show…
Yawn, I have seen an episode of marketplace, calm down with the hyperbole.
Yeah, because they did such a good job running the reserves. My sister worked as a police officer near the reserves, she said some of the most depraved shit imaginable. Nonstop violence.
My dad was a contractor assigned to building housing for a reserve in northern BC.
The housing agreement also means yearly maintenance. The crew including my dad show up the next year, the houses were gutted.
There are some reserves having amazing progress in the lower mainland but they tend to be closer to where the profitable industry’s are.
Reserves are horrible places to be in the vast majority of cases. Small sheltered underserved communities with trauma around every corner. 10-20 houses bare minimum services bare minimum infrastructure and high levels of crime. In some cases at least in BC it can seem like some sort of outlaw country from a movie.
Such are reserves. It was their purpose in Canada’s genocidal policy to be hardly hospitable and harsh to the cultures they were “supposed” to preserve.
Don’t forget Trudeau Senior building every single one of those first Nations schools were children were abused. Every. Single. One.
Nobody mentioned him but he was a complicit and morally forfeit individual despite his cosmopolitan and naive attempt to reform the system.
Idk why you think he built every school though that’s false. Also there isn’t a former PM in Canada  not to fault to an extent. It was the foundation of our founding. I wouldn’t try to tie it to any specific PM or Gov.
> Idk why you think he built every school though that’s false. 
Because all the schools were built with federal dollars. I was around in BC at that point, I remember it being a controversial decision. The libs wanted it, the conservatives didn't.
The federal thing is correct, Pierre Trudeau was but 1 prime minister among like 20 something. 
I’m getting the impression you have partisan loyalties here so I’ll say this: the Tories and liberals both supported and to an extent support the genocide policy within regards to indigenous peoples. It was a conservative PM who passed the acts but the party affiliation doesn’t matter. Both parties were doing the same policies.
My advice not that I should offer any is stop being a partisan. It blinds critical thinking on old and wide reaching problems.
The extent of the damage is unfathomable. I can't imagine what it would be like for the people who lives along these routes and whose homes are now inaccessible.
This is just a bit of what the upper class is willing to see happen yearly to sustain their violent wealth addiction.
I wonder how many pick-up truck drivers tried to drive on it.
Its basically an invasion of their unceeded territory.
At the behest of corporate interests during an ongoing national emergency that will soon be getting much worse, weather approches.
Where to begin with how disturbing this is.
The strong do what they can and the weak suffer what they must. Humans really never change
Where are the elected band leaders who approved the project and still want it to move forward?
Imagine if they had the balls to tell the corporations to kindly get fucked. Canada would be a much better place.
This government is super insulting with their smiles and "got your backs" attitudes.  Feel good politics needs to end.  Deals with Saudis but saves a girl from a hotel room if your not following the contradictions yet!
Breaches of treaties are (if I'm not mistaken) violations of UN law. And, of course, mainstream media has absolutely fuck all to say about this.
Constitutional rights mean nothing to these fascist oil industry mercenaries
It stresses me out to no end knowing that corporate interests still supercede our right to a liveable atmosphere or future. Then I'm reminded that people are routinely put through the woodchipper *right now* for standing up for their land and places to live. For their right to prosper in a land that was wrested from them, many generations ago.
To say that "I'm mad" would be disingenuous and miss the mark by several leagues. To say that I'm "fed up" doesn't even begin to cover it. 
I believe in humanity's ability to pull through, and our overall compassion to be what gets us to the turning point. 
I don't know where one begins to reconcile the ashes of their dreams with the needs of today. I don't know how long people have before they collectively break. And I'm not sure it's avoidable anymore. 
But, I do know that if we're ever going to save ourselves, we will need to excise a whole lot of what governs us presently; the fetid, delusional ideals at the core of what defines our societies And, as I've stated about my belief in compassion, I vehemently believe that compassion needs to be at the fore of these changes, but as to how I cannot say. I just want to weap most days. For our kids, for our future, for our present.
For ourselves. 
For those that can't be bothered to entertain the larger picture. For those Bezos and Musk types that are already decrying their intent to throw in the towel on our planet, and ship scores of able-bodied folks into indentured space-servitude.
Our mentalities are what are destroying us. And it's such a simple fix. 
Note: "easy" and "simple" aren't mutually inclusive.
Band council only has jurisdiction on reserve so their approval means nothing
Please cite where the elected council has authority over unceded territory, thanks in advance.
Not violating court injunction I suppose.
Don't bite the hand that feeds you.
Imagine if the UN actually took action on issues? What a world that would be. 😅
[Can't breach a treaty if you never signed one to begin with](https://pyxis.nymag.com/v1/imgs/d6a/dc7/4a5001b7beea096457f480c8808572428b-09-roll-safe.2x.rsquare.w700.jpg)
Agreed, however I am certian many more are now aware who controls govenment.
The Supreme Court outright stated that their rights matter, until it runs up against the interests of capital in this country. $ always comes first, fuck your rights.
They'll just sell you bottled oxygen, it's the neoliberal capitalist way!
I don't have one. I don't fully understand  the difference between the two leader types.
I thought the elected chiefs ran the territory, ie the government, and the hereditary chiefs were ceremonial.
You mean the hand that's actively trying to expedite our extinction?  Fuck 'em.
Skinamerinky dinky dink
Lois died six years ago.  👻
Oh man they can’t even afford to retire in Canada and they are Canadian treasures.
Skinamerinky Dinky Dink (Taylor's Version)
Crazy timing, I just started playing their songs for my kid this week.
:O
Skinamerinky dooooo
Still slaps.
The writing was supported with a Ouija board.
I love youuuuuu
I sure do love reading about how **our** tax dollars are being used to fund militarized police to travel to remote regions of the country to imprison minority groups. (*in jail facilities that are also funded with our tax dollars*)
All because those minority groups aren’t a fan of the giant industrialized planet cancer that is being forcefully constructed across the land they live in. 
Oh and the best part is seeing how apparently the majority of users in r/Canada entirely support all of this, because ‘it’s the law’ and ‘thems the rules’ and ‘this is democracy’. 
Democracy has clearly failed us all if this is the result.
It honestly disgusts me so many Canadians are still willing to defend this country's treatment and extermination of First Nations people and land.
Those kinds of people only like rules when they are being used to control minorities. 
The minute you tell them to get a vaccine or wear a mask they suddenly demand the right to individual freedom and autonomy, even at the risk of others and their own lives.
I'm the first paragraph when they mentioned 'Facebook Dating' you figured out quickly that the guy is the dummy in this story.
What an absolute moron
It's not a cryptocurrency scam, it's just a scam. We don't call regular money scams "fiat currency scams" but somehow whenever crypto is involved in a scam its automatically a cryptocurrency scam. This is a Facebook dating scam, but somehow crypto takes the blame.
The whole article is a laundry list of red flags. I *want* to feel bad for this guy, but I just can’t.
This guy is dumb, crypto doesn't change that
Omg crypto is a scam!?!? What about NFT's?!?
So, has anyone told David he probably wasn't even talking to a woman?
Idiot and his money soon parted.
Ok, listen up people.  It's like I tell my daughter: everyone you meet online is a 35 year old man.  Just get that lodged in your brain and you will come out better in almost every scenario.
My daughter: "But she said she was my age!"
Me: "That's exactly what a 35 year old man would say."
Crypto is unregulated, it is the Wild West, the opportunity to be hoodwinked is massive.
See, I thought this was organized like how an acquaintance fell for OneCoin- it's like BitCoin but the next big thing! Except you couldn't mine it yourself. And you didn't have a wallet. Or a way to view previous transactions. I even told them "this is a ponzi scheme, here's how this doesn't work" and they still fell for it.
This? This is just a typical 419 scam except with romance instead of a Nigerian prince and cryptocurrency instead of money.
A fool and his money are soon parted.
No bloodsuckers are needed when you open your own vein and bleed out, you prize moron.
I have a difficult time feeling bad for anyone getting bilked by crypto scams...You're engaging in a wholly unregulated, wholly speculative market and yet you expect NOT to get scammed?!
Anyone know if it’s a good idea to let someone put a hotspot miner in your house someone put one at my girlfriends and it kinda worrying because they hardly know him
Go big or go home I guess
A fool and his money part ways.
A fool and his crypto reunite.
What was the platform he used that got scammed off of?
I dont have sympathy for the wealthy.
Pro tip: Use a comma when using dollar figures because the human eye finds it difficult to parse so many zeroes in a row ($400,000)
Also, while I feel bad for the dude, you have to have been born yesterday to fall for such a scam.
Who are these lucky individuals who fail up and manage to be duped by a Facebook dating scAm? I get it, people are lonely, but this moron managed to make it through life accumulating wealth and no one managed to scam him until this point,  makes you wonder about the intelligence level of the average middle manager.
It's sad that we have a 'conspiracy caucus' in one of our leading political parties
The kids being angry is a great touch.  95% (!!!) of 12-17 year olds here in QC are vaxxed.  Seems they can filter internet BS much better than boomers, when it comes to serious matters.  (We all use the Net for BS silly shit, but shouldn't when it's...not silly.)
What's truly lame is most of them are vaccinated but don't want say it publicly for fear of eroding the libertarian/far right/conspira-billy elements in their voter base.
We have a few of them in BC where they are denying climate change. They are waist deep in water denying climate change and covid. They are not being helpful.
If people just shut the fuck up about "muh freedumbs" for _two weeks_ we could have been done with this as a society and moved the fuck on. It is the people claiming to "fight for our freedoms" that are preventing us from reclaiming them.
The government didn't take anyone's freedom. We gave some of it up willingly because in a society, that's what you do. You trade some amount of personal freedom for the betterment of everyone. You don't get to benefit from the protections of society without shouldering the burden of any responsibility.
If antivax/maskers don't want the responsibility, fine, ship off to an island or some isolated plot up north. Feel free to die alone where you won't get anyone else hurt.
Love the addition of the two kids wearing their mask properly while the other dude isn’t
They are really just upset that they used to get Lollipops when they were little and now they don’t, so they blame it on socialism and communism, and bigpharma and corporations. Very confused people.
The kid telling him to grow up would have been better.
Kid should be yelling at him to pull his mask up. 🤣
Looks like this depicts the cons in the correct line. And acting like what I expect.
Getting vaccinated (or letting it be known they are vaccinated) is a real problem for Conservative MPs. A large chunk of their “base” are batshit crazy on the subject. In the end this is all about keeping their jobs and appearing compliant will lose them a lot of support.
My favourite thing is, a month ago they would be going on and on about their right to choose and their right to determine their own medical treatments....
.....and once child vaccinations were on the horizon, suddenly they keep talking about "our" children- that a parent shouldn't be trusted to make the decision for their children, and they shouldn't have the right to choose.
Almost like they were always full of shit
Love it.
that’s a good one
Lol
[removed]
[removed]
R/im14andthisisdeep.
[removed]
[removed]
Great for Buffy, she is such an outspoken activist ( at the cost of her career) and deserving of such, and more.
Buffy is so so so amazing and always has been. One of my favorite moments 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cW1\_IkcoEmU
>My girlfriend Annie Mae talked about uranium  
Her head was filled with bullets and her body dumped  
The FBI cut off her hands  
And told us she'd died of exposure  
Bury my heart at Wounded Knee
OG badass.  Here's a 1995 video of her performing that one. - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rK83Pl8NZOA
btw - the autobiography by Warner was a really decent read, if anyone was debating whether or not to pick it up.
Never needed a stamp so bad lol
Great video I’m definitely going to explore more of her discography
Sweet.  You're in for an awesome time.  Buffy's wildly prolific, so there's plenty to choose from.  If you're new to her work, I wanna rec my favourites - Little Wheel Spin and Spin, No No Keshagesh and Priests of the Golden Bull.
Possibly her most famous though is Universal Soldier, a song she wrote back in the early 60s as something for the soldiers she was seeing come back from Vietnam.  A singer named Donovan re-recorded it and it became a huge anti-war anthem.
To quote the 1990s, no duhhhhhhh.
This makes me so angry. I mean, "Never attribute to malice that which is adequately explained by stupidity", but like wtf. Those who can drive are allowed to renew health cards online, but those who cannot must go personally? In what world does this make sense? The photo ID card is supposed to be identical to the driver's license for the purpose of identification, so why is this happening?
Different ministries different requirements. Pretty par the course. Hopefully now that it has been pointed out it can be fixed.
This is classic bad software. They started with DLs, pushed out IDs out to v2 and launched V1 so they can say they are done.
I hate this shit. Rushing out tech causes so much pain, but ml managers always wanna do it so they can brag about how fast/cheap they got it done.
I mean it *could* be that all these donors are correct. 
It could also be that none of them want to be read in to the fact that the were scammed though. If they got tax rebates for their donations I'm sure they have a lot of reasons to demand that everyone look at charity they donated to as legitimate.
It will be an interesting W5.
Because it’s always been a moveable post and another reason not to get vaccinated. Once again now that it’s available they will find another reason - because they don’t actually have one other then being contrarian.
Just the goalpost moving yet again for the anti vax. They will be using Bumbles to push for Sputnik next.
Grocery stores should be socialized, and the supply chain nationalized.
There’s a No Frills 15 minutes away, or another Valumart 20 minutes away.
A community of 800 people doesn’t support its own grocery store.
I completely understand that this would be really difficult, especially for seniors, but I dont think that most towns that small have a grocery store. I am in a town of 3000 and the closest grocery store is 15 minutes away.
Time for a co-op.
I disagree. However there should be a national food program that you sign up for that delivers needed supplies of food, etc, to your home.
> A community of 800 people doesn’t support its own grocery store. 
800 people is more than enough to support a grocery store. What you mean is that it's more profitable for the oligopolies to make make people travel.
So you want nationalized distribution of groceries. One might even say, the supply chain.
Prove it. Valumarts are franchised. I sincerely think if it were profitable someone would’ve bought it. And honestly, whether they go to this franchise or the other franchise the profit margin for Loblaws is the same since they don’t own or operate the physical store, and the demand for food didn’t change.
I want a program to assist people who need groceries get thier basic needs covered, similar but more expensive and better run to the food banks. But not the nationalizing of the grocery industry or businesses. 
With today's technology and quick delivery methods there isn't a reason why you can sign up for a program like this that is nationally or provisionally run.
You can have both of these situations.
Value Mart's kind of on the upper end of expenses for Loblaws stores right?
But why have giant, private grocery store corporations? Why have Westons? These are inelastic markets, incredibly easy to predict the demand in a given area and cheap to scale up when you integrate all the shipping and storage. Profit motive is a strict inefficiency, there's no rational cause for privatization just as with roads or medical care.
Yeah, Valumart tends to be in smaller upper-middle income areas.
In Calgary we have Co-Ops competing against the private chains. They are ok. Ain’t a huge difference from a consumer perspective.
Why have private buisness? Why not nationalist everything remove private ownership and have everyone make the exact same wage despite qualifications? /s
I hate how classism prevails through grocery store chains but it would be interesting to see if any company would replace the current tier of pricing in St Isodre.
I figure if there's no grocery store at all after valuMart's gone I'm sure they would take anything chain wise - and yet with the companies knowing that would they not put a high-end location because it's the only one in town? (Like a Sobeys or a Zehrs vs no frills or foodbasics)
Why engage in conversation when you can make straw man arguments?
A market of 800 people really isn’t worth it, especially since the next grocery stores are only 15 minutes away. Like if you break down that 800 people into a 6 day week and only 8 hours a day (average household in Ontario is 3 people) they’re averaging 5.5 customers an hour. That’s pretty low. In comparison the town I live in has 18000 people and only had 2 Valumarts and no other grocers. The next major grocers are 15 minutes away and it doesn’t bother me at all to go there when the local ones are closed.
There isn't a reasonable argument to nationalize all grocery stores. I can see an argument for creating a separate crown corporation that delivers or has small distribution centers in towns for essential food stuff, but not for the nationalization of the grocery industry.
That is some telling math. 
I would say my hometown is oversaturated with grocers. And I also haven't lived in a town of 800 people so I guess I can't quite understand ; going 15-20 minutes by car though isn't so bad for food.
Shame about the situation. 
But it really isn't sustainable I guess .
He gave you his arguments, and you reframed it as everyone should be paid the same for different work and nothing should be private. You put words in his mouth instead of refuting his points about a stable market being optimal for national control. 
 Do you believe in your opinion enough to discuss the points, or just argue with people for the argument?
Thats ok Canada also refused to sign on the UN indigenous rights declaration also.
Because given the recent Invasion on unceeded territory by the RCMP, Canada believes the indigenous have no rughts.
The genocide continues.
Palestinians are to Israel as First Nations are to Canada
Controlling their natural resources (i.e. land) is the entire point
Liberals are after all so progressive
*Looks at our history with indigenous peoples*
Checks out.
We have this idea that we're the good guys.  Votes like this, plus us pursuing regime change in Haiti and Venezuela, and a whole bunch of shady mining operations in Colombia and central Africa, show otherwise.
Until they are told to get a vaccine, then some how rules fall behind rights on the list of priorities.
Bunch of fucking LARPers. Fizzing at the slit for any opportunity to dress up in Zero Dark Thirty cosplay. 
Tell me why police needs a Fast helmet with IR strobes and decked AR-15s.
Thank God violent crime is at such a low we can spare fucking SWAT teams to go arrest some grandmas.
The cops are not our friends,
The cops are not our friends,
They take our cash,
Then stomp our ass,
The cops are not our friends
Mercenaries for the Oil & Gas industry courtesy of Canadian tax payers. 
#shameful
I love it when cops say "they don't make the rules" like yea you didn't make the rules you just volunteered to enforce them.
Fuck the RCMP. Fuck them all
**Imagine needing assault rifles to arrest the elderly. Welcome to the oligarchy**
RCMP in a nutshell
I vote. I engage in political discourse with those around me who wish to. But fuck what am I supposed to do here this shit feels so hopeless.
We should be taking down current gas lines not putting up new ones.
Gets paid to enforce them too
Serious question: the title and Comments seem to imply that the police involved should have made a different choice. Now, I’m all for respecting First Nations and First Nations land, but I don’t see what they could have done. Just not followed the orders? Then what? Seems as though they would have brought someone else in to do it. Again, serious question, I am curious what other options there would be.
[removed]
Start switching put the photos with famous police forces that "Were just doing their job".
Can’t believe the UN called us out for this. Canada! Of all countries…
Good they should clear the protest the indigenous leaders want them gone to.
"I'm just a prick who wants to feed his family and didn't sign up for this but hey, I'm just a prick" fixed it lol, have fun freezing your ass off over sacred grass or whatever.
[removed]
Because they are increasingly militarized.  Their reputation trades on the image of a beat cop decked out with a nightstick and a revolver, but their reality is that of a paramilitary force.  The only beats the RCMP do these days are the ones they dole out to handcuffed natives and environmental protestors.
More Great Reset shit eh
The RCMP cannot be trusted to act objectively in upholding the law.
I usually think the "Fuck Trudeau" crowd are a bunch of mouth breathing conservative morons,  but in this case...
Fuck Trudeau.
Fuck him for not living up to his environmental promises.  
Fuck him for sending in the mounties to stomp all over native rights.
Fucking liberals, they talk like progressives and then act like conservatives.   I'm so out of patience for their two faced fuckery.
ACAB
More interesting is mainstream media is not covering this either.
I don't care about any of the organizations involved in this.
Jailing journalists isn't very Canadian. As soon as their identity was confirmed and validated, they ought to have been released.
This is some authoritarian bullshit.
You are correct! And [here’s one reason why.](https://www.vice.com/en/article/g5xwn4/rcmp-pensions-are-invested-in-controversial-gas-pipeline-owner?utm_source=reddit.com)
Yeah they like to pick an choose which laws they enforce. Was a thing in YK a few years ago the RCMP just decided to stop enforcing public drunkenness laws. And people wonder why the downtown then went to shit…
> for sending in the mounties
Are the RCMP acting in a federal capacity in this case? I thought they were acting in their double-hatted role as the provincial police force in BC, and therefore subject to the provincial government’s authority.
Neoliberalism is just conservatism with PR.
If JT gave a fuck and actually believed anything he said he'd pull them immediately and have them release all those arrested... and then fire everyone involved in ordering this to happen.
But it's a federal party and they are all the exact same.    Get these RCMP fuckers out filling sandbags, moving rocks and serving dinners in Southern BC instead of being gestapo criminals.
Would be better if he hadn’t supported this project, ie if the federal government hadn’t approved it, but this is Horgan’s baby, entirely within BC, BC RCMP, and the AG of BC has the authority to intervene with the BC RCMP. 
The PM can send in the military if he used the Emergencies Act, but can not direct the BC RCMP (or the federal RCMP, who investigate political corruption, extremist groups, criminal organizations, monet laundering, etc). 
This is RCMP contracted by BC as provincial police following orders from a BC court. That’s why pressure should be applied to the AG in BC and Horgan, who can’t order around law enforcement either but could influence the AG, like by making public statements (or having private discussions) about the BC RCMP arresting journalists, etc.
**"Cut a liberal, and a fascist bleeds."**
Said someone once
>More interesting is mainstream media is not covering this either.
Well that's just untrue.
[CBC ](https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/british-columbia/15-arrests-journalists-wetsuweten-cgl-1.6256696) has been reporting on this story since it broke. The article I linked to above was in the top 5 stories of the news app. The article in the link was published this morning.
I'm not sure how much more 'mainstrram' it gets in Canadian media than the CBC.
You can be pissed off about the RCMP without lying about the details.
CBC, Global, CTV, the Star, Vancouver Sun, are all reporting on the journalists being arrested. Not there on the ground but at least reporting on the arrests.
[deleted]
Uh no, it's not. It is an economic approach that favours free market capitalism, free trade, and reduced government spending. 
It has been the dominant economic force in North America since NAFTA. It has been pushed by both liberals and conservatives here in Canada. 
I think what you were trying to say is that Trudeau is a a faux-progressive, which he absolutely is.
Today they report on happenings two days ago?
They are contracted by the province as a provincial police force, and following the orders of the court.
>It is an economic approach that favours free market capitalism, free trade, and reduced government spending. 
>It has been the dominant economic force in North America since NAFTA. It has been pushed by both liberals and conservatives here in Canada.
NAFTA was first implemented in 1994. That said neo-liberal policy and free-market capitalism has been the dominant economic force in North America WAYYYY before that (70s/80s).
As for the feasibility of it, NA citizens have seen the biggest stagnation in real wages under free-market capitalism.
Here is a [graph of real Canadian hourly wages](https://o.aolcdn.com/images/dims?crop=513%2C488%2C0%2C0&quality=85&format=jpg&resize=630%2C599&image_uri=http%3A%2F%2Fo.aolcdn.com%2Fhss%2Fstorage%2Fmidas%2Faf8468fa4998b8d2df3a1cef6b72fb0c%2F206653881%2FINEQUALITY%2BAVERAGE%2BHOURLY%2BWAGE.jpg&client=a1acac3e1b3290917d92&signature=f757976f395fbbfbe705a7048630bbebb9a9a003) showing that since about the mid 1970s, the real Canadian hourly wage has barely moved.
They're reporting on the happenings of the last two days*
You could've just responded with "oops I was wrong"
Nothing says free press like arresting the press
[deleted]
This shit is disgusting and shameful
So much respect for the protesters and land defenders. They're fighting for all of our futures. Our govt keeps supporting world-destroying fossil fuel policies. I mean BC has experienced two climate emergency related disasters this year and what's the govt priority? Making sure we burn more world-destroying fossil fuel. Smh
At a time when the province is dealing with one of their biggest climate change crisis in recent history. Read the room, colonizers.
There are so many reasons that government and law enforcement are in the wrong here. Violating indigenous sovereignty, blocking the press, excessive force, climate ignorance. All in pursuit of alleged economic gains, which are, again, inextricably tied to a resource that we need to be more responsible with. There is absolutely no reasonable defense for the actions being taken here, or in Fairy Creek for that matter.
Just the RCMP doing RCMP shit. That's gonna be an ACAB from me, bud.
RCMP are nothing but terrorists.
The comments in the similar thread in /r/Canada are ... shocking.  Normally they are against police brutality as I recall.  But on this matter they are so strongly pro-RCMP.
I just want to say that the R / canada thread for this article is reaaaaaaally bad... Like I knew it was gunna get pretty sus in there with these themes... but damn.
Thank you for the space to engage in level headed discourse.
Oh, so it's just Tuesday in Canada then?
Hahaha I always laugh when there’s a journalist that thinks they’re above the law and the public should be outraged that a journalist was arrested….  If notice is given for individuals to leave a protest, journalists aren’t exempt from a court injunction… At that point they’re violating the law.
Saw this earlier, this should be top comment.
From the article
>“The way that pension capital often works, is that most beneficiaries have little idea in what their pension funds are investing in until people are called on it,” he said. “My guess is that most beneficiaries of PSP don't know.”
>Rowe said he doubted that these investments would directly affect policing decisions made by the RCMP.
It's hardly different to a blind trust if almost nobody will check what's inside, and even if they check
>4.5 percent in the global natural resource industry
Is almost nothing, so nobody in the RCMP will actually care or let that affect their judgement, and for once I can say about the RCMP that it was probably not made in bad faith.
Everything else about the RCMP though, that's another story. Let's keep the outrage for stuff that is actually outrageous, there's plenty when it comes to the RCMP.
"Uh oh, they're also invested in Tesla.  They'll have to do Elon Musk's bidding."
Holy shit.  What an obscene conflict of interest with such huge costs to the environment, the First Nations people and our Reconciliation efforts.  Shame!!!
I agree, acting uawfully in trying to prevent a gas line that has been given the green light by the Supreme Court of B.C. is both digusting and shameful.
It’s natural gas, not oil. CGL = Coastal Gas Link
If you have evidence that their sovereignty is being violated I'd love to see it
I can't stand to read the comments in r/Canada anymore. I had to unsubscribe because seeing articles in my feed would make me curious to check it out. The shit I would read would wreck my whole morning.
So we’re putting a positive spin on our descent back to tenant housing?
This sounds depressing.
Or we ban air bnb and put that housing back in the market
/r/aboringdystopia
This is some premium-quality rage bait. What's next, some out of touch tech industry sociopath proposing a high-density feedlot as a housing solution for millennials?
People aren't "housing hungry", housing is a human right and the market has utterly failed at supplying it to the youngest generations of Canadians, most of whom who now look to be shut out of any chance of ever living a decent life independently, let alone starting a family. 
Normalizing living in fucking dorms in your 30s and 40s because the wealthiest and their influencers in government want to hoard even more money and property isn't the answer.
>This ~~sounds~~ depressing
is
This. The whole housing crisis was kicked off by air bnb. Local municipalities should have come down hard on that bullshit. 
3 years ago, my friends, a couple in Toronto, needed to move to a new flat. Every single place they looked at was an air bnb apartment, priced through the roof. They *finally* found a basement apartment in their price range but it was a brutal slog to even find it.
I wonder if the union supports the TTC charging their employees for the tests that they’ll have to administer to the unvaccinated employees.
Regular gun owners only get thrown under a *figurative* bus. Gunsmiths get special treatment.
Well of course not, he still needs to decide what happened.
Takes time to ensure the story matches the evidence.
To be fair, why bother to interview someone you're just going to exonerate anyway?
> QS is promising to increase the minimum wage, which is currently $13.50 an hour, to $18 an hour “the day it takes power.”
> Arguing Quebecers work too much, QS also wants to reduce the official workweek to 35 hours, with a minimum four weeks of vacation for all. There would also be one statutory holiday a month. The typical Canadian workweek today is between 37.5 and 40 hours.
> To encourage the use of public transit, a QS government would reduce transit fares by 50 per cent for all with the long-term goal of eventually making all transit free.
> For seniors, QS wants to create a “public and universal” pension system, plus massively boosting home care for people who want to stay in their homes.
> For youth, QS would lower the legal age to vote, from 18 to 16.
> While Legault refuses to recognize systemic racism exists in Quebec , the QS resolution states: “To recognize the reality of systemic racism in Quebec society, QS commits itself to launching a investigative commission on systemic racism and to apply its recommendations.”
> QS’s No. 1 priority remains fighting climate change. While the CAQ’s greenhouse gas reduction target is to reduce emissions to 37.5 per cent of 1990 levels, QS goes farther, setting a target of 45 per cent by 2030.
> The goal is for Quebec to be carbon neutral by 2050. QS also proposes to create public network of electric trains for passengers and goods.
> QS is also not shying away from its goal of making Quebec an independent country. If elected, QS pledges to create a constituent assembly composed of individuals elected by universal suffrage, which would be tasked with drawing up a draft constitution for Quebec.
> The draft constitution would be submitted to the population in a referendum vote.
Go QS!
Quebec is a province of Canada as much as Texas is a State of the USA. Neither should leave thier country. They would both be worse off if either did. But a bunch of that stuff does sound nice.
Everything on the list is objectively good and if they lead, the rest of the country may follow by example.
Plenty of countries that acquired independence throughout history got better off. No one knows for sure how it would turn out for Quebec, but I don't see how you can arrive at the conclusion that, without a doubt, it would be better off staying in Canada.
‘’Algeria and Vietnam are parts of France just as much as Texas is a state of the USA. Neither should leave their country.’’
As a Quebecer, part of me agrees with you; the concern that we're better off as a province is always present and honestly that's what's always kept me opposed to separation. If we had a referendum today, I'd vote 'no'; our current provincial government isn't competent enough to lead a nation. The other part of me understands though that if Quebec gets a provincial government that's more intent than our federal leaders on solving the issues we currently face as a society, going our own way would be a proposition worth considering. It's not as simple as saying "well we're part of Canada so we should always be." There's hundreds of years of cultural differences, some still bitter, and the pros and cons of being part of this greater whole on the table for many here.
well ya, plenty counties that were exploited got better, but you would be hard pressed to say that Quebec is in the same boat as like, india under british colonial rule, or vietnam under french colonial rule. 
How could Quebec BENEFIT from losing the economies of scale that come with being part of a larger country. having to cross a border to get to Ontario or the Maritimes, losing equalization payments, having to form their own military, having to negotiate their own trade deals without the leverage that comes from being part of a larger entity.
I mean, I 150% get what people mean. I know at any point even New York City could become a city state. But I think it's economic suicide. IF Quebec left, east and west Canada would be split. Also, if Quebec and Canada split, we'd no longer be the 9th largest economy in the world. This doesn't even address how the Maritimes and west canada would do things with the St Lawrence seaway now out of Canada's control.   
For this to work in any way, Canada and the Republique de Quebec would need to make an EU-like union.  But at that point, why'd they leave in the first place.
I mean, Québec *was* exploited. 
And it's not that we would benefit economically from leaving, more that it wouldn't hurt as much as a lot of english canadians say. And there are other factor in the equation. For me, the right of a nation to selfdetermine is more important than a few years of good economy.
With the current economic conditions (which is a metric that can change very quickly), Québec would lose a bit, economically. That’s something that needs to be addressed.
I don’t really care about the rest. Why is it important that Canada is geographically unified? Why is it important to be the 9th largest economy?  Why is it bad that Québec would get exclusive control over the Saint-Laurent, which is on its territory? The opinion of Canadians from the RoC is irrelevant in that situation. France lost money when Algeria became independent but you won’t see a single Algerian cry over it.
I see the oil company managed to hire dozens of uniformed police officers to bulldoze through people trying to protect our land. Yet if I call 911 it could take hours for one car to show up. Canada sold out.
Now my understanding of federal and indigenous law is poor at best, but aren't the natives supposed to effectively have agency over their own land? Like if they dont want something to happen there, then it doesnt happen? If someone could clarify that would be super!
What I do know is that any issue the natives have has to be resolved on a federal level. And it clearly looks like its being "resolved" by strong arming them. You figure with all the mass graves and the effort being put in to attempt to make up for those wrongs, the day of reconciliation and whatever else that the Federal government would be past these colonial tactics of pushing them out of the way to "get things done" when negotiations don't work. ffs.
Canada is sending in the military to help flood victims, I guess the officers were too busy protecting an oil company.
I'm so fucking ashamed of this country.
Didn't we *just* have our first National Day for Truth and Reconciliation this year? Fuck.
Yeah, yeah, arresting journalists, *that's* a good look for Canada.
The big misconception that I’m seeing on these posts all over Reddit is that the elected chiefs are the ultimate authority and voice. Debunking that:
- The elected chiefs don’t have responsibility for the land that the pipeline is on. CGL paid them for permission to use someone else’s land for a pipeline, why wouldn’t they say yes?
- The hereditary chiefs are responsible for taking care of the unceded land (even the Supreme Court said so in 2014). Therefore, they have further interests than just money, and need to think about the long-term future of the land and people.
- The elected chiefs are an Indian Act creation which were unilaterally placed on the Wet’suwet’en, they didn’t just come up with them on their own.
From what I’m reading from a lot of comments on Reddit, it seems like people just assume that everyone on the land is best off with an elected capitalist democratic system and that these poor people are being repressed from their right to make money in the name of conserving the land.
big heroes, defending capitalism and wrecking the global for their children.
I treated Afghan's with so much more respect than these fucking RCMP "officers" when I deployed. What is with these cops in military dress/weapons? They are getting it all wrong.
[deleted]
[deleted]
Yet again, the RCMP bring shame to our nation. How long will we continue to accept these taxpayer paid thugs and brutes representing us on the world stage?
Geeze, Canada still has many reserves that are on boil water advisories or just straight up don’t have clean water yet the people trying to protect it are arrested. I understand it’s a lot deeper of an issue than that, but it’s pretty sad this is happening.
If you would like to support the efforts of the land defenders:
[Become a donor](https://www.yintahaccess.com/becomeadonor)
[Take action](https://www.yintahaccess.com/take-action-1)
[Help fundraise](https://www.yintahaccess.com/fundraisingprotocol)
Oil is ruining this worlds ecosystem and this indigenous community is trying to save their small portion of land. Just to have these officers abuse them and break the law written by this country. I guess raping and killing 1000’s of children wasn’t enough.
Dear Pigs, if you wanna look like a soldier, then man up and be one. Always wanting to look like SOF, but if you went on a SOF mission you’d piss your little panties.
And people wonder why indigenous people don’t trust the government
Why the fuck is the gov't still allowing stuff like this to happen? Like what the serious fuck?
No point arguing- read Bury my Heart at Wounded Knee. You either have one or you don’t.
Not a good look Canada.
Link To Full Statement: [https://caj.ca/blog/CAJ\_calls\_for\_immediate\_release\_of\_arrested\_journalists\_reporting\_from\_Wet\_suwet\_en](https://caj.ca/blog/CAJ_calls_for_immediate_release_of_arrested_journalists_reporting_from_Wet_suwet_en)
# CAJ CALLS FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE OF ARRESTED JOURNALISTS REPORTING FROM WET’SUWET’EN
The Canadian Association of Journalists (CAJ) demands the RCMP immediately release award-winning photojournalist Amber Bracken and documentarian Michael Toledano from police custody with their belongings. The two were illegally arrested by RCMP officers late yesterday afternoon while reporting on the construction of a contentious natural gas pipeline in Wet’suwet’en territory in northern British Columbia.    
“As was the case this past summer in Fairy Creek, and several other instances before it, the RCMP has gone outside the law in its efforts to prevent the press from covering events taking place in the public interest. It is an absolute disgrace,” said Brent Jolly, CAJ president. “In fact, in late September, Justice Douglas Thompson of the Supreme Court of British Columbia refused to extend an injunction around Fairy Creek on Vancouver Island because of police misconduct.”  
“On multiple occasions, courts and quasi-judicial bodies have been clear that restrictions on media are unjustified in a free and democratic society. Whether through open defiance, or downright ignorance, the RCMP continues to act with outright impunity in defying these legal orders. This audacious subversion of Canadian law cannot — and will not — be tolerated.”   
At this point in time, the CAJ is unsure where Bracken or Toledano’s camera equipment is located. If it is with police, the CAJ demands that their property be returned to them, with the contents intact.     
On Thursday, the RCMP detained independent filmmaker Melissa Cox, who was later released without charges. This incident marks the second time Cox has been detained while covering a land dispute related to the Wet’suwet’en territory. In March 2020, she was charged with mischief and trespassing at a railway blockade in New Hazelton, B.C. Those charges were thrown out of court last summer.   
Both Bracken and Toledano are known to the RCMP as journalists, having spent considerable amounts of time reporting on the land disputes associated with the construction of the Coastal GasLink project. Bracken, who last year was one of three journalists awarded with the CAJ’s Charles Bury Award for her outstanding contributions to journalism in Wet’suwet’en, was on assignment for The Narwhal. Bracken was specifically chosen for protecting the public’s right to see events unfolding at Wet'suwet'en despite threats of arrest at an earlier conflict. Toledano has been living in the Wet’suwet’en territory for the past three years as a member of the media to create a documentary called “Yintah,” which will be airing on national television in 2022.  
The RCMP stated the reason for arresting the two was because they had “embedded” with the protestors, which has never been illegal in Canada. Newfoundland and Labrador Supreme Court Justice Derek Green affirmed these rights when he found in favour of journalist Justin Brake who faced criminal and civil charges after spending several days inside the Muskrat Falls site covering a protest that shut work down at the project in 2016. The civil charges were dismissed in 2019 by Justice Green. The criminal charges, too, were subsequently dropped.   
“The Narwhal is extremely disturbed that photojournalist Amber Bracken was arrested for doing her job while reporting on the events unfolding in Wet’suwet’en territory,” said Carol Linnitt, executive editor of The Narwhal. “The RCMP are refusing to release Bracken, in violation of her charter rights. We strongly condemn the RCMP for this behaviour and all violations of press freedoms in this country.”  
In response to the arrests, an outpouring of support for Bracken and Toledano has been expressed online by fellow journalists and press freedom groups. Bail hearings for Bracken and Toledano are scheduled for Monday in Prince George.   
The arrest of Bracken and Toledano is the latest instance of Canadian police detaining journalists who are simply trying to do their jobs. In addition to Cox, law enforcement also arrested Indigenous journalist and podcast host Karl Dockstader who was covering a land dispute in Ontario. Those charges were withdrawn.  
“This militarized police force, and others, continue to arrest journalists despite the fact that doing so is illegal, knowing charges will never stick,” said Jolly. “They are now openly defying the courts, the law, and operating outside the norms of a democracy. One can only conclude that their sole reason is to keep the public from witnessing their actions.”   
The CAJ calls on Minister of Public Safety Marco Mendicino to instruct the RCMP to immediately drop any charges against Bracken and Toledano. Mendicino must also tell the RCMP to stop arresting journalists.   
For more information, please contact:   
Brent Jolly   
President, Canadian Association of Journalists  
(289) 387-3179  
brent@caj.ca
Defund the fucking RCMP. These shit-for-brains Pinkertons have been doing the bidding of white capital since their establishment - but the veneer of serving Canadians generally is finally off. Let them be reduced to the musical ride and a bad memory.
You watch there be calls for UN observers over this.  Aboriginals protesting pipeline getting arrested could be spun as them as the villains or the victims depending on your bias but WTF are they doing arresting journalists?  
Typically when armed government forces arrest journalists covering protests, those armed forces are on the wrong side of history.
I wonder if any of those "good cops" put a stop to the journalists being arrested.
I assume we'll never know, since if they tried to put a stop to it they probably got fired unfortunately.
Yes. He's correct. Nobody likes him.
I like him
As a question: for what reasons?
Our everything is unprepared for climate change.
Canada as a whole is not prepared for the climate crisis. 
At least 2/3rds of voters keep empowering either lazy liberal half measures, or deliberately harmful conservative accelerationism. 
We need to abandon the right wing politics which have and continue to create our problems.
My MP is a member of a mainstream political party that voted to not recognize climate change. I am not hopeful.
Just wait till the Middle East becomes a desert, the climate refugees with ravage our healthcare system.
True.
Came here to say exactly that.
No one is prepared for climate change.
When climate change gets to the point where shit really starts to hit the fan, it'll be the greatest disaster in history, in every country at once. The only thing worse than being in the deep end is when everyone else is in there with you.
The sad thing is even if Canada does take extreme measures it still won't be enough. I'm in Asia right now and the air is terrible most days, like when forest fire season is at its peak in BC, but it's from factories. And there is no concern about packaging. Everything comes with excess plastic waste. Their ketchup bottles are wrapped in plastic ffs. 4 kiwis inside a hard plastic case. The whole world needs to drastically change and I'm finding it very hard not to get depressed and go full doomer right now when I try so hard to minimize my impact in Canada and then come here and see unacknowledged it all seems.
Of course it is. They’re currently fighting the natives in court over this - spending millions so they can pay them less to “reconcile”. The entire agreement is a sham. Get them drinking water. Help them build community supports to work through generations of trauma, stop talking and start doing.
RCMP pensions are attached to this apparently, it's basically the mob attacking the first nations.
The Libs aren't interested in reconciliation.  
The Libs are interested in the votes of people who support reconciliation. 
That's it.   
They want the votes but aren't interested in doing the work. 
Stop.  Voting.  Liberal.  They're just conservatives who talk like they give a shit.  They're worse in a lot of ways because at least the conservatives are honest about their hatred of everything non-white.
The word "reconciliation" is the greatest weasel word ever invented in Canadian politics. Anything that can be said to help First Nations people can be ascribed as reconciliation and people will ignore the fact that you have a giant fucking sword in your other hand.
I don't think my tax money should pay for it. If you want to find the decendents of the people who made these policies and make them pay then sure. But I struggle to understand how a large cheque from me to someone who lost a family member in 1908 is justifiable.
Seems like the case of CEO makes mistake so shareholders have to pay the fine.
I just understand why Canadians won't give the NDP a chance to run the country at least ONCE. We've already tried the Libs and Cons for centuries, time to try a new brand. What's the worst that could happen?
edit - don't understand
You’re not paying for it, not one white person or non native person is paying for these reconciliation money’s. I’m paying for it along with the other tax paying natives who contribute to the roughly 15 billion of Canada’s 330 340 billion revenue budget. That 15 billion does not include resources, lands illegally seized after treaties were signed, and others. That was calculated by myself back in 2015 so the figure is definitely more. More natives are becoming educated, employed, paying more taxes, running businesses. Like the taxes I pay for income, and housing tax. Plus and additional 8k for capital gains. This 15 billion figure does not include GST natives pay or capital gains they pay. It’s 2021, those falsehoods about others paying need to be shaken out of peoples heads. This budget, we get 18 billion of my taxes and other hard working natives taxes given back as some sort of sick gesture of good will. The government is not paying for it, and neither is anyone here. 
And no, it’s like a company removing someone from there land, forcing them to work the land and collecting taxes while making money of the house the resources collected. Then taking the money they collected from taxes off the people and saying, here’s compensation from my money I collected from taxes you paid. I’m so sorry, now get over it. 
I know those BS stereotypes of us natives not paying taxes still run high around Canada. So pull your head out of your ass and get with the times.
>I just understand why Canadians won't give the NDP a chance to run the country at least ONCE.
Because there's too many Canadians who're still scared of a guy wearing a turban. If Jack Layton were still alive he'd have won the 2015 election and both the ones after, all while having done a damn sight better job than Justin.
I'm going to need reliable sources for these claims. History has taught us when a more advanced civilization meets a less developed one, the stronger one wins.
"over 180,000 kilograms of strawberries will be grown, which is the equivalent of production yielded by more than 2 hectares of traditional greenhouse area." - Now that is berry cool!
Green house vertical farming is going to hands down be seen as a major innovation in the 21st century hundreds of years from now. Food stability (especially for our dependant climate), massive greenhouse gas reductions from 90% less fertilizer not to mention the sheer amount of less water needed vertical farming will transform an industry that has been stagnant for thousands of years
It's about time.  I hope we start seeing these crop up everywhere, but especially in Northern areas where fresh produce can be expensive.
This! I would encourage each province to do something similar going forward; Food issues are likely to get worse, not better, in the future.
Plus these sorts of farms tend to be resistant to some climate change effects, as they have "Controlled-Environment"s; Rather than relying on the natural environment.
Check out Cubic Farms. They do something very similar
Hehe
That sounds great, except these vertical farms are only growing luxury crops like strawberries and lettuce.
I keep wondering about greenhouse farming in the North. I'd give it a try myself if I only had the capital.
Go to the grocery store and see how much is from California and note very carefully the direction california agriculture has been going. Its a national security issue at this stage.
Not sure why lettuce is a luxury but just like as we are whitnessing with electric cars and technology the cost is so high for the infrastructure that quick growing or high yielding crops get produced first. I see vertical farms taking over by a combination of three things:
1: Initial capital costs decrease as the technology and mass production make goods cheaper. Both in integrated vertical farms and the factories making the parts
2. Regularly grown crops get more expensive, justifying the economics of vertical farming. As climate change wrecks havoc on food supply chains (Think of the droughts plaguing Alberta/Saskatchewan) lack of supply could make greenhouses profitable
3. Food insecurity caused from Climate Change. The large price fluxuations of tomorrow's unstable food volumes will make the government focus on food as a national priority, funding such projects for national economic security. 
I imagine in 50 years farming will look quite different
I mean sure, but remember that public support and economic success are important for a new concept. How long has it been since folks in Quebec had strawberries that didn't suck? 'Cause I know in MB it's sure been a while. Probably an easy food to be a hit on the market, justify more investment in similar towers.
The first ones grow strawberries and lettuce, but by the time we've got hundreds of them across the country they'll be growing most of our major produce. Don't judge the whole idea just by step 1.
Huh, I'll keep an eye out; I don't remember if the co-op shows the origin of their things.
But yes, I bet there's less volume and more cost; They've been having really bad droughts.
Lettuce and strawberries are not sustenance.
Not only would it be very inefficient to grow staple crops indoors, and extremely low return on investment, I don't think the technology exists to do so yet.
> How long has it been since folks in Quebec had strawberries that didn't suck?
I remember as a kid, we had "la saison des baies". Then the berries started slowly dying off. Eventually it was just "la saison des bleuets" and I don't think we even have that one anymore nowadays, all the berries seem to be imported and in very sorry conditions whenever they reach the grocery stores.
>by the time we've got hundreds of them across the country they'll be growing most of our major produce
I'm cynical. Nobody worldwide is growing carrots, wheat, corn, etc indoors. The sun is a lot cheaper and more eco-friendly. Unless we start building thorium reactors...
Same here, you're lucky if you can make it to checkout before they're turning brown and soft and sad. I think when people see the direct benefits of local sustainable farming, they'll be all for it.
It's horrifying to watch all this happen knowing that nobody in power will do fucking ANYTHING about it
The RCMP pension is invested in the Coastal GasLink pipeline, so their involvement here is a major conflict of interest.
ACAB as usual. The horse gestapo don't let up
If you would like to support the efforts of the land defenders:
[Become a donor](https://www.yintahaccess.com/becomeadonor)
[Take action](https://www.yintahaccess.com/take-action-1)
[Help fundraise](https://www.yintahaccess.com/fundraisingprotocol)
If it's the natives land, can they not defend it by any means necessary? Or would that be deemed "terrorism" like what the RCMP are exactly doing.
this is making me fucking sick
I think we're going to need more than just her unsubstantiated say-so on this.
edit: Downvote all you want (edit: had dipped to -10 when I made the original edit). She provides no audio or video evidence of what is being claimed.
Uh huh.  I see RCMP running around with axes and chainsaws all the time.
[removed]
Best country in the world ladies and gentlemen!
Important modification to the title "the media has been *illegally* barred from the site". The courts have been very clear on this.
Where da livestreams of this stuff happening at?
fuck the cops
If there aren't any communications with the people in the shed, how did the communication get out? Someone in this thread said journalists have been arrested. Which journalists? From what media organizations?
Who do I call, write, email. This has to stop.
Just what we need more gas to burn... Not only are they terrorizing the people who live there, they are doing it for projects that shouldn't be receiving progress in the first place.
So... the RCMP are fascist jackboots.
Oh, Canada 😔
Do you have any video of the events?
Potential Media lockout solution:  Drones. I understand this is fiscally not always possible
Wasn't there a Freudian slip a couple of days ago? This doesn't surprise me one bit
Just going to look at wages right now, 2% a year for 5 years. Plus 25 cents an hour flat rate added to everyone. What's the math on that? Some will see more than a 3% increase a year, some less. Edit: it would be 3% for me on year one. Nope.
Anyway, it's not nearly enough. If I am going to strike (which I want to as a Cupe worker in Manitoba), I don't want to come back for anything less than 4% a year at minium for everyone.
Tell me you're a racist piece of shit...
A city employee, suspended with pay. I’m stunned (and not at the same time). I do hope this project will be able to continue at least for the future.
Guy seems to have done this to protect the property value of his house that he was intending to sell.
Take his house and make it into the new shelter.
It's the only fair thing to do.
Why isn't this being considered as a hate crime?
A city employee who owned a house nearby that they were trying to sell. I think they call that motive.
Hoping this makes charging him with arson (at least) a slam dunk case
> They are not defensive weapons.
Uhhhh, fighter jets are by definition defensive weapons. *Multirole* aircraft stop being defensive when they load ground attack or *bomber* armament.
Ironically, the very climate change that will be happening regardless of whether or not Canada buys the CF-35's will require Canada to become increasingly armed. We're going to look exquisitely valuable to a lot of countries in the next 30 years with all our supplies of fresh water. And if we can't defend ourselves, they will simply *take*.
If anything, we should be making plans to buy *more*.
They are primarily used to defend Canada. If we don't replace our fighters the US will take over defending our airspace, at which point its no longer our airspace.
If anything Canada should be investing massively in our military. We can’t count on the US anymore and as the world goes to climate shit we’ll have plenty of ressources, high ground,  that others WILL try to take/invade.
Military procurement and military activity are entirely different things. The author seems to be arguing against what military equipment is used for, which has no bearing on whether or not we should have new equipment. Saying that new fighter jets and warships are not defensive tools is just absurd, they're essential for a nation which wants the ability to defend itself.
Just not that POS
Transphobia is a big issue EVERYWHERE.
And in other news, the sun is hot!
Yeah, anywhere the Christians are.
True story, hopefully vigils like these help gain awareness and more support.
[deleted]
The religion of tolerance only applies if you are exactly like them and live life only like them. Otherwise you are nothing, Christian bias is indoctrinated into everything in western culture and is why we need to destroy the current system and start over. They keep us poor so they can give "charity" to boost their own fragile egos. This is the same principle capitalists use, as they are all linked.
Makes sense. Jesus did say “God made you trans, but wants you to repress it or else eternal damnation” Gendersus 69:420.
Right, because Islam is very accepting of homosexuals.
Fair enough.  It just seemed like a pretty obvious statement though.
They are almost identical religions, and are both shit. Religion has no place in modern society.
[removed]
>They are almost identical religions
Lol - how insightful of you
What a horrible reactionary and divisive thing to say.  Stop with such a strong reaction, that is in no way my position.  Sometimes a cigar is just a cigar.  This was simply a comment in the very obvious nature if the headline.  Of course trans aren't respected in that backwards goddamned province.
Why would Alberta act like it when the entire country doesn't act like it? It's a right only in name.
Alberta has some of the most affordable real estate to income ratios, not only in Canada but the world.
Doug Ford
Health care: cut,
Eduction: cut,
Paid sick days: cut it,
Childcare deal: no way, 
Highways : spend billions
The RCMP loves violating constitutional rights
> Section 2(b) of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms states that everyone has "the freedom of thought, belief, opinion and expression, including freedom of the press and other media of communication."
I just wrote my MP to see what the federal govt is going to do about this.
The r/canada mods seem to be refusing to approve this post, there
[deleted]
Sending another message to Canadian industries that the rcmp are thugs for hire.
RCMP helicopters dropping armed soldiers into the camp
mmmm fascism.
Absolutely disgusting; police forces have no business blocking press coverage in a liberal democracy. Trudeau is going to need to do a lot more than apologise.
The people of Canada need to stand with Indigenous people across the country. We cannot allow our police to act as corporate militias/guns for hire any longer. That is a slippery slope. We cannot allow for censorship/blackouts while RCMP shock troops violate constitutional rights and further infringe upon Indigenous communities.
Aboriginals getting arrested while protesting a pipeline through ancestral sacred waters while climate inaction results in billions of goods unable to be shipped in the same province.  This is going to spread to other First Nation communities around Canada and there will be road blocks everywhere this weekend.  I'll bet this comes up in the UN.  I'll bet Canada gets boycotted by a few countries like we do with the seal hunt.  
This is going to get messy.  I bet blood gets spilled in protests related to this in other parts of the country.
If you would like to support the efforts of the land defenders:
[Become a donor](https://www.yintahaccess.com/becomeadonor)
[Take action](https://www.yintahaccess.com/take-action-1)
[Help fundraise](https://www.yintahaccess.com/fundraisingprotocol)
This is some bullshit, those rcmp officers and commanders belong in jail.
As if the RCMP weren't already bullies that many municipalities have voted to remove from policing, but they stick their nose in where they don't need to, and where they ARE needed (two teens on a killing spree and/or a local dentist with a need to murder everyone in his path), they are shockingly incompetent.
There are some very dark times ahead for this country. If the government keeps doing things like this...... scary times.
This whole operation and its timing kicking off while Trudeau was away in DC is probably no coincidence, and unlike my dad, I don't think for a minute RCMP just up and decided to do this on their own without some political direction. 
At the very least, the federal and provincial public safety ministers (Bill Blair and Mike Farnworth respectively) must have known or signed off on this happening. 
This operation took more than one signature for the needed equipment, aircraft, buses, supplies, etc to be released, and now those directed cops are blocking press coverage..... again....
Well luckily the  RCMP have a stellar record regarding their interactions with Indigenous people, so I'm sure nothing super sketchy is happening.
this is disappointing.
The RCMP are there only to destroy the aboriginal population.
They are little more than thugs.
Only criminals fear scrutiny.
“If you touch me or my wife you’ll regret it!”
-Proceeds to be completely bodied-
Wow, what an alpha.....
Rent a cop is not common in Canada and mall is consider private property. 
I love the ending.
Honestly fuck them!!!
Found out today that my mother was airlifted to Vancouver's COVID ward
Excellent! It’s time the majority demand this small minority of dumb ass antivaxxers be held accountable for their BS actions!
Nobody noticing how this woman yells "He's assaulting a woman" willy nilly? Like, these people are doing their job, to the extent they can. Assault is if one of them fucking falcon punched her in her big, annoying mouth.
Big difference.
"I will exit after she gets her socks. Well that is to bad bro." The entitlement in their voice makes me wish they turned his thousand dollar dentures into dust.
They’re not popular
Hmm… why are they almost always white?
Guys making fun of cops but runs some shitty burger joint in Peterborough. Bahahhaa
I once saw WEM security punch a man in the head until he collapsed to the ground. They don't fuck around. (The guy bit his co-worker)
That last “oooooff” she makes at the end 😆😆😆
This is just a sad and pathetic cry for attention.
‘Popular anti masker’ seems like a short lived moniker
They always say “you’ll lose your job” lmao
Play stupid games
That's quite the dogwhistle attempt there!  "ASSAULTING A WOMAN!!   ASSAULTING A WOMAN!!"
Fucking idiot. Too stupid to know he's stupid.
Sadly these folks forget there is one thing they can hit you with. Resisting a lawful order by an in uniform officer(s)... yeah have fun with your court date if they really want to press you on it.
Hahahahahh. HAHAHAHAHAHAHHAHA.  I could watch videos like this all day.   Narcissism running head on into public safety policy.  You don't get to endanger others because you are so special.  Get vaxed or fuck off.
Exemptions? Lol
Hit 1.1 million by the end. I watched it for the first time this year for the Longest Johns, but ended up watching the bit with the Garages and one of the Family Feud segments too.
From the article: 'Amazingly, four of the province’s eight top roadkill hot spots are on one narrow 20-kilometre section of Highway 3 between the Alberta border (at the Crowsnest Pass) and Sparwood. There, the road (and rail line) follows a pair of Elk River tributaries, Alexander and Michel creeks, before taking a hard, 90-degree turn south into the Elk Valley proper. There are
roughly 200 collisions reported annually between large mammals and vehicles passing along this stretch. In the Elk Valley itself, 25 per cent of elk mortalities and 30 per cent of grizzly deaths are due to vehicles.'
Harper is a sex worker.  Who knew?  Limited success I would think.
Paywalled.
I'm all for immigration but we need somewhere for them to live first. Housing is not keeping up! Also doctor shortages.
"He also said immigration has been paramount in blunting the pandemic’s negative impacts on the economy, *and will help navigate some of the labor shortages going forward*"
The Liberals proving once again they are the only correct choice for the economy. We have a population of lazy conservatives that just don't want to work and are demanding ridiculous wages. We need to boost our population growth to absorb the slack in the economy and ensure housing prices remain stable.
A tent as long as you have warm clothes is Trudeau approved but what he really wants is more homeless shelters and soup kitchens.
Housing isn't a problem the Liberals have done a terrific job managing the housing market over the last 6 years giving tens of millions of Canadians the necessary equity gains they deserve to have a dignified retirement. Plus the younger generation actually has it better since housing is more affordable to them with the low interest rate environment keeping their payments low.
Just look how much better the Liberals have performed on building housing equity.
Look at CREA data we can see median benchmark prices in the GTV: 
https://www.crea.ca/housing-market-stats/mls-home-price-index/hpi-tool/
*During the Conservatives:*
February 2006: $443,000
November 2015 $758,000
*Gain of $315,000 over 10 years.*
*During the Liberals:*
November 2015 $758,000
October 2021 $1,200,000
*So a gain of 442,000 in 6 years and still climbing aggressively and hopefully more so as we continue to grow the economy.*
The Liberals have created more wealth in 6 years then the Conservatives did in 10, just goes to show how disastrous conservative austerity measures would have been if O'Toole won the last election.
>The Liberals proving once again they are the only correct choice for the economy. We have a population of lazy conservatives that just don't want to work and are demanding ridiculous wages. We need to boost our population growth to absorb the slack in the economy and ensure housing prices remain stable.
The second sentence sounded conservative being mocked by a liberal and the last sentence sounded liberal being mocked by a conservative. True to this sub I can respect that
[removed]
Is this satire? Lol Low rates will not last forever and for all those with this magic wealth creation only realize the benefit if they can downsize. Housing is a complete mess along with rent. Both liberal and conservatives own this mess, talk to anyone on a fixed income that is renting on how wonderful this is.. hint.. a lot of retirees rent.
You do know that monetary policy is set by the finance minister and the Bank. This sub is hilarious. It's fine to dislike the prime minister, but you clearly lack education on these issues.
"It's January 1637 in the Netherlands, and I'm very excited to tell you about my tulips."
[Hey guys, look at all the economic benefit George W Bush brought Americans in 2007 through the value of the housing market!](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/6c/Shiller_IE2_Fig_2-1.png/800px-Shiller_IE2_Fig_2-1.png)
You're kidding right? Those prices are the opposite of good news.
I make more than minimum wage and still can't afford my own one-bedroom apartment, how would I be able to support a family if I wanted to start one?
I really can't tell if he's serious or not
Sounds like right wing talking points...
You realize the government elects the BOC board who then appoint the governor... We aren't stupid enough to buy that they are independent.
Housing isn't tulips its a requirement to exist especially in Canadian winters...
Go to r/canada if you want to bitch with right wing talking points.
You don't need to start a family we need to cut down on carbon emissions on add to them.  There are more than enough temporary foreign workers we can bring in to ensure there are no labor shortages.  Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s new immigration minister thankfully agrees and we hopefully will se a significant ramp up in new Canadians soon!
~~Poe's Law in action.~~
~~It's genuinely tough to tell sometimes if a comment is Trump-stupid or Borat-stupid.~~
Sweet bleeding Bieber, take a look at OP's comment history. If you go back several weeks, it includes some spectacular criticisms of Trudeau's economic and housing policies.
I no longer think that OP is pushing stupidity. I think Sacha Baron Cohen has a Reddit account and is saying stupid things with *perfect* delivery.
This coming from the guy with left wing talking points?
Well if your blaming the liberals, you might want to double check who brought the minister of finance into office. Holy moly this is funny.
I often challenge British Columbians to name 3 things about New Brunswick.  They almost always fail miserably.
So it's basically a three way race between the PCs, NDP, and Liberals, yet the NP tries to spin it to say that it's a close race between the Cons and the Libs? The election is also in June of next year, so I'm not sure how useful an article is about one poll half a year away from the election.   
How likely is it that the Greens get another seat? It seems like the only successful Green Party is that of PEI, who seems to have been impacted a bit from the GPC drama (but will probably recover by 2023). Green Parties and their members in Canada overinflate their importance and influence on the general public, it seems.   
Here's my prediction for the next election; it will be a 4 way split between the Go Vegan Party, the Communist Party, Stop the New Sex-Ed Curriculum Party, and the Trillium Party.   
Vegan seat count: 50  
Communist seat count: 11  
Stop Sex seat count: 27  
Trillium seat count: 34  
Now, there are two seats left, Steven Del Duca wins his riding and some random NDP wins their seat, let's say Judith Monteith-Farrell.   
Get ready, folks.
Of course the NP would downplay any chance of the NDP performing well. Fuck these two neoliberal party. I'm not going to vote liberal to oust Douggie.
Can we please not talk about this election until it's actually in the near future? I fucking hate long campaigns and I know I'm not alone here.
We don't get polls often enough to have even the slightest idea what is going to happen as of yet.
Then enjoy four more years of Dougie
Cue the dumb comments from anti-vaxxors talking about how we shouldn't vaccinate children . . . even though we already vaccinate children from a dozen other deadly diseases.
Why is this timeline so stupid?
I'm curious if they will go into gyms and just call entire classrooms down to get their jab. I remember doing stuff like that as a kid.
It should potentially be more efficient to vaccinate kids in school then rely on them to go to a pharmacy with their parents.
(Permission slip required of course.)
Now let's see how quick we can get it out and into arms.
Great timing. This way they'll be finished vaccinating children by the time we need to start ramping up for boosters.
If anyone tells you not to vaccinate children (children who are medically cleared to get the shot), do not trust them around your kids. They are putting on a facade of responsibility and adulthood when in reality they are dangerous, negligent miscreants.
Children *Five and Up*
My little dude is 4 so we keep waiting…
Listening to the livestream now. I wish they'd get on with it and talk about the logistics of the roll-out.
FINALLY!
Yay! Next stop- 6 months to 5 year olds!
Now I just have to figure out how to get my 9 year old needlephobe anywhere near it....
Alberta has said that the provincial Vaccine sites will be the place for parents to take their kids for shots.
[deleted]
[removed]
>Cue the dumb comments from anti-vaxxors 
I've stopped caring what those plague rats have to say.  
They have been objectively wrong on the "facts" they claim for the last 2 years.
Their opinions that are based on those non-facts are not valid, and don't deserve to be given further consideration.
[removed]
Not all vaccines and viruses are the same. Some are very dangerous to children and some aren’t, and covid seems like it’s very low risk to children so that’s why a lot of people don’t care/want them to get vaccinated.
I am not an anti-vaxxer at all, but I recognize that mRNA vaccines are inherently different from other vaccines and I don't really hold people's fear against them. There's enough of us - at least in Ontario - that it looks like we're probably going to hit a 90% vaccination rate soon. I hope those people calm down about vaccines, they're kind of our ticket out of this, but I think some people never will.
I'm hoping that's what they do for this.  There was a vaccine clinic at my kids' school for the grade six kids to get their shots or get caught up if they were behind.
But I'm in BC, and we've already filled out the vaccine sign up form.  I'm *really* hoping that it's done in the schools, though, because I'd hope that there'd be enough peer pressure or something for the parents to give in.  I'm really stoked that my 11 year old, who is generally ready to run at the thought of a shot, cheered about being able to get covid vaxxed.
That is what they did in some high schools. We had a vaccination day for our high schoolers. I wouldn't be surprised if in areas where the infection rates are higher, they go into the schools.
With how prevalent anti-vax has become, I would doubt it. I don't think public officials and school boards would want the heat..
If you would like to support the efforts of the land defenders:
[Become a donor](https://www.yintahaccess.com/becomeadonor)
[Take action](https://www.yintahaccess.com/take-action-1)
[Help fundraise](https://www.yintahaccess.com/fundraisingprotocol)
For clarity it is a 230B pension fund
And suddenly the other shoe drops. It all makes sense now.
Wow. Just fucking wow.
Literally hired mercenaries. How is this legal.
When you look up the term *'conflict of interest'* on Wikipedia, there is a link to this article.
It's a bit of a stretch to imply that the reason why RCMP officers are being absolutely brutal (not acceptable) is because the PSPP is invested in O&G projects. 
I pay into the PSPP and I have severe reservations about some of their investment (see LTC operations) but I can almost guarantee you that none of them are even thinking about their retirement.
Edit: to add, implying this behaviour is due to COI is also then making complicit all other public servants who pay into the plan. Beneficiaries from the plan have absolutely no say on how that money is allocated
Doesn't that become a conflict of interest for the RCMP?
How is the RCMP so fucked up!? Oh... wait, they're cops
Jesus fucking Christ
This is truly some dystopian shit. Fuck this country.
And that's the reason the rcmp have no honour....
Pigs will be pigs oink oink 🐖🐖🐷🐷
Fuck the RCMP
Gee, and I'd had such a high opinion of the RCMP until I heard this.
Welcome to the RCMP
Don’t bring your logic here. This is clearly a conflict of interest and they’re all corrupt.
And what does that mean?
Call is coming from inside the house. 
RCMP were always a bunch of thugs who were meant to go kill the "savages" and to keep the ruling class protected from us.
We could also look to like, you know, the RCMP's history with indigenous people... not exactly pleasant.
The RCMP is literally doing the bidding of the boot of capitalism. It’s shameful that it’s gotten to this point.
Who is giving the police orders? our government or billion dollar corporations?
Interesting that only APTN is reporting any of this in Canada? Checked the papers and ctv, cbc, and global.
Nothing mentioned
All cops are bastards.
Regardless of what folks think of the issue of authority between the elected councils vs  hereditary i think we can agree that this is beyond the pale, just colonialism redux gunboat diplomacy of the 19th century. get ready for weeks of absolute bullshit from Trudeau and Horgan.
If you would like to support the efforts of the land defenders:
[Become a donor](https://www.yintahaccess.com/becomeadonor)
[Take action](https://www.yintahaccess.com/take-action-1)
[Help fundraise](https://www.yintahaccess.com/fundraisingprotocol)
[RCMP officers in New Hazelton](https://i.imgur.com/uvnJrDR.jpg)
I like the whole agruement of elected councils signed the agreement......ye well mine just got 1.5 mil from government payout to enrich their personal family no doubt and while OPP protects their corruption. Tyendinaga to be specific. Being a licensed  p.i I have no problem calling out their bullshit every chance I get, including OPP wanting to spend millions to play pretend spies due to train tracks, including on me......well those stupid fucks found out the hard way that during my experience at PSEPC, I had already handed over documents for clearances under those same agencies....Yet feels like its being played out again ignoring the actual immediate danger present this time in B.C.....Ye I paid my enitre school this year, thousands. Spent thousands to help my parents for hotel stays since they have to travel to T.O for moms brain cancer been battling entire pandemic, pay for my sister just starting first year college.....I am so fucking pissed that I will never even be able to own some bullshit beater car and this goofy shit continues on. I get turned down for certain job opportunities because I don't own a vehicle that pays decent, that I pulled those fucking bootstraps up. As I am never going back to min wage bs no matter what and I am more than curious if their is others that dealt with such horse shit. I genuinely would like to hear it.
They have clearly secured the backhoe.
Fuck I hate government.  Fascist pigs
And there cycle continues
Maybe don’t try and stop a legally approved project? If the elected chiefs approved the project then isn’t that democracy in motion?
The Pipeline has written agreements with all the Bands involved from there Elected Officials. If they want to change the rules Elect different people to represent them. These people who are setting up the Blockades do not represent the majority. That’s the way Democratic systems work. Am I saying I don’t support or agree with them , no. What am saying in civil society there are rules and you can’t just take the law into your own hands. No different than what happened in the U.S. during the Jan. 6th riots . People didn’t agree with Election results , so they storm the Capital. Not how it works.
[removed]
The intersection of environmental Justice and police abolition has shown itself
Both! Have you seen the clip where Justin Trudeau calls Canada a company? Hahah here: https://twitter.com/350Canada/status/1461148782461136897?t=dWDGls5XJQDCvd_EWQLR6w&s=19
I would guess a lot of media are focused on the crisis in BC's lower mainland. Disasters are perfect times for governments to send in the militias.
CBC will be on it soon enough. They jump on or take any swings at indigenous oppressive issues like a cat to a sparrow. The other aspect of this situation is doing this at a time of climate crisis, (BC's recent mudslides) is fucking cartoon levels of villianous insanity.
This land is their land  
This land ain't our land  
From Bonavista  
To Vancouver Island...
> No different than what happened in the U.S. during the Jan. 6th riots 
lol. clown.
Guess I'm going to be buying a whole lot more Chapmans from now on
>Self-described anti-vaccine groups are calling for a boycott of a family-run Canadian ice cream company after it offered a pay rise to staff vaccinated against COVID-19.
>Management at Chapman’s, Canada’s largest independent ice-cream manufacturer, say they’re trying to reward staff who have “done the right thing” by getting vaccinated with a $1 per hour pay raise, rather than enforcing a hardline vaccine policy.
I wasn't planning on buying ice cream any time soon, but maybe now I am.  If the idiots and lunatics are boycotting them, clearly they are doing something right.
I’ll keep buying Chapmans from now on. 😋
Already supporting Chapman’s, but this gives me more reason to continue. Besides their delicious ice cream.
Let them boycott Chapman's ... more for me.
Chapman's this weekend it is then. Yum.
more ice cream for me
Way to go Anti Vaxxers, you just guaranteed Chapman's getting my business exclusively for ice cream for a while.
Chapman's: Proof that there are still big companies out there that aren't run by ultra-greedy douchebags.
Not that this matters to everybody, but Chapman’s is one of the few companies that makes a point of making treats and ice cream that kids with peanut allergies can eat. I already loved them for that, and now I appreciate them even more.
Yukon icecream sandwiches are dope.
Ditto fuck anti vaxxers
Same. I suddenly have a craving for Yukon caramel & toffee ice cream cones…
We’ll be loading up on Chapman’s this weekend. Good on them for treating their responsible staff with respect. Fuck the selfish, whining losers.
Well that article is a whole lot of nothing. Nowhere do the survey results say anything about the root causes of these mental health challenges, but if I were a betting man aged 18-54 I’d say that a lot of it stems from stagnating wages and a rapidly rising cost of living and the feeling of hopelessness that comes with it.
found this gem in the r/canada thread on this article lmao
>No one cares about men, my female coworker has a “white male tears” coffee mug
And the other 1/3 are just gritting their teeth and saying "I'm fine" repeatedly.
I had a kid a year ago mid pandemic. I took my baby to doctors appointments and immunizations and it baffled me how focused they are on the mother and baby. I remember at one point the nurse asked me where mom was, and if they could talk to her. She was in the lobby waiting (only one parent could bring the baby in for shots) and pulled her aside to ask how her mental health was, and if there was any concern for her well being.
I was glad they did this, but also a bit hurt that they neglected to ask me these questions. I really think women struggle quite a bit more physically/mentally through having a kid, but it doesn’t mean we go through nothing. It’s not a zero sum game
In my early 20s, watched my future seemingly disappear over the past couple years, and went into a pretty deep depression because of it. Barely made it back to work after months; and still struggling now.
Boys underperform in school.
Many assistance programs deliberately exclude men. 
Wages have stagnated to unlivable standards.
Job security is basically nonexistent. 
Home ownership is a thing of the past for entire generations. 
Men have had a historically higher and rising suicide rate than their female peers. 
NO ONE does anything about any of this for decades, or even talk about it. 
When do we get to enjoy living?
Still am
Its more like 100% of people have mental health issues only 2/3 are aware of it.
I've seen it.  Some guys ride out covid, others have completely lost their shit.  I don't see a gender gap on this though.  Women have also lost their minds.
My wife of 11 years left me completely out of the blue in November. Covid hit in february or whatever. I spent a year completely alone. I didn't shave for four months because I couldn't look in the mirror. My cats held me together and the magnificent little bastards don't even know it.
No one actually gives a shit about mental health, they just talk about it to make an image. People will actually use mental health against you to try and benefit from something. There, I said it.
To be fair,I suffered mental illness before Covid, This is just an extra bonus
My mental health has declined significantly over the past two years. Given what I struggle a pandemic is probably the worst thing that could have happened. Hopefully I can recover, but if not it doesn't really matter I guess. It all ends either way.
It's difficult for most when they have the realization that theres nazis among us lol
We live in turbulent times but always remember, the MAJORITY of us HATE fascists.
Nazi Punks, FUCK OFF.
No shit
Only since then?
[removed]
Since the pandemic? I've been putting up with this shit for years
[removed]
Man with severe mental health challenges and medicated for about six months now. My anxiety stems from a combination of watching climate change while people in power do nothing as well as my job (teacher) getting about six million times harder in the last two years with what is technically a decrease in my salary.
The RCMP pension is invested in the Coastal GasLink pipeline, so their involvement here is a major conflict of interest.
If you would like to support the efforts of the land defenders:
[Become a donor](https://www.yintahaccess.com/becomeadonor)
[Take action](https://www.yintahaccess.com/take-action-1)
[Help fundraise](https://www.yintahaccess.com/fundraisingprotocol)
Thanks for posting that information.
Literally not one single thing about this on CBC or CTV. The media is complicit in hiding the colonialist fascism that is taking place right now
Our government never acknowledges Indigenous law or land ownership. It's a shame that it always comes to this. The government of Canada is absolutely the aggressor in this situation. It's just as it always has been in these situations.
Hmm it's been a few months since Trudeau promised better reconciliation, let's see how that's going...
&#x200B;
.... oh damn, shit, fucking hell, are you kidding me?!
Isn't there a fucking flood catastrophe these fucking pigs could be helping with?
Fucking pigs
Paid thugs
r/awfuleverything
If you would like to support the efforts of the land defenders:
[Become a donor](https://www.yintahaccess.com/becomeadonor)
[Take action](https://www.yintahaccess.com/take-action-1)
[Help fundraise](https://www.yintahaccess.com/fundraisingprotocol)
The media blackout tells you what you need to know about those information sources.
Have the elders deputise members of the area, and proclaim that they are the only policing force allowed on tribal territory. Boom, arrest the RCMP
Good
[removed]
Which is ridiculous because there have already been court cases to set the precedent that these poeple's lands are their lands, not Canada's or the Crown's....which is why the RCMP make these illegal decisions without the grace of the courts.
[removed]
I always think back to the last Hip concert, where this was essentially Gord Downie's dying wish. Or more realistically a final call to action for Trudeau -- do better for these people.
And I just wonder how Trudeau sleeps at night, thinking of that moment, comparing it to the sad reality in front of him.
Reconciliation, but if you don't do it the way we tell you it's illegal! 
-JT
Yes, but the RCMP is phrasing this as a rescue mission for the 500 CGL workers still in the work camps.
The 500 workers that CGL left behind. Because CGL was told hey we're doing this, we'll give them 8 hours to evacuate. And CGL just didn't pass that message on to their workers. So they could call up the RCMP to come protect their retirement....
Actually though, RCMP retirement is invested in TC energy, who are responsible for building CGL.
Yes but also, there is a flood so people can't physically travel to help these First Nations people out, so what better a time to storm onto sovereign land, kick peoples doors in, drag them out of their own homes and arrest them with no legal bearing!  
The RCMP are opportunistic thugs.
Lol
they told them the road out would be inaccessible 8 hours before it became inaccessible.  they aren't hostages, they though it was a bluff and if you play stupid games, you win stupid prizes.  they can walk out
The RCMP pension is invested in the Coastal GasLink pipeline, so their involvement here is a major conflict of interest.
If you would like to support the efforts of the land defenders:
[Become a donor](https://www.yintahaccess.com/becomeadonor)
[Take action](https://www.yintahaccess.com/take-action-1)
[Help fundraise](https://www.yintahaccess.com/fundraisingprotocol)
Friendly reminder that people should read one of these before they form an opinion on this. These two articles help provide context on Canadian law in this scenario, and treaties (or lack thereof).
https://www.ctvnews.ca/mobile/canada/wet-suwet-en-what-s-the-difference-between-the-elected-band-council-and-hereditary-chiefs-1.4811453
and
https://yellowheadinstitute.org/2020/02/07/why-are-indigenous-rights-being-defined-by-an-energy-corporation/
From the CTV article:
>“The hereditary chiefs’ authority is with respect to all of their ancestral lands and those are the lands that they're seeking to protect.” In 1997, the Wet’suwet’en people were part of Delgamuukw v. British Columbia, which ultimately upheld Indigenous peoples’ land claims to land that had never been ceded through a treaty, which includes Wet’suwet’en Nation and much of British Columbia. "What the chief justice of the time said was that the government should be negotiating with the hereditary chiefs to determine title and we never got around to doing that, ‘we’ being the Canadian state,” Stanton said. “The hereditary chiefs tried for decades to have their title recognized and tried using the Canadian legal system…and the Canadian legal system failed them.
From Yellowhead Institute: 
Subsidizing dispossession
LNG Canada is already subsidized by the province of B.C. for $5.35 billion. A further $1 billion in estimated subsidies will be provided by the federal government in exemptions from tariffs on steel imports.
The provincial funding arrangement puts B.C. Premier John Horgan in a conflict of interest with Wet’suwet’en hereditary governments opposing the project.
Horgan has expressed concern about First Nations experiencing “systemic poverty” and characterized the Coastal Gas Link investment into First Nations as “a pathway to prosperity,” according to recent statements in the press.
But a substantial amount of financial support to First Nations are derived from public coffers. Rather than alleviate “systemic poverty” in communities directly, the B.C. government is channelling these dollars through energy companies. Therefore, making First Nation funding contingent upon support for pipeline deals.
The summary of financial benefits obtained by Yellowhead shows that B.C. will put up $1 million to the band in signing payments, $5 million in construction and in-service payments, and an estimated $40 million total in annual operation payments over 40 years.
These numbers confirm amounts committed in a Natural Gas Benefits Agreement signed between the parties.
Raid
As the RCMP descend on Wet’suwet’en territory it is worthwhile to reflect on how social license is achieved by industry to access Indigenous territories.
The provincial government has downloaded its constitutional obligations to energy companies to determine the scope and assertion of Aboriginal rights.
A hand-in-glove system, the B.C. government has supported the current raids through financial incentives that have forced communities apart.
With upwards of $7 billion on the line in government subsidies, the interests of Coastal GasLink’s viability appears to have been put far ahead of Wet’suwet’en rights, title and justice.
I recommend “white saviors podcast” by canadaland 
Well researched and interesting podcast about the History of WE charity. And Guess what? it’s not a charity at all.
FYI, WE had constructed or repaired 852 classrooms in Kenya, as well as rehabilitated community-made structures. This information, along with unique images of each structure, was provided to the CBC and Parliament. Here's a link: https://www.wecharity.org/explore-our-regions
Is there any way in which this country _isn't_ selling itself out?
Jesse Brown was never one of my favorites on Canadaland. I really don't want to listen to him anymore because he sounds like he has no idea what he's talking about at times.
If you would like to support the efforts of the land defenders:
[Become a donor](https://www.yintahaccess.com/becomeadonor)
[Take action](https://www.yintahaccess.com/take-action-1)
[Help fundraise](https://www.yintahaccess.com/fundraisingprotocol)
What can someone who is in another province do to help? Who can I write to/call?
The RCMP pension is invested in the Coastal GasLink pipeline, so their involvement here is a major conflict of interest.
This page lists around a dozen ways you can support them - [https://www.yintahaccess.com/take-action-1](https://www.yintahaccess.com/take-action-1)
Send a letter to your federal MP and demand that the subject is brought to question period.
As are most pensions including cpp. A tiny group should not be able to hold up a major part of the economy. Especially when a lot of their own people want the jobs provided when this pipeline goes through. People will quit blocking train tracks when the trains quit stopping at blockades.
I guess that's what happens when you let politics and business, own and run the press.
Considering the vast majority of Canadian media is owned by a single huge right wing corporation who regularly uses that ownership as power to push their conservative propaganda, it's no wonder people who see that their reporting is not accurate would be distrustful of them in general.
Always remember to think critically about sources and potential biases. Does this corporate media outlet benefit from a pro-capitalist status quo? Probably. So we would do well to take what they say on the matter with a big grain of salt and keep that in mind.
In my own experience it can be frequently presented with a false dichotomy, in that given how they are presenting it, if you're not on board with them then you're a bad guy because the only other immediately obvious opinion to have is indeed wrong.
But there's a moderate, more empathic way or even a colder more logical way.
Like don't have a special 1 hour round table with 5 participants to discuss Canadian telecoms when each of your participants is bankrolled by one of the three telecoms. It's obvious because you're presenting any alternative view as wrong even though a portion of your viewers are well educated on the subject and there are alternatives that you're blatantly ignoring in favor of keeping the conversation contained.
Edit: that situation specifically actually happened on (I think) Global News years ago. I was getting annoyed and decided to look up each participant and sure enough, each had their hand in the pot in a different way. *That's* what causes us to lose trust.
Journalism used to be the fourth estate, there to keep the first (clergy/religion) and the second (nobility/the government) estates check by reporting to the third estate (the commoners / the people) on their abuses of power and misdeeds. A good chunk of what is now loosely called journalism sits more or less in the pocket of the government and/or big business. There is also so much garbage, misinformation and disinformation to sift through, especially since the rapid expansion of social media.
i don’t trust this. ^/s
I mean when media sources we're told are respectable and unbiased are very clearly not it's kinda hard to trust them
What's a thread on media without mentioning Noam Chomsky.
&#x200B;
https://twitter.com/el4jc/status/987612261442314240?lang=en
[deleted]
‘’Less than 10 billionaires own 95% of Canadian newspapers, and that’s a problem’’
Fixed it for you.
Weird what happens when we let corporations control everything....
It's not exactly helped when half the paper is opinion pieces that are mixed in with actual news.
They arrested Julian Assange and let Fox News keep broadcasting, of coarse there’s no trust
I trust journalism! I love cbc and I think global news does a fine job. I'd read the globe and mail but it's expensive
My father's editor once asked him to spike a story about the police responding to a domestic-violence call at the home of a prominent businessman, because his business advertised in the paper. This was in the late 70s. The media has been bad for at least that long.
Ironically, thanks to Twitter and such, it might actually be *harder* to keep a lid on that type of story nowadays.
Does journalism even exist anymore?  Just a bunch of talking heads reading click bait titles
Ditto the conspiracy of silence in the media around immigration. You're just not allowed to have a negative opinion. You're not allowed to assert that it serves corps by suppressing wages [even when the business media openly admits it](https://www.bnnbloomberg.ca/canada-open-to-ramping-up-record-immigration-new-minister-says-1.1684120). A leftist critique of corporatist economic policy is neutralised by automatically framing it as a vulgar rightist rant.
I used to subscribe to Rabble and now it's just unhinged often unsupported opinions. The irony that a headline like this came from Rabble is pretty funny. But yeah, trust for democratic institutions and our politicians is at an all time low. People don't trust pharmaceutical companies either (for a COVID related example.) People don't trust each other, even!
Our society is falling apart, sadly. I've lost a lot of hope for our species in general.
The problem is that the journalists aren't trustworthy.
That's because it's all bought and paid for by someone or other. Whether its Murdoch or a left leaning org, they all follow The Propoganda Model
We need a legit publically formed and funded news channel, free from any propoganda and influence from Corporations
Nobody *should* and that's a bigger problem.
It infuriates me that BS pseudoscientific products like oscillococcinum and other BS products are sold in pharmacies as though they’re legitimate medical products. Personally I think these products should not be sold in pharmacies and if allowed to be sold anywhere it should come with a huge warning that they are for entertainment purposes only and have no basis in any science.
I love that they call homeopathic stuff 'unproven' rather than a more accurate description.  Something like 'complete and utter bullshit' would be better.  In my experience at least, every time I've explained what homeopathy is to someone, they've thought that what I'm saying can't possibly be accurate because it's so obviously stupid.  2021 and people are still selling magic water.
We had this a few years ago. Went to a local pharmacy, we wanted to see if there was anything we could give our son to make him more comfortable, but he was young (2 maybe? Maybe 3, I can't really remember). They recommended something, and explained it would be a great choice. We said thanks andthen started reading the label. We turned around and immediately left when we saw it was homeopathic. What a waste. We've also never once stepped foot in that pharmacy again.
Homeopathy is complete bullshit. Those pharmacists should have their licenses revoked.
From Wikipedia:
"All relevant scientific knowledge about physics, chemistry, biochemistry and biology gained since at least the mid-19th century contradicts homeopathy. Homeopathic remedies are biochemically inert, and have no effect on any known disease. Hahnemann's theory of disease, centered around principles he termed miasms, is inconsistent with subsequent identification of viruses and bacteria as causes of disease. Clinical trials have been conducted and generally demonstrated no objective effect from homeopathic preparations. The fundamental implausibility of homeopathy as well as a lack of demonstrable effectiveness has led to it being characterized within the scientific and medical communities as quackery and fraud."
Ran into this just a few weeks ago when my niece caught RSV. We just wanted something to help drain all the snot out of her and calm her cough so she could sleep for more than half an hour at a stretch. The kids stuff was all "essence of extract of ivy leaf" and other assorted nonsense.
That’s because there is no cough and cold medicine for a three year old. There’s infant Tylenol for fevers, but literally no cough medicine for over the counter.
It’s been a few years since my child was that age, but I remember the pharmacist would recommend Helixia, which is basically just honey water, or go to your GP. They can’t recommend medicine to a 3 y/o if every box says 12 and up only (or whatever the min age is) unless recommended by a doctor.
Homeopathy should be illegal.
Homeopathy is a huge problem in Ontario. Both homeopaths and naturopaths (which are taught homeopathy as part of their curriculum) are regulated health professions, which, IMO grants them legitimacy.
I used to work at a Walmart pharmacy and I once asked the pharmacist how come they had homeopathic medicine on the shelf. He said that, apparently, it's down to the choice of the pharmacist. He knew some pharmacists who refused to sell homeopathic stuff, but he said he did because he knew there were people who came into the store for it. Looking back on it now I don't really agree with his answer, but there was nothing I could've done in my position to change the situation so I decided not to argue the matter.
Well, nothing wrong with ginger and garlic and some nice tea. But to completely forgo proven medical treatments is just criminal
A candy, having no medicinal properties, *will* offer relief for a cough, for instance. What do people think Halls are?
Will it *cure* the underlying cause of the cough/sore throat/etc?  Not at all, but that's not the same as claiming *relief* from the symptoms.
Funny how redditors love taking an evidence-based approach on homeopathy, but when it comes to a discussion about the links between eating animal products and chronic disease, suddenly "ancestors" and "canines" is more credible than Pubmed.
It infuriates me that Health Canada "regulates" (and therefore legitimizes) homeopathic products. 
Homeopathy is basically using the placebo effect as a treatment, and the placebo effect is *so* powerful that it really does work sometimes. But a placebo doesn't work if you're aware it's a placebo, so homeopathy "explains" how it works by saying water retains memories or some other bs.
Anyone scrolling here is a great explanation on homeopathy: https://youtu.be/8HslUzw35mc
Selling them in pharmacies legitimizes them at the cost of undermining clinically verified medicines. I agree they should not be sold in a manner that suggests the two are *at all* similar.
Homeopathy has a place, especially in children's  solutions.
If your 2 year old has a cold, do you know what actual medicine you can give them to relieve symptoms?
Fucking nothing. There is exactly zero pharmaceutical products for toddler and below cold symptoms. Baby Advil or Tylenol is good for fever and sore throat/pain. Zero relief from coughing and congestion.
You know what is proven to work? Licorice. Ginger. The same shit that's in most of these homeopathy medicines.
They're accepted widely enough that pharmaceuticals like lozenges and cough drops are now advertising them. I bought a pack of licorice fisherman's friend just today. Worked like a hot damn to clear my congestion. 
When I have a sore throat, i dont jump straight to a pill or a syrup, i gargle salt water. Works better than any cough syrup for throat inflammation. Works better than antiseptics or lozenges.
I'm not saying hemeopathy has a cure for anything, or that crystals or salt lamps or magnets or any of that shit is worth a fuck, but to say herbal remedies or home based solutions are completely bunk is some brainwashed shit.
Buckley's is one of the most prominent "it actually works" cough syrups. The main ingredients are literally homeopathy ingredients.
Not the whole picture. The whole purpose of homeopathy is to have an individualized treatment, it’s not intended for blanket ‘one symptom one cause’ prescription that most medical interventions treat. 
https://www.takingcharge.csh.umn.edu/explore-healing-practices/homeopathy/-there-good-scientific-evidence-homeopathy
To be fair, some of the people interviewed in the article seem to take a pretty harsh stand against the stuff.
The problem is that there aren't over the counter medications for children under the age of six other than just plain old Tylenol or Ibuprofen for anything more than a fever. If they have a runny nose or a cough there's really nothing they can take. Even some antihistamine are for 2+ but all other cold and flu medications that treats symptoms other than fever/aches are 6+.
The only "options" are the homeopathic stuff. I've tried some of them before to be honest because when you have a sick three or four year old who can't sleep because of a stuffed nose and cough from a cold, you look at all options... but yeah they don't do anything and don't work, waste of money so we never bothered again. Far as I could tell, they're totally harmless but just a waste of money.
https://www.takingcharge.csh.umn.edu/explore-healing-practices/homeopathy/-there-good-scientific-evidence-homeopathy
Sadly the fact that this is so prevalent tells us that a massive percent of the general public actually thinks homeopathy is legit medicine.
corporate terrorists
The RCMP pension is invested in the Coastal GasLink pipeline, so their involvement here is a major conflict of interest.
If you would like to support the efforts of the land defenders:
[Become a donor](https://www.yintahaccess.com/becomeadonor)
[Take action](https://www.yintahaccess.com/take-action-1)
[Help fundraise](https://www.yintahaccess.com/fundraisingprotocol)
Good.  Highways and trains and bridges should not be allowed to be blocked.
So are most pensions. If the trains don’t stop the blockades will stop.
Source?
If you would like to support the efforts of the land defenders:
[Become a donor](https://www.yintahaccess.com/becomeadonor)
[Take action](https://www.yintahaccess.com/take-action-1)
[Help fundraise](https://www.yintahaccess.com/fundraisingprotocol)
Kinda feel bad for all the folks in the pipeline work camp. It's hard enough to be away  from home (I fly up to the oil sands every other week myself), this just adds another element of stress
The first two comments are quite polar. Be interesting to see what others have to say
In the pictured area, that lake should never have been drained.  There was no need for canada to remove a lake that was good for hunting and fishing just to make even more farmland.  We have huge amounts of land in this country.  The lake would gave served as a good buffer for flooding.  I am willing to bet that 100 years ago fishing and hunting in that area was considered to be beneficial to First Nations, where as farmland was considered more beneficial to settlers.  Flooding of areas below that area is entirely the fault of those unwilling to return the lake to its previous state with perhaps a dam to keep the water levels stable.
As a former fed staff, yes, we knew. I left that job in 2016. Easy to burn out hearing how much work needs to be done and how many "no's" from Ottawa
It is typical of the government of Canada to treat the indigenous as last class citizens.
All part of the plan.
There are a whole lot of people across Canada that aren't safe from flooding.  People through history have generally set up camp next to water for obvious reasons.  Hell, most of the city of Winnipeg has been built within a large floodplain.  And with the potential of sea level rise there are a bunch of coastal locations with similar dangers.
Now what can or should we do about it?  In some cases there may be engineering solutions, but not all. In some cases the only option is to relocate, but everyone gets all up in arms when a suggestion like that is given.
[removed]
>*B.C.’s flood protection system is set up in a way that virtually guarantees First Nations will experience some of the worst damage during extreme flooding to the Lower Mainland.*
>>**“Who was forgotten in that infrastructure? Indigenous communities,”** Andy Yan, an urban planner in Vancouver and professor at Simon Fraser University, previously told VICE World News. **“You want to talk about examples of environmental racism, look at the diking system.”**
>>>On its website, Natural Resources Canada states that although much of the Lower Mainland region is protected from flooding by more than 500 km of dikes, ***“many First Nations reserves and treaty lands in the lower mainland have no dike protection at all.”***
>Indigenous leaders say it’s an added injustice that it was federal policymakers who pushed their peoples into flood-prone areas to begin with.
>> **“Canada said this is where your people will live—once they took over our lands—and so that’s where we are today,”** Cunningham told the Toronto Star in 2018. **“They put us here, so they need to help us.”**
This is mostly due to the separation of powers. First Nation communities have separate control, separate taxation, and separate infrastructure. So while Metro Vancouver can afford big expensive flood protection, First Nation communities cannot. Is it racism? Maybe. But it's not purely because they were 'put there'. It's more to do with socioeconomic factors.
Good.
It was absolutely *disgraceful* watching the Liberals team up with the Cons to block a wealth tax on the ultra-rich.
Let's hope there's a growing appetite for this.
We need to differentiate between wealth earned through providing goods and services society demands, and wealth received through inheritance or accident (divorce, lottery).
The most straightforward means to do this is an estate tax and a lottery tax.
No we don't. People don't earn hundreds of millions of dollars themselves, they only do that by exploiting the labour of other people. If you wanna collect that money, you can pass most of it back to the government so the people creating that value get *some* benefit out of it.
You should look on R/personal finance Canada's thread on how to "avoid high income tax". It's fucking disgusting how many people who benefit from society refuse to pitch in the fair share that allowed them to rise to that position.
If you consider the free exchange of labour for currency exploitation under *all circumstances*, then I hope you will live your values by providing for all your own needs from now on instead of purchasing them, and not participating in the capital markets at all. Please, store your pension in ready cash and grow your own crops.
> If you consider the free exchange of labour for currency exploitation under all circumstances
My dude, a fully socialist country would almost certainly involve this also. You are confusing commerce with capitalism. But go off on your high horse about how I can't question the exploitation of labour unless I become a sharecropper or some shit.
How the fuck did you even come up with that garbage?
>How the fuck did you even come up with that garbage?
Honestly, I’m only trying to match the people who think that the outsized returns from capital is predicated on the exploitation of labour, as if intellectual property or the organization of capital and labour had no value at all, but no garbage I can imagine can equal that.
🤡
If we literally gave all the (9mm) Glocks we confiscated from American smugglers to our military, we wouldn't have the pistol procurement fiasco that we do. 
For those out of the know, we're using pistols from the second world war, and the people in charge have quoted 10 years(!) to select, procure, and issue a replacement. Meanwhile the British re-kitted their whole force with Glocks in 3 years.
I'm dead serious on giving confiscated smuggled guns to the forces. Glocks are dead reliable. They wouldn't have a completely standardized model, but it wouldn't be any different to police departments that allow officers to choose their service pistol from a range of approved models. And it would cost almost nothing.
She need all of them for self defense.
So you're telling me it was one ~~guy~~woman with 56 guns and she was a senior friggen citizen?
>  senior friggen citizen?
On Nov. 1, the **48-year-old woman** reached the Canadian side of the St. Clair River, where Canada Border Services Agency (CBSA) officers referred her to secondary inspection.
My co-workers may call me a senior citizen, but I don't think 48 years old technically counts yet. I hope.
I can't wait to get my senior's discount at age 48!
I was attempting a Boondock Saints reference.
As a senior, I didn't get it.
That's fair.  The protagonists (a trio of vigilante assassins) have a gunfight, after which the detective in charge of tracking them is trying to figure out what happens and concludes they had a very difficult fight against six guys with guns.  The comic relief character pipes up "what if it was one guy with six guns?" which is completely played off as a joke because that's stupid; why would one guy have 6 guns? And how could one guy almost kill 3 professional assassins at this point?
The detective later gets to talk to the protagonists and finds out that not only was it one guy with 6 guns, he was also 70 years old, and very handily kicked their asses, to which he says one of the most memorable lines in the movie "So you're telling me it was one guy with 6 guns and he was a senior friggin citizen?", played again as a joke because the comedic relief who said it earlier, who is always wrong, was actually right about this one.
It's genuinely a very entertaining movie, too bad it isn't very popular.  I recommend watching if you get a chance.  Just don't try to take the underlying message too seriously, it is just a movie after all.
When I saw the headline that quote was all I could think about; I was hoping that I could post it and bring a knowing smile to others who would recognize the quote, but apparently I was mistaken.
Nah.  It is way, way past time to do that.  The problem is that only two parties under the current system can form government.  The CPC won't do it because it would mean their destruction.  The LPC won't do it because it's much more fun to run the show than it is to be the larger partner in a coalition.
I don't doubt it will happen at some point, but (sadly) I don't see it happening any time soon.
No fucking shit. Of course it is. I’m still pissed Trudeau backed down from this after the 2015 election. It was one of his huge campaign promises. After the election they sent out a survey to hear ideas on how to reform the electoral system (which I completed) only to have them turn around and ignore the will of the people!
Its been time for 150 years.
This would take bipartisan support and while the Liberals might be willing to toy with the idea the Conservatives never would consider it. They are well aware they would never be able to form government under such a system as the people of Canada have never actually supported them to the point they would or could win a natural majority. Their policies are repugnant to the majority of Canadians and the only way they ever win already is through scandal or deception. If it was actually representative they wouldn't have a chance.
if we still had parties that could act boldly with a majority government it would be a reason to keep FPTP -- but neoliberalism has killed that.  nation building has been put on a 40 year hold.
No shit.
I'm looking forward to the day both the cons and libs squeak just under 30% in the same election. We're getting so close to that. Imagine watching them both squirming in the news after that. Come on folks, you want to see it too, I know you do! :)
I feel like we've been reading this exact same article for the past 15 years.
LOL, isn't that what we all agreed in 2015?
It's much more likely that any electoral reform will happen at the provincial level before the federal.  Additionally wouldn't all electoral system reform changes be confined to single geographical seats as it is now.  As opposed to a PR system where the votes of the whole province are factored and seats are distributed outside of geographical lines?
Canada deserves a voting system that reflects the needs of all its citizens. First-past-the-post fails to uphold this principle and is at the root of many problems in our political discourse today. It is time for change.
If you want to help bring proportional representation to Canada, please consider joining r/Proportional_CA. We are an open, positive community where people can discuss and organize activism related to electoral reform.
It's time to dismantle the ENTIRE system, full stop. Rebuild the charter to exclude all the overly Christian bias, the systematic racist part, tax the rich, don't allow corporations to fund politics and give the country back to the middle.
I'm not sure why the CPC would be against it. Look at the last federal election. The CPC got more votes than the Liberals (34.34% of the vote vs. 33.12%) but the Liberals got 36 *more* seats than the Conservatives. That is insane.
I support neither party, but I think the Conservatives have more to gain from Proportional Representation (which would be my preferred alternative) than the Liberals do.
It was not the will of the highest bidder, which was obviously not the people.
And what would have happened if the Libs moved ahead with Ranked Ballots without any party agreeing to it?
I believe it is because analysis showed that reform would be unpalatable to the public. Either you end up with a system that would destroy any chance for the CPC to get elected, or you end up with a system heavily skewed towards the liberals. Either option wouldn't really fly with the broader electorate.
The liberal way
The real problem is that it's technically up to the party in power, short of a minority gov, to determine the election laws.  So it needed the 3 big teams to say ya or ney or to have a referendum.
There was no consensus
Electoral reform is hardly the will of the people, just look at how it's never passed in any of the provinces that bring it up. BC alone has shot it down 3 times. Most people don't even know what it is, or care, so I don't know where this idea comes from that it's overwhelmingly favoured by Canadian voters.
Why do you think the liberals would be willing to toy with the idea? They literally said they would, we gave them a majority and they didn't do it.
The Trudeau government has admitted it would cost just $1 billion to cancel the deal and clear our conscience. That's half a billion less than Alberta wasted on the Keystone XL pipeline. If one province can spend that amount just to show people how pro pipeline they are, surely our country could spend that money to take a moral stand on something that would actually have a tangible effect.
Seriously. We're so hypocritical. I stand by my values and I want us as a nation to "walk the walk" not just "talk the talk".
Voters in Southwester Ontario still have a strong fetish for that old-fashioned assembly-line employment-concept. Any politician who move against it feels the wrath.
Hasn't the reason always been said to be that canceling the agreement would lead to a distrust in Canada's ability to deliver internationally? Not saying I agree with that, either, but it's certainly multifaceted.
for neoliberals jobs are always the excuse
are jobs so important we would arm war criminals?
For nearly a DECADE now I've been blown away by how many people don't know about Yemin or what's going on. So, liberals being liberals, don't pay any lip service unless it's a popular issue. Then, let's say we get some big protest together, we'd get"WE SEE YOU, WE HEAR YOU, PEACE ON EARTH" as they double their support for the Saudi genocide campaign.
Chrystia Freeland gave a radio interview a few years ago on the CBC where she was confronted about Canada's arms being used by Saudi Arabia to commit genocide in Yemen and she fully defended it saying how lucrative it was for Canadian corporations. She's an utter sociopath.
That bonesaw dude killed an American reporter.
Love how despite how the past thirty years or so have been turning out, western nations are still funnelling weapons into the Middle East. Especially when nations like Saudi Arabia use it to bomb innocent people in countries like Yemen. You’d think we’d learn, or at least develop some kind of conscience.
From the federal government's press release on the deal:
> “In addition, in order to ensure that the government always upholds the highest standards with respect to human rights, we are announcing the creation of an arms-length advisory panel of experts who will review best practices regarding arms exports by state parties to the United Nations Arms Trade Treaty [ATT] to ensure that our system is as robust as possible.
Oh wow, so the solution is to hire a panel of "experts" to "review" the "best practices" of the arms trade. I'd say it's gibberish, but I don't doubt that they will find some friends to give money to as experts. And inevitably find that we look good compared to the U.S., and then tout that for years. 
It's just insulting. What are they going to do - say "oh gosh actually this seems slightly against what the UN recommended so we'll call it all off!"? No, of course not. 
Respect for Canadians would mean being upfront  with us, and telling us that they're OK with the deal because the price is right. But instead it's more time and money spent on press releases and expert panels and flowery justifications, just to try and wallpaper over things. At what point do we start calling it propaganda?
I want a government that either does these deals and accepts that their hands are dirty, or a government that doesn't do them at all. I'm sick of this Liberal **bullshit** where they do exactly what the Conservatives did, but then play the victim when people don't love them.
I am extremely confident that if you polled Canadians asking them if we should be selling weapons to the Saudis the overwhelming majority would be against it.  Why is our government doing something that Canadians do not want? They are *supposed* to be representing our interests, not corporate lobby interests
This was posted by someone else a while ago but this is exactly the point which most people refuse to acknowledge (i'm going to assume down-voting and buried by people who disagree instead of actual discussion over this exact point):
This has been discussed in policy and academic circles for a long time, but it has gained surprisingly little traction outside of those fields. Broadly, Canada needs to ask itself two questions. Firstly, do we need a domestic defence industry? And, secondly, if so, are we prepared to do what it takes to preserve it?
From a strategic perspective, an independent defense industry is the sine qua non of any actor on the world stage seeking to conduct independent operations free from foreign influence. Any nation that seeks to maintain a relatively independent stance in world affairs needs a robust domestic defense industrial base to enable it to supply its forces with the weapons they need, when they need them - with no preconditions attached on their usage, and no fears of discontinued product support if certain actions are taken. This is in stark contrast to what usually happens when relying on weapons procured from overseas - there, you are beholden to the country that manufactures and sells them, since they can cut off support or discontinue supplies at any time should you implement a policy or take an action that unacceptably violates their own strategic and foreign policy priorities.
Having a domestic defense industrial base shields you from the possibility of that occurring, at least in part. And the ancillary benefits include fostering high-end technological development (since advanced military equipment is usually at the forefront of contemporary technology), keeping a design and manufacturing skills base in Canada and generating export opportunities abroad, which translate into valuable wealth inputs for Canada and opportunities to influence other nations and their foreign policies - if they buy our weapons, we gain some measure of influence over them.
So, that's why any independent actor on the world stage (or an actor seeking true strategic independence) also requires a robust domestic defense industry. Asking ourselves whether we need a defense industrial base thus ties into asking ourselves whether we want to have the capability to act independently of the United States (our main overseas arms suppliers), now or in the future.
The second question we need to ask ourselves, however, is this - if we do decide we need a defense industrial base, are we prepared to do what it takes to preserve it?
And the answer to that question will determine whether we as a nation are okay with selling arms (LAV-IIIs, small arms, whatever) to Saudi Arabia. Simply put, we cannot sustain a defense industrial base in Canada based solely on Canadian orders - our orders of military equipment are too few, and in quantities too small to allow for economically viable production rates. All we would be making if we only made weapons for ourselves would be 'boutique' items - enormously expensive products produced very slowly, because the opportunities to achieve large cost savings and large-scale production simply aren't there if we order items in small quantities. And, relative to the world arms market, all the Canadian armed forces require are small quantities, so there's no way out of that fact.
And the public probably wouldn't like our procurement costs in that eventuality - like with the Single Class Surface Combatant Program (where costs have spiralled wildly beyond initial estimates), the government would end up paying far, far more than it would were it to just buy weapons off the open market with foreign companies manufacturing them. This has been the case with Japan, which followed this policy of developing enormously expensive weapons domestically and then producing them in small quantities over extremely long timescales, making them horrendously expensive per-unit.
Thus, the only way to maintain an economically viable domestic defense industrial base is to take advantage of export opportunities where and when we can. Exporting large quantities of items allows us to keep our domestic defense industry economically competitive and continuously active - and allows us to amortize development costs over larger production runs made for both Canadian and foreign buyers. Only the biggest countries don't have to deal with this necessity of arms exports - the United States, and China if they so wish it. Every other nation on Earth with a domestic defense industry (save for Japan) relies heavily on exports to sustain it - Russia, France, the UK, Germany, Spain, Italy, the list goes on. Thus, we have to play that game if we want to maintain a domestic defence industry.
But, if we decide we want to keep a domestic defense industrial base alive, we can't decide who we sell our weapons to anymore. At least, not to any great degree. Our first preference would of course be selling weapons to our NATO allies and partners with good human rights records and reliable safeguards. But they aren't buying anymore - economic troubles, cutbacks and a preference for American/ European supply chains or their own domestic suppliers have seen to that.
Thus, we have to sell to less savory clients if we want to compete on the market. Clients like Saudi Arabia. Or clients in Africa. Or clients in Asia. There's no way around it. It's the only market we can tap into that can give us the orders we need to sustain our defense industry.
Thus, we need to answer those two questions - do we want a domestic defense industry? And, if so, do we want to do what it takes to preserve it? And if they're both in the affirmative, then, logically, we shouldn't be complaining about arms sales to Saudi Arabia. Because they are an inevitability, a strategic decision made to keep our defense industrial base alive in anticipation of a future stance of independent action (independent of Washington, anyway) - at least in part. Human rights become secondary - strategic interests become paramount.
Canada the citizens or Canada the government?
I think the ideas is a bit more nuanced and counter intuitive than the simple "Saudi bad" meme  Right now we have no leverage precisely because we sell so little to Saudi Arabia.  If we were to be a significant supplier like the us then we can start to influence way more policy.
[deleted]
The cost of 2 useless elections.
One question whos getting jobs? You? Me? Them???also much love fellow Canadians thanks for putting up with this bullshit for so long but wtf
Only 1 billion? Perfect, our slashed education budget (ON) for no given reason covers half of that already.
"Hypocritical" is the perfect word for it. Most Canadians express support for progressive values, then consistently vote for the liberal party, a party that is demonstrably not progressive. Not on climate change, not on wealth inequality, not on Indigenous relations, not by any measure except for one -- they *say* progressive words sometimes.
Most of the rest are conservatives, who are a lost cause. This leaves a very, very small number of people in this country who "walk the walk."
It sucks. But all we can do is keep pointing it out, hoping someone is listening.
>Sorry stereotype
The first thing you did for this post was apologize lol
Saying sorry is a virtue ❤️
I am proud of it  🇨🇦
I just realized that I have not be saying sorry ever since I moved to US few years ago. 
I must get it back when I moved back to Canada next year! 
Sorry I let y’all down
You're on to something. I say sorry when I am passing somone...literally translates to excuse me
I feel like there's an official term that defines our almost reflexive use of the word. It's like a national idiolect, as opposed to a dialect. 
I interpret it as part of the national identity of making way for others and avoiding offense. Of course this is a generalisation, and examples to the contrary abound...but it's a big part of what I love about this country.
It’s usually a wad of saying i sympathize with you, I’m sorry your situation sucks
I think we say sorry a lot because we are polite, kind, and respectful. 🇨🇦
Yeah, we often use it as a way of saying excuse me, but the phrase “please excuse me” is also a form of apology, so really Americans also apologize  all the time, in different words, while also not really apologizing.
I say sorry as I tap a stranger on their arm and get their attention in order to apologize for having to intrude upon their personal space as well as whatever they were doing at the time. It isn't meaningless. At least, for me...
For anyone else resisting the Canadian sorry culture there is at least one other of you.
My folks made sure I understood that sorry and hate were strong words. I've unfortunately had to apologize for myself on occasion and knew, as a result, the word carried emotional weight and a certain moral responsibility.
I almost feel apologetic to suggest I disagree but I'll take the chance and speak up for a mostly quiet minority.
I was trying to be meta or funny or something. Sorry for the dumb joke.
I’m also proud of it!
No worries! You made up for it by calling us *y’all*
Sorry for making you feel like you let anyone down.
Thank you!! Not an apology just more of a “sorry for existing near you” thing.
I’m sorry for wording it in a way that you felt the need to apologize for my situation. Also, I apologize on your behalf for misspelling “way”. Probably my fault, my deepest regrets.
Sorry, didn't mean for it to sound demeaning. Wasn't sure if it was intentional by you or not. Either way, made me laugh.
Thanks Brother/Sister 😃
No, no no it is I who should be apologizing. I misspelled a simple word, thus contributing to your confusion regarding the second sentence of my first reply. I should have seen how you would think my second example was directed at you, and for that you have my deepest condolences.
Oh how the tables have turned, now you’re apologizing. Turns out we’re both Canadian.
Like can enforce the gas purchase.  I’ll probably have to get more than 30L even with 1/4 of a tank of gas left.
What's it like in BC right now?
That depends where one is. The province is huge.
Meanwhile, austria is making vaccination mandatory. It makes clever business sense for austria to make vaccination mandatory. Once they are 100% vaccinated, they will become the number one european tourist destination. People want to feel safe where they travel.
NB's vaccination rate is slightly higher than the national average, so I'm not sure I get the joke here.
The manatee is based in the Maritimes, so it is all about relativity. We are probably the province in the maritimes with the most anti vaxxer presence.
> We are probably the province in the maritimes with the most anti vaxxer presence.
That might the case? According to [this site](https://www.statista.com/statistics/1228184/canadian-population-share-received-covid-vaccination-province/), the % of residents with at least one does in New Brunswick is the lowest of any Atlantic province but still higher than any non-Atlantic province. It's weird though since NB isn't far behind the other provinces.
Failure of administration. What incompetence. There are plenty of strategies to significantly reduce vaping and vandalism. Total amateurs.
So, it's cool if you have to show your schoolmates and teachers your junk every time you whiz, as long as nobody steals the soap dispensers?  And if you object to getting thrown out of school because you don't think the principal should be able to decide who gets to see your privates, s/he'll probably call the cops on you?
I think this is what we call a "teachable moment."
Something something absolute power...
WTF!?
In the end, it was the schools with most devious of licks.
How are you supposed to take a shit now?
Beaverton?
How about screen kids before entry instead of this….
classic New Brunswick
Also the principal seems like a real control freak, suspending the students who came to their office to complain, and then calling the police on them later on? Did the admin consider no other alternatives before this comical move?
It sounds like they’ve taken away the washroom main entrance doors but left the stall doors intact. So pooping is still relatively private, but using the urinal... maybe not so much.
Definitely a power tripping control freak with no human skills or regard for the people she serves. She has failed at her job and takes out her incompetence on the people she feels she can bully. I hope they make her life absolute hell until she finds a job as a mall cop or something.
Edit: She
Ah gotcha!
Small correction, the principal is a woman.
Thanks, read it and everything. Derp. My bad
Gross. So much waste. And it's higher than this since it sounds like Ontario, the biggest province by far, didn't respond.        
> The survey suggests at least 1,016,669 doses have been rejected since vaccines first arrived last December. That's about 2.6 per cent of the entire supply delivered to the provinces and territories that provided their numbers.
2.6% isn't catastrophic but still seems too high. We need to do better while supplies are still so limited.       
> Unused doses vary wildly across Canada. Alberta reported disposing of 10 per cent of its doses; Nova Scotia 0.3 per cent.
WTF Alberta!?
2.6% waste is actually really good, though 10% is actually concerning.
I wonder what the normal % is during the flu season for tossed doses?
As well what is the normal % for vaccines being tossed year over year. As they have to be all bought in advance and they don't last forever.
I don't have an issue with a diplomatic boycott (or even full boycott where no Canadian athletes can compete under the Canadian flag in China) as long as its done out of real concern for human rights violations of the CCP and not just for playing politics. What that means is Canada should boycott ALL future olympics held in countries with a shady human rights record like Russia, the US, the Gulf States, and Israel.
Also, Canada should be becoming more independent and not just follow what the US is doing especially after what has happened during the Trump Presidency. China held 2 of our citizens because of Trump's trade war and Trump didn't do anything to help us. He also labeled us a security threat so he can slap more tariffs on Canadian steel. Until Biden can prove that he's willing to be more friendly, we should rely less on the US.
Lastly, the whole olympics organization is corrupt to the core. Everyone should boycott them based on that fact alone
Yes, Canada should stand up for human rights. Pay no attention to the fact that we're selling arms to the Saudi Arabian regime that brutally oppresses women and LGBTQ people. Let's only take a stand for human rights when it's politically convenient!
>The U.S. State Department suggested an Olympic boycott was among the possibilities but a senior official said later a boycott has not been discussed.  
>  
>"We at the USOPC oppose athlete boycotts because they've been shown to negatively impact athletes while not effectively addressing global issues in the past," Lyons said. The committee doesn't wish to "minimize the serious human rights issues that are happening in China," but believes diplomats and trade and other government officials are better equipped to address such concerns and "young athletes should be used as political pawns in these issues," Lyons said.  
>  
>White House press secretary Jen Psaki said Wednesday that the White House is not looking at a boycott of the 2022 Olympics.  
"We have not discussed, and are not discussing, any joint boycott with allies and partners," she said.
[https://www.cbc.ca/sports/olympics/china-warns-us-beijing-olympic-boycott-1.5979222](https://www.cbc.ca/sports/olympics/china-warns-us-beijing-olympic-boycott-1.5979222)
lets be frank here, its got nothing to do with human rights, its just another political maneuver. Lets at least be honest about it.
I really hate it when the CBC publishes propaganda pieces. I don't see why the CBC cannot stick to fact based reporting like this article above.
We went to the Berlin games in 1936. This is purely political. The US doesn’t care about Muslims, otherwise they wouldn’t have killed a million of them in Iraq so recently.
The Olympics is a disgrace anyway.
What is the point of "diplomatic boycott" if all Olympians from around the warld will participate and compete in China? China still will be olimpic game host and we all will be watching. Thousands of reporters and television crews will be there anyway, and that's beside spectators from around the globe. Another olimpic games will be huge success for this communist regime. Biden and the USA will only go with this very symbolic gutless move making sure that they won't make Chinese counterpart too upset. We did manage to boycott Moscow olimpic games in 1980. Why we can't doi it this time around? So don't  bather with diplomatic boycott. It is completely pointless. Nobody will even notice.
What's really working the gears in my brain is the IOC member, Dick Pound.
This man, who I assume is a rational human person, is going through life knowing full well that he could go by the name Richard but instead is like "The name's Pound. Dick Pound"
I am amazed this hasn’t started already
This
There was no credible reason to boycott the Moscow games. The official reason was that they ‘’invaded’’ Afghanistan (even tho the Afghan government asked for their help, to fight against US backed terrorists).
No one boycotted the US games when they invaded Afghanistan.
The 1980 boycott achieved nothing.
Using athletes who have dedicated their lives from a young age to their sport as pawns in a geopolitical game while trade goes on without a pause is so weak (the vast majority of Olympic athletes live on a tight budget, unless you are a professional athlete or a multiple gold medal winner in a high profile sport, you’ve made immense sacrifices).
Yeah but that government came to power in Afghanistan via a KGB assisted coup. 
A bit foggier than invading a country ruled by the literal terrorist group.
That’s not true. Afghanistan was a one party state, and this republic was overthrown by a revolution. The kgb was surprised and thought that Afghanistan was too feudal to transition to socialism. They helped later, but they didn’t lead the revolution.
Glad to see an MP publicly decrying this. While the UN may not have much real power, both they and the Canadian Supreme Court have clearly stated that the RCMP, goverment of BC and CGL are clearly breaking the law by not respecting the decisions of the land's owners.
Events like this make you realize that the country's security forces are meant to protect and serve the wealthy and the corporations and not the interests or will of the people - Indigenous and non-Indigenous. 
They and the government serve the ones with money and power and no one else. 
It's another example where we have to really stop calling it a democracy when common people have no say in anything and only the ones with wealth and power have all the control. Then it's known as a Plutocracy or an Oligarchy. It's a system that runs on money ... not on the will of the people.
If you would like to support the efforts of the Wet'suwet'en at Gidimt'en:
[Become a donor](https://www.yintahaccess.com/becomeadonor)
[Take action](https://www.yintahaccess.com/take-action-1)
[Help fundraise](https://www.yintahaccess.com/fundraisingprotocol)
NDP MP, “we need to respect our agreements!” NDP MLA’s in BC “it’s not our jurisdiction…I think…”
We should do it because it is right but at the same time,   
I would not do it for a powerless group that is the UNs where you have the big 5 oppressors with a veto to do whatever they want. Frankly, the UN can go fuck itself on 99% of what it claims to do.
How is any of this even legal? I mean any of it. If it's their land how does a company have the right to come in and build on it?
why are the RCMP there anyway?
Why isn’t anyone talking about the group of Wet’suwet’en people that made a deal and took money for the pipeline for their clan and are upset that some of their clan members are protesting?
Are we living in la la land here this is a small dissenting minority that doesn't even agree with the rest of their Nation this has been ruled on by the courts and the elected band members and Chiefs.
The rule of law seems to be a convenient term thrown around these days. Fairy Creek protesters are directly ignoring the rule of law and they are celebrated around here.
Care you share a source on the Supreme Court thing? I searched but could not find.
Voted for her twice and will continue doing so as long as I'm in her riding.
A podcast called "The bottlemen" kept calling Canada "Three mining companies in a trenchcoat" and that really stuck with me.
> meant to protect and serve the wealthy
I dunno, maybe they are just bored because there’s clearly nothing else they could be helping with in BC right now. Nope - [nothing at all they could be doing with their time](https://www.theguardian.com/world/video/2021/nov/19/18000-people-stranded-after-floods-and-landslides-in-british-columbia-video)…
Common people have some say in the governance of our country. The problem is that our current voting system has the power to dilute their power, and it allows groups with their own interests, such as wealthy people, corporations and the police, to step in. We can fix this, and will fix this.
r/Proportional_CA is a community dedicated to spreading the word about proportional representation in Canada. People here should consider joining. If we can get a proportional voting system for Canada, we can dilute the power of special interests and ensure everyone has a voice.
[removed]
Yeah, bit weird to pressure Trudeau and leave out Horgan when the AG of BC is the one who could intervene with the BC RCMP much more easily than the federal government.
Chances of Trudeau stepping on Horgan’s turf when the project is entirely in BC, and has been approved by the feds, and has majority support in BC, and when he can say ‘but an NDP government is in charge’ are zero.
Singh had no problem criticizing Notley, why is Horgan being treated with kid gloves?
That’s the neat part, they don’t.
Genocidal conquest like they were designed to do.
Paid Henchmen.
Basic consequence of warming - more evaporation happens over the oceans, more moisture in the atmosphere means more energy, warmer atmosphere means more carrying capacity.  
All of the wetlands that used to absorb water are now diminished in capacity, or eliminated entirely due to our agricultural or construction activities, and the maximum volume of water in the various watercourses and drainage areas is exceeding what we used to consider "normal variation".  
We've been trying to push Mother Nature around.  It's starting to push back.
It’s still there! Does anyone have an update?
I'd prefer to have my personal data stored in my own digital wallet and give access to whoever I want only when I want.
If this prevents schools from using Google drive then I disagree. In general though, sure.
that's just not how the internet is going to work though. 
People expect things to just work, and everything to be connected. That's going to involve storing data in the cloud.
This explains in part the lack of participation in the process. ( voter turnout)
"did you call your boss?"
"even if we did they would say the same thing"
RCMP officers literally pretended to check in with their superiors, on camera, when lives are on the line. Then said the elder is free to walk 27 kilometers in the snow to the police line to retrieve the medication for their heart condition.
edit: you can stop with the hostage narrative unless you're going to provide a source that they're literally hostages
There can be no justification for the timing of these tactics by the RCMP. From Covid to flooding to residential school murders, the Wet’suwet’en’s land claim needs to be heard in good faith. 
Without men with guns on their land. 
This is a shameful embarrassment.
The RCMP are corrupt.  This madness has to stop.
aaaaaaaaaaaaand just like that, we forgot all about "truth and reconciliation" in favour of capitalist greed during a climate crisis all the while showing the true purpose of law inforcement (protecting the financial interests and property of the elite)
shameful day to be a mounty, shameful day to be a canadian. shameful day all around.
Anyone know why the post (https://www.reddit.com/r/onguardforthee/comments/qwcgfr/breaking_dozens_of_rcmp_have_deployed_onto/) about 30-50 RCMP getting bussed into Wet'suwet'en territory got deleted from this sub?
So their orders haven’t changed in 200 years.
Fucking national embarrassment.
If Trudeau gave a shit about FN like he claims he does, he’d call the RCMP comissioner and get them to back off. But the federal govt allowing the RCMP to abuse FN is a long standing Canadian tradition that the Lib-Cons have perpetuated for decades
this is cruel and unusual punishment on a community rather than the perpetrators. 
done by our national police.
&#x200B;
great.
Inhuman dogs of the corporations...
Fuck the RCMP
Ha! And these guys want indigenous people to believe the cops at every turn . Fuck outta here
They later arrested said elder! ❤️Auntie Janet🤞 https://www.yintahaccess.com
Look for Gidimt’en Checkpoint on FB.
So the reason that all these pipelines and shit is going through is from a trade agreement with China is it not? [https://canadians.org/analysis/harper-sneaks-through-canada-china-fipa-locks-canada-31-years](https://canadians.org/analysis/harper-sneaks-through-canada-china-fipa-locks-canada-31-years) Basically our own laws don't apply and we are held liable in a court of law in China if we in any way block them from any project with Chinese interest/stake.
[Become a donor](https://www.yintahaccess.com/becomeadonor)
[Take action](https://www.yintahaccess.com/take-action-1)
[Help fundraise](https://www.yintahaccess.com/fundraisingprotocol)
I hate that people see the RCMP. as a symbol for Canada, they are an embarrassment.
Always enforcing the will of the elite/industry/masters at the expense of anyone in their way.
The RCMP is an absolute disgrace to our country. Fuck the RCMP and fuck Costal Gaslink
Sounds par for the course please ignore the ongoing genocide.
I emailed John Horgan. I doubt it does anything, but I encourage others to do the same.
ACAB, Fucking pigs.
Just from a quick [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_exports_of_Canada) search the highest exports of Canada are:
1	Crude Petroleum  
2	Cars  
3	Refined Petroleum  
4	Aircraft, Helicopters, and Spacecraft  
5	Coal
As long as our main industries are dependent directly or indirectly on fossil fuels, we're only going to keep deflecting and delaying real action on our exports and emissions. It's all talk and I unfortunately don't see that changing as long as we keep our current system where the biggest industrial interests effectively control policy-making on the subject.
I mean, Canada has always been taking heed of what large corps desire
>'Canada is an oil producing company, I mean country'
-JT
**Oligarchy**
If Vancouver real estate / money laundering were an export, let me tell you lol.
Really though, recently Amazon announced they were building a data centre in Alberta (server farms need to be cold I suppose?). It's a start
TBF on the coal front, the majority of that is metallurgical coal which is used as a component of steel production, not as a fuel. In fact we *import* about 8 million tonnes of thermal coal (the stuff you burn for power) a year.
It’s the backbone of your economy
Has always been lobbied/BRIBED into whatever the corporations want.
Because thats the way CONservatives think.
More like space is cheap in Calgary right now. There's high enough internet bandwidth to support something like that, and theres a okay amount of tech.
But let’s send the RCMP to be thugs for the pipeline
Trudeau needs to ban water.
It not about a pipeline its about finishing the genocide.
It can be all of the above, and more.
Ooh, Doug Ford's Ontario is shitting on workers and rewarding employers, what a fucking shocker.
They are not even trying to hide the theft.
Time for a national general strike.
I cannot believe that people still vote conservative...
Ontario is Open for Business
Disgusting. I remember when WSIB tried to cheat me out of my physiotherapy.
Blueprint Tory behavior. 
But workers keep voting him in. Working class people make up the majority of the electorate and they keep voting for Tory policy makers or slightly less Tory policy makers, either way Ontario votes like shit.
What the FUCK
I hate to be a "but the dems!!1" but this came about / was started when McGuinty appointed Elizabeth Whitmer head of the WSIB. The reason there's all this money to pay back is that Whitmer's had 9 years to find "efficiencies" by cutting and denying benefits to injured workers, overworking the WSIB's own workers, paying their own doctors to reject claims, etc.. The Toronto Star's been in this for years now... I'd post links if I wasn't on mobile rn.
This had been going on under the previous liberal governments as well. They are both in it together.
This started under McGuinty. It's not a tory program, the tories just don't care to change anything about it.
If the last few years are any indication both parties are equally shitty.  But yea that is disappointing to hear.  Why the hell are humans so shitty to eachother.
Yeah, two sides of the same shit coin.
>slightly less Tory policy makers
That is why I said this.
Time for a new coin.
But Bob Rae had Rae Days about 30 years ago so the NDP is unfit to govern.
So wait, they flew in around 50 rcmp officers, but they can’t use the same airstrip to evacuate the CGL holdouts?
This is absolutely nuts. Considering all that this country has gone through this year, and in the province this week, I have no idea how the powers that be can justify the timing of this.
They want to keep these issues out of news and social media now.
Anyone think it's fucked up RCMP from around the country can voluntarily sign up for this task force? Literally attracting cops who have an anti-land defender bias
Ummm where do I opt out of my tax dollars going towards this?  
I thought the majority of us where down with saving the planet, affordable housing and better social programs, not sending in uniformed KKK to continue to destroy the planet.
Just keep adding  to the dumpster fire, I mean it's only our kids who will have to deal with this mess right? 🤦‍♀️
Wait. The RCMP, part of the executive branch of our democratic government, is being used to enforce the wishes of private capital over the rights of the citizens of that same democracy?
Unthinkable.
Yeah because protecting oil profits are much more important than an environmental disaster. Fuck the cops and fuck the government! Both provincial and federal.
This is some shit.
The original person who posted this a few hours ago deleted it for some reason, but this is super important and cannot be missed, so I've put it back up.
[Become a donor](https://www.yintahaccess.com/becomeadonor)
[Take action](https://www.yintahaccess.com/take-action-1)
[Help fundraise](https://www.yintahaccess.com/fundraisingprotocol)
Fucking deplorable
When can we use the big tyranny word and act accordingly cause this shit will never end 🤔
I’m hoping to educate myself on what’s going on up there, could anyone recommend any reasonably objective sources to read/watch?
The RCMP are a national embarrassment. [When they're not staging bombings and arson to frame political dissidents, they're out there robbing law-abiding citizens and murdering native people](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_controversies_involving_the_Royal_Canadian_Mounted_Police)
Fuck the RCMP
Fuck da police!
It's especially telling that they decide to do this when much of BC's roads are washed out, flooded, and the province is facing a crisis requiring the whole nation's attention, and they try to quietly slip the RCMP into indigenous land with K9 units to arrest land protectors.
It seems there isn't substantial evidence to determine what the goal is here.
>the CGL holdouts
I wouldn't refer to them as holdouts, the CGL employees did not make a decision to stay despite the eviction order. [The CGL employees were never even informed about what was happening by CGL.](https://thetyee.ca/News/2021/11/18/Coastal-GasLink-Failed-Warn-Camp-Employees-About-Blockade-Worker/)
Precisely. They do not care.
Do Ontario next please. I dont want them near our hospitals blocking wee woo bus's again.
strange adults shouldn’t be loitering around schools in the first place…
how is this not a nationwide law already? it just seems like common sense. if you have no reason to be at a school or healthcare facility then you should be removed.
It's fucking insane that it's come to this
I thought they already implemented that a few weeks ago, didn’t they?
What a bunch of morons.
This is stupid legislation for so many reasons. Maybe not as stupid as the anti Vax protestors but it is still stupid.
Nah, most people with mental health issues don't behave nearly as poorly.
This case of asshole-itis
How is this stupid legislation if I may ask
Edit: I have now read the legislation and will update below.
I haven't read the legislation so I may change my opinion on some of this. 
Number one is the intent which is to limit protests. I know they are saying it is something different but that is how they are doing it. In my opinion this is a dangerous thing to do in a democracy. I can imagine many scenarios where a protest in those locations would be in the interest of society or individuals. As a young child I personally brought soup to teachers who were protesting on school grounds. Should they have been arrested?
Edit: labour related protests are allowed which is good however these facilities are often used for political announcements which in my opinion makes them fair game for protests.
Number two is how it is worded. Basically it will be in the police's hands to determine that one is restricting access or intimidating people. These are subjective things which will be difficult to prove in court. What it means is that people will be rounded up roughed up, hauled off and then let go. Likely no one will be prosecuted. Is that justice? It will end up being a blunt tool to be used by the police to break up protests at their discretion with no recourse. If the police act on this it is only going to harm the police's reputation with society which is already at an all time low. If they don't why even waste your effort. 
Number three. This is window dressing to make it look like the politicians are doing something. Really the issue has already taken care of itself unless you count the cenotaph crap which this won't cover and which won't be repeated for the same reasons as the hospital crap.
Edit: a positive thing is that the law expires which is nice to see that Eby has the foresight, likely based on the hindsight from being on the other side of the line.
> I haven't read the legislation 
k
We allready limit protests in many ways, for example you can't protest directly Infront of an abortion clinic. I don't think it's a big issue to put up a safe zone around a hospital that people need to get to for treatment.
> Number one is the intent which is to limit protests... As a young child I personally brought soup to teachers who were protesting 
The article states that the law covers impeding access and intimidation. Impeding access is a legitimate part of protest, in addition to raising awareness. For example, a union protesting at a factory might try to block trucks from entering the driveway.
I think teachers will be in the clear. During a school strike, the school is already closed, so the teachers are not impeding access. If protesters were trying to physically prevent kids from entering a school I'd want that to be illegal, even if they were teachers. If someone was protesting at a school while it was closed, I wouldn't mind, whether they're teachers or not.
> Number two is how it is worded
Are you basing this opinion on a specific reading or on any professional legal training? All laws are written and require interpretation. All laws have potential for abuse.
> Really the issue has already taken care of itself
I disagree with this because I don't think we've seen the last hospital or school protest. The pandemic isn't over, more pandemics may come, and non-pandemic issues (such as a new mandatory vaccine for schools, or a sex ed curriculum) might embolden some adults to try to block kids from entering schools. You can imagine similar scenarios for hospitals. I don't think this pandemic is so remarkable or rare an occurrence, and now that the idea is out there I don't think it's the last time adults will decide to block access to hospitals or schools.
I have now read it and stand by my statements
There is a significant difference between the anti abortion protests and these antivax protests that warrants a different response. The anti abortion protests were coupled with assassinations and sustained violence. These antivax protests at hospitals have pretty much fizzled out.
The law leaves much room for abuse. 
And is totally unrequired to setup a safe zone, barricades and police can already do that.
You are right that teachers will be in the clear, they have provided labour protest exemptions. However as these facilities are often used for political announcements I think that makes them fair game for political announcement related protests which would be banned. I have updated my original post to reflect this.
As far as the law goes, I am not a lawyer but I am familiar with similar laws and have watched them proceed through our court system. As all laws have the potential for abuse there is a good argument for limiting them to ones that directly cause harm. This has been pushed as another tool in the chest for police to use. Why aren't they using the ones they already have?
Thanks for the critical thinking on this. I appreciate it.
Thanks for the critical thinking on this. I appreciate it.
I have to qualify that a bit. They have provided for certain protests defined under labour laws.
If you would like to support the efforts of the land defenders:
[Become a donor](https://www.yintahaccess.com/becomeadonor)
[Take action](https://www.yintahaccess.com/take-action-1)
[Help fundraise](https://www.yintahaccess.com/fundraisingprotocol)
https://www.wetsuweten.com/culture/clan-system/
Who are the Gidmet'en Clan? I've seen a few different spellings now but none of them are close to anything on the Wet'suwet'en website. Unfortunately everything Google is pulling up is just about the blockade and I can't seem to find out who's First Nation they are a part of.
Anyone have any more info?
Gotta love the media painting this as a few against the  colonial approved elected council.
Let us recall these people have a culture and traditions that have nothing to do with colonial values.
Time to shut it down! Organize solidarity actions wherever you are.
The [absolute glee](https://www.reddit.com/r/canada/comments/qx1rgm/arrests_reported_as_rcmp_move_to_clear_wetsuweten/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=ios_app&utm_name=iossmf) with which some Canadians watch RCMP raids is absolutely disgusting. I wish there was some way to emphasize the [distinction between elected council and hereditary chiefs](https://www.ctvnews.ca/canada/wet-suwet-en-what-s-the-difference-between-the-elected-band-council-and-hereditary-chiefs-1.4811453) so that people stop assuming the assent of a colonial institution constitutes the assent of the wet’suwet’en people. It’s completely out of their jurisdiction.
There's no honour left in the red serge.
>“We want to make it absolutely clear that the actions of a few members of the Gidimt’en Clan who claimed to evict Coastal GasLink and the RCMP from the headwaters of the Morice River (Wedzin Kwa in our language) do not represent the collective views of the clan or of most Wet’suwet’en people,” a Nov. 14 statement from Wet’suwet’en First Nation councillors said.
>The statement, signed by elected chief Maureen Luggi, councillor Karen Ogen and councillor Heather Nooski added that the protesters cannot claim to be “practicing traditional protocols.”
>“We must also point out that there are Wet’suwet’en people working on the natural gas pipeline who are now trapped behind the blockade,” the statement added.
https://financialpost.com/commodities/energy/rescue-mission-breaches-blockade-to-arrest-protesters-and-free-workers-at-northern-b-c-gas-pipeline
Nah.
They are literally on that chart, the fifth clan. Chief Woos of Cass Yikh is the first house listed under them, he's the chief leading the camp.
That website provides more info: https://www.yintahaccess.com/historyandtimeline  It was made by the Gidimt'en clan of the Wet'suwet'en people to inform about who they are, how the decisions are made among the people, etc. 
But for the latest, up-to-date, details of the events taking place, this twitter account is probably better: https://twitter.com/Gidimten
There never was, they are actually the canadian genocide corps.
How much did CGL pay the elected chiefs to say that? The pipeline isn’t on reserve land, so they don’t have jurisdiction over it, that’s the area of the hereditary chiefs.
There’s also evidence that CGL intentionally didn’t tell the workers in the camp that the blockade was going to happen, probably so that they could be like “look at these poor workers”
>The statement, signed by elected chief Maureen Luggi
Who was elected as chief of the Wet'suwet'en First Nation band with a whopping 55 votes, so definitely represents the voice of thousands lol
Not sure what point you're trying to make here with this quote. Everyone knows it's not straightforward. The reserve leadership made a deal with the gas company so of course they're going to wage a PR war. The pipeline is not going on their land and they have no jurisdiction on the territory. Moreover, there was no need to block the workers from getting out - that was down to the gas company.
Thank you so much for contributing that really great, helpful, and important comment!!
AODA requires reasonable accommodation for people who cannot wear a mask and/or be vaccinated. It's called take out. Don't ask for personal information, just pack the food to go. Most places have figured this out after roughly two eternities of this pandemic but hey, this muppet believes he cracked the code and knows better than our health care professionals, Health Canada, the CDC and scientific communities across the fucking planet. Sweet fuck I'm sick of conspiracy nuts making the rest of us suffer.
What a bunch of morons, I hope they get shut down
So theybdont want to have a resteraunt. That seems pretty straight forward.
It's like refusing to check Id's before serving alcohol. Or refusing to wash your hands before cooking food, after going to the washroom. 
If thry don't want to have a restaurant this is an easy way not to have one.
They go off the rails by around the 5-minute mark, but their first argument appears, horrifically, to be correct. [According to Peterborough Public Health](https://www.peterboroughpublichealth.ca/novel-coronavirus-covid-19/covid-19-mandatory-face-coverings/faq-general-public/#15), customers don't need to provide proof of a mask exemption. Same thing appears to apply in the [Oakville area](https://www.oakville.ca/townhall/MS-REG-002-001.html). Can an Ontario lawyer confirm this shit?
This exposes some serious failures in leadership in municipal politics in Ontario. At least we're able to put some social pressure on the businesses to adopt more stringent policies.
At work can't watch full vid. Does it say what restaurant?
What a class act
At 7:45 :
"You can send me everything"
"I send you stuff and you deny it"
"You sent me one youtube video"
"I sent you (stumble over own tongue) Trudeau saying that he's going to put in legislation to protect  business owners from liability. "
...
I don't know if that youtube video would hold up in court
Just like they told those vaxxed and masked grocery store employees and seniors when they went on their grocery store harassment tour, "Don't worry, they'll die soon."
"We're more educated than you on the subject!"  
"We're not health professionals, we don't know!"
So apparently not all clowns are in the circus.
Those idiots need to [“do their own research”](https://imgur.com/a/kwwTpYH) on breakthrough case data.
Trash humans
Get a fucking hobby.
I would not be comfortable eating at a restaurant where the owners selectively follow public health guidelines.  “It is our right to store meat at room temperature and cook it to 135 degrees.”
I love my goddamn shithole of a city. I can’t wait to get out of here
Soon Herman Cain, soon...
Losers
Who wants to listen to this crap. We heard enough.
They had a ton of bad google reviews after the video aired of the owners in a sobeys flipping out on sobeys staff
I hope they lose everything. You cannot fix people like this.
Meeeoooorrrww! Conservative Catfight! This is even better than when Max and Scheer had their little bunfight over their leadership election and missing ballots.
Well it may be a two ring circus, Albertas UPC and now the Federal Conservatives seem to be imploding.
Shall we go for three rings, Mr Ford, Mr Moe?
We all love to see it! Please, O'Tool, please explode the CPX into at least 3 smaller parties! Much appreciated!
I really hope this piece of shit party splinters so hard none of the fragments have a chance of ever winning an election again. Now if we could only have something similar happen at the provincial level before my fellow idiot Ontarians doom us to another 4 years of Ford and his goons…
Fight! Fight! Fight!
Don't forget Manitoba PCs!
Sorry I was rushed
And last because it will be ignored.
Respect Indigenous rights and law, working in a nation-to-nation partnership
The thing is, everyone knows about the feedback loops that lead to things like the landslides we had. We’re constantly caving to economic pressure at the expense of our safety.
We had a month of rain in 36 hours and Vancouver is at the end of a river valley.
I think this is 99% climate change 1% logging.
I was very triggered but then I saw the source
Cue father in law sharing this without realising it's irony in 3...2...1...
Hahahah, that is brilliant!
Jokes on them, I had hair loss *before* the vaccine.
Can't wait to be more submissive and breedable, bucket list stuff for me personally
The microchip needs an update
A little saltier than the usual fare from the Beaverton. But still good for a chuckle.
... “But you should talk to your pastor or Joe Rogan first.”
This meek is really looking forward to vampirism!
😂
I get what they're trying to do (in the most cringy way possible: looks like they let an AI loose on bunch of antivax websites), but there's an important discussion to have about the necessity of boosters in a world where many regions still are lacking opportunity to get a first dose as global vaccine inequity remains.
Besides the moral argument, one of the best ways to prevent vaccine escape is to minimize the possibility of spread and disease in the first place, which the Vax is pretty good at doing to some extent when it comes to sterilizing immunity. 
The WHO is getting more and more annoyed about the slight return on investment of an extra dose in these circumstances, making a good point that any boosters should be reserved for those most compromised or those with a less effective vaccine for round 1 (e.g., JnJ); I believe the FDA approval was based on this case by case need as well.
I read it and was still kinda triggered until the Joe Rogan punchline. Wtf is wrong with the world that *this* is satire that hits so close to home?
Lol love how you specified father in law
I wish the hair above my ass, my rear vagina, or Regina as I like to call it, would have fallen out due to the vaccine. TMI?
How else would you stay warm in the winter?
By burning Anti-vax literature
5% of the population doing 95% of the work.
I highly doubt this is all due to "indigenous resistance"? For example, a big chunk of emissions reductions in Ontario are solely due to phasing out coal power, which would have happened regardless of indigenous intervention?
Also the report cited wrongly equates prevention of new pipeline construction with reduction in emissions. Preventing a pipeline from being constructed doesn't reduce the amount of fossil fuels being burned. It just means the fossil fuels will be transported with alternative means or will be imported from another area.
I'm not knocking the work done by indigenous communities for fighting climate change. But it's just plain wrong to say that without them we would have increased emissions. That just doesn't make any sense.
On a side note, pipelines are more efficient on a per ton of carbon basis when it comes to transporting oil when compared to road and rail transport. If we still need to consume oil we might as well consume it in the most efficient way possible imo.
Most of these tar sands projects were canceled or shelved because oil fell below $80/bbl, making them not feasible.
ANWR and Keystone XL were stopped because of US domestic politics.
Here is the original [report](https://www.ienearth.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/09/Indigenous-Resistance-Against-Carbon-2021.pdf). I had to do some additional research in addition to compare 2005 levels.
* In 2005, Canada was at 730 millions of metric tons of CO2 and the US at 6,000, that's 6,730 combined.
* Today, Canada is at 574 and the US at 4,981 that's 5,555 combined
* Indigenous resistance is preventing 1,600 every year according to the study. On top of the 5,555 that would bring us at 7,155, which means that we would have actually increased our level of emissions compared to the 6,000 from 20005 (+6.3%).
(Target for 2030 is the pre COP26 one, haven't updated it)
[removed]
Anyone have a source for how they calculated the 6.3%?
If only indigenous resistance was able to prevent white settlers from taking over in the first place...
I would also add that exporting natural gas to Asia and decreasing China and India’s reliance on coal would actually reduce emissions overall. I’m normally not in favour of pipelines but coastal gas link is a bit complicated.  Not to mention it was an indigenous group the area that pushed for the pipeline.
If anything the recent coastal gas link pipeline has pushed the conversation more about indigenous governance and the colonial legal system that ignores it. I think that’s more of the key impact of the coastal pipeline rather than a strictly reduction (or increase the original poster) seems to argue.
That’s not the case. When pipelines are built, oil production increases. It doesn’t stay the same. It’s not like “Well it has to travel by train or pipeline, so it’s the same either way”. They ship more with pipelines than by rail.
The study does attempt to show its work by tallying up the projected emissions of various projects, though. I would argue there are still attributions issues; and the rhetoric used here implies it was the public action/resistance itself that caused these projects to halt, even though they often coincided with significant legal battles. This is more of an outline for how respecting indigenous sovereignty overall also happens to have a positive environmental impact since fossil fuel projects are faced with a barrier of obtaining consent from local peoples first.
This can, however, lead towards a counterproductive assumption that indigenous sovereignty and environmentalism are two sides of the same coin. They are not.
I think one has to look at the source of report and tint glasses appropriately.  This is a report from an indigenous group touting benefits of indigenous activity in N. America.  First, the starting #’s were higher than what I found from stats agency.  Canada began 538 Mton (versus 730) and US began 5,600 Mton (versus 6,000).  This means a decrease of 8.7% versus the almost 20% seen on the graph.  So about half of the claim, of which what % would be due to indigenous impact?
Just in Canada, over the 15 years actually increased by 7% to 575 Mton, decreasing 2007-2009 but increasing every year since. I would argue that is not a positive outcome to brag about.  So let’s use this overall decrease of 8.7% as the baseline with indigenous influence.  Same period in Germany was 14% and France was 17% decrease, meaning Europe was twice as successful in reducing emissions.  Did the influence make our 0% become 8.7% outcome?  Or did the actions decrease our outcomes by half?
One of the ongoing points is the tar sand of Alberta, which you read that all local nations oppose.  There’s a report from the Canadian Energy Center, surely not biased.  It states First Nations involved in Canada’s oilsands industry experience significant and profound positive economic effects.  Keep in mind that the Nations in the region were extremely poor prior, now:
1.  Median employment income (all industries) for First Nations members around Fort McKay is $7,800 higher than all other Canadians at large.
2. Median employment for Aboriginal Canadians employed in oil & gas or pipelines is $143,000, significantly higher than any other industry.
3. Aboriginal Canadians are employed in oil & gas in far greater proportion than any other industry.  5.2% in oil and 3.8% of pipelines.
4. First Nations with ties to oilsands are far less dependent upon government transfers than the average Canadian.
You can disagree but there’s a lot of components to the argument other than CO2 bad. These First Nations were poor & disadvantaged.  Now, the economic situation provides the opportunity for local success and social programs that hopefully support families.  But the main point - Not all First Nations oppose all energy projects.  Many actively support the industry and gain benefits from it.  In N. East Alberta, remove oil & gas and you’ll thrust these Nations back into poverty and subsistence.  Coastal Gas Link is probably ~10% or greater First Nation workers during construction and will have ongoing, sustained benefits to employees and employers along the pipelines during operations.
I’m all for Net Zero tomorrow but there’s never been a substantial answer to what replaces these jobs.  For that resident of Fort McKay that was in abject poverty just 50 years ago in probably the harshest climate in the world, what’s replacing their livelihood?
The report that I linked to references concrete projects that have been halted thanks to their work.
Welcoming people in good faith and getting stabbed in the back is not a sign of weakness in my world. In Canada there was not any war that were "lost".
Time travel machine goals
It was never fair.  The white people brought smallpox.  If it wasn't for that, they may not have won.
Yes I agree. To me the pipelines on indigenous land debate is more about property rights and indigenous land claims rather than being a strictly environmental issue. When you try to look at the debate through a purely environmental lens the logic being used falls apart quickly.
More production=/=More consumption
Please provide sources for your claims.
I love when people say that there is no concrete plan to "replace jobs". It's such a classic talking point from the energy sector and it usually works because it requires the person that you have in front of you to actually have memorized entire policy documents, which regular human haven't.
That being said, the argument that the transition would be "bad for the economy" is BS and it's well documented at this point. Here is the latest [report](https://climatechoices.ca/reports/sink-or-swim/) from the Canadian Institute for Climate Change on the topic, I find it well documented, I hope you'll agree.
Second, the argument that "oil and gas has been good to some Nations and you're taken that away from them". First of all, they were not in a state of "abject poverty" (your words I believe) before we colonized the sh!t out of them. So what you are saying is that now that we have gone through the process of a cultural genocide and have gutted them economically, we have all the rights to keep plundering, without their consent, the lands that we committed to share with them in our treaties as long as we give some of them some of the crumbs? That's what I call an abusive relationship. If you listen to any Indigenous scholar, activist and/or leader you'll hear that what Nations need is not another pipeline ruining their sources of drinking water.
Finally, the report was written collaboratively by two organization, one of them being a reputable Indigenous non profits that organizes around climate change. That doesn't mean the findings are flawed. That's an ad hominem argument.
And on the figures, you raise a great point but we actually agree on this, rather than disagree. Nobody is making the case that Indigenous activism is what has gotten us to the 20% decrease target. That's the figure I got from my own research and it might actually be higher (based on your numbers), which we should indeed be ashamed of. However, it doesn't take away the fact that, according to the report, Indigenous resistance is currently stopping 1.6 billion metrics tons of CO2. Maybe that additional 1.6B would actually take us much higher than 6.3% above our CO2 levels (which is what you seem to advance), but the point still stands. We are not doing nearly enough, and while we love to brag about our "targets", the hypocrisy is that if our government had his way with those energy project, we would be in an even worse position.
The Tsilhqot'in straight-up won their war with BC. It even got to peace talks. Then the governor had their leaders hanged.
Conversion therapy is already banned here in Nova Scotia, but I hope that there isn't an exception for "consenting" to conversion therapy in the federal bill. I do not think it is possible for people to consent to torture.
“Fewer loopholes”
Holy fuck try none you fucking clown. Jfc spend less fucking time catching waves in Tofino and a bit more time pretending to give a fuck. 
Honesty what a pathetic excuse for a leader. The world is either burning or flooding and the best this cowardly government can do is kinda sorta pledge to drop emissions and maybe sort of mostly ban conversion therapy.
Remember when they promised to ban conversion therapy in 2015? I certainly do.
It's not, the wording of the bill is so broad it defines even defines taking a young child (who may be starting to question their gender) to a mental health professional as conversion therapy.
The wording of the bill means if your 10 year old wants hormone treatment and gender surgery you as a parent, cannot intervene in any way. If you do intervene you're charged with "conversion therapy"
It's really hard to make sure a head of time that there will be absolutely no loopholes whatsoever in the law. Also a prime minister isn't the one personally writing down bills. The leader of the advocacy group No Conversion Canada has stated that he talked with the federal government about the bill and he is the one who said it will leave less room for loopholes then the C-6 that the conservatives stopped.
The spokesperson for the Justice Minister says they want a complete ban with Schiavo is quoted as such "Our expectation — what we have heard — is that upcoming legislation will introduce a complete ban on conversion practices without any loopholes for age, gender identity or faith,"
He probably knows more then I as a random cis guy about what loopholes there are so maybe there are loopholes outside of that which may be of concern.
How do you think a bill with no loophole is written? Just add a "N. B. : no loophole allowed lol" at the bottom?
It almost passed last summer but the Conservatives stopped it:
>Bill C-6, the outstanding legislation looking to largely ban conversion therapy was halted in the Senate, after Conservatives refused to fast-track at the end of the sitting. The legislation then died when Trudeau triggered the election.
62 Conservatives voted against it.
[Source](https://www.ctvnews.ca/politics/federal-election-2021/trudeau-vows-conversion-therapy-bill-his-government-failed-to-pass-will-be-priority-if-re-elected-1.5553760)
Fair enough, thanks for this.
Same way you write one with almost no loopholes I guess.
The Conservatives absolutely have blame for this but it's also important to note that Justin Trudeau was under absolutely no obligation to call an election.
The difference between a law with almost no loopholes and a law with absolutely zero loopholes is thousands of millions of case scenarios needed to be covered, both now and in the future. It needs to account for changing technology, for jurisdictions outside of Canada, semantic holes ("oh no we're not a conversion therapy camp, we're a Christian boy's scout club with a heavy inclination towards sex ed *wink wink*"), etc.
>I guess
And I guess there's a reason lawmakers exist
Agreed.
Looking forward to seeing this bill cover billions of case scenarios.
Never gonna happen. Which is why your request of a loophole free law is ridiculous.
Keep paying your taxes, they're used to put smart people on the matter <3
Ok ace thanks for the condescension.
Np always happy to school those who don't take my work seriously
Poland let’s migrants freeze to death, maybe we should increase pressure on Duda.
Should be noted that she is the Elected chief of the band called "Wetʼsuwetʼen First Nation" which is about 250 people, not the elected chief of the Wet'suwet'en Nation, of which there are around 3,000 people. The name is incredibly confusing.
“They want to make it clear that the blockaders only represent a small portion of their people, and that the Elected Council is still behind the project.”
Traditionally, elected chiefs were never in charge of how the land is used and protecting way of life. Elected chiefs merely work on the admin side of their communities. 
So, in that sense, elected chiefs are speaking out of turn. 
A loose analogy would be like Trudeau saying the Supreme Court is doing their job wrong. The jobs have different scopes.
Paid off colonial mouthpices speak as ordered
Literally like asking Québec's mayor what he thinks of independence. This is terrible journalism
Isn't Maureen Luggi also a CGL employee?
There may be 3000 people but it does not mean their interests are represented by the "hereditary" chiefs nor is there any evidence that the hereditary chiefs views actually reflect the will of the majority of those people
This is like asking a child if they’d like cookies for dinner. It’ll get the answer you want, but its not gonna cause anything to happen.
The irony
Following your logic, the elected Canadian government just provides administrative services for the Queen. 
The Queen is a figure head only. The last thing we need is 600+ little kings and queens across Canada. The Feds should deal only with the elected chief and councils.
>Québec's mayor
What a perfect analogy.
Nor is there indication these losers do either.
The problem with your logic is it assumes a form of government and power on a land that's legally unceded. The Queen technically has more legal authority in Canada than Canada has on Wet'suwet'en.
And, yes, the Feds *should* deal with hereditary chiefs. First, elected chief's juristiction is on a smaller swath of land, second, it's a part of Reconciliation. 
You either believe in reconciliation, and therefore respect traditional indigenous governance, or you don't believe in reconciliation. 
And that's fine. Nobody is saying you have to respect reconciliation. Morally, it's probably a shitty position. But I also ignore some moral laws myself, so who am I to judge?
I feel like if Canada respected the unceded lands, they'd be walled off with borders and forced to separate from the country as they aren't part of "Canada", and would that make their affairs better? How would they ever be integrated? How would Canada respect their unceded lands AND deal with them as separate nations? The government has a horrible track record of dealing with indigenous peoples, they would botch the whole thing and cause a humanitarian crisis worse than what we face.
I think for reconciliation to truly happen, that our 1st Nations People need to bring forward draft legislation to replace the Indian Act because anything brought forward by the Federal Government will have a stench of colonialism to it. We would still need to negotiate the final wording, but I think the negotiations would be less contentious with a 1st nations provided starting place.
As a non-indigenous person, I would appreciate it if that document laid out who needs to be consulted and negotiated with. Is it elected band councils, hereditary chiefs, the assembly of 1st nations or some other body? 
One of the great frustrating factors with so many infrastructure projects has been negotiating deals with elected band councils, only for the hereditary chiefs to turn around and say they were not consulted. In many cases it comes across as the hereditary chiefs being upset that they did not receive a “gratuity” for allowing the work to happen. I have NO evidence of this but I am cynical and it is the impression that I get.
So you've built yourself a strawman by building up those theoretical walls and then tried to dismiss me by talking about how bad those walls would be.
Canada already has a massive border without walls and decent cooperation. It's called the Canada-US Border.
Oh I didn't mean like literal walls, bad wording on that, I just meant boxed in. My bad.
Apparwntly no one want to be associated with someone whose pants are on fire.
> he’s **only using the language of independence** to extract concessions from Ottawa, **just as Quebec’s premiers have for years**
That has always struck me as the most widely repeated silly take. 
Québec actively tried to leave not once, but twice, with the second time almost succeeding. Sovereignists in the province have shown themselves to be dead serious about their desire to leave the country for reasons that far exceed what Ottawa can concede and with the express understanding that things wouldn't all be rosy. Federalists obviously aren't "using the language of independence".  
I don't know how someone can look at this and come out with the opinion that quebec is only playing pretend with its political movements that are advocating for secession. 
Even if we were to accept that the threat of secession has been used to extract concessions, it still leaves us with a province that has shown itself ready to actually walk out. That's pretty far from the trivial power play using empty words that the author seems to imply.
At this point, they're barely a province.
If your healthcare system is in such shambles you have to export your COVID cases, you've failed in your mandate to protect your people.
Calling Saskatchewan “Farmistan” from now on.
That sentence doesn't imply that Quebec _only_ uses the language of separation to get concessions, it implies that (1) Quebec has been able to get concessions by using the language of separation (it happened, not that it was the goal) and (2) that Moe is _only_ using it to get concessions.
When someone says something that can have two interpretations and one of them is obviously untrue (everyone in Canada knows that Quebec was dead serious about leaving), assume they meant the other. This is called the [Principle of Charity](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Principle_of_charity).
There's a whole generation of people who don't remember the bombs, or the horrible conditions that led to them.
As an SK resident, yes. We've become a national embarrassment.
Presuming that somebody doesn't know about a fairly common principle is called being [patronizing](https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/patronizing), look it up.  
I was mostly expressing a view on this opinion I've seen parroted by too many people; the article goes into how Quebec's secession ambitions were serious in the next paragraph. I will admit that I could've been *clearer in my initial comment. 
If we are to argue about the construction of this sentence, my opinion is that it's poorly constructed : who says things like "language of independence" and, even with the most charitable interpretation, "uses the language of separation to get concessions" still implies a power play rather than real grievances that had to be abated, which is not a trivial statement to make and which isn't elaborated on further in the article.
I didn't know it was called the principle of charity. 
I assumed it was a part of saving face.
With the one-two punch of the sunset of fossil fuels and a new low eroei paradigm, there will never be a better or cheaper time to build resilient infra. Now or never, time to decide.
I’ve seen property values in Vancouver, and they deserve to be hurt.
Good.
In other words, the more units there are, the less they can get away with gouging for their basement rentals.
All the more reason to build more laneway housing.
Translation: Laneway homes will make Vancouver affordable for people to live and work in.
Good. Build all the laneway homes we can!
I was just thinking "You know what value I really couldn't care less about right now? Vancouver property values."
Conservatives don't give a rats ass about working people!
Not mentioned in this article: many part-time nurses in Ontario receive pay in lieu of benefits. This is extra pay over and above their normal hourly rate that the nurse is expected to use for prescriptions, dental care, and- yes- sick time. For example, [here is a link to the relevant provisions in the ONA Collective Agreement](https://www.ona.org/wp-content/uploads/20230331_hospcentralagreement.pdf) (articles 19.01 (b) and (c)). 
While it is technically correct that part-time nurses do not have paid sick days, they do have some entitlements under their collective agreement that are likely superior to what the average Ontario worker gets.
Which is crazy because a ton of his support comes from rural blue collar type workers.
They don't give a shit about people in general unless they can exploit and profit off them. Conservativism is a cancer.
The specific context of the document refers to "fringe benefits" as things like pension and holiday pay and eludes to thing like health insurance without specifically calling out such benifits. where paid sick leave is specifically called out as a full time nurse only benefit in section 12.01 to 12.11 meaning it's not a fringe benefit but an actual collective agreement item that is not provided to part time staff. 
What I'm trying to get to is i don't believe your assertion that paid sick days is lumped into the same category as private health insurance, or pension which is specifically called out, is correct. But that is just my take and I'm sure the union has their opinion.  
As per part time nurses having superior entitlements to other part time workers, that is the power of collective bargaining at work.
Yes like chickens voting for colonel Sanders..
So true,  not sure why any worker would vote against their own interests like that.
Conservatives  traffic in misinformation, fear, and play to the worst insecurities in us.
I'm sorry how is he not being charged with a crime here?
Which crime was committed?
Il est tellement déconnecté de la réalité
How about reviving the Quebec City Nordiques?
More populism ahead of the election.        
> He said he believes the solution is for Quebec to have its own national team at the world junior championship, an annual tournament for players under 20.
Not how that works. You're part of Canada.
Lots of nations that are within a single country have their own teams for their national sport. Scotland and Wales for soccer, the Houdenashaunee for Lacrosse. That's exactly how that works if they want.
Nation and country aren’t the same thing.
Does Hockey Canada & Team Canada know that french is an official language of Canada as well when they discourage its players from speaking french?
In the u17 championships Canada has multiple teams, but yeah it’s not going to happen.
>“RCMP Are Blocking Food And Medical Supplies From Wet’suwet’en Homes The RCMP are openly violating the human rights of the Wet’suwet’en people again,” the post read.
>>They said the driver of the vehicle was threatened with arrests and they have homes along the forestry road.
>>>“There are multiple Wet’suwet’en home sites beyond the police roadblock and many permanent full-time Wet’suwet’en residents on the territory, including elders, children, and chiefs.”
>>>>A Gidimt’en spokesperson confirmed the post and said they will attempt to get medical supplies for elders in the camps.
**Gidimt’en Access Point has a land occupation site at 44 km up the forestry road.**
Colonial voilence continues over a pipepline all the while climate emergency rages on. Welcome to being First Nation in kanada.
Aren't we glad that Trudeau promised to work towards reconciliation, and told us all how dedicated he is to fighting climate change?
[Become a donor](https://www.yintahaccess.com/becomeadonor)
[Take action](https://www.yintahaccess.com/take-action-1)
[Help fundraise](https://www.yintahaccess.com/fundraisingprotocol)
[removed]
This is nuts. Everyone should be screaming about this.
usually, hostages aren't given ample opportunity to leave
The House of Commons should never have promoted cults.
It certainly seems like an anachronism these days.
It's about time.
Very good; progress comes but slowly, but it is always welcome when it does.
Sadly, almost 100 percent of people were in a cult when Canada was founded.....
cults are when I don't like something and the more I don't like it the more culter it is
[deleted]
They did have their own imaginary figures, of course.....which to be fair seem way cooler legends than much of Christianity.
this is a really fucking weird comment to make when it's well documented that indigenous peoples had their own beliefs
Sounds like it’s going to be more expensive to die from neglect.
This sounds like exactly what someone who has no intention on changing the systems that are in place would do. Almost like Doug doesn't give a fuck about retirees unless they are rich and give him money.
Are earnings down because they killed too many of their clients?
[deleted]
raising prices = more kickbacks for him. 
that's the conservative way!
There should be no for-profit healthcare in Canada. 
The OPC are engaging in class warfare against the people, and it results in actual deaths.
Conservatism is treasonous.
Everyone please try to remember that one day, you too may need to live in such a facility.
How else would they recoup the costs of being forced to marginally improve homes after all the glaring deficiencies exposed over the course of the pandemic? Won’t someone PLEASE think of the execs?!?!?
Ah, Doug Ford, the Trump of Canada.
This should never have been privatized.
Hasn't fixed a single thing that was highlighted as major issues during the pandemic, hasn't reinstated inspections, but will let them start charging even more for their already over priced services, while the owners sit there and explain away why they shouldn't have to pay LTC staff living wages. 
Fuck sake, when I can't live at home alone anymore just roll me into a ditch, unless Ford raises rents on those too!
More money, less care, more profits, less responsibility.
Fuck this fucking mouthbreather. Private rooms are already too expensive, and the waitlist for semi-private is ridiculous. What an asshole.
I worked at a fancy Chartwells. Average cost to stay there a year? 25k. Need medication or help? 50k+. 
Half of the building is empty, the food is supposed to be high end but its cafeteria slop, and the elevators are always broken.. these people expected 5 star, and got mybe 2.7 on a good day.
I'm just excited to know ill be dead long before ill need LTC.  No way I can afford it...
So these companies have proven it is always money first, lives second. They had such ineffective procedures in place many of these places were just breeding zone for covid and death. So now that we know how little they care about lives, we might want to at least get a private room and maybe, just maybe, increase our chances for living if we are in one of these places. 
So what do these places do, make sure they increase the price for safety. Has anything changed... No, they just want more money while there is an incentive to get these rooms because of their wanton disregard for our safety and lives.
These companies need to be sued into the ground, and the C-Suite charged with criminal negligence. These are horrid companies.
Ontario: **"Can we please be America?"**
Only a scumbag capitalist could come up with “preferred-accommodations” to describe giving seniors the tiniest bit of privacy and dignity in their final years of life.
The way we treat seniors, regardless of province, is appalling. My partner's mother lives in a shoebox in a care home in BC. If she were a dog people would call the humane society for how neglected she is.
As someone who had their mother die in a long term care home... I hate every part of this. I cannot express how much I hate those places. Understaffed, underequipped, largely unqualified... and gouging for every penny they can scrape and carve from the soon to be dead and their families. I fucking hate them.
When my moms kidneys failed, I was the first one called and the first one on hand. I watched her scream in agony for hours as they slowly drip-fed her sedatives and painkillers, flailing her arms in pain and I was utterly defeated in knowing there was absolutely nothing I could do. That sense of dread, knowing and watching a loved one die like that is unlike any other darkness I've ever felt in my life.
And when the staff came in, they asked me what I wanted to do. I'm in mental and emotional shambles watching my dying mother scream and thrash in pain, and you expect ME to be able to rationally tell you, the care specialist, what to do, in a situation where I am so entirely out of my depth and so emotionally distraught that I had to taxi home because I was so shaken I couldn't drive? All I could say was "DO YOUR JOB!" as I sobbed into my hands. I still have nightmares about that day 3 years later. Hearing my phone vibrate on the desk or hearing my ringer from that morning play on someone else's phone still give me flashbacks and basically spirals me into a crying fit.
Fuck long term care homes. Fuck their for profit garbage. Fuck their "cost cutting measures to maximize profits" adgenda. And fuck any government that supports or furthers this kind of behavior as acceptable. Burn the whole shit ass system down.
I don't wish existence in one of those death kennels on anyone.
Based on the improved services they’re offering, right?
They really bury the lede in the last few paragraphs of the article: the suspect is an anti COVID vaccine protestor who expected to be fired from his job at the plant for not getting vaccinated.
So your basic conspiracy nutcase.
This excellent podcast series goes into great detail about the cult culture, dodgy deals, and outright crimes of WE.
https://www.canadaland.com/shows/the-white-saviors/
I don't think misled is the right word. In Kenya, WE had built and/or restored around 852 classrooms. You can look at the information here: https://www.wecharity.org/explore-our-regions
Just Kielburger things
found on Facebook. Credit to Peregrine Aerial Surveys. 
Really shows the amount of large scale devastation in the area. 
So many agricultural areas completely destroyed, hwy 1 completely flooded. 
Will be a long road to recovery for this area.
Used to be a lake, no?
It was a lake before they pumped it out and built a town, only a matter of time I suppose.
Looks like the lake it once was.
Oh yeah, quite a large lake. 
It expanded and shrank in size with the seasons and the levels of the Fraser and nooksack rivers. 
Was drained and redirected to expose farmland and land suitable for settlers.
This just puts a smile on my face to start the day. 
Kenney may be the most loathsome man in Canadian politics. Unlike various buffoons or fanatics, he believes in hurting others for political gain.
I look forward to a long drawn out political demise. Then he can go home to his empty home, no family, no meaningful relationships outside of politics, and realize that his entire life's work has left him with nothing but fleeting power taken away, with no one to actually love or care for him.
A perfectly fitting end to a truly pathetic figure.
Think we established long ago that Kenney doesn't believe in democracy or fairness.
To crush your enemies, see them driven before you, and to hear the lamentation of their women!
I guess we are going full Conan now in the AB legislature.
Yay democracy!
Wait, what?
Ya, okay, I ate the beaver on this one. Fully believed it based on the title, until I looked at the source.
Holy shit they absolutely destroy this Farnworth chump:
>	“And even if public safety were my job – WHICH IT’S NOT – I had no time to waste on Sunday ensuring the public was made aware of the danger posed by the enormous storm bearing down on B.C., I was too busy issuing a statement condemning members of the Gidimt’en clan for blockading Coastal GasLink workers and delaying construction of a new fossil fuel pipeline.”
On point!
A+ they are more reliable than most other media outlets
Hold up; maybe "Public Safety Minister" is a ceremonial title, but birthday boy/girl is totally official for AT LEAST 24 hours (depending on how close to the weekend it is). 
Trust me, I've had a lot of them
We really do live in a society…..
if you watch him during the press briefings you may find (like I did) that he does a pretty solid job destroying himself
With the government moving to paperless digital ops, the decision by the CRTC that internet access is now a fundamental utility is very poignant.  
Maybe now is the time we augment the mandate for Canada Post to include basic digital services for all Canadians?
Can we stop with the pink insurance slips too? Please.
That's dependent on the insurance provider. There are already quite a few that don't issue policy slips. they either email it to you or have it accessible on their app.
My question is who has oversight over the police?  Clearly after reading this story the HRM City Council does not.
Council theoretically does, but they've made it super super clear over the last several months that they actively refuse to exercise that oversight. 
"Nobody outside of the police should tell the police what to do" is actually the official policy.
I actually talked to Council member Shawn Cleary and the HRM city council doesn't have any oversight on the police.  That has been ceded to an un-elected Board of Police Commission this was enacted after the Donald Marshall inquiry in 1990.  I currently have another feeler out to  Lindell Smith another council member but I haven't heard back.
God damn it's so gross watching people parade around the corpse of Donald Marshall to defend the councillors like this. Have some fucking shame.
I wasn't defending Shawn Cleary or for that matter any councilor just accurately stating what he had told me.
[Become a donor](https://www.yintahaccess.com/becomeadonor)
[Take action](https://www.yintahaccess.com/take-action-1)
[Help fundraise](https://www.yintahaccess.com/fundraisingprotocol)
I'm glad to hear municipalities will get taxing power. However, if there's one lesson to learned from amalgamation and downloading from Ontario is that the municipalities end up screwed.
It's only crutial to corporate profits.
Unless some of them end up hospitalized, this means that the vaccines are actually doing their job.
Agreed. Vaccines are critical here. I think the key takeaways from this article are that:
1. Vaccines are not 100% and there will be breakthrough cases; and
2. Spending prolonged periods of time indoors with a larger group of people increases the risk of these breakthrough infections.
These are a bunch of athletes in their 20s. Vaccinated or not, their odds of being hospitalized from covid were very slim to begin with. Even if 1 of them ended up being hospitalized, it's too small a sample to mean anything.
Indoors and in close proximately... considering how much of a close-contact sport hockey is...
Awesome news! 👏
I agree!!!! Antivaxxers are going to be angry for some reason.
I went down a whole Twitter rabbit hole today of how this has zero benefit to 5 yr olds except to give them a fast track to the cardiologist. That it's not tested properly for kids, and is just a tactic to keep them hooked to Pfizer forever. That 5 yr olds' lives were being compromised by giving them the vaccine just to save old people. Literally nobody in the thread was saying anything to the contrary, and I was on my work Twitter so I didn't dare wade into it. 
But as someone with a 5 yr old son (who's registered for the vaccine as soon as it becomes available), it's easy to see how people can get swept up in questioning whether they're doing the right thing once you find yourself stuck in one of these echo chambers. I had no hesitation in getting the shots for myself, but people are really hitting the "it will do irreperable harm to children" point hard, and it hits different you know? 
Time to go on a research-based binge
I suspect most people did not challenge this ridiculous narrative because they simply have no idea how vaccines actually work. They think “vaccine” and assume it is no different than “oxy”, like big pharma wants to get everyone addicted. Vaccines, of course, are not addictive. 
Simply put, the vaccine leaves the body within a couple of weeks, it is no different whether child or adult. 
[Here is a good primer to get you started on your research](https://www.mayoclinic.org/coronavirus-covid-19/how-the-vaccines-work)🧐
> it's easy to see how people can get swept up in questioning whether they're doing the right thing once you find yourself stuck in one of these echo chambers
I find these kinds of echo chambers very easy to ignore myself because I trust doctors and medical professionals over them. 
My mother who is elderly asked me if she should get the booster shot. My response was "Mom, I'm an engineer, not a doctor. Please talk to your doctor and ask them for their advice. If they say you should get it, then please get it." Her doctor told her she should get it so she's going to get it. If things were only this simple for the rest of our sad society.
Thank you! This is a great resource to hang on to!
My MIL refuses to get it.  She refuses to talk to her doctor about it even.  When my husband asked why, she said, "because she would tell me to get the vaccine"
Um??
She was also recommended to get flu, pneumonia and shingles vaccine (she is 65+) and hasn't gotten any of that either.   She visited one of her grandchildren recently who had a fever and cough and she caught it, and it was brutal on her.   But "I trust my immune system!"
It will let you die if you don't prepare it, COVID dgaf! 
Just wish people would listen to professionals UGH
When the vaccines were first being rolled out back in April, my in-laws who are both 65+ told us they wouldn't be getting the vaccines because they are reading on Facebook that the vaccines are killing about 20% of the people who get the shot... cue /eyeroll
So we put our foot down and told them flat out that they are not allowed to visit our kids (their grandchildren) unless they got both shots, and that MY parents got their shots already and have been over to see their grandkids several times already and my in-law's resolve crumbled like a wet napkin and they went out and got their shots right away.
We did the same thing, however now she's willing to isolate and take rapid tests ... Sigh.   We have a good relationship besides this and I know this is hard on my husband.   I'm just gonna push first meeting back past Christmas because I want more bonding time for my baby and I'm not happy about her selfishness.
Does anyone else ever read a headline and just like desperately hope it’s a Beaverton article because of how out of touch the story being reported on is? Cause same
Lower taxes for multinational billion dollar companies?
Extra votes? 
So let the more equal pigs rule?
Not a lot of information from Google on the "Business Tax Alliance", it seems.
I wouldn't mind seeing a list of companies that are members of that alliance so I know who to fucking boycott.
Yes. I have never had to double check as much in my life as I have had to for the last few years because so many articles feel like they should be satire. :(
https://vancouversun.com/news/local-news/dan-fumano-group-lobbies-to-give-businesses-a-vote-in-local-elections
Per this you can start with Nook and Oddfish in Vancouver.
this is news?
the history of fascism ALWAYS has a point where the wealthy Liberal elites, seeing the rise of socialist ideas in response to failures of capitalism, appeal to the fascists to protect the status quo.
Liberals are only progressive and tolerant up until that progressive tolerance comes close to impacting their personal wealth, at which point they will give power to anyone as long as it keeps their personal wealth and comfort intact.
Really weird how we don't learn about Canada's (or Commonwealth, at the time) role in [aiding the whites in the Russian Civil War.](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Allied_intervention_in_the_Russian_Civil_War)
had?
This is like saying the grass is green and the sky is blue. Or communism appeals to the poor
I’m not going to stop until I win the world. Ha ha ha
Also know as the *Liberal and Fascist Bargain.*
(Should go without saying that establishment conservatives, and sometimes even social-democrats, also accept this bargain.)
Cut a liberal and a fascist bleeds, as the saying goes.
Scratch a liberal...
Nor do we learn about Canada's anti-fascist volunteers in the Spainish Civil War.
capitalism truly rots the brain
once you acquire some small amount of wealth its nearly impossible to retain your basic humanity
This is funny. This is the perfect inverse of when conservatives say that liberals are socialists. Just a different brand of ignorant. 
Liberals drive internet weirdos from both sides of the political spectrum absolutely insane. In so far as we think about you, we definitely enjoy it.
To be fair, there are very few avenues by which a person, who isn't a sociopath, can acquire wealth (edit: I should have written obscene amounts of wealth, because it's obviously very confusing to some). Let's stop pretending these people weren't rotten to begin with. You don't get money and all of a sudden become a monster. You rarely become a CEO or an elected official by being a decent human being. These people are neither liberals nor conservatives, they do what needs to be done to amass wealth and power, and adjust their aim based on the shifting winds of social change.
To first become a billionaire you must be a sociopath,  they make thier wealth off the backs of others with zero regard to them, willing to bet a sociopath and a billionaire brain look the same on an mri when thinking about others... zero empathy and zero caring.
Just to become a billionaire you have to crush thousands of others and thier livelihood just to get to that position, then the real greed sets in and they find it offensive that others think they should pay thier fair share while thier share would mean absolutely nothing to them.
I earn 50k, I pay 34% tax, I can't really afford that without altering my life style,
 billionaires pay 10% or less for some reason and bitch endlessly about it and it changes nothing in thier life.
Bezos Musk and Gates Soros Mercer could each pay 90% tax and still be billionaires and the wealthiest people around without it altering thier lifestyle even a little bit.
I don't think it's wealth, but rather the company one keeps.
The following example refutes your claim: [https://www.toronto.com/news-story/4277365-etobicoke-dermatologist-dr-andrew-simone-s-life-work-continues-through-canadian-food-for-children/](https://www.toronto.com/news-story/4277365-etobicoke-dermatologist-dr-andrew-simone-s-life-work-continues-through-canadian-food-for-children/)
Both cannot be correct. 
If we examine the historical record, there are very few examples of liberals allying with socialists. There are, however, numerous examples of liberals allying with fascists. (Weimer Germany, Italy, revolutionary-Russia etc.)
r/ENLIGHTENEDCENTRISM
Hey that's unfair, the children of the rich don't suddenly become monsters when they're born, it takes at least five years
Most of the elected officials at the local level are decent humans. If they're not, they advertise it by running on an explicitly non-decent human agenda. Most of your local elected officials are doing it to improve your area. That's my experience.
> To be fair, there are very few avenues by which a person, who isn't a sociopath, can acquire wealth
when my mother passes I will acquire a lot of wealth, and while I may be a sociopath it will have had nothing to do with me becoming wealthy
> I earn 50k, I pay 34% tax
uhh.. thats the marginal rate, your average tax is 22% (if you are in ON)
I make 123k and my average tax rate is only 30.2 before deductions
Well of course he did. Didn't take long for O'Toole to take off that mask he was wearing during the election.
During election: We’re not racist, we’re very progressive.  After election: that didn’t work either, hire the white nationalist terrorists
How to tell me you're a racist without actually saying it, basically.
Holy fuck, the one time I was hoping for it to be a beaverton post.   
Racist sacks of shit.
And the mask comes off
Damn, that post Capitol Insurrection phase where they pretended to denounce the far right didn't even last a year.
This isn’t news, this is the person that helped run his leadership campaign. He has always had this close tie to the for right that he’s courted, but he tried to play both sides during the election. He has no real values (like most conservatives). He’s playing people in his party as much as he’s trying to play canadian voters.
The man was always  a lame duck.  Party can smell the blood in the water, he's done now for sure...next.
Can we get a party collapse?
Getting the obsessive loyal racist rightwing base to vote for you? Might work.
I guess he's planning to make a play to invite the Ptettorist Party of Canada voters back into the fold.
He needs to recover the votes they lost to PPC.
So they are not even trying to hide the fact that they are now the racist party of Canada? Wow!!!
He's hired the guy before, and I believe Cambridge Analytica people too.
They're screaming it from the rooftops. You don't accidentally hire so many racist losers like this. It's planned and those rural folk eat it up.
Not just racist, terrorist.
Terroracist.
And some Brexit guys and Republican operatives.
I'd be curious to see if there are any links between CA and the International Democrat Union...
>"I never felt Canada was quite as successful as America," he began in his Nov. 16 speech. "[That's] because, to a degree, their elections pitted the French speakers against the English speakers."
He's clearly right, coming as he does from a country that would never see elections where different ethnic groups are pitted against each other deliberately.  Surely it's an astonishing statistical accident that about 90% of Black Americans feel the need to vote against his party every single election.
edit: I lived in the district next to his in  high school.  I've met a great many people in WI who know as much about Canada as they do about Uzbkekistan, which is kind of amazing considering how close we are to them.  Sigh.
With apparently little exception, it seems that being an insufferable dolt is the primary requirement for that office.
Sorrynotsorry.
Fucking moron.
What a goof
Ok you are better at gerrymandering than us. Stop bragging.
Because the US is bigger, carries a big stick, and has convinced the world their currency is a safe haven so they can get away with stuff many other countries could only dream of? And making government numbers look better by downloading the costs of so many things, including healthcare, to individuals as much as possible.         
> "I never felt Canada was quite as successful as America," he began in his Nov. 16 speech. "[That's] because, to a degree, their elections pitted the French speakers against the English speakers."
The hell?
I see now why most Americans are dolts, if this idiot is deemed fit to lead, I mean he got elected, that he might be the brightest and best there was to choose from.
This answers the question about why no one likes them.
Opiniated assholes usually get the treatment they deserve. 
No wonder that place is a shithole.
I would say that I don't agree with this, but with what the RCMP are doing to the Native in BC regarding the Pipeline, and how corrupt The RCMP and Liberal Government are, I'm starting to think (that if we're going by Modern Disney movie logic) America is the Red Herring while Canada is the true main villain.
When a Republican talks about Canada, they're actually just talking about America because they don't think or care about anything else. When he says Canada compromising with its Quebec ethnic minority is a weakness, he means, it would be a weakness for Americans to compromise with their minorities, e.g. black and Hispanic peoples. He is  justifying his white-anglo supremacism, using Canada as a foil.
He knows US elections pit minorities against his party in an analogous situation apart from Quebec being a larger bloc. He doesn't care. He doesn't want their vote, because he doesn't believe they should be able to vote.
If we're using an entertainment angle, maybe the US government are the Borg and the Canadian government are the Cardassians.
A little off topic, but I really hate this culture of beginning a confrontation with a camera in front of you for vindication. Grow the fuck up.
>The pursuit lasted for over 40 minutes and Dean and the driver both commented that the convoy took multiple cuts through neighbourhoods, and other actions to allegedly lose the tail. Dean shouted updates about the streets they were on to viewers. 
&#x200B;
God, such pathetic larping. I'm sure his low-IQ fans just lapped it up. 
If the PM's security detail was in any way worried about these loons, they'd just have asked EPS to pull them over on a traffic pretext and lost them that way. Hell, the PMPD are all RCMP and could just do it themselves.
Ryan Dean is a shit-for-brains terrorist wannabe
Don't these people have a job to go to? Or are they living off of EI and other social safety nets while simultaneously complaining about it.
These guys *always* look the part. I wonder what model of pickup truck he drives.
Was this one of those far-left white supremacists that Trudeau was talking about? 🤔
We need to treat threats to our elected officials the way Americans treat threats to theirs. Joke about assassinating the President on Facebook? The agencies will be knocking on your door before you can say boo.
They think they are rebelling against pretend oppression that only exists in their head, but one stern talk and these clowns will scatter.
Just neo-nazi things.
This is so sad
[removed]
Does this fall in to the same category of "Y'all Queda"?
I'm hoping CSIS is keeping tabs on these domestic terrorists. I don't have any faith in the RCMP.
White nationalist POS!
Why do they all look the same?
Now CSIS is really going to be watching this garbage pile after that stupid stunt.
I mean yeah, she's the deputy Prime Minister...
Fucking Alberta...
If you've already started recording even before you confront someone, you are the problem, not them.
unless it's the cops. Always record the cops.
Objectively it makes anyone look like a total dork. But these people are often devoid of self-awareness, so they think they're being badass freedom fighters.
Screw that Tool, he's done!
He’s not delivering anything to me that I really like. I mean I don’t dislike him but it’s yah.. very milk man
Ironically, the biggest threat to the CPCs future success are its most "conservative" constituents.
This warms my heart.
I love that Harper has turned his senate picks loose on O'Toole.
Pretty sure milk man was Scheer.
That’s my meaning, very bland like ol’ milk man
A good first step.
Let’s ensure it’s not the last.
Otherwise all that will have been accomplished is kicking the can a little farther in the face of this worsening affordability crisis / capital strike.
UBI
It would definitely mitigate the problem...
For a year.
It is a good first step, though.
You start offering the homeless one year of free rent and I guarantee you're going to have a LOT of people gaming the system for free rent.
How are government officials wanting to create jobs for their friends going to find a place for them if you simplify supports into a universal basic income?
I think the expectation/hope is that the year of housing will allow the homeless get back on their feet, find a job, and be able afford rent on their own afterwards. Hopefully it's combined with proper counseling and job-finding support.
You’re worried about a severally disenfranchised population that make poverty level wages or are unable to hold steady employment due to mental health issues or otherwise getting some support? Do you also think that trickle down economics work and we should continue to provide tax breaks to the wealthy? These aren’t the people you should be worrying about gaming the system, it’s the billionaires that are already doing that.
Yeah, I'm not saying it's a bad idea. That actually would be great for getting people back on their feet. Especially with the job finding support and counselling you mentioned.
It sounds like a great initiative. It would be even better  if paired with the option for those who get this free rent to have classes on budgeting (if need be), and the option for detox, or other help with addictions. Even life skills training would be beneficial.
I would be interested in seeing the stats if this project gets off the ground. 
I work at a housing focused shelter as a counselor (working with 16-24 year olds). So this kind of thing is interesting to me.
No, I'm worried about people with housing trying to game a system designed to help the disenfranchised because they just see "FREE RENT".
If you think I was concerned about the *homeless* gaming a system *designed for them*, you're a tool.
honestly find it hard to give a shit about the possibility frankly
everyone was up in arms about people potentially abusing CERB, like, so fucking what? do what helps people and deal with the dickheads taking advantage of it afterwards
So your worried about people a tier above homeless putting themselves into a situation to possibly qualify for this initiative? And you say I’m the tool.
What in the actual fuck. That is insanely inappropriate for school administrators to do.
They're not police officers. Even cops need to have very good reason to perform such a search. This should be treated as sexual assault against children. They should all be in prison for abusing their positions in that way.
Former teacher here. Schools in Canada can indeed search individuals if they feel it’s justified. However, it’s up to the school board to prove that the intensity of the search matches the intensity of the suspected “crime”. 
It all comes down to these two parts of the article:
>   An unplanned search could be conducted — the decision provides as an example — if a student is believed to be carrying a dangerous weapon, but wouldn't be justified if a student was believed to have gum despite it being prohibited by school regulations. 
And 
>   "They should have gotten the police involved if they really wanted to check."
First, the school telling kids to take their pants off because they suspect they have drugs or vape products, in my humble opinion, is nowhere near equal. Which leads to the second. 
Second, if they really wanted to pursue it, the school should have called the police. Once the issue is turned over to police, school employees CANNOT work with police to carry out their investigation (other than of course telling them what is going on). It’s either school officials or police. Not both. If the school really wanted the kids searched head to toe and punished, they would call the police and maybe they’d go full-on “minor-strip-search”. And police would have more protections doing it. 
This got way out of hand, and the teachers founds themselves going too far unjustifiably, in my opinion. The kid is right. They should’ve called the police if they really wanted to take it this far. Idiots.
Have they explored criminal charges?
Stay classy, LaSalle.
Those kids could very likely make a successful case out of charging the faculty who forced them to drop their pants with sexual assault and pedophilia.
[deleted]
Whenever I hear stories like these over the years I just imagine a group of teacher/principal pedophiles huddled together in a classroom formulating plans of molesting minors under the guise of some safety issue. That guy with his face up that kids ass was loving it, I know it.
Throw these people in prison. The pedos always do well in there.
20 bucks says nothing will come of it.
Put your hand on the hand rail. Supreme Court case.
The vape isn't a weapon so saying they have leeway in certain cases is a moot point in my opinion. I've never heard of a student being strip searched for cigarettes.
It's not pedophilia just an fyi
This school is part of the Lester B. Pearson school board, an independent english school board, the blame can hardly be put on the usual french catholic "paternalistic mess".
well that's what I mean. The search did not match the assumption.
At least one of those kids was 15, i.e. under the age of consent. I'd call that grounds for getting those staff members put on the sex offender registry.
My bad! Did not catch that earlier.
Yeah but you reiterated what was already said in the article so it seemed like you were lending some credence to their justification.
Nope. I said those two parts of the article are the most important to showing why it's wrong, in my opinion, as expressed in my concluding sentences.
The scale of this flood is unbelievable. The amount of damage to infrastructure across the province will bring devastation to northern communities (due to mudslides demolishing the coquihalla and rail lines), and a truly massive area of farmland south of highway #1 is completely flooded, stretching out several kilometers.
The amount of damage to communities and displaced persons is going to be historic. If this doesn't scare the province into being prepared for the worst case scenario with regards to climate change, nothing will.
**edit**: for all the new folks in complete denial that the storm from last weekend was far out of the ordinary, it [smashed through all-time rainfall records](https://www.abbynews.com/news/heavy-rains-continue-to-lash-the-fraser-valley-with-strong-winds-by-afternoon/) in our municipality, among with dozens of others. While we have had flooding before, the magnitude and abrupt nature of these floods simply doesn't compare.
Whoever owns that massive white house on the left is counting their lucky stars that they were JUST high enough to avoid significantly worse damages than what they probably have now.
Edit: for those saying this is Castle Fun Park, upon Google searches I think people missed the word "left" from my post. The house I'm talking about is on the opposition side of the highway from where Castle is.
Edit 2: others have commented that a main flood irrigating system has failed so it's likely the water level in this pic will continue to rise :(
when a lot of people hear things like "1-2 degrees within X years" they just assume the whole world gets a nice gradual warmup and they question why we should care so much., 
Climate change isn't a nice friendly gradual rise of average temperatures, it's a huge mess of extremes. When you take all the extremes and average them out, you get a meaningless number that doesn't provide you with any indication of how it really plays out. 
Longer, hotter summers with more deadly heat waves, mixed winters with their own dangerous extremes like polar vortexes that freeze everything, followed by heat spikes, and a goofy number of freeze/thaw cycles we can't really manage. 
We could easily manage gradual and balanced temperature increases if they didn't have all those awful other consequences. 
BC just had a ridiculous fire season, now it's flooding. 
Eastern Canada is facing some truly dangerous times with the Atlantic conveyor belt slowly grinding to a halt, winters are about to get really nasty across eastern North America and most of Europe. 
Our infrastructure will crumble faster than we can patch it up, and that's just one of the milder consequences. What this shit will do to our viable crop land is going to be particularly nasty, and thawing arctic/boreal lands aren't going to become viable crop land any time soon.
Don't worry people, the leaders of the Liberal Party of Canada and the Conservative Party of Canada have told me that events like these are far cheaper than propping up a dying industry and ensuring our tax monies go to foreign owned companies.
&#x200B;
Thank god we've had such wisdom and experience at our helm for the last half-century.  I shudder to think what life would be like without FPTP and the resultant iron-gripped reign by our two corrupt incumbents.
fake news! liberal socialist propaganda!
everyone knows that healthy provinces with functioning immune systems should be able to handle a little rain... 
99% of canada didn't get rained on, this is just the governments way to control you!!
if you need water to live, then how come 'flooding' exists? check mate liberals!
/s obviously, my heart goes out to all those who find themselves underwater, both literally and figuratively as a result of the disaster...
Good thing the world decided not to phase out coal this week!
And we’re still building new pipelines…it’s mind boggling.
There it is again, that funny feeling...
We need radical change now.
We need to abolish capitalism. 
Everyone on the right wing is in direct opposition to the safety and prosperity of the entire planet.
Go kart track is still good to go. Small miracles!!
Remember that a large part of the watershed is affected by logging. Cutting down all the old growth exacerbates flooding.
Oh no! Castle Fun Park!
https://www.castlefunpark.com/
Climate change is capitalism's fault and this system cannot expect to fix the problems it has created.
BC is a vast, environmentally diverse, rainforest, glacier, and mountain ridden piece of land. We here in BC are more at risk from climate change then our government seems willing to accept.
Our ecosystems are ancient and tailored to ITS climate. It could and will collapse inwards like a house of cards destroying anything in its path because the earth is used and willing to pursue to massive changes. It’s humans who can’t survive without sustainability, it’s humans who need to protect themselves because the alternative is insurmountable odds.
As a BCer, I feel a sense of dread that our land is going to give yearly and deadly examples of climate change. I’m up North so currently Im very much lucky.
Where is this?
Dairy farms are in such trouble; they won't be able to ship milk and are being directed to dispose of it in their manure pits as a temporary measure.  Trying desperately to get their animals out to safety, I feel for them.
Do you have a before picture?
As a species, humans are simply not smart enough to deal with climate change. It’s too big of a problem for these small monkey brains. If you live in an area that will be disrupted by climate change, move now. It will only get worse, because this species runs on greed and stupidity.
Solutions exist, of course, but we won’t implement them because medicine tastes bad.
cHAnGINg SocIETy iN ANy WAy tO RedUCe EmiSSiONs aND bOLStEr INFRasTruCtuRE Is tOO ExPeNSIve
Note to self, safe place to build a house is on the top of an overpass.
Every time I think about that incel creep and what he did, I lose a little more faith in the human race.
Taking a break from their disdain of “Cancel Culture”??
Meanwhile all this guy does is question other people's leadership lol. Sounds like he'd be a real fine PM ^^^/s
Nothing says "strong and secure leader" like purging internal dissent, right, you ridiculous lump of a man?
O'toole isn't going to go down with dignity, is he?
The article also says that there is support within the CPC caucus to expel anyone who supports her petition.
>"As the leader of the Conservative Party of Canada, I will not tolerate an individual discrediting and showing a clear lack of respect towards the efforts of the entire Conservative caucus"
Does anyone know what O'Toole is referencing? For example; the original statement from Sen. Denise Batters? If O'Toole is simply removing anyone who questions him that is a serious case of authoritarianism. Unless she (Sen. Batters) did indeed cross the line with disrespectful comments. We live in a Democracy and it's our right to question our leaders when we feel they have misstepped  or misrepresented us. While Batters has no constitutional right to remove O'Toole from power, she sure as hell can create a petition to show how many people want him to resign, thus is her right.
TLDR: Criticizing a leader is not disrespectful towards a political party. Does anyone have evidence of her disrespect that Mr. O'Toole is referencing?
That's too bold of a stance from the guy that won't be leader after the next leadership review.  
He figures he's "... *holding the corrupt and disastrous Trudeau government to account",* but he recently failed at convincing enough Canadians he'd be a better choice.  He can't even convince his party science isn't guesswork.  He can't get his party on board with vaccines or even that climate change is real but still figures he's the best option to beat Trudeau. 
She's got a lifetime appointment and he's likely in his last stint as a MP.  She's going to get the last laugh here.  She's only 51 and can stay there until she is 75.
So the Conservative Party is basically imploding. Everybody wins.
So he waffled on imposing a vaccine mandate on his members and the house speaker imposed one anyways, let his members form an vaccine truther caucus, and this is where he finally draws a line, someone insulting him personally lol
Got fired for trying to get your boss fired? Weird.
Harper's poisoned legacy of the Conservative Party is that conservatives are now a house divided.  There's the social conservatives of the prairies and financial conservatives of the remainder of Canada and they don't mix particularly well.   Here Batters is hoping to replace O'Toole with a social conservative leader more to her liking.  But the prairies don't have enough population to sustain a national party whose values of religion in politics jars with the rest of the country's financial conservatives.  It's going to be a long road back to power for the Conservative Party and Ms. Batters is not helping.
Reminder that O'Toole is younger than Trudeau. Hate and vileness leads to degradation of body and soul.
Harper appointed senator. I hope Harper takes this as a personal attack and strikes back hard.
Guess you are not allowed to question your leadership these days.
LET HER SPEAK!
It's "house cleaning" or "consequences of their actions" when the conservatives do it, but if anyone they don't like does it then it's cancel culture
You assume he ever had any.
I think JWR agrees with your statement...
>"Mr. O'Toole flip-flopped on policies core to our party within the same week, the same day, and even within the same sentence" - Denise Batters
Maybe this. This isn't something you would say about your boss to the media.
She launched this online petition:
https://www.membersvote.ca/
She can still speak, and in the Senate at that, she just can't do so as a Conservative anymore.
Of course, they are still in genocide mode.
If only this wasn't completely predictable.
But Trudeau promised reconciliation? 
He probably had to postpone doing anything because he can't go on holiday to Tofino at the moment.
Didn’t we just deploy the RCMP to beat them
Into submission yesterday?
Probably!
As opposed to the peaceful and compassionate approach the police normally use?  You can’t expect compassion if all you hire are goons.
Isn’t that exactly the reason they were created?
1312
How is this even a question at this point?
[removed]
It will if hereditary chief keep making decisions nobody wants. Their own people's included
It's a bummer but, u right.
Because elected ones will have the community in mind after they take their kickbacks and walk away. Uyup.
Thank you for highlighting your complete lack of understanding of the issue.
Do you think the chiefs aren't doing that already to an even greater extent?
It's accurate , unless you like archaic blood hierarchy
>It's accurate , unless you ~~like archaic blood hierarchy~~ **actually know what you're talking about; then it isn't.**
FTFY
Why is he only being charged with theft of $5000 if he allegedly stole $46M?
Steal it, hide it, do your time, come out a millionaire.  The Canadian dream!
hero.
>According to police, the victim had been targeted by a SIM swap attack, a method of manipulating cellular network carriers so scammers can intercept two-factor authentication requests.
Then, later in the article 
>Kirkpatrick went on to say that multi-factor authentication is key to protecting your personal information and money.
Your cell phone number isn't a secret, so using it as a piece of identification is bound to result in catastrophic failures like this because of the trust, of all people or organizations, fucking mobile carriers. TOTP codes are at least genuine secrets.
Banks don't give a fuck, so why should crypto exchanges...
I wonder what gamer name he bought with the stolen funds? Probably kicking himself he didn’t stay quiet and HODL. But in all seriousness, scammers are scum and he deserved to get caught.
They probably meant "over", Journalism is about speed not accuracy.
Someone tweeted the wrong thing and the crypto crashed in value.
Maybe they are fast tracking him for politics.
The other 46m disappeared from evidence somehow.
I would love to be corrected if I am wrong, but I believe that there are essentially just two charges for theft; under $5000 and $5000 or over.
As far as the charges go, $5000 or $50,000,000 would both just be a crime of theft over $5000.
Ahh, silly me to believe what I read. Yes that word omission would make all the difference! Thanks.
Insanity
A labour of love
It's kind of ironic. Not trying to joke about it though.
I’m pretty sure the fire won’t spread very far….
They are.  Remote.  Vehicles.
I know, probably some battery sparked or shorted and something went up... they all look vert close to each other so ... not a nice situation!
Or they started the fire themselves to collect insurance if they’re only covered for fire not water..
Well, it probably will have distinct containment lines, but it'll probably do a fair bit of concentrated damage
That was my first thought as well.
He's technically correct, which is the best kind of correct.
That said, the federal government moves slowly if at all on most things.  Getting broad consensus across the country can be hard.  Local governments who are dealing with a today crisis often can't wait for the feds to move.  Often the right thing for a local government to do is say "fuck it" to federal jurisdiction, take action, and let the feds follow.
Vancouver had pot basically legalized well before the feds.  They also got the clean injection site and made the feds get on board.  BC leads the way on the better approach to drugs yet again.
Not only that, but from my perspective as a budtender, the Vancouver cannabis scene pre-legalization was far superior to what we have now, especially in terms of ecological sustainability.  I was getting served out of a UV-resistant glass container, weighed out on the spot, and delivered by local growers regularly.  I truly wish that the Feds had regulated the market in a way that would have kept those practices, instead of the countless plastic containers now in circulation.
Can't give them time to pack up and relocate on their own now, can they?
This way they can catch more of them and ignore their humanity even further!
Sadists in uniform, with an excuse to attack the helpless and unarmed.
Disarm every last police officer. None of these bastards can be trusted to be human.
The cities make so much cash from taxes and they can't help any homeless find a place to live. Rents are just rising and rising with no end in sight. I find it hard to believe. I am also looking at this reality soon. In winter to boot.
[removed]
Safest for whom? Where are these people supposed to go?  Also the city failed to inform the social service workers that there would be glut of beds needed as these encampments were broken up.
[removed]
I think you need to hear this **A C A B.**
[removed]
Well I'm an adult and I just said **A C A B.**  Also we were just following orders is a shitty accuse for ANYONE to use for Anything.  Did an inanimate object like property call Mayor Mike Savage and say remove these homeless people?
I legit think Canada's going to make the World Cup tournament in this edition. We'll get stomped in the first round, but we'll make it.
Not necessarily, all it takes is a favourable draw. Plus there always seems to be a team out of nowhere at every World Cup that makes an impact, why not Canada?
Ya how about no
Or at least some control on what convictions can be wiped
Non violent and non sexual I'd be ok with
But murders and pedophiles should be exempt
Sometimes the details are in the article:
>People who have received a life sentence or an indeterminate one, such as dangerous offenders, would not see their records automatically expire.
>In addition, the existing vulnerable sector check regime, which allows certain records to be checked if someone is applying to work or volunteer with individuals such as children, would also remain in place.
Ya I would have read it but the star is paywalled
then why the fuck do you comment.
Why do you?
i read the articles I comment on
People should post articles that we can actually fucking read then
You people are insufferable...
learn how to use the internet or ask someone for a summary
 - dont fucking comment on shit when you havent read it, this is like the most basic of concepts
I'll do what I want, who the fuck are you the Reddit police
Maybe his rival shouldn’t be such a weak idiot
>The joint investigation revealed that some of the stolen cryptocurrency was used to purchase an online username that was considered to be rare in the gaming community,” police said in a statement. "This transaction led investigators to uncover the account holder of the rare username
the balls on this kid
So no crime was committed.
I think we will one day see a lot of Robin Hoodery going on. With how easy it will be to just empty people's accounts when money is in crypto and fully digital, i see people waking up to some extra zeroes in their accounts from Chaotic Good hackers stealing from the stinking rich who hoard all the wealth. I can't wait to see the scams that'll go on when NFTs, or Nasty Fucking Things, are hamfisted into shitty video games for the quick buck.
The username was “fuck the police I stole all crypto binch”
I just knew before reading the article this kid got himself roasted because he just couldn't resist doing something really stupid with the money.
What?
Why do you think that no crime was committed?
And the genocide continues.
Dawn & Roberta Hill are residential schools survivors speaking on their experience in one of Canada's oldest residential school; The Mohawk Institute.
Not a gun owner, but an ownership rights supporter. How exactly is banning handguns going to prevent all of the illegal handguns smuggled from the U.S. from ending up in the hands of criminals?  This is the vast majority of guns used in crimes in Canada.    Banning all handguns will punish law abiding enthusiasts while having little to no impact on criminal activity involving guns.
Aren't they literally all coming from the US?
Ottawa has a responsibility to go fuck itself. The vetted and legal gun owner with a couple pistols locked away in a case is not the same as the thug who packs a glock into 7/11.
It won't and they know it won't. Its a way to shift optics and blame to legal gun owners when the gov won't do its job to reduce crime. In this way they just keep banning all firearms until only the criminals and rcmp have guns. Super dumpster fire hours
Agreed, however virtue signalling like banning gives the impression something is being done.
The true problem soloution will be expensive as in a real patrolled border.
> This is the vast majority of guns used in crimes in Canada.
Source?
Shhhhhhh...
You can't just go and state fact like that... the liberals will hate & downvote you...seems they can't handle the truth!
Actually, it will, and they know it will.
Countries that have enacted bans and restrictions have reduced gun violence. That's what the data shows. 
Peer-reviewed study: 
[https://www.pnas.org/content/117/26/14906](https://www.pnas.org/content/117/26/14906)
More links:
[https://www.amnesty.org/en/what-we-do/arms-control/gun-violence/](https://www.amnesty.org/en/what-we-do/arms-control/gun-violence/)
[https://www.cnbc.com/2018/02/27/states-with-strict-gun-laws-have-fewer-firearms-deaths-heres-how-your-state-stacks-up.html](https://www.cnbc.com/2018/02/27/states-with-strict-gun-laws-have-fewer-firearms-deaths-heres-how-your-state-stacks-up.html)
It's a reasonable policy to ban or heavily restrict guns.
What would 'not virtue signalling' gun control look like?
https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/calgary/canada-gun-facts-crime-accidental-shootings-suicides-1.4803378
Actually it really won't because our gun laws are already very very strict!
All the data you posted is based on the US where gun laws are practically inexistent and anyone can buy a firearm with no prior training, licence, etc...
If you don't believe me, try and go buy a handgun in Canada... if your lucky you might be able to buy and shoot it by next year at this date, if you do it legally that is...
We already have strict gun laws.
That peer reviewed study you linked looked at Right to carry, child access prevention and stand your ground laws.
"Posterior distribution of the effect of CAP, RTC, and SYG laws over time, by type of firearm deaths. Effects are expressed as IRR. The posterior median and 500 samples from the posterior distribution are plotted."
We already have safe storage laws and we don't have the right to carry or stand your ground laws.
We have strict firearms laws that limit access. I don't see data for Montreal but look at the data for Toronto. The TPS data is linked in the article below.
"318 out of the 529 firearms seized by police in 2020 were illegal to buy or possess in Canada"
[https://torontosun.com/news/local-news/most-toronto-crime-guns-prohibited-firearms-tps-reports](https://torontosun.com/news/local-news/most-toronto-crime-guns-prohibited-firearms-tps-reports)
A patrolled border to start. 
Beyond that the present rules work.
It's much easier to get weapons across state US lines than across the US-Canada border, and yet, stricter gun laws in individual states lead to less gun violence according to the studies you just handwaved away. So the whole argument that people will get guns illegally doesn't hold up to the evidence. Overall it will be much more difficult for everyone to get guns, including criminals, with stricter gun laws.
Not strict enough apparently.
Patrolling the massive border would be a waste of money. It is simply too large and with drone technology would make it impossible.
Crime caused by illegal guns will never go away and banning legal guns won't eliminate the problem. When you share a large border with the US these problems will never go away.
More meaningful support systems / programs to help people suffering from depression, leave gang life, income assistance etc are the best way forward.  Allow gun owners who are subject to extensive background checks and gun businesses to enjoy their lives and contribute to the economy.
How are people getting their weapons illegally in Canada, that is the biggest question that these bans do absolutely nothing to address. 
They target law abiding owners who are not a contributor to gun violence in Canada. They are knee jerk reactions that do nothing for gun violence.
If that is the case, than allow the provinces to make their own decisions on what is allowed and not allowed for guns.
Wow, 12 hours and no one has anything to say about this one? Really???
Well, except the one person who didn't read the article of course...
Welcome to the reality of the Military system and the system we've created in the last few years. Punish anyone and everyone first, then ask questions later.
I'm not quite sure why anyone would think the military was capable of investigating sexual misconduct in the first place. Not once was I ever instructed on how to investigate such an allegation, nor who to report to other than "up the chain of command". Are MPs responsible for investigating such allegations? Are such complaints forwarded to the NIS? I've queried my friends that are still in, some of whom are Majs and Lt. Cols, and I haven't gotten a clear answer.
[removed]
I can answer this one!
There's two sides to each accusation. 
* There's the legal side, where a law may or may not have been broken
* Then there's the ethics side where it's a question of misconduct or behavior
With the changes regarding sexual misconduct it seems to be a lot more complicated now. All reports of anything sexual in nature, be it a dirty joke or something that made someone else feel uncomfortable, must be investigated by the unit. If the unit believes a crime has been committed, such as assault, then the unit must also report that to the MPs.
Both sides conduct their investigations, usually just a bunch of interviews by the chain of command and MPs.
At this point it's up to the Unit and MPs on whether or not they want to charge someone with breaking a law. I believe sexual assault is automatically a court martial, however, assault in general can be decided upon by the unit depending on the severity (this is where the changes have been made in the last 6 years regarding accusations of sexual assault, it used to be the same as assault in general).
The unit can also give the accused the option of a court martial (where they have a lawyer and will argue their case in front of a judge), or they can have a Summary Trial which is essentially a trial within the unit where the CO stands in as the judge and they make the final decision. This is for things like conduct unbecoming where no law was broken but you broke the rules of good standing or ethics within the military.
Honestly, it's all super complicated and pretty fucked up but there's really no easy way to do it.
I'm in favor of the independent investigation stuff, but, I'd love to know how that works with minor ethics issues or deployed units. What about the Navy and units at sea.
Did you read the article? The accused Sgt who was outed and accused was found NOT GUILTY unanimously by the military panel (Court Martial equivalent to a Jury). So they did NOT commit sexual assault. 
The situation described in the article is that the Sgt woke up to the Cpl in his bed coming on to him. The Sgt reciprocated what he believed was a consensual encounter (because it was initiated by the other party), which ended up waking the Cpl up out of what was presumably a sleepwalking episode. The Cpl had a history of sleepwalking which the Sgt wasn’t aware of at the time. The Cpl jumped back to his bed “ready to use violence to defend himself” and then accused the Sgt of sexual assault. 
Frankly, it’s a shitty situation that probably could have been dealt with better by both of them, but I have FAR more empathy for the Sgt accused of sexual assault based on both the article and the unanimous finding of NOT GUILTY. I do tend to agree that this probably shouldn’t have made it to trial, and in a civilian system I doubt it would have. It seems like a series of unfortunate events confounded by an awful military law system that made about as big a mess of this as they could.
Adekugbe diving into the snow as a goal celebration should be a Canadian heritage moment
Talk about home field advantage!
Ecstatic night
Sweet!
Incredible game!
I don’t follow soccer, but I’m guessing Mexico would have won if it was played in a different environment .  
Will Canada have a chance in the remaining matches?
The match they played in Mexico ended in a 1-1 draw. Seems like for the first time in ages, Mexico winning wasn't a forgone conclusion. 
This was Canada's 8th match out of 14 in this qualifying round. They're sitting at the top of the group right now, but 4 of the next 6 matches are away games so there's still a lot of soccer to be played before we can really celebrate. As long as they end up in the top 3 out of 8, they're in.
Mexico likes to play at the Azteca. 7000ft altitude. 35c and 100% humidity for their home games. 
So I don't see the problem.
That's the neat part.  It seems there aren't any more - we're headed to Qatar, and with the top NA seed no less!
I don’t see a problem either. 
I just know that most WC soccer is played in warm places.  With Canada heading to Honduras are we going to be able to keep up the winning streak?
This is not true, there are many more games left, this is about halfway through. If they keep playing like this, we can make it, but it's still a close running with the top 4, and we don't want to be 4th.
Quick reminder: do not comment or vote in linked threads, it violates reddit's site-wide rules. You will be banned from this subreddit for cross-contamination.
I am shocked, *shocked I tell you,* to learn that someone with a handle including the number 88 is on the internet complaining about how oppressed they are by reverse racism.
This reads like a conversation between the least popular kids in Grade 10. And not the smartest kids in Grade 10 either, but the weird unpopular ones who are supposed to be smart because they aren't good at sports.
In that entire thread, there's just nothing resembling the level of general knowledge, critical thinking, or empathy that I'd expect from even someone in their late teens.
Just a bunch of kids afraid that if they get put on a level playing field, they won't be able to keep up.
/r/FragileWhiteRedditor
>I could go on...
Please, don't.
The pseudo-intellectualism in that thread is really hurting my brain!
Oh boy. Didn't catch that. 
And why is it they are always active in gaming communities ?
You never know, it could be a Kill Bill reference.
For real. Take this smoothbrain-take:
"*Tolerance is becoming a thing of the past for me. If FAIR isn’t good enough then I will reciprocate the actions*"
Are they trying to justify being racist, because they feel anti-racists are out to get them??
[Recruiters go where they're told their targets are.](https://www.theguardian.com/world/2021/feb/14/how-far-right-uses-video-games-tech-lure-radicalise-teenage-recruits-white-supremacists)
Angry, angsty young men who retreat into video games because in a smaller pond they can feel like a big fish.  Take note of which games forment that sort of community, too...  It'd be rare to find a HileHilter88420 account rampaging on a Cities: Skylines forum, but they pop up like ticks in long grass on CoD or Battlefield forums.
You're right! Or maybe they're just celebrating the year that gave us Skrillex and Lizzo.
I was always told, growing up, that video games turn kids into bloodthirsty violent savages.  A large portion of the folk who repeated these sentiments to me over the years now overtly or quietly support groups like this that recruit from the pool of angry and restless young men who live in online combat games.
They are just a huge fan of the Buick Reatta.
Or they're huge fans of the Avatar of Concussions, the (sincerely) great Eric Lindross.
Their water supply is still fucked, believe it or not.
Results are in:
* Tony Akoak (MLA for Gjoa Haven since 2013) was elected Speaker.
* P.J. Akeeagok (MLA for Iqaluit—Niaqunnguu since 2021) was elected Premier. He defeated incumbent Premier Joe Savikataaq and former health minister Lorne Kusugak.
The new Premier is originally from Grise Fiord (look up where that is) and currently lives in Iqaluit. He is a newcomer to electoral politics but was previously the head of the Qikiqtani Inuit Association. [Here](https://www.nnsl.com/news/mla-candidates-on-the-issues-p-j-akeeagok-iqaluit-niaqunnguu/) are some questions that he responded to during the campaign. At the age of 37, he is currently Canada's youngest Premier.
Nunavut (and also the NWT) does not use a party system. After an election, the elected MLAs choose amongst themselves who should be Premier and who should be in cabinet.
It's the irony of getting a call every month requesting I donate because I have O- blood, but I literally can't because I'm a sexually active gay man 🙃
[deleted]
All blood gets tested regardless though. Is it just an issue with how long it can take HIV to show up in a blood test?
Might be a good time to change the rule where transgender people have to have their birth gender listed on their donation profile. It can only be corrected AFTER they have sex reassignment surgery. Which has no bearing on their eligibility to donate. Nor does it make them more or less likely to have HIV.
I've said this for years, but I will GLADLY donate my blood on the regular, if they'd just let me!!
Many of my trans friends have reported pretty negative experiences at donation clinics.
Do you want blood, or do you not want blood?
Look who stumbled out of the cave to the modern day.
Would be nice if the people who looked into this examined how it effected the whole queer community, too. Is the CBS still going to classify trans women as men? Are they still going to give bad medical advice to trans women who want to donate? Are they still going to turn us away if our ~~haematocrit~~ hemoglobin^1 is within normal female range? All things that would be great to know.
^1 ^Edit: ^tired ^brain
holy fuck that's still a thing .... how Embarrassing
Only decades late, but there you go
Bout time
A glance in the right direction. Hopefully followed by a step.
Great news, I’m glad to hear it. 
Tangentially related: when will there be some resolution to the restrictions on those who lived in the UK in the 90s? As an expat who has a very rare blood type, I’ve been wanting to donate blood for over a decade now. 
Only thing I’ve been able to do instead is join the stem cell donor list but apparently it’s very rare to get the call to donate.
Your blood gets tested after you donate. At least it does in AB (I work for STI services here). Some people donate blood then get notified they had syphilis and didn't even know about it.
Here are the actual stats for HIV in 2019 if you were interested 
gay/bi/men who have sex with men - 39.7%
gay/bi/men who have sex with men and people who inject drugs - 3.4%
people who inject drugs - 21.5%
heterosexual - 28.3%
other - 7.1%
&#x200B;
https://www.canada.ca/en/public-health/services/reports-publications/canada-communicable-disease-report-ccdr/monthly-issue/2021-47/issue-1-january-2021/hiv-surveillance-report-2019.html
I don't want to kink shame, but having sex with men donating blood sounds gross
This will still exclude huge chunks of the gay community, especially given the commonality of open relationships among gay men these days. Men with multiple sexual partners will still be excluded, so I won't be lining up anytime soon to be donating.
finally omg
You are not eligible to donate if you have spent:
* A cumulative total of five years or more in Western Europe outside the U.K. or France from January 1, 1980 through December 31, 2007. Western European countries affected are Germany, Italy, Netherlands, Switzerland, Austria, Belgium, Spain, Republic of Ireland, Portugal, Denmark, Luxembourg, and Liechtenstein.
Sad life, I used to donate blood and plasma every 3 months/2 weeks respectively. :(
\*\*\****Now that demand has reached critical levels Canadian Blood Services have decided to end out outdated and bigoted restrictions***.\*\*\*
I look forward to a desperate letter affirming my humanity in the near future, soliciting a donation.
Doug too busy cutting $500m from education funding and building a highway to nowhere to funnel public money into the hands of his private donors.
Cons be cons.
Ah, the endless struggle in Canadian politics, Liberals trying to preserve the status quo while also doing the absolute minimum versus conservatives, deliberately trying to destroy our society to feed the unending greed of the rich.
Doug won’t accept till he gets an extra lollipop
Put those little piggies in their place. 
Hopefully the unemployment line.
Something about Ford's grotesque wide face poking through the windows of the dollhouse is sending me
Ford will hold out a few more months, so he can use it to score points right before the election.
Is that a Mattamy Home Doug's hiding behind?
This perfectly encapsulates how liberals make conservatives feel.
Don't forget capping the wages of the frontline workers who he called 'heroes' at the beginning of the pandemic.
Don’t worry.. the PC’s will get their day to ruin the country too.
I mean you're not wrong, but, you seem to have forgotten about all the scandals Trudeau has been in the middle of since he took power... I'd rate national money laundering above provincial any day when it comes to what's worse.
I'll still take the Liberals over the Conservatives solely on a morals cause. But I'll never actively choose the corrupt Liberals either.
And then there's the PPC in the doghouse outside with advanced rabies and little-dick syndrome
"Conservatives". More like the Regressive Party.
Yes and the 'dancers' are hiding behind Doug
If they didn't act like little spoiled brats we wouldn't have to treat them like little spoiled brats...
Yup, what about crying previously about the hydro rates bankrupting families…
Ford oversaw the largest hike in hydro prices, now paying the highest ever in Ontario. Where are those right wing groups crying about those hard working families.
Hypocrisy has not meaning in right wing crowds.
As a healthcare worker, this hits on a different level. Working in healthcare has only become harder since the pandemic started, and our wages aren’t even keeping up with the average annual rate of inflation.
Heros dont get a wage, they get a heroic cause... that they often die for.  No one is out there paying superman or iron man anything for their heroics.
So in a sense, it still consistant.  They are heros, it's just they're not mentioning the fact that heros dont often get paid.
Sorry did I go to bed and wake up in a bizarro right wing alt fact world? Sorry can you link any criminal federal money laundering arrests and convictions for me?
And the NDP, who everyone would vote for except they're scared to throw their votes away.
FTA:
&#x200B;
>In a series of tweets over the weekend, Dr. Theresa Tam stressed that the virus can linger in the air we breathe, much like second-hand smoke, and a well-fitting mask is vital to protect yourself when spending time in indoor public spaces, particularly in the absence of good ventilation.  
>  
>There has been a paradigm shift in the thinking behind mask use, to the current emphasis on protecting oneself as opposed to the initial consideration of keeping others safe from what we might be exhaling, said Colin Furness, an infection control epidemiologist at the University of Toronto.  
>  
>“The game has changed,” he said. “We’re not masking to protect others from our own droplets now, we’re masking to protect ourselves from people who are being lackadaisical and reckless.”
Well now im wondering if I should buy that Razer RGB mask...
Does the rest of your wardrobe look like Mortal Combat cosplay? 'Cause then you'll match.
ha lol good, didn't know who he was until the sobeys video that was posted the other day but i went from 0 to hating him extremely fast
I hope this POS looses his business and goes bankrupt
No kidding. How much of a douchebag does a guy have to be to show up at a grocery store and verbally accost an employee. What a loser. The guy needs to grow up.
For people who know how to use a phone or video app it’s great, little to no time off from work or be comfortable in your own home plus I bet it lets doctors do more appointments. Stop fighting progress people
I wish Harper would just f*** off already.
Go away
Scum King...
"He won the leadership race claiming to be 'true blue' but ran an election campaign nearly indistinguishable from [Justin] Trudeau's Liberals."
...little does she understand this was the ONLY reason the race was close again because O'Toole (NOT the Conservatives) gave some people a little progressive in their conservative coffees and they liked it.
Nevermind the tens of thousands of possible votes the Conservatives would have garnered if the Party just fell in line with their leader during the election but naw...they decided to runa dual campaign for the ConPPC party.
But I digress...as Progressive Conservative with no one really to vote for consistently...what do I know?
Yeah, it's called the Reform wing
I’m tired of pretending treating non-whites or non-heterosexual people as animals as progressive.
That was progressive sixty years ago.
Canada has no progressive party.  We’ve got a bat-shit crazy one and a corporate one.
NDP my friend.
Why people still vote for the shills who talk to lobbyists is beyond me. The fact people ignore the only party in Canada that isn't fucked just pisses me off at this point.
This is a good thing.  I worked in a foodbank in Montreal for years and if you can't afford food, you can't afford dental care.
In fact, on the subject, donating tooth paste/ toothbrushes with your non perishables is a good thing to do.
Socialism for me, but not for thee
Considering childcare will only make the parents lazy and entitled meaning the kids will grow up without values get into drugs and have kids who then take advantage of government childcare grants and will get liberalized by universities... its a vicious circle of socialism!!!
/S
Can’t tell if trolling
Can't work out if trolling or /s
Forgot the /s
Affordable Childcare can mean survival or thrive for a family or single parent. It offers a step up, which means less child poverty and a better future.
Can we stop cutting trees down now maybe?
Can we see Sierra club’s agenda? This story seems a little too timely to be objective. 
Normally this rain event would have come in the form of snow, instead the warm rain (+100mm) melted all the snow in the mountains causing an intense rain on snow event. I don’t think the fact that there were fires in that watershed had much to do with the flood, the ground is frozen and can’t absorb the excess water. The trees are dormant in the mountains. Some forester you are Thomas Martin. 
Fire related flooding occurs when the soil melts and the lack of vegetation absorbing the water causes flooding, in the spring.
Honestly, it's one of the most renewable of construction materials and if we continue to prefer living indoors, we're going to have to continue to cut down trees to make lumber and any other wood pulp related products.
Better management and sticker enforcement would be great though
There are methods to sustainably harvest trees for building materials. It involves drastically reducing output, selectively cutting trees in each block and leaving a mix of ages of trees, and replanting with native, mixed species to ensure ecosystem biodiversity.
...and logging mills hate that because they can't get massive amounts of lumber to market that way which is why the current trend continues. Wouldn't want government regulations get in the way of short term profits.
Who cares if we have houses if there’s no livable planet to build them on?
I'm confident that there's a balance to be struck and we can have both.
What about the accent speaking ones that think they're CBSA border agents and tell you they have an arrest warrant out for you. Lmfao.....
Im with koodo and since I turned on their call protection feature I havent recieved a single spam call either has my bf. Luckily we found this feature but it was entirely by accident. They should have sent out a text with a link if you wanted to turn it on. Its been nice being able to use my phone like it should be used with the ringer turned back on and not having to screen calls.  Ohh and answering unknown numbers is great havent missed a call from a dr the vet etc.
I thought something was supposed to be in the works to stop calls with spoofed phone numbers. 
I get a lot of the pretending to be from some company that they don’t actually represent.
They're doing a rather strong surge. It's more calls than normal during the month, and the same "Dan from Amazon customer service" is made multiple calls in the same day.
So far the CRTC has neutered enforcement powers.   Wake me when they can actually do something other than help out the big telcos.
>"Something in the order of 25 per cent, or more than 25 per cent, of all the calls made on mobile networks are robocalls,"
I must be unpopular because my ratio hovers at about 95%. It's the odd time I get a family or friend. But 2-3 times a day I'm getting called by China.
One thing I'd really like to see explained is why the majority of the calls are in Chinese. I'm not sure why the article goes out of its way to avoid using the terms Chinese or China or foreign language but I'm not getting robocalls in English. Maybe it's because I live in Vancouver but all my spam voice calls are in Chinese.
If only they had more resources and money to put towards policies and technology to help out their customers... *sigh* - at least they can sponsor every stadium in the country and own multiple sports franchises while price fixing....
I got eight calls from different numbers in four hours yesterday morning. All of them just dead air.
Yeah, the "Canada Border Services" one? I've only ever had a text-to-speech version of that, so no accent. But I get at least one per week.
I spent almost a full hour on with these guys yesterday.  I had the time to kill and just kept them going and going. They were so pissed when I told them I gave them a fake name and bank info. I said "fuck" and they started demanding an apology.  Tbey were super angry.
Found that yesterday by accident too... Wasn't able to enable it tho yesterday their website was acting up.
Same. I am with telus and they have that system they have to press a random number to get through to me. I can see in the logs I get tons of attempts but they still haven't got their robodiallers to figure out how to press the right button. I have had this feature on for months and months now, never get a single scammer.
There's an arms race between the scammers and telcos which keeps going back and forth as the former figure out some way around existing blocks which the latter then have to address, etc.
It's the same problem we have with email spam, or bad actors on ad networks.
Yes that's what the article is about.
https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/STIR/SHAKEN
Isn't it funny that our supposed "left-wing" Liberal party put an ex-TELUS lobbyist as head of the department that regulates RoBellUS?
&#x200B;
Hilarious.
&#x200B;
https://blogs.teksavvy.com/the-liberal-government-must-fire-crtc-chair-ian-scott
Nah it’s not just you, I live in Ontario and it’s to the point I don’t bother with my voicemail until a day or two after I get the message. Sometimes I can’t even care enough to check it that quickly.
I get some in Chinese, and some of the English ones claim to be from the Chinese embassy or Immigration Services or whatever. I'm pretty sure they're targeting Chinese immigrants and trying to scare them into thinking they'll get deported if they don't cough up some money.
I actually talk to the guy and i told him to release my cocaine for Christmas....lmao.
/r/itslenny
Its the same fature.
If it's vaccinated people traveling, why have a molecular test at all? Antigen is fine (and way cheaper/convenient)
Biggots, racists, white supremacists and more
No shit.
"Obviously." — Severus Snape.
So, the lunatic fringe, the tinfoil hat brigade and the Faux News watchers.
The crazy weirdo who ran for Maxime's party in my riding was an anti-vaxxer who said he got COVID-19 and recovered by using an "alternative therapy" (he never said what he used because he "feared being deplatformed" from FB). The NDP candidate (she's a nurse) was called a liar by PPC guy when she said her hospital was overwhelmed / underfunded, so I am not surprised at all by this relatively late article.
&#x200B;
The article suggests that the CPC should try to get the pro-vax and climate change vote, but if voters in both parties share the same pro-death position on climate change and all other values, wouldn't they just migrate to the PPC in the next election— especially since Maxime's party got >4% and will ostensibly be in the next debates? (then again, Maxime is shockingly uncharismatic so maybe not)
[removed]
[removed]
Oh my.
I for one am glad that they are helping split the votes otherwise going to the conservatives.
PPC candidate Kyle Delfing recommended ivermectin for covid.
To run a farm as a single-owner business, you have to be a mechanic, a biologist, a chemical handling technician, and commodity market trader.
The farmers I grew up around voted for the grits. (Back in the day when that was a centrist party.) I can't speak to the motivations of the ones voting right wing now, but low intellect isn't a factor. Maybe comments like yours, made by soft handed boys, give some of them an axe to grind.
wat
[removed]
Advice like that will get people killed. 
All what you wrote is bullshit. 
https://www.latimes.com/business/story/2021-08-11/ivermectin-no-effect-covid
[removed]
No on that .. https://www.npr.org/sections/coronavirus-live-updates/2021/09/04/1034217306/ivermectin-overdose-exposure-cases-poison-control-centers
Over a billion vaccine doses have been administered so by India so far is what the main factor is there. 
You're spreading misinformation that gets people killed. 
https://www.politifact.com/factchecks/2021/apr/23/instagram-posts/fact-checking-claim-about-use-ivermectin-treat-cov/
Color me shocked, how could we have know. If only shell back in the 80s had a paper about how emissions would drive climate change and hid it. 
If only people haven't been on the bandwagon for change even without knowing the paper existed because you'd need rocks for brains not to notice....
Abbotsford looks like a lake. These pictures are devastating.
I grew up out there and Yarrow would show minor signs of flooding with even a nominal rainfall.
It used to be [a lake. ](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sumas_Lake)Now [The pump](https://www.abbynews.com/news/keeping-the-lake-at-bay-in-abbotsford/) that keeps it from turning back into one is failing.
Édit: added link(s)
and now an RV place is on fire!
but yes, that's horrible
username checks out!
Ahh, thanks for the links, puts things into perspective.
WTF are you on about?  It's just a fucking honeypot that regularly triggers the conservative homophobes.  Does it bother you?
not in the slightest.... chill bro/sis :)
Loser.....i love when ppl say " we spend so much money here" ....i work in retail...for some reason they think their couple hundred bucks a month is going go make a difference to our multimillion dollar profits lol...no one cares...get lost
What the heck was with that *”They’ll be dead in no time...”* comment made by Restaurant Guy about the two bystanders in the parking lot?
Is this the “cease and desist letter is toilet paper” guy?! Fuck I wish these asshats would swallow their tongues.
You clown- ironic calling her Karen when your the one filming complaining.
What a dickhead. These ‘victims’ just want their groceries. Are perfectly prepared to risk other people’s lives to do it.
At the beginning of the video he says “No, we did not forget our masks.” But the at the end, when he’s talking to the two people outside, he said that they just forgot to bring their masks today.
Hmm…
“All’s we wanted to do was get our groceries”. Antimaskers are such fucking morons.
God this so embarrassing
Hes going to catch a right hook sooner or later 
(Not me threatening to do it so relax mod, but this constant provocation will obviously end up with him laid out, and he'll continue his victim narrative)
Ban them for life, Sobey's.
You don't need plague-rat lickers hanging out in the produce.
The 13 minute version that includes all the threats and other ridiculous garbage these morons spew:  
https://www.instagram.com/p/CWTtKaRlQot/
I get anti-vaxxers in our business all the time and when they pull this "your staff mistreated me" thing I do just what this manager did and put on Mr. smooth customer service, apologize to them and tell them "I chatted with the employee". 
The trick is to just make 'em feel listened to and empathized with. Now that we've established a rapport, I politely ask them to compromise and wear the mask and they always say yes. It's amazing how compliant they are when they somehow feel like they've won?? They really just want to feel special for a moment like any other Karen. 
I really couldn't care less about the customer though, I make it a priority to apologize to my teammate. I usually try to give them a giftcard or let them go home early as some sort of compensation for that BS that's not in their job description. We should really have security or something to handle these nuts, but all we can do is have a laugh about the never-ending suffering of working in a customer facing job.
I wish I could stand up for my team and tell these bozos where to go, but I've got my own bosses to answer to who just want us to be apolitical to maximize profit :(
Anti maskers are on the wrong side.
Peters burgers seem like some real lousy people.
Guys a POS. Put the camera away child.
Fucking sick of these people. 
What good does any of this do.
Are these those Peterburgers knuckleheads?
I’d be concerned that the Sobey’s owner supposedly has backed up this jackass as “coached” his employee.  Why shop at Sobeys Landsdowne if that’s the owner’s attitude?
Let me guess Peterburgers! Soon to be Nothingburgers!
I have a very hard time believing the Sobey's owner said anything similar to what he told us. 
This is just sad.
What a narcissistic whiny baby. 
Get your story straight man. Did you forget your mask or purposely go into Sobeys without it, to cause a scene?
You are NOT the victim here.
Hopefully those threats will be thoroughly investigated, and charges laid. Hopefully.
These fucks are a terrorist attack waiting to happen.
find them. charge them. throw them in prison. go for zuckerberg next.
In case anyone wasn't able to guess... Yes, it's the antivaxxers.
If you want to get rid of a politician you don't use a weapon, you use a ballot.
I wouldn't hold my breath, sadly. Local law enforcement tries to be as hands-off as possible with antivaxxer types, even when they're threatening people or blockading businesses.
> Local law enforcement tries to be as hands-off as possible with antivaxxer types
The call is coming from inside the house.
Some of those who work forces.
I should point out the Nova Scotia RCMP's incompetence led to the massacre in 2020.
The police are probably secretly in agreement with them.
Hence the second "hopefully".