Ill say it again. Canada needs to a restrict foreign and corporate ownership, as well as limiting the number of homes or land a single person can buy. Canada is gonna go the way of California, but without its hyper Rich sectors. Edit: there are over 1.3 million empty homes in canada, thats nearly 9% of Canadas' total homes overall. I bet a lot of these are placeholders for foreign investors who who are willing to wait till someone accepts their hyperinflated home prices. Source:https://dailyhive.com/vancouver/canada-over-1-3-million-vacant-homes
Our youth are soooo fucked.
Hong Kong migrant to U.S. banks: where can i put $400k U.S banks: absolutely nowhere Canadian banks: do you want cheques with that?
How many Xs the GDP should it be? What’s the average of a healthy economy?
Not sure how they got these numbers but they're off by a lot. The average price in Canada is $716,585 according to CREA and there are 15 million dwellings. Residential real estate is actually worth $10.8 trillion, about 4.3x GDP.
Cool story. Big numbers. What’s it all mean? What are the real world implications? What does it all mean for the average Canadian homeowner? The article doesn’t really go in depth beyond the I formation in the title.
Housing is how our government makes money they need that foreign investment.
So I guess that means they are full fledged Canadians now.
So in other words, no one is happy about this housing situation
[removed]
Let's be honest. Canada's primary industry has become the storage of humans. We have a diminishing resource and extractive sector. Our agricultural exports are down. Through free trade policies, we have allowed our industries to fold or leave. Our services are based on either insurance, takeout or cell phone plans. That only leaves governments and storing people. With plans to bring in over 400 000 immigrants each year, storing people is our biggest growth industry.
Surprise immigrants Our country fucking sucks too
Only the rich and corrupt are happy. Dividing the issue between another version of ‘us vs them’ just distracts from the message that the one percent need to be taken down. Every kind of Canadian should be focus their energy into stopping the pigs in control from lowering our quality of life.
I was born in Canada and can't afford a home. Wtf is this shit
Being taken advantage of by the government? Lied to in order to subsidize the continued existence of money laundering avenues for international criminals and millionaires? Having serious doubts about the viability of your future in this country? Sounds like true integration. Welcome to Canada.
I'd heard about some shit with this, so I decided to read what they actually did. For anyone wondering: Chapman's is paying for regular rapid tests for their unvaccinated employees rather than imposing a strict mandate. They then decided that since the company is paying for the tests at a cost of about $40/week per employee, they decided to give every vaccinated employee that they decided don't need to be tested a raise of $1/hour, which is $40/week, the equivalent cost to the tests they pay for. I think it's a good middle ground to ensure that people aren't losing their jobs for their own decisions on this situation, but also ensuring that compensation is fair across their employees.
Anti-Vaxxers: "Boycott Chapmans" Result: Small decline because they probably weren't their target demographic anyway and are complaining for the sake of complaining. Everyone else: "Buy Chapmans" Result: Surge in revenue from the people who are trying to counteract the negative publicity generated by the anti-vaxxers.
That sublime two-litre brick of ice cream is a staple of my childhood.
Anti vaxxers cannot wrap their head around that they are a loud minority. They are not the majority that they think they are and any boycotts they call for, are met with increased sales. they boycotts do not work and their calls for them do not work.
Buying some after work today, good on you Chapmans!
I don't always eat Ice Cream. But when I do I prefer Chapman's.
It's almost like 90% is more people than 10% isn't it.
so tired of hearing about anti-vaxxers. omg someone wants to put a needle in their own body....it's a vaccine that can potentially save your life. oh noes. I 've been double vaxxed for almost 8 months and feel fine. these anti vaxxers just need to shut up already
I'm pleasantly not surprised. BTW well done Chapman's.
I am lactose intolerant, and hadn't bought (or even looked at) ice cream in years. It was recently brought to my attention that Chapman's does sell lactose-free, and mentioned that sorbets don't use milk. The comments from the 'vocal minority' i've seen recently about Chapmans meant i'd buy it even if just 'because'. When I was at No Frills today it was really noticeable that while they were fully stocked on Breyers, NoName, and other brands, the Chapman's section had very little left. I bought 2L of 'Mango Sorbet'. Would appear i'm not the only person that's bought their product recently as a show of support.
I've always been a big fan. This won't change my behavior, because I already buy from them. It really makes me respect them though. I know that I wouldn't be so kind to the unvaccinated.
Just picked up two today. Thanks for everything Chapmans. Wish I could work for you, you certainly are one of the greatest companies in today’s world. Serious respect from my family to all of yours.
One more reason to reach for Chapman’s which is right next to Nestle’s. boycottnestles

While satire posts are popular we understand that not everyone enjoys them. If you wish not to see them please use the filter on the sidebar or set your own filters to block satire content or websites. La satire est populaire ici, mais nous comprenons que tout le monde ne l'apprécie pas. Si vous ne souhaitez pas les voir, veuillez utiliser le filtre sur la barre latérale ou définir vos propres filtres pour bloquer le contenu satirique ou les sites Web. Filter out Satire - Filtrer Satire: https://st.reddit.com/r/canada I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please  if you have any questions or concerns.
I'm sorry, 'raiding Wet’suwet’en territory'? you mean removing protesters the Wet'suwet'en don't actually want there? real shit take there beaverton.
Pretty sure this was reported on CBC radio 1 every hour today.
They are not exempt from federal law enforcement.
You mean arresting terrorists holding hostages without access to food and water?
They are not on fire with this. Beaverton fail.
Yeah, the news is lacking or one-sided. Deal with it guys. Not a new issue and it isn't the time to be in denial about shitty race relations in our country.
Good. Individuals would find it nearly impossible to get any traction on forcing the government to protect their jobs or ensure they're compensated fairly, but a national union might have the leverage necessary.
Good. More unions, more union members.
Solidarity ✊
Solidarity forever, for the union makes us strong.
See? JT was right a few months back - the inflation rates were only transitory. Now they are worse so they transitioned indeed.
Considering that warehouse workers for retail (including/especially online retail) are the ones who account for the vast majority of labour in order for the business to make money, it makes sense that they should earn a reasonable income. If executives and shareholders are earning profit sharing bonuses/dividends while the workers who actually earn the money are getting dirt wages and poor conditions, something needs to change. If unions can bring about that change, I'm all for it.
Loblaws owns their warehouse union
I worked in a Loblaws store during high school. I made minimum wage but actually took home less than that because I had to pay union dues. What a great deal!
Union bosses become more wealthy but union workers can be poor.
These union people are simply kicking their own exploitation game (dues collection racket) into high gear while they still can. Warehouse jobs will almost exclusively done by robots before we know it. If I were working in a warehouse I'd be working now to get ahead of my peers (future competitors you will need to beat out for the resulting fewer jobs there will be) by spending my time learning how to fix or program robots instead of paying good money to join a union that won't have any leverage (and therefore no power) sooner rather than later.
Have they addressed any concerns related to any record breaking prices?
Quebec dairy farmers make up a large lobby force. Annoy them at your own risk.
But he has major concerns with how the commission is structured, including the fact that two of its three board members own dairy farms and the third has an extensive background in dairy processing "Do you have any conflicts of interest to report?" ".......... No."
Lets be real here unless its directly benefits Justin Trudeau or his family's pockets he doesn't give a single F.
I mean, what's a glass of milk anyway Michael? $10.00?
Downplaying and the LPC, what a fucking duo
Record-breaking vote prices, I'd say.
We care heavily about the rising cost of living. But we don't give a shit about what you pay for cell and internet service, and we don't care what you pay for milk, butter and cheese. Oh ... those make up part of the cost of living? Really?
Fuck these clowns
Somewhere right now, there's an officer telling a pack of material techs and vehicle techs to cobble 10 different Leopards into one working Leopard before EOD today.
You mean, “Canada ponders”. Not the same.
Excellent Lets send more of our extremely under equipped troops with shockingly low morale to Ukraine That’ll definitely help!
"Global Village Space" from Pakistan where do you guys find these news outlets?
If we do send anything, it will likely be lightly armoured troops without the equipment to engage an armoured force and in insufficient numbers to even act as a credible speed bump.
If I am reading that Russia is planning to invade Ukraine in January on Reddit, how is every nation not sending military forces to stop it?
[deleted]
This submission appears to related to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and its impacts on Canada. Please see this post for resources on this event: https://www.reddit.com/r/canada/comments/nbxior/covid19_health_support_megathread_9_reminder/ COVID fatigue is real, but please remember this is a real, serious disease. The following rules apply:  Do not post false/misleading information, conspiracy theories, or unproven medical claims. Find medical / scientific information in medical subreddits.  You are not required to agree with all measures put in place, but engaging in / promoting / encouraging the violation of relevant public health laws or guidelines will result in a permanent ban.  Public health authorities are not the enemy. They are not immune from criticism on this subreddit, but do not claim they are part of some plot to promote some variety of authoritarianism. Cette présentation semble liée à la pandémie de COVID-19 en cours et à ses répercussions sur le Canada. S'il vous plaît voir ce poste pour les ressources sur cet événement: https://www.reddit.com/r/canada/comments/nbxior/covid19_health_support_megathread_9_reminder/ Veuillez ne pas publier d'informations fausses / trompeuses, théories du complot, politisation des ordonnances / directives sanitaires, et surtout ne pas faire de soumissions encourageant les autres à défier les ordres de santé publique à ce subreddit. I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please  if you have any questions or concerns.
As a point of comparison a total of 8,355 unvaccinated individuals under the age of 60 have ended up in hospital with COVID-19 over the same time-period and 1,722 of them have required treatment in the ICU. So 8,355 unvaccinated (under age 60) clogging up our hospitals vs 83 fully vaccinated people. ICU was 1,722 vs 9...
Let’s look at data in a time frame where for half the time the 60 under population wasn’t even eligible for a vaccine… stats can tell you whatever you want to hear if you want to manipulate them. Maybe look at the last 3 months and see what it looks like rather than including December 2020 to April 2021.
So why do we have any restrictions at all for under 60?
The headline is wrong. It's 9 vaccinated people under 60 who have ended up in ICU while 1,755 unvaccinated people under 60 have ended up in ICU.
Boeing put tariffs on Canadian jets. Fuck Boeing.
They should have offered us duct tape and super glue instead
Collins questioned whether the so-called "Boeing clause" played any part in the fighter jet competition — though officials have said it was not a factor as the dispute was resolved in Bombardier's favour in 2018. It was resolved after the damage had been done and Bombardier had to gift half the program to Airbus. Fuck Boeing.
I hope it's spite, fuck Boeing.
Not shocking at all
No tears from me on this given Boeing's really malicious conduct in the past. The F-35 has matured enough that I believe costs have declined and the platform has improved in reliability and function. Gripens did have some features that might have been relevant: lower and easier maintenance, deployable from almost anything but I have not kept up enough to know if this is all true of the latest model or even the costing basis of one vs the other. My gut check is that it will be the F-35 and perhaps at this juncture that is the right call all things considered.
Just buy the fucking F-35 and get on with it - it’s been over a decade now. It’s the only 5th Gen fighter and integrates with the only other country we need it to.
It says lockheed and Saab are still in contention , so i guess we’ll see what happens
Liberal House Leader Mark Holland has said he's heard from MPs with compromised immune systems who are uncomfortable with the idea of being in the chamber with Conservative MPs who refuse to get vaccinated. This is a valid reason. Nobody wants to hang out with pro plague MPs. I also find it hilarious that Rempel who lives in Oklahoma opposes dialling in even though she did it all of last year!
It's a fair argument, but then Trudeau can counter that O'Toole did most of his campaigning from an Ottawa hotel while he was on the road. Was O'Toole just hiding while I faced down rock-throwing protestors? lol
CPC position makes no sense. Wouldn't it be more accountability since questions can be asked remotely and in person? O'Toole is becoming more unhinged everyday and to think his party could have won the election.
Goddamn that's stupid. After 20+ months of everyone being forced to Zoom everything it's also a losing argument with Canadians.
The easy solution is vaccine mandates, there shouldn't be antivaxxers in parliament.
The Cons are upset that they can't act like children and get away with it in virtual Parliament
fucky off O'Tool. either get your MP's vaccinated and move on or even better just quit politics.
You mean you can't just print money, and hand a ton of it out? https://betterdwelling.com/canadas-money-supply-is-growing-at-the-fastest-rate-in-over-30-years/ Money supply growing at fastest rate in 30 years. Inflation being the worst it's been since the 80's. Huge coincidence, right? The government has printed roughly 1/4 of our money supply since the nations founding from 2019 to 2021. What did you think would happen?
The government has so many reasons to desire high inflation while simultaneously underreporting it. The government has tons of expenses pegged to the fake inflation rate. It also reduces debt burden. Corporations and governments are insanely indebted right now and this is just another bail out
Don’t worry, inflation will take care of itself according to Trudeau’s logic.
No shit!
Canada is in the middle of the pack when it comes to inflation in the OECD. And given the state of the world right now, there are fairly limited tools the government and Bank and Canada can use to reign inflation in. https://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2021/11/24/inflation-has-risen-around-the-world-but-the-u-s-has-seen-one-of-the-biggest-increases/
Trudeau asked someone to translate this for him
At every level, municipal, Provincial and Federal Municipal taxes up, water and garbage, also trying to find new taxes to charge, looking at storm water, Provincial pushing inflation with paying for safe supply and housing for homeless(buying hotels), and creating panic buying of goods from flooding, Federal pushing carbon taxes on everything you buy to live, food, heat, water, etc.. completely government caused And they wonder why housing costs are rising! 🤣
So, the government is doing this are they? All over the world? At the same time? ALL of the world's governments secretly got together and, for the first time in history, are all working together secretly in order to raise inflation, are they?
That graduate degree in economics is paying off with insights like these. In other news, water is wet and the sky is blue.
But CBC’s Aaron Wherry assured me none of it was Trudeau’s fault!
This submission appears to related to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and its impacts on Canada. Please see this post for resources on this event: https://www.reddit.com/r/canada/comments/nbxior/covid19_health_support_megathread_9_reminder/ COVID fatigue is real, but please remember this is a real, serious disease. The following rules apply:  Do not post false/misleading information, conspiracy theories, or unproven medical claims. Find medical / scientific information in medical subreddits.  You are not required to agree with all measures put in place, but engaging in / promoting / encouraging the violation of relevant public health laws or guidelines will result in a permanent ban.  Public health authorities are not the enemy. They are not immune from criticism on this subreddit, but do not claim they are part of some plot to promote some variety of authoritarianism. Cette présentation semble liée à la pandémie de COVID-19 en cours et à ses répercussions sur le Canada. S'il vous plaît voir ce poste pour les ressources sur cet événement: https://www.reddit.com/r/canada/comments/nbxior/covid19_health_support_megathread_9_reminder/ Veuillez ne pas publier d'informations fausses / trompeuses, théories du complot, politisation des ordonnances / directives sanitaires, et surtout ne pas faire de soumissions encourageant les autres à défier les ordres de santé publique à ce subreddit. I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please  if you have any questions or concerns.
I’m so tired of asking people to repeat themselves. Masks on, behind glass, I wear hearing aids. Ugh.
Maybe misleading title based on this quote from the article " Where it can be useful is where there is the potential for close contact, such as in a store between the cashier and the customer.”
We’ve known this for months and nothings changed. Businesses are too afraid of any potential reprimand/backlash because they’ve been put through the fucking ringer the last 20 months that’s they’ll just leave em up indefinitely.
The body of the article does not match the headline
They are as effective as the ridiculous arrows.
"experts"
The whole thing was security theatre foisted on companies by government officials trying to look like they were doing something and naturally the panicking public bought it hook line and sinker. What drives me bonkers though is that all adults today lived through 9/11. We have seen this all before and we learned god damned nothing.
IIRC there’s evidence that plexiglass is a negative due to the way it disrupts airflow.
"That it's almost entirely their fault." There, finished the headline.
It’s not unfair to dismiss the Trudeau government’s Speech from the Throne on Tuesday as a regurgitation of recent Liberal promises, and devoid of anything resembling a new vision. You couldn’t even say it achieved the more modest goals of being somewhat newish, or sort of fresh. Instead, the speech delivered by Governor-General Mary Simon could easily have been written a year ago, what with its focus on reconciliation, climate change, vaccinations and, as its title put it, “building a resilient economy” in the postpandemic era. If anything, the Throne Speech by the second straight Trudeau minority government cements the notion that the election the Prime Minister called in August might as well not have happened, for all the change it wrought. STORY CONTINUES BELOW ADVERTISEMENT Perhaps, then, the only way to make the speech interesting is to look at what wasn’t in it – sort of the way Sovietologists used to examine who wasn’t standing next to Stalin during the May Day parade in Moscow, in order to better understand what was going on behind the walls of the Kremlin. Based on that kind of analysis, the Trudeau government is squarely in the camp of those who are betting that the soaring inflation rate in Canada is a transitory result of the COVID-19 pandemic, and doesn’t require a response. The Throne Speech mentioned “inflation” only once, and in doing so made sure to call it “a challenge that countries around the world are facing,” just in case anyone thought it was a problem peculiar to Canada. Fair enough. The supply chain issues brought on by the pandemic, and the jump in energy prices and in consumer demand as COVID-19 restrictions have been eased, are global in scale. But the government’s two Throne Speech planks in its effort to “keep tackling the rising cost of living” – housing and child care – are responses to issues of affordability that were conceived prior to this year’s jump in the headline inflation rate. The $10-a-day child-care program that, as of Wednesday, Ottawa had negotiated with every province except Ontario and New Brunswick, would be happening whether inflation was a concern or not. They are unrelated issues, even if it’s true that lower child-care costs will help many Canadian parents balance their budgets as other prices rise. The Liberals’ housing plans, meanwhile, could actually contribute to inflation. The programs mentioned in the Throne Speech – a First-Time Home Buyer Incentive, a Rent-to-Own program and efforts to reduce closing costs for first-time buyers – make it easier to buy in a hot market by lowering borrowing and administrative costs, which in turn potentially creates more demand and higher prices. STORY CONTINUES BELOW ADVERTISEMENT In short, the Throne Speech does little more than grudgingly acknowledge that people are talking about inflation. That includes the Conservative Opposition, which has been hammering away at the issue, right down to the rising cost of breakfast fare. But it also includes the Bank of Canada, whose deputy governor Paul Beaudry said in a speech on Tuesday that Canadians could be hit with higher debt-servicing costs as the pandemic fades. Economists expect the central bank to raise its policy interest rate next year in response to recent jumps in inflation. Canada’s Consumer Price Index (CPI) rose 4.7 per cent on a year-over-year basis in October, up from a 4.4 per cent increase in September. October was the largest gain since February, 2003, according to Statistics Canada. As worrisome as those numbers are, it is still unclear how long-term the inflation problem will prove to be. For instance, gasoline prices have risen dramatically, but their current inflation is in part because of a sharp drop in those same prices through most of 2020. If gas prices are stripped out of October’s numbers, the CPI drops to 3.3 per cent, which isn’t that far from the Bank of Canada’s target inflation rate of between 1 and 3 per cent. STORY CONTINUES BELOW ADVERTISEMENT If the Throne Speech tells us anything, it’s that the Liberal government is among those hoping inflation will sort itself out in 2022, and won’t turn into an issue that could hurt it at the polls, or affect its own borrowing plans. We may know more when the government releases a financial update later this fall and has to use a word that got even less play in the Throne Speech: deficits.
She-flation
Inflation is a normal consequence of demand outstripping offer. By making price rise, inflation discourages people from buying the particular good that is affected by the price increase, lowering demand for it to, eventually, allow its price to come down. Right now, the value of the Canadian dollar is stable, meaning that inflation is not caused by the CAD losing value over the other currencies. What is happening is that people are buying too much stuff and that stuff, right now, is scarce because of the disruption in the global supply chain caused by the Covid crisis. So when will inflation get back to normal? As soon as people stop buying stuff and start putting their money into savings.
♫♫ "Tell me lies, tell me sweet little lies" ♫♫
\JustInflation
 According to Mounties, a shooter with a long gun began targeting the RCMP detachment shortly after noon Thursday and then continued to drive around the area.  Police are asking everyone in Vanderhoof to stay inside or shelter in place, lock their doors, and not leave their home or business. Everyone is told to avoid the downtown area and follow police instructions.  They say they are only looking for one male suspect driving a pick-up truck. That suspect is considered armed and dangerous.  A localized police Emergency Alert has been issued in Vanderhoof. Anyone in that area or about to enter the area could receive an emergency text alert advising of the situation. UPDATE : 
Suspect in Custody
Wow they actually tried warning people this time!??
Evacuate all the fire stations just in-case.
Wow the RCMP actually sent out an alert about an active shooter, what a fucking shock
I wonder if this is related to the Qnon person telling people to shoot people yesterday.
Better start going after legal gun owners, no need to investigate!
It's kinda like the unlicensed pilot who flew commercial airliners for decades; at a certain point it doesn't even matter anymore.
The way nurses are being treated these days, why would she do this to herself?
She's been at it long enough to have graduated from Nursing school at least twice.
Wow, Ottawa, Calgary, Vancouver. At least back to 2010 https://calgary.ctvnews.ca/mobile/police-searching-for-fake-nurse-1.529725
Gross.
Jesus nursing is utterly shit and with pay cuts this year you'd have to be nuts
At this point they're desperate enough that if she was doing well, they should have just kept her on
Catch me if you can!
If she worked on the ward for the unvaccinated Covid infected, would it be wrong of me to think, "Why not?"
They watched it get banned one by one around the world. They read the same credible reports of risk and liability. The Canadian government dragged their feet and gave this cabal years to prepare. They chose to ignore it and now want compensation. A joke. We need to rebuild a credible anti-trust movement. Our oligopolies hold back our economies and societies more than any groups. And they capture our governance. In the words of Nobel laureate Joseph Stiglitz, they are a market failure and threaten even functioning capitalism. Break. Them. Up.
"If we can't rip off customers directly, let's force them to pay us with more taxes!" - Canadian Internet boardroom.
Fuck off Bell and Telus both of ya make so much profit you can afford it yourself.
My give-a-shit meter is bottomed out for these guys. I say fuck em, they can use their extensive profits from screwing Canadians on rates all these years to pay for it.
No problems boys  here is the money. We all understand your hardship. Canada's taxpayers are happy to help. Canada is a huge country and this is tremendous task to provide good cellular coverage. You guys are hurting financially and we cannot stand by and see you suffer like that. So ... We have decided to help with this burden Verizon Wireless from south of the border was gracious to accept Canada Government invitation and build its own wireless network here  The best news is  It is completely free of charge  Verizon was kind to cover all the costs  Verizon loves Canada, is super excited about this new opportunity and it is looking forward to have new friends to play with. ..... Bell, Telus and Rogers. Keep your money. We will dismantle Huawei hardware at our own cost. It is not a big deal. Sorry for misunderstanding  This is the least we can do  We are happy to help  ... thank you for your continuous support and looking out for us over the years. Cheers 
Why should they be compensated for making poor business decisions? Even Stevie Wonder could have seen the writing on the wall!
They've seen exactly what the rest of the five eyes have been up to and counted on us to be spineless (so far they've been right!) Pay them nothing. Maybe they'll make better decisions next time.
Canadian telecom companies are the best compensated ON THE PLANET. Their profits compared to anywhere else could only be called obscene. We are literally the worst on earth for this.
How has Huawei not been banned yet? I remember Liberal apologists saying it would be done after the Michaels were released. I guess not.
Either do it, or don't. We already know that Canada may retaliate, you aren't providing any new information, Freeland.
We have won multiple times before on this issue, cant see anything different happening this time around. Without Canadian lumber, US homes building grinds to a halt.
Canada is prepared to retaliate against an American increase of duties on Canadian softwood lumber producers, Deputy Prime Minister Chrystia Freeland said Thursday.  “We will do precisely what we have done successfully with two previous American administrations: we state our case clearly and rationally. We also make very, very clear that Canada is prepared to retaliate, to defend the national interest,” Freeland said in response to criticism in the House of Commons.
Canada better retaliate
While the Americans don't like Canadian oil, they certainly like the electricity from our hydroelectric dams. Perhaps we should flip the off switch for a few days.
Time to hit back on products made in blue states or purple states.
I'm sure we could make use of the lumber here to help fill the demand for affordable housing we so badly need.
Sure
Of course as we should
She’ll probably talk about our “hurt feelings” again repeating her “tough” action on Trump’s protectionist policies. 🙄
Cut a deal so the Americans drop the softwood duty rate in exchange for Canada dropping the tarrif on US dairy products.
Lmao this incompetent journalist is so far over her head it's on the verge of Insanity
Sure sure. Canada's climate change efforts are bull shit. We are hindering our economic growth because the poorly educated in Canada think we can power the place with windmills. If we wanted to take climate change and economics seriously, we would be building nuclear reactors right now. We aren't.
There are efforts?
Something most of us who pay attention have known all along.
When does the government not fail? If I was this bad at my job I would have been fired ages ago. Yet these goons are still in office. That goes for the left and right.
While implementation of Canada's current climate plans may fulfil Canada's initial 2030 target of a 30 per cent reduction below 2005 levels That's actually quite positive. Getting to 30% by 2030 would be a success in my books.
I'm sure enjoying the action with my Suncor and CNRL stocks. If it's any consolation - oil makes this country rich. Oil isn't going away any time soon. As good as people around the world would like to feel about themselves- bread and butter will always be more important than feelings.
Am I the only person who remembers when the shift from paper bags to plastic was done to combat climate change? Or am I just old?
Joke’s on you. As if the millennials could afford homes in BC.
Should the real estate agent tell you that before you buy a home?
Insurance is a form of gambling that bets on odds that most people like to live near water won't soon be under water.
Insurance... The biggest scam in the world. Pay through the nose and when you want to claim, they find a way to wiggle out. "Sir, you didn't use the required emoji at the end of your claim form.... DENIED " (ref Section 3, sub section 5, part 2a, para 6 sub para 4, sentence 4 just after the semicolon, have a nice day ! ;) )
Nah you’ll get insured it’s just your claim(s) will be denied.
I'm seeing these articles pop up everywhere and yet it's still nearly impossible to find complete or understandable maps to determine which areas are in flood plains.
The upside is, your basement will be your swimming pool!
If the variant is in Hong Kong, the variant is also in Vancouver. Stopping traffic from South Africa will not keep Canada variant-free. The horses are already out of the barn. The only real way of keeping this shit out is to seal the border and everyone entering goes through a 14-21 day quarantine. That won't happen. I don't even know if it is possible for it to happen. So, shutting the skies will do nothing except make it look like we're "winning" early. All we can do is strap in and hold on.
This variant has already been detected in  The only travel restriction that will do anything will be to close our borders New Zealand style. Pretty sure that won't happen.
Ban on entry of foreign nationals who travelled through Southern Africa in the last 14 days has been announced. Canadians will have to isolate 2 weeks and be tested before coming back.
We've been through this before. Call for travel bans, liberals ignore them and import the virus, then flip flop around for a while about what to do. Will it be different this time?
It’s too late … that variant is probably all over the world now. There’s no point to doing this. If you want to proactively protect everyone, ground every flight around the world for a couple weeks. Barring something like that there’s no way to stop these variants from getting around the world. Masks, distancing, and vaccines are the way
That would be the responsible thing to do, along with anywhere else that has been affected. They will never, ever ban flights from Hong Kong though, we have too many citizens there and too much business is being done.
What I don't understand is how the person who brought it from Egypt to Belgium flew unvaccinated. How is the EU allowing unvaccinated people to enter via the air, after all this?? I can't even go for a drink after work without being vaccinated (which I agree with BTW). We still know nothing about how this variant responds to vaccines. Maybe they're just as effective. But because an unvaccinated idiot brought it to Europe from half way across the world now it's a global panic.
What's the big deal about this variant? This article refers to the variant as being "complex" and "most worrying".... Other articles I've read say they don't yet know if this variant is more dangerous or contagious than Delta or not yet. Seems like a bit of fear mongering to say a variant is particularly worrying when it doesn't seem like much is known about it yet?
Clock’s ticking fast Another week of idle politicians and guess what??? Lockdown 🤨 You may think I’m crazy but I feel it’s very possible. 😞
The Liberals will be too slow to react as they have been consistently throughout this pandemic. They only thing they’ve been fast on is doling out taxpayer funds will no oversight
What surprises me most is that Suzuki still has a voice and followers. The guy is the biggest hypocrite in Canadian history. Preaches saving the ecosystem and tries to guilt everyone into reducing their carbon footprint while he has multiple homes, vehicles, asshole attitude towards "fans" and pervy nature towards young women. This has been known for like 10-20 years now, yet people are still listening to him.
I feel I should also apologize for saying David Suzuki will be 'set adrift on an ice floe' if he keeps acting like this.
I suppose that's the nature of these things.
He's been attending Trudeau school. Do/say whatever you want, just apologize later.
Too late - damage done.
I feel like this did a massive amount of damage to his reputation. What an asinine thing to have said
Jason Kenney calling for David Suzuki to be cancelled. That's fucking rich.
Nothing like apologizing for encouraging terrorism…. But as long as he’s sorry, I suppose we should just forgive and forget
They should have charged him with promoting terrorism, and designate the group he was with as a recognized terrorist organization. Enough is enough. Time for these extremist groups to be banned altogether and permanently silenced, and their members be put into a special camp.
Any suggestion that violence is inevitable is wrong.  Consider how David Suzuki was pressured in to making such a ludicrous absolute statement as this. Pressured by corporations, by the governments and media they keep in their pockets, and the brainless stooges they can manipulate \cough cough\. If they can hold David Suzuki under their thumb like that, they can certainly do the same to you should it become in their interest. David had spoken openly and truthfully about a likely future outcome, and now in response they have shown us what the other side of that coin looks like.
I think the issue is the "who" said this and how many people it reached. If it was a nobody who said this no big deal. But even if taken out of context because it was said from a person who is highly regarded by many it was not only a stupid thing to say but extremely dangerous especially in this day and time.
This submission appears to related to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and its impacts on Canada. Please see this post for resources on this event: https://www.reddit.com/r/canada/comments/nbxior/covid19_health_support_megathread_9_reminder/ COVID fatigue is real, but please remember this is a real, serious disease. The following rules apply:  Do not post false/misleading information, conspiracy theories, or unproven medical claims. Find medical / scientific information in medical subreddits.  You are not required to agree with all measures put in place, but engaging in / promoting / encouraging the violation of relevant public health laws or guidelines will result in a permanent ban.  Public health authorities are not the enemy. They are not immune from criticism on this subreddit, but do not claim they are part of some plot to promote some variety of authoritarianism. Cette présentation semble liée à la pandémie de COVID-19 en cours et à ses répercussions sur le Canada. S'il vous plaît voir ce poste pour les ressources sur cet événement: https://www.reddit.com/r/canada/comments/nbxior/covid19_health_support_megathread_9_reminder/ Veuillez ne pas publier d'informations fausses / trompeuses, théories du complot, politisation des ordonnances / directives sanitaires, et surtout ne pas faire de soumissions encourageant les autres à défier les ordres de santé publique à ce subreddit. I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please  if you have any questions or concerns.
The system works!
I love it when idiots filter themselves out of civilized society.
Its apparently a township of like 300 people. Who cares? They'll find another guy. You have more people to look after by becoming the student body present of many high schools than this guy did.
Former Northern Ontario mayor announces candidacy for the Conservative Party of Canada
Meh. With such low empathy and intellect, couldn't have been that great a mayor.
Yeah...he looks like someone who'd protest common sense.
Good riddance
The guy left a position he held for 11 years because he would have had to act against his principles. Takes a lot of guts. And of course every commenter here is giving him shit since they have never, and probably will never, be put in such a scenario.
wonder if they'll be clawing back all the corporate welfare we handed out to companies who raised executive bonuses and fired employees... my guess is not Corporate socialism at it's finest
The government sent $2,000 payments to some recipients who applied through Service Canada as an advance on the first four weeks to help households who saw sudden loss of earnings. The idea was to reconcile the payment at some point during the time CERB was available, which is why many who got the advance saw a break in benefits during the summer of 2020. The government now says there are still recipients who owe some or all of the $2,000, specifically those who were not entitled to the aid or didn't collect CERB for at least 20 weeks.
Don't spend money that isn't yours and earned by you.
This is old news: i got slapped with $2000 claw-back, over a year ago! I paid it and got on with life.
I've been waiting for mine to come through for a while. It's been nice seeing my account artificially inflated but I held off on the urge to spend it. Called a couple times about giving it back last year and was told to wait.
I guess they have been forgiven, that is very long time ago
I got a T4 saying I took 2 payments when I only took one. I still haven't been able to get through to CRA to clear it up.
All that spending and to think my family and I didn’t see one penny, are we turning into greece?
Let's aim for 2 Trillion in 2022 I know you got in in ya JT
And little to show for it.
It was only a matter of time before we reached this mark. The rich are richer than ever so they're paying more taxes than ever.
To all those haters out there this is no one's fault and is aktually a good thing and really awesome and thank God it isn't Harper and his goons running things because everyone knows they'd have started progroms by now /s
Balls to the wall! Big money for all.
“Spending” And then goes on to mention Health Care. Education. Social Protection. So you mean things we need to have a functioning society. Got it.
None, because we refuse to tap into our nigh infinite resources, when we do the project barely gets off the ground before a bunch of woke NIMBYs kill it. Canada is easily one of the worst countries on the planet for the resource extraction business. Any company thinking they can profit off the EV boom by doing business here is an idiot and will be burned in short order.
Which company is stupid enough to invest in natural resource extraction and transportation in Canada
Yeah, because it’s so easy to do resource extraction in Canada We can’t even build a NG pipeline with overwhelming FN’s support in B.C. we let our whole transport system Canada wide be shut down by a handful of activists Our roads get blocked weekly by the same activists in our major cities I’m sure it inspires confidence in investors
Canada could be a happening place for natural resources but the last decade has made me think it won’t happen.
Probably not much, there will be many who push to leave them in the ground. It would take diesel fueled equipment to extract them.
Canada is a great place to invest in natural resources, especially if you like spending 10 years and billions of dollars in court fighting frivolous lawsuits before you can even break ground. I mean who wouldn't jump at that opportunity.
People want a green new future but are sticker shy when it comes down to actually mining and processing the materials for it.
This post appears to relate to the province of Quebec. As a reminder of the rules of this subreddit, we do not permit negative commentary about all residents of any province, city, or other geography - this is an example of prejudice, and prejudice is not permitted here. https://www.reddit.com/r/canada/wiki/rules Cette soumission semble concerner la province de Québec. Selon les règles de ce sous-répertoire, nous n'autorisons pas les commentaires négatifs sur tous les résidents d'une province, d'une ville ou d'une autre région géographique; il s'agit d'un exemple de intolérance qui n'est pas autorisé ici. https://www.reddit.com/r/canada/wiki/regles I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please  if you have any questions or concerns.
Giving money away should cure the inflation. /s
Enjoy your new 700 Million yearly expenditure Quebec. This is probably not going to stay as a 1 time payment. At least as long as inflation keeps going up, less people will qualify for the benefit.
Quebec wants to fight inflation, by pumping more money into the economy to be spent, which drives up inflation. This must be where Trudeau learned his economics.
Ralph bucks have always and will always be popular. It's bad policy, that money is better used invested in someway but if they didn't do this it would be a tax cut for the Rich so this is fine.
First CERB, now this. How many ways can we send Bezos money? So much of this money is just going to go buy cheap Amazon shit. Bad for Canada, bad for environment.
This is what helps create inflation lmao
What could possibly go wrong? ^^^/s
"All single Quebecers whose income is less than $50,000 will receive a $275 payment, and couples whose combined income is less than $55,912 will get a total of $400. The one-time payments to more than three million people will cost $739 million, Girard said. The government is also doubling an annual payment for low-income people over the age of 70, from $200 to $400. About 709,000 people will benefit, Girard said."
This could be good policy IF they also correspondingly massively raised taxes on middle and high income earners far in excess of what they are paying out to low income earners. In that way money gets taken out of circulation somewhat. Without tax increases on some other group this as we all know will just make inflation worse.
WHAT THE FUCK. Do they understand what inflation is?
We like the housing.
That notion of housing as a sure-fire way to grow wealth was debunked, however, by a top Bank of Canada official this week. Well it's settled then /s
 It's like any other asset. You know, you see Gamestop go up to US$300, that corrects real quick because prices get totally detached." This "expert" should stick to mortgages. Housing prices are nothing like Gamestop stock so please, shut it. Let's get few things out of the way... 1st, increase in prime rate (BoC) will be within reasonable range. In fact, I'd argue, it will be in a range for a healthy economy that does not require boost. 2nd, having some insight into MBS financial products (securitization of residential mortgages) and general consumer rating in Canada, I can tell you that incidence of mortgage default in Canada is super low. It rarely happens and that's why it's one of the most safe products in the country -  3rd, price correction, if it comes, will come from multi-factor incidents, something that happens over time, a year or two. Primary factors would be, significant GDP contraction over 4 quarters that affects major cashflow and earnings of the corporations. Considering that Canadian corporations sit on enormous amounts of cash, they feel pretty well about withstanding cashflow issues. . Likelihood of some sudden price turn around is a fantasy. 4th, one of the most important factors though is political stability and money cannot buy that. For all the issues people complain and whine about, including this sub and including ME, Canada is one of the rare countries in the world with peaceful population, stable political process, somewhat smooth Confederation dynamic with no major debilitating protests like we see in other countries, including Anglo-Saxon countries like Australia, US and UK. That fact is worth trillions and is often overlooked by analysts who only look at the numbers. What I would be interested is a slow down (which is not a correction) and Government participation in making other cities in Ontario and BC more attractive for people to live. However, it's juts 36 million people so it's harder than it looks. TL; DR  mortgage specialist has a tunnel vision
Haven't seen a 100% gain in a day yet so not exactly like GameStop just yet
I know it’s unlikely because Canada stupidly built all of its wealth around housing and so no matter who’s in power, the government’s priority is coddling boomers and existing homeowners and will thus fight tooth-and-nail to prevent a housing bubble burst. But oh man, I’m so sick of seeing hardworking, educated people who have the misfortune of not having wealthy parents to top up the down payment getting their dreams of ownership crushed. There would be some serious Schadenfreude in watching all those grinning silver spoon asswipes bragging about snagging a house for $150k over asking having the bottom fall out from under them.
Gamestop never corrected....Housing to the moon then
Diamond hands baby! 💎🖐🤚💎🚀🚀🚀
Headline just wanted to attach gme for clicks
I just checked and GameStop stock is still at an absurdly high level (roughly $200). For comparison, before he internet got involved, it traded in the single digits. It has not been "corrected" at all.
Iv been keeping up with this budget because I'm a glutton for punishment and have nothing better to do. This council is going to be A DISASTER. What's not included in the tax increase is that the council also approved 50M in grants to downtown developers to retrofit their offices. This 50M is coming out of reserve funds because it would have literally doubled the tax rate. For those of you who don't know Jyoti (the new mayor) had literally one of the highest developer funded campaigns. Instead of prioritizing Calgarians who are about to go through a really difficult time, she decided its better to give money to her developer buddies. There was A LOT of horseshit during this council meeting. The veterans of council who had agendas used climate change as an excuse to not debate items https://twitter.com/LiveWire_DK/status/1463585009332224000?t=PQABUI_QuNxNnzeJ6PiyBg&amp;s=19 Coun. Chabot wants the items split. He said he's not sure he can support 4A or 4D (4A includes the 19 FTEs), but would approve the other expenses. Coun. Carra said right now, with a climate emergency declared, "If we don't put our money where our mouth is.... we're being performative." After council realized that the tax increase had reached 4% they suspended procedure and quickly voted to approve the entire budget instead of the typical way they do it because they knew that if they went home that night they would have been torn apart overnight. So they pushed it right through and killed any debate or potential response. I tried giving Jyoti the benefit of the doubt. But she's treating Calgarians like complete idiots. Here she is literally threatening to cut off a councillor's mic when he brings up that prior councillors spoke about defunding the police https://twitter.com/meksmith/status/1463244943586054147?t=NYPw9NOjcRpTAB9XEhZW6g&amp;s=19 Council absolutely did initially vote to defund the police and that conversation did take place. https://www.sprawlcalgary.com/inside-calgary-city-councils-reversal-on-police-funding https://twitter.com/ellejayjoseph/status/1463275795288236034?t=LD-mw8bQZitVJl6A2A3wqA&amp;s=19 I miss Nenshi, I disagreed with him on a bunch of stuff, but he was NEVER so callous in his BS his first 30 days on the job. How this council is allowing a mayor to threaten councilors like that is outright scary.
Just what she ran on in the recent election, right?! I mean this is exactly what surging inflation calls for from the hard pressed taxpayer as the family budget gets tighter and tighter: higher taxes.
My city does this just about every other year.
Don’t forget that if you voted otherwise, you were labeled a racist!
People voted for this?
I'm not a Calgarian but I understand the city took a massive hit to its revenues with all the downtown office closures. Where else are they going to get the money? If they province gives it to them, you'll pay for it out of your provincial taxes anyways.
So it seems that she wants to actively give Trudeau ammo for his claims that the CPC wants to reopen the abortion debate again. Real smart........not.
I saw a lot of CPC voters on this sub talking about how she would be perfect to replace O’Toole and that she’d be able to defeat Trudeau. I think if she was leader, the Liberals would have likely had a strong majority. Anti-abortion pregnancy centres purposely feed vulnerable people misinformation in bad faith. They shouldn’t have charitable status because they aren’t a charity. Lewis could never be PM as the vast, vast majority of Canadians are pro choice and wouldn’t vote for someone who chose to die on this hill.
Just one of the reasons the Conservatives will never get back into power.
I remember people on here rooting for Leslyn Lewis as a good candidate for CPC leadership and that the CPC will not open up on gay rights or abortions... Where you people at?
SoCons are a dying breed but they will make sure they take down the CPC with it.
God what a stupid fucking thing to do.
"The abortion debate is over." "Liberals only bring up wedge politics during elections to scare voters."
axe, not ace.
The charity tax lawyer quoted in this article raises valid legal concerns about the precedent this sets for pulling the plug on charities with no real process for accountability. Sure, some crisis pregnancy centres are fronts for the sort of militant anti-abortion sentiment that feeds those people you see standing on roadsides holding placards of butchered infants. But many others are well-meaning charities that do nothing but provide resources to give women an alternative when circumstances of poverty or desperation might be pushing them to an abortion. The Trudeau government is offering no litmus test for making any distinction - they want them all shut down because it appeases his progressive wedge issue voter base, and, like the revived conversion therapy bill, is another distraction from the Liberals’ inaction, or downright enabling, of the housing crisis, inflation, and general decline in the quality of life in Canada.
Or ... indigenous people actually have a wide variety of priorities and situations, so it's good for some, bad for others, and maybe we shouldn't talk about them like they're a homogeneous blob.
Who the frick was even listening to leos opinion on this in the first place?
But what does Ja Rule think?
Is this the same Leonardo DiCaprio who made ? Why is anyone listening to him?
Jet-setter, philanthropist, womanizer, manther, Indigenous activist. Let's listen to what he has to say. It definitely matters.
Why do we even give celebrities any attention when it comes to matters that they know as much about as “uncle” Tim down the street?
tl;dr - my opinion is that other guy's opinion is wrong and I am right.
National post being pro big oil, what a shocker
You can change the dates in the article to literally any date from the last decade and it will read exactly the same.
laughs in already priced out
Why wouldn't it? Housing in Canada is completely risk free with a high rate of return.
To the moon
Can we just ban these articles? They're repeated and contradicted like crazy
'Buyers'? I think you mean, 'Landed Gentry'.
Yeahh lock in the rates! /s
Is anyone for real believing that border restrictions are going to work here? Fortress Australia is having to abandon them because despite its best efforts it could not keep out delta. NZ had to abandon CovidZero because it too could not keep it out. And now we have an even more infectious variant while also having the longest land border in the world which has to have commercial traffic go through it so the country can operate? Yeah, no. The variant \is\ coming...the best thing we can do is try to get ahead of it. That would be working with other countries to fast track an updated vaccine and get it out to people ASAP.
That South Park episode starting to be more accurate
Can a doctor explain this new variant in medical terms?
This is never going to end will it? There will always be reservoirs in third world countries and globalization means it will always arrive here. When do we just learn to live with covid? I wonder which will have a higher human cost in the long run: Covid or the policies we used to contain covid?
Well good thing I just came back from a nice vacation to Mexico before they go on a fucking lockdown again.
Article Highlights:  Premier Doug Ford has called on the federal government to ban all flights and passengers from countries that might bring the new COVID-19 variant into Canada.  “I was just briefed by Dr. Kieran Moore, Ontario’s Chief Medical Officer of Health, about the new variant that’s been found in several countries in Africa that early reports suggest could be vaccine resistant,” Ford said in a statement Friday. “I have contacted the federal government to express my extreme concern about the risks it poses and the need for immediate action today.  “We cannot repeat the same mistakes that allowed the Alpha and Delta variants to enter our country. Our best defence right now is stopping this variant at the border,” he said.  The variant — B.1.1.529 — was first detected in an arrival to Hong Kong from South Africa but is now believed to be in a few other countries.  Some governments have already ordered a ban on flights from South Africa. Update: Health Minister Jean-Yves Duclos and Transportation Minister Omar Alghabra are expected to hold a news conference with Canada's chief public health officer this afternoon to discuss the new variant.  \-------------------------- Yes ... do it now! The  from CNN on the new mutation, includinhe countries currently imposing travel restrictions.
What an absolutely asinine idea. We've seen that partial bans do nothing. If you really want it keep it out, you have to seal the border.
Given how often and seemingly easily Covid mutates it's spike proteins in particular are there any vaccines being developed that target something other than the spike proteins? Maybe something less likely to mutate.
I hope all the gobs of cash that the pharma companies have been making has been put to use trying to further reduce new vaccine turnaround times.
He's not wrong.
Ford said it so immediately Trudeau will do the opposite and the people on Mass (at least in R/Ontario) will flame Ford for even suggesting it.
I don't think any of my school washrooms had doors in the first place, if they did they were always open. If the bathroom is designed right, you shouldn't be able to see anything other than a short hall anyways.
TIL not having exterior doors on washrooms is a big deal... Every school I went too were like that, all the malls near where I live too. It's a very common thing and I really don't understand what's the deal.
Sometimes it really does feel like we are devolving as a society.
So none of the staff have doors on their washroom either, right?
I would eat so many beans.
Why is this news
If students are caught slacking off or cutting class, then give them a warning and if caught again, call the parents. If caught vaping, same thing. IOW, and this is a real doozy of an idea, if they break the rules, they get some form of punishment. Unfortunately, the P word (tee hee) brings up imagery of a severe beating, when it can be made a learning experience that actions have consequences. It's not like the students will be trussed up as in that scene from Starship Troopers where Rico takes a lashing. Great movie BTW. I hath been M'Lorded and Mortified. My fedora remains untipped.
A high school I worked at had washrooms that were designed without doors. No urinals in the guys' washrooms and the stalls were a bit more private than most. The reason for this design was greater accessability for the physically disabled and no washroom doors to touch (lower germ transmission). Security may have played into the design as well.
In my junior high school, 20 years ago, the washrooms had no exterior doors. I don't see the big deal.
Public washrooms are typically designed so that you can't see into the areas that would be considered private through the exterior door, because the door is opening and closing all the time. It's not like you open the door and the first thing you see is a bank of urinals or peoples' underwear around their ankles through the bottom of the stalls. If someone needs a "moment of privacy", they can go sit in a stall for a minute or two.
So then how do we expect bullies to give nerds and geeks a swirly without getting interrupted by some meddling teacher? This will disrupt the entire balance of the high school social hierarchy.
Fine until burrito day...
Honestly, most boy's bathrooms need to be aired out anyway.
When 80% of the population demands that public health trumps personal rights, this is what happens. The same 80% that say "choices have consequences" are now surprised there are consequences.
Time to turn on the immigration tap otherwise we risk seeing wages rise. Can't have those dirty poors making more money.
over 1 million underpaid jobs wow
Ironically they estimated in Aug that there are 1.5 million unemployed.
Unfortunately I work cheque vs cheque. I'm not in the position to refuse any job. But I do envy people who can afford to refuse a job.
I have a solution... increase immigration Priority to family reunification, so we get extra grandma and grandpas too
Are Uber and Instacart looking for that many drivers already? Wow, the recovery IS on track
Second prize: two trips to Ottawa. :)
Is it actually a surprise that Americans don't know much about other countries when they don't know much about their own? LOL
Media giving Ottawa Tourism free advertising now
downtown Ottawa is number 1. well it smells like number 1
Well if I never win at Jeopardy, I'm at least gonna flub the travel questions. _______________________________________________________________________ "For 200 dollars - This English city on the Thames is where the Queen's Crown and Jewels are on display." "Ah...Gee....Drawing a blank here Alex - A queen? English?" ____________________________________________________________________________________ "For 400 dollars - this iconic tower was built for the Paris World's Fair in 1889" "What is the ....uh..........pfft" ____________________________________________________________________________________
I have to admit, I didn't know the answer either. I could have made a guess, but I doubt I'd have picked Ottawa.
What is a more wretched hive of scum and villainy than Mos Eisley spaceport?
The catch is they need to get around town by LRT
"Which Ontario city has an NHL hockey team which has sucked for decades?" I mean, they had a 50-50 chance.
Not like Alex Trebek went to the University of Ottawa or anything /s He be rolling in his grave (RIP Alex Trebek, I 3 u)
Why are the dumbest people in society getting rewarded for their stupidity?
I didn't even know that we had a maple syrup reserve.
That's a lot of pancakes. Also TIL we have a maple syrup cartel in Quebec. Wonder if they ever go to war with the dairy cartel.
The syrup must flow
Soon we will use maple syrup as means of exchange for other goods.
Priorities
Canadian maple syrup producers are tapping the country’s emergency reserve of the sticky sweet stuff as it looks to meet demand amid a global shortage. Somehow for some reason I believe "reserve" is sufficient and we don't need to call the reserved supply of maple syrup an "emergency reserve"... you know?  BC will be relieved that the "emergency reserve" was released...
Sweet.
Finally I can exhale!
Canada: I’m doing my part!
Bought a big jug on clearance recently. Just like that it'll appreciate in value lol!
Storing a product with a price that varies can be good business as long as it preserves well and isn't too expensive to store. Add to storage when there is an excess and prices are lower. Sell it when there is a shortage and prices are high. It is similar with the U.S. strategic oil reserve -- they don't do it for investment purposes but if adding to the store and using it takes place at the right times, it can be financially beneficial.
Nothing good ever happens in vanderhoof
excerpts from the article: Kevin Kung has helped develop small-scale technology that turns what's left in a field after harvest into fertilizer  ...  Kung and Vidyut Mohan of India co-founded the social enterprise Takachar . “Worldwide, $120 billion worth of crop and forest residues are burned in the open each year. If used productively, these residues represent a $10 billion market globally,” its website says.  ...  Last month, Takachar took in a combined $1.9 million in prize money from the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge’s inaugural Earthshot Prize , as well as from the XPrize and Musk Foundation’s Carbon Removal competition, for which it entered as “Takachar (Safi Organics) from the University of British Columbia, Northeastern University and IISC Bangalore (Canada, India, Kenya &amp; United States).”  ...  Kung was born in Taiwan and raised in Vancouver. The chief technology officer of Takachar is currently in Phase 3 of UBC’s entrepreneurs’ venture program and is a postdoctoral fellow in chemical and biological engineering at the school.
good work Kevin Kong make elon proud
You mean significantly reduce immigration volumes and boost current workers' salaries? Say it.
It’s a simple but unpopular solution - restrict speculation in residential real estate by imposing ownership limits (e.g. a maximum of one primary and one recreational property per Canadian/permanent resident). Housing shouldn’t be an investment.
there are so many unturned levers to fix this it is just sad. and sooo tired of this conversation as well... I am in this country for a decade now and the conversation has not changed. All that has is that prices throughout the country are now completely bogus, besides a few pockets of sanity. I am just tired of it.
Reduce immigration. Do that.
I'm glad Mr Pretty Socks is bringing in 400k immigrants this year. I'm selling my dumpy bungalo and building a new house. RIP young Canadians but thanks for voting for Mr Trust Fund Ski Teacher I guess
I feel like the answer is progressive taxation. Increase the taxes paid on additional properties until it gets to a point that hoarding homes isn’t profitable.
You have to reduce immigration to solve this problem. And no, it is not racist to say that.
Stop importing an unsustainable level of people. Stop allowing people not even in the country to buy homes and real estate. Address the need for affordable housing, mental health and addiction care, and quality of life for those here. It’s not rocket science but increasing the quality of life rather than just quantity of crappy jobs and prospects, while devoid of benefits and care, would actually address the housing and homeless crisis.
Reduce immigration, tax investment properties in triple digits and watch that shit correct.
Address massively under construction of supply also. Weve been doing demand side shit for years with minimal effect
Want to solve the housing crisis? Electrical majority in Canada, Justin Trudeau, Liberal Party: No. Housing IS an investment and you can get in on the action too!
Top post just means the ppl with many are grandfathered in and none of us get a chance to compete… idiot
What? 2023 maybe. They'll have to fix it properly this time.
This post appears to relate to a province/territory of Canada. As a reminder of the rules of this subreddit, we do not permit negative commentary about all residents of any province, city, or other geography - this is an example of prejudice, and prejudice is not permitted here. https://www.reddit.com/r/canada/wiki/rules Cette soumission semble concerner une province ou un territoire du Canada. Selon les règles de ce sous-répertoire, nous n'autorisons pas les commentaires négatifs sur tous les résidents d'une province, d'une ville ou d'une autre région géographique; il s'agit d'un exemple de intolérance qui n'est pas autorisé ici. https://www.reddit.com/r/canada/wiki/regles I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please  if you have any questions or concerns.
I'll bet they also have super high levels of "value for money" too.
Eh, grow your own or buy from a reputable MoM ( there are lots of good ones ) more propaganda to try to get people to buy the governments awful irradiated terpless weed.
It’s now a hugely competitive market with zero QA/QC enforcement - what do you expect? PS: the “non-illicit” legal pot ain’t no better for the exact same reason.
Oh, so the same as the “legal market” 🤔
This isn't really something that wasn't known, it's just ignored in the face of lower prices by folks that don't really care what they put in thier body.
This is why I buy legal weed.
I don't find this surprising at all.
I simply don't understand why so many don't grow it at home, hell even if you don't smoke it grow it and give it to people for Christmas/Birthdays or those that need it for medicinal, I barely smoke myself maybe 1/2oz a year yet I grow pounds of it with 4 plants (mind you my wife smokes it as well but less than a QP a year).
If they hid his death what else are they hiding! :/
This isn’t the first time they hid willie’s death
It was an assassination
He was just trying to keep people from losing hope about the impending eternal winter.
So, does that mean 6 more years of winter?
Why not have him cloned? You can do a dog for 50k and a cat for 35k. Honestly, it's a pretty small potatoes problem. A cloned groundhog would probably be an international headline for Wiarton too. Has anyone asked how global warming is going to affect this tradition?
This post appears to relate to a province/territory of Canada. As a reminder of the rules of this subreddit, we do not permit negative commentary about all residents of any province, city, or other geography - this is an example of prejudice, and prejudice is not permitted here. https://www.reddit.com/r/canada/wiki/rules Cette soumission semble concerner une province ou un territoire du Canada. Selon les règles de ce sous-répertoire, nous n'autorisons pas les commentaires négatifs sur tous les résidents d'une province, d'une ville ou d'une autre région géographique; il s'agit d'un exemple de intolérance qui n'est pas autorisé ici. https://www.reddit.com/r/canada/wiki/regles I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please  if you have any questions or concerns.
Hope the big guy makes it, Atlantic Veterinary College is fantastic.
Good luck baldy.
An animal wanted to survive. Shocking!
Pretty wild. Anyone know what level of the spine they're talking about here that is commonly injured? Based on leg involvement I'm thinking lumbar but would love to learn.
Poor guy
I really hope these surgeons weren't paid with public money for this but I can't imagine who else would do that.
Schedule; fill a few sandbags, elbow bump with some soldiers, pretend to listen as a farmer tells him how their life is runined followed by a patronising insincere lecture to the working poor about how they are contributing to climate change then jump back in the jet for a few days vacation.
Fly his private jet to BC to tell them about how climate change caused this so we should all stop driving cars and stop eating meat while he continues to fly a private jet and eat steaks.
I guess parliament is back in session - time to make himself scarce.
Surf's up!
Is he bringing his surfboard?
I don’t understand why politicians do this. Let the people focus on the recovery effort. He will only be a distraction and detract people from working on the task at hand, as well as pulling resources so he is looked after while he is there.
Stay home Justin, we don’t want you here.
“Surfs up” - Tredeau probably
completely useless so called leader.
6 month extension before the 6 month extension
Its BC. The commission probably laundered the money they were paid.
6 month extension to allow people to flip their 18 plus homes; and have enough time to flee the country so we can't prosecute. See the system works!
This post appears to relate to a province/territory of Canada. As a reminder of the rules of this subreddit, we do not permit negative commentary about all residents of any province, city, or other geography - this is an example of prejudice, and prejudice is not permitted here. https://www.reddit.com/r/canada/wiki/rules Cette soumission semble concerner une province ou un territoire du Canada. Selon les règles de ce sous-répertoire, nous n'autorisons pas les commentaires négatifs sur tous les résidents d'une province, d'une ville ou d'une autre région géographique; il s'agit d'un exemple de intolérance qui n'est pas autorisé ici. https://www.reddit.com/r/canada/wiki/regles I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please  if you have any questions or concerns.
How to Make a Slum 101
Anything to avoid getting people clean.
Costs ranged from $40,000 to build what would essentially be a sleeping pod, with ventilation, lights and heat to $80,000 for a self-contained tiny home with a kitchen and washroom. In both scenarios, an additional $40,000 would be required for site preparation and servicing. WTF
Fent Village
I could see it working if they had strict regulations/minimum requirements and rules about upkeep similar to a hoa or something otherwise it'd be a shit show shanty town.
Y'all hate everything. Complain about all the homeless Then complain about potential solutions to a problem Then complain that nothing happened
Brazilians would call it a favela.
Like a mini-trailer park. How quaint!
No shanty towns needed-Thanks.
Vancouver is a tiny house village - for most people, and something else for the homeless.
District 9?
This post appears to relate to a province/territory of Canada. As a reminder of the rules of this subreddit, we do not permit negative commentary about all residents of any province, city, or other geography - this is an example of prejudice, and prejudice is not permitted here. https://www.reddit.com/r/canada/wiki/rules Cette soumission semble concerner une province ou un territoire du Canada. Selon les règles de ce sous-répertoire, nous n'autorisons pas les commentaires négatifs sur tous les résidents d'une province, d'une ville ou d'une autre région géographique; il s'agit d'un exemple de intolérance qui n'est pas autorisé ici. https://www.reddit.com/r/canada/wiki/regles I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please  if you have any questions or concerns.
Give me a break. It "expired" one day before he got it. It's not some magic potion that changes its molecular structure at midnight.
They’ll only get 4G instead of 5G, it’s not the end of the world. It’s not like they’re only going to get LTE or 3G.
Sometimes people make mistakes. Let them address it and move on.
This vaccine got 99 major problems, but the expiry date ain't one.
Their superpowers will be muted 😜
"Sorry." See, all better!
Until recently, the purest water in the world was believed to be that trapped thousands of years ago in Arctic ice. But in 2006, Shotyk and colleagues discovered water from his farm had a lead concentration five times lower than Arctic core samples – a result he still finds mind-boggling. At the time, there were only a handful of facilities in the world that could measure a lead concentration so low. “This is not great water. This is not excellent water. This water is absolutely unique. This is a miracle of nature,” he said. “But we don’t understand how much water is there, where it’s coming from, how quickly it’s moving, where it’s going to and how Mother Nature created it.”
Government: who cares, just a tiny town.
Ugh I’m from around here and the water is just so darn good. I bring jars of it home from my parents well and we used to stop at a free water spring (a hose on the side of the highway) by tiny on hot summer days.
So how come Nestle isn't up there sucking it dry?
As someone whose family has a cottage up there I can say this: the protestors need to change their motto. ‘The puts the pits’ is way better.
What a misleading headline. It doesn’t have the “world’s purest water”.
This is so sad.
not enough context
doesn't name the race of the shooter what does that mean?
I really hope it’s not connected to this lady https://www.vice.com/en/article/v7ddgm/qanons-queen-of-canada-calls-for-followers-to-kill-people-vaccinating-children and that her terrorist innsurection hasn’t kicked off.
It's hilarious because  every single top comment is saying that this is a great idea and that Trudeau will never do it because he's stupid and thinks it's racist. But in this thread, with "Ottawa prepares..." it's all "freedom is over" and "hey treaudope let us get back to normal"
So it begins, again....
Did anyone actually read the article? It says from South Africa (and other neighbouring countries). Unless you have to plans to travel to/from that region not sure why your freedom is in jeopardy.
And when they don't work people will just say they weren't harsh enough or weren't implemented fast enough. Deja vu.
If we go into another general lockdown, with CERB re-instituted I am taking it this time. Last time I didn't as I am considered an essential worker but I know of those that took CERB, invested in stocks/crypto and paid it back.
Good to know that full freedom ended forever in March 2020
Good to hear!
Good. Finally no more dillydallying.
This post appears to relate to a province/territory of Canada. As a reminder of the rules of this subreddit, we do not permit negative commentary about all residents of any province, city, or other geography - this is an example of prejudice, and prejudice is not permitted here. https://www.reddit.com/r/canada/wiki/rules Cette soumission semble concerner une province ou un territoire du Canada. Selon les règles de ce sous-répertoire, nous n'autorisons pas les commentaires négatifs sur tous les résidents d'une province, d'une ville ou d'une autre région géographique; il s'agit d'un exemple de intolérance qui n'est pas autorisé ici. https://www.reddit.com/r/canada/wiki/regles I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please  if you have any questions or concerns.
Should do the match in Nunavut for some tactical advantage.
This country is too damn big, geographically speaking.
Does anyone believes the liberals actually want to do anything but talk about come election time? They belong to the oil industry just as much as the cons do.
The Ford government opted against pursuing approximately $1-billion in penalties from the owner of the 407 Express Toll Route when traffic levels fell below a contractual target during the pandemic. I'm not really seeing the scandal here. During that same period, the CRA waived all interest and late penalties on corporate and personal income tax filings because...and here's the thing to remember...IT WAS A FUCKING LOCKDOWN AND PEOPLE WERE TOLD TO STAY HOME. There was less traffic on that highway because of government mandates.
Alternate Title: Ontario Government didn’t choose to penalize the 407, primarily owned by the Canada Pension Plan, due to declines in traffic due to COVID.
r/Ontario: Oh my God Doug Ford is a MONSTER He's in collusion with the owners of the 407, getting kickbacks for not pursuing the penalty He should pursue this and use the money on social programs Reality: The 407 had lighter traffic solely due to COVID lockdowns. Pursuing the penalty would most likely fail.
Toll roads and bridges should be eradicated.
Interesting context: the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board (CPPIB) controls a 50.01% stake in Highway 407. 
Government should not build a new highway, rather purchase the 407 and make it toll free. We can set off the purchase price by, I dunno, $1 Billion.
This post appears to relate to the province of Quebec. As a reminder of the rules of this subreddit, we do not permit negative commentary about all residents of any province, city, or other geography - this is an example of prejudice, and prejudice is not permitted here. https://www.reddit.com/r/canada/wiki/rules Cette soumission semble concerner la province de Québec. Selon les règles de ce sous-répertoire, nous n'autorisons pas les commentaires négatifs sur tous les résidents d'une province, d'une ville ou d'une autre région géographique; il s'agit d'un exemple de intolérance qui n'est pas autorisé ici. https://www.reddit.com/r/canada/wiki/regles I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please  if you have any questions or concerns.
Interesting take, though the article goes back and forth calling it a court and tribunal. Those aren’t the same thing. Predetermined victim-abuser decisions though, which is just going to go bad. So the ‘good’ parts of it are: - cutting it into a new court to show that Quebec has a serious domestic/sexual abuse problem - providing services to help people through the court system, and training staff to do that well. The bad: - Another report compiled in August by a working group made up of experts from several provincial ministries, as well as the Court of Quebec and the Crown prosecutor's office, said the tribunal should have an approach  "centred on the victim." If the court/tribunal is only helping the ‘victim’, the accused is predetermined to be the offender. But we won’t talk about wrongful accusations here, because it’s sufficient to suggest that a predetermined “who is the victim” mentality will lead to problems.
As long as this isn't unbalancing the scales of justice in any way, I don't see anything wrong with the supports it would seem this will provide.
The current courts should handle all this stuff. Why more bureaucracy?
This post appears to relate to the province of Quebec. As a reminder of the rules of this subreddit, we do not permit negative commentary about all residents of any province, city, or other geography - this is an example of prejudice, and prejudice is not permitted here. https://www.reddit.com/r/canada/wiki/rules Cette soumission semble concerner la province de Québec. Selon les règles de ce sous-répertoire, nous n'autorisons pas les commentaires négatifs sur tous les résidents d'une province, d'une ville ou d'une autre région géographique; il s'agit d'un exemple de intolérance qui n'est pas autorisé ici. https://www.reddit.com/r/canada/wiki/regles I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please  if you have any questions or concerns.
My only thought is 'lol'.
A Canadian man who fought for the Islamic State — and starred in two of the terror group’s propaganda videos before quitting and disappearing — has been held captive by a militant group in Syria for more than a year, according to a local report. \------------------------ Are Canadians supposed to care about him?
"held captive by al-Qaida affiliate in Syria" I love how they have franchised.
And nothing of value was lost.
He made his bed, now lay in it. End of story. Stateless now dickweed.
comical
So long, goodbye, write if you get work.
He seems to be enjoying his new friends !
Oopsies!
His fate like many Canadian jihadists have been sealed.
I'm really happy for him.
What a clown
Is this not what be wanted?
Oh well 😆
This post appears to relate to the province of Alberta. As a reminder of the rules of this subreddit, we do not permit negative commentary about all residents of any province, city, or other geography - this is an example of prejudice, and prejudice is not permitted here. https://www.reddit.com/r/canada/wiki/rules Cette soumission semble concerner la province de Alberta. Selon les règles de ce sous-répertoire, nous n'autorisons pas les commentaires négatifs sur tous les résidents d'une province, d'une ville ou d'une autre région géographique; il s'agit d'un exemple de intolérance qui n'est pas autorisé ici. https://www.reddit.com/r/canada/wiki/regles I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please  if you have any questions or concerns.
My league has had blind refs for years.
I swear my goalie is blind too
Pretty cool. I had no idea blind hockey even existed. Watching a video of it, I'm really impressed with how well they can track the puck. At least from video it looks like the hardest part for them is taking shots on target unless they are close to the net, so that probably helps the goalie out a bit. 
Awesome. By the way things are going he could potentially back up Demko in Vancouver with the way those guys have been running things.
I'd kinda feel like a dick if I were on a breakaway against this guy and didn't just shoot it into his logo though, right?
This article reads more like propganda for the UK than anything actually news. Jean-Luc Mélenchon...wrote This guy is a perennial last place finisher in elections. I don't think the international community gets too concerned about pronouncements made by Max Bernier either.
That’s just the nature of things.
Imagine Maxine Bernier (who I’ll also refer to as an activist, not a politician) said we could blow up vaccine production facilities, and then apologized and blamed it on vaccine mandate frustrations. Would an apology be good enough? Or would something more serious be needed? Think about how you would react to that before looking at this and saying “good, let’s move on”.
Not good enough. Charge him with "uttering" under the Criminal Code.
Right, it took way too long. He should have apologized right after it came out of his mouth. This guy is a nut and needs to retire.
He's absolute hypocritical trash.... do as I say, not as I do
He waited way too long to apologize. Anyway hope the Green Party dies.
He needs to be charged to set an example. Sabotage of a pipeline would be disastrous for our country. It could severely hurt our economy and people that rely on the products that pipelines transport.
He should prove his apologies are sincere by building a pipeline.... and not blowing it up later
Navigator insists Suzuki is very sorry.
We understand David. You got caught up in the moment.
ha, what a nothingburger of a story for people who want to be pissed at someone
90% sure this is people gaslighting everyone else to illustrate how stupid the concept of dogwhistling is.
Conservatives can stop clutching their pearls now
Match-up between Carabins and Huskies should be pretty entertaining.
This submission appears to related to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and its impacts on Canada. Please see this post for resources on this event: https://www.reddit.com/r/canada/comments/nbxior/covid19_health_support_megathread_9_reminder/ COVID fatigue is real, but please remember this is a real, serious disease. The following rules apply:  Do not post false/misleading information, conspiracy theories, or unproven medical claims. Find medical / scientific information in medical subreddits.  You are not required to agree with all measures put in place, but engaging in / promoting / encouraging the violation of relevant public health laws or guidelines will result in a permanent ban.  Public health authorities are not the enemy. They are not immune from criticism on this subreddit, but do not claim they are part of some plot to promote some variety of authoritarianism. Cette présentation semble liée à la pandémie de COVID-19 en cours et à ses répercussions sur le Canada. S'il vous plaît voir ce poste pour les ressources sur cet événement: https://www.reddit.com/r/canada/comments/nbxior/covid19_health_support_megathread_9_reminder/ Veuillez ne pas publier d'informations fausses / trompeuses, théories du complot, politisation des ordonnances / directives sanitaires, et surtout ne pas faire de soumissions encourageant les autres à défier les ordres de santé publique à ce subreddit. I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please  if you have any questions or concerns.
Announced literally at the same time  At least there seems to be coordination. Anyone know why we are not limiting travel from Malawi while the US, UK, and EU are? Is this article just incorrect?
Are there travel restrictions to Asia, Europe, and the Middle East since there are cases there too? Specifically HongKong, Turkey, Israel, and Belgium identified with cases. Edit: here is a map of the confirmed cases: 
Props to the feds for getting this right, learning from previous mistakes is always a good sign with a government
If this variant is as serious as they say, one would assume the Olympics will be cancelled shortly, right?
If my trip to cancun gets cancelled again I’m going to be livid. Second time trying to go on a damn vacation during this shit!
I, for one, would love competition. Let them all compete with each other and be forced to deliver innovative products at lower and lower prices. Not even into weed, but competition is great.
They just want to compete with the other 5 pot shops within a 1km radius. More than half of these eyesores will be gone in the next 2 years.
They want their pot brownie and eat it too.
Gibmint is the cookie jar and it's hand is in it!
Thought it said pet shops
If you cant beat the incompetent govt I mean what's that say
Toothless garbage.  A specific obstructing access offence would prohibit obstructing any person from accessing health facilities. This offence would not apply where a person is peacefully protesting or communicating information, such as on a picket line outside a health facility, even if that has a minor impact on the ability of others to access the facility.
On November 26, 2021, the Government of Canada introduced amendments to the Criminal Code to enhance protections for health care workers and ensure everyone has safe and unobstructed access to health care.  Health care workers have long faced difficult working conditions, including violence and threats of violence in the workplace. This situation has been exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic. High profile public demonstrations have interfered with heath care workers and the public from accessing health care facilities.  Taken together, the amendments affirm the federal government’s recognition of the importance of protecting health care workers and of ensuring safe access to health services. At the same time, these changes would respect Canadians’ freedom to voice their concerns and protest in a safe and peaceful manner, and ensure workers’ freedom to take labour action, consistent with the Charter of Rights and Freedoms.  Proposed amendments  Intimidation and obstruction access offences  These amendments would create a specific intimidation offence to further protect health care workers, those who assist them, and persons seeking health services. The new intimidation offence is meant to address circumstances where a health care worker, or person seeking health services, is subject to any intimidating conduct. This could include threats, or other forms of violence, that are intended to provoke fear to interfere with the duties of a health care worker, or to impede a person from receiving health care services.  A specific obstructing access offence would prohibit obstructing any person from accessing health facilities. This offence would not apply where a person is peacefully protesting or communicating information, such as on a picket line outside a health facility, even if that has a minor impact on the ability of others to access the facility.  These offences would both be punishable by a maximum penalty of 10 years imprisonment on indictment. Depending on the degree of seriousness and circumstances of the alleged offence the Crown would have the option to proceed by indictment for more serious cases or by summary conviction for less serious cases.  Aggravating sentencing factors  In addition, aggravating factors at sentencing would be created that would require courts to consider more serious penalties for offenders who target health care workers engaged in their duties or who impede others from obtaining health services.
Fuck yeah
This submission appears to related to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and its impacts on Canada. Please see this post for resources on this event: https://www.reddit.com/r/canada/comments/nbxior/covid19_health_support_megathread_9_reminder/ COVID fatigue is real, but please remember this is a real, serious disease. The following rules apply:  Do not post false/misleading information, conspiracy theories, or unproven medical claims. Find medical / scientific information in medical subreddits.  You are not required to agree with all measures put in place, but engaging in / promoting / encouraging the violation of relevant public health laws or guidelines will result in a permanent ban.  Public health authorities are not the enemy. They are not immune from criticism on this subreddit, but do not claim they are part of some plot to promote some variety of authoritarianism. Cette présentation semble liée à la pandémie de COVID-19 en cours et à ses répercussions sur le Canada. S'il vous plaît voir ce poste pour les ressources sur cet événement: https://www.reddit.com/r/canada/comments/nbxior/covid19_health_support_megathread_9_reminder/ Veuillez ne pas publier d'informations fausses / trompeuses, théories du complot, politisation des ordonnances / directives sanitaires, et surtout ne pas faire de soumissions encourageant les autres à défier les ordres de santé publique à ce subreddit. I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please  if you have any questions or concerns.
Well we tried our best but this isn't going away, time to get on with our lives and let nature take its course.
https://globalnews.ca/news/8404184/explainer-covid-variant-south-africa/ “South African experts said there are no indications to date that the variant causes more severe or unusual disease and noted that as with other variants, some infected people don’t have any symptoms.” Let’s not get wound up over something that we don’t have the answers to just yet!
double dose efficacy waning, low booster uptake, seasonal, nu variant if you don't eradicate covid you're looking at a never ending evolutionary arms race with continuous vaccinations and increasing mortality for the immunocompromised and covid naive its going to be like that chicken virus where you can't live without vaccine
If this new South African variant is really what they say it is, we're in for more shit folks. There is concern that because it has so many mutations, that it will have the ability potential to evade vaccination / prior infection defence because of changes to the spike protein, potentially putting us back at square one. Estimates put the covid death toll at between 5-20 million worldwide so far. If we're back to square one with zero protection for the elderly / at risk (including healthcare workers) who are vaxxed, expect that number to climb higher and faster. edit https://youtu.be/jwDMI0nOnAY?t=123
This post appears to relate to the province of Alberta. As a reminder of the rules of this subreddit, we do not permit negative commentary about all residents of any province, city, or other geography - this is an example of prejudice, and prejudice is not permitted here. https://www.reddit.com/r/canada/wiki/rules Cette soumission semble concerner la province de Alberta. Selon les règles de ce sous-répertoire, nous n'autorisons pas les commentaires négatifs sur tous les résidents d'une province, d'une ville ou d'une autre région géographique; il s'agit d'un exemple de intolérance qui n'est pas autorisé ici. https://www.reddit.com/r/canada/wiki/regles I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please  if you have any questions or concerns.
I hate this.
Can't see how this could be abused, or go wrong. /s
I too, welcome an easier way for companies to process, harvest, and share my data to other companies without my permission. How long do they store this data for? How hard will it be for someone to opt out with privacy concerns? Feasible or restrictively difficult? The more I talk to people in IT, the more I want to just go live in a forest with only basic electronics.
What problem existed that this is solving? Were those couple dozen employees checking passports and boarding passes really hurting the bottom line, WestJet?
Well, this is gonna be interesting to see the results of.
Next up: Social Credit System Fun times
How does this work with mandatory masking?
Summary:  WestJet and TELUS have teamed up for a first-of-its-kind trial in Canada that will see facial recognition used prior to boarding for some flights at Calgary international Airport.  The process is touchless, and uses "safe and secure facial verification technology," the companies said in a release.  The ongoing trial is the first step toward approval from the federal government.  The technology was developed by one37 and document integrity validation is provided by OARO, which follows data protection and privacy regulations covered under the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act (PIPEDA).  "The addition of biometrics to the travel journey provides a much improved airport experience moving us closer to a more safe and secure contactless travel experience," said Mike Maxwell, aviation lead for OARO.
is it just me who thinks people that oppose this stuff make about as much sense as antivaxxers? Surely this conspiracy is real.
It will be interesting to live in a world where facial technology is the norm. Every year we are getting closer to this happening. Although I have mixed feelings about it, I see it as a positive rather than a negative.
 China’s advertising law prohibits terms such as “the highest level” or “the best.” Of all the places to prohibit these words - lmao
Yes yes, but Happy Smile Fun Melamine Baby Food is OK as long as it's advertised on red paper with Gold writing and not gold paper with red writing.
Canada Goose does have good performance in extreme coldness. Check out Yellowknife and streets are filled with those
In case of paywall: In an earnings call this month, executives at Canada Goose said they were expecting a strong holiday season, in spite of the coronavirus pandemic and global supply chain issues, driven in large part by demand for the brand’s luxury parkas in China. They may have been excited, therefore, to see that on Friday, Canada Goose was the number one topic on social media platform Weibo, with more than 240 million views on posts about the brand. Just why Canada Goose was trending, however, will have significantly dampened executives’ spirits, and perhaps their hopes for a China-led surge in purchasing this winter. Earlier this year, regulators in Shanghai accused Canada Goose of “misleading” advertising, and fined the company’s Chinese affiliate, Xiji Trading Co., 450,000 yuan ($90,000). The regulator cited ads that state all of the down blends in Canada Goose jackets “contain Hutterite down, the best and warmest Canadian down.” China’s advertising law prohibits terms such as “the highest level” or “the best.” The decision also found the claims were misleading, in part because the warmth of down is not directly tied to its origins. In September, the state-run Economic Daily published a commentary titled “Catching the lying Canada Goose,” which accused the company of failing to understand the country’s advertising laws. The paper said Canada Goose had also “overlooked the changes in the Chinese market” and failed to realize consumers no longer have “blind faith in foreign brands.” “The moon isn’t rounder in foreign countries, and foreign down jackets aren’t warmer,” the paper said, urging Chinese companies to use the scandal as an opportunity to increase market share. In a statement, Canada Goose blamed a text error “found on our partner site TMall. As soon as we were made aware it was updated.” When the scandal broke, some in Canada linked it to ongoing tensions between Ottawa and Beijing over the detention of Huawei executive Meng Wanzhou and Canadians Michael Kovrig and Michael Spavor. Other brands have faced boycotts and official censure during periods of geopolitical strife with Beijing. With Ms. Meng and the Michaels released just weeks after Shanghai regulators fined Xiji Trading, Canada Goose could have been forgiven for thinking the brand might regain its position as top choice for conspicuous Chinese consumption come winter. Despite selling for upwards of 10,000 yuan ($2,000), Canada Goose jackets are hugely popular in China. The Toronto-based brand operates 14 stores across the Chinese mainland, with three more in Hong Kong and Macao. Its store on TMall, the Alibaba-owned e-commerce platform, recorded sales of 167 million yuan ($33.2 million) in 2020, according to Chinese state media. In a recent statement, Canada Goose said its wider Asia-Pacific business was worth around a quarter of a billion dollars. With temperatures dropping below freezing across much of northern China, this is prime parka season. This could be why on Friday, the decision by Shanghai regulators against Xiji Trading was recirculating on Weibo, quickly going viral as users noticed “the Canada Goose penalty decision is really a guide to purchasing down jackets.” In the decision, regulators explain what makes a quality down jacket, from the type of feathers used to stuff the coat, to their “fill power” and “loft,” industry terms that refer to how the down traps air and insulates the wearer. As posts about Canada Goose attracted millions of views, many popular commentators and state-media accounts jumped on the trend, publishing infographics and guides on how to shop for down jackets, many of which are critical of the quality of the Canadian parkas. “In general, domestic clothing and sports brands, especially some of the smaller brands, have the highest cost performance and are worth buying,” wrote finance blogger He Xi in a widely-shared post. “These brands use the same fabric as international high-end products, and achieve the same warmth retention or heat dissipation rate as international high-end products … but are a lot cheaper.” Mr. He compared such brands to Huawei, Xiaomi and other Chinese tech companies whose high quality, cut price handsets helped break the dominance of foreign brands like Apple over China’s smartphone market in the 2010s. “Canada Goose’s cost performance is the lowest among all brands,” he added. “It’s not too much to say that the price of its clothes is just an IQ tax.” Other commenters noted that in the past Chinese people had placed high value on foreign brands, but this was changing due to scandals like that involving Canada Goose, as well as improvements in the quality of domestic Chinese brands. The Canada Goose statement said the company was “grateful that customers in China and around the world trust us as an authentic brand, and we have seen that reflected in the continued growth of our business.” The statement added that growth had been “particularly strong in mainland China,” with more than 85 per cent growth in direct-to-consumer sales in the last quarter.
Fuck Canada Goose. Overpriced crap.
Ive never understood the appeal of CG unless it's as a status symbol.
Seems like all the right reasons to me. Canada goose is a horrendous company using horrendous anomaly cruelty practices. Fuck them.
While satire posts are popular we understand that not everyone enjoys them. If you wish not to see them please use the filter on the sidebar or set your own filters to block satire content or websites. La satire est populaire ici, mais nous comprenons que tout le monde ne l'apprécie pas. Si vous ne souhaitez pas les voir, veuillez utiliser le filtre sur la barre latérale ou définir vos propres filtres pour bloquer le contenu satirique ou les sites Web. Filter out Satire - Filtrer Satire: https://st.reddit.com/r/canada I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please  if you have any questions or concerns.
If everyone would stop going to get tested there would be no numbers to report &amp; Covid would be over /s
“Even though” I mean - that’s cool language for 5th grade satire. But just use “despite” if you want to be remotely mature. Beaverton is low IQ (mostly liberal) fodder
“I was extra firm when I opened the schools,” Ford said. “I looked Covid in the eye and I pointed at those kids running around without masks and I said, ‘Pleeeeease staaaahp infecting them Those aren’t for you, those are for the workforce’ I couldn’t have been more of a gentleman.”
"I'm counting on the numbers of Ontario to do the right thing."
This submission appears to related to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and its impacts on Canada. Please see this post for resources on this event: https://www.reddit.com/r/canada/comments/nbxior/covid19_health_support_megathread_9_reminder/ COVID fatigue is real, but please remember this is a real, serious disease. The following rules apply:  Do not post false/misleading information, conspiracy theories, or unproven medical claims. Find medical / scientific information in medical subreddits.  You are not required to agree with all measures put in place, but engaging in / promoting / encouraging the violation of relevant public health laws or guidelines will result in a permanent ban.  Public health authorities are not the enemy. They are not immune from criticism on this subreddit, but do not claim they are part of some plot to promote some variety of authoritarianism. Cette présentation semble liée à la pandémie de COVID-19 en cours et à ses répercussions sur le Canada. S'il vous plaît voir ce poste pour les ressources sur cet événement: https://www.reddit.com/r/canada/comments/nbxior/covid19_health_support_megathread_9_reminder/ Veuillez ne pas publier d'informations fausses / trompeuses, théories du complot, politisation des ordonnances / directives sanitaires, et surtout ne pas faire de soumissions encourageant les autres à défier les ordres de santé publique à ce subreddit. I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please  if you have any questions or concerns.
When this doesn't work, what will be next?
"Canada-wide, I think it's about 87 per cent of 12 to 17 year-olds had at least a first dose. So if we imagine that five to 11 [year olds] would be around that same number, then that does boost the overall Canadian vaccination rate to closer to 85 per cent." Governments have made clear their intention to not require vaccination for the 5-11 group, yet they are assuming that the vaccination rate will be similar to a group that has had their rate impacted by the prospect of being subject to exclusionary measures if they don’t get vaccinated.
17.2%
I top pre-tax amount and 15% if I eat in. Don't tip on takeout. Rarely don't tip and will tip more when I get repeated great service from familiar servers. If I get bad service I just don't go back. COVID's completely changed things for me though. Think I've sat down and eaten in a restaurant maybe twice when it wasn't work paying since COVID kicked off. No intention of changing that.
I think the bigger question is how much to tip once the Ontario minimum wage is raised for servers to the same wage as everyone else. Restaurant prices will obviously rise to account for that. Should we still tip the same amount or lower the tip because servers are earning more and don't have the reduced minimum wage?
I love not tipping, I save so much money.
I don't eat out much but when I do go to a restaurant I typically tip $10 in cash regardless of what I order, that said I haven't been to a restaurant since covid started edit if the service is shit sometimes I won't tip at all though.. This isn't the US where some states servers are getting like $4/hr
I usually tip between 10-15%
[removed]
If the service is good, I'll leave a loonie, if its great, I'll leave a toonie.
Now that CERB has ended, I have began tipping at restaurants again.
We tip 20% min unless the service is horrible. Our regular servers that we like we tip 30% or more quite often, and they take very good care of us! My Wife works weekends at a 5 star restaurant so knows firsthand how difficult the job is, and how unbelievably horrible some customers can be. She also has to tip out 5%, so when people don't tip it actually costs her money to serve them...
This post appears to relate to a province/territory of Canada. As a reminder of the rules of this subreddit, we do not permit negative commentary about all residents of any province, city, or other geography - this is an example of prejudice, and prejudice is not permitted here. https://www.reddit.com/r/canada/wiki/rules Cette soumission semble concerner une province ou un territoire du Canada. Selon les règles de ce sous-répertoire, nous n'autorisons pas les commentaires négatifs sur tous les résidents d'une province, d'une ville ou d'une autre région géographique; il s'agit d'un exemple de intolérance qui n'est pas autorisé ici. https://www.reddit.com/r/canada/wiki/regles I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please  if you have any questions or concerns.
Something tells me this isn't a complete story here. _perhaps_ its my white male privilege talking here, but _generally_ our hospitals don't just slap you awake after surgery and kick you out in the middle of the night unless there's something else going on here that this story isn't mentioning.
"I was stunned.... The hospital was trying to discharge me in the middle of the night in near-freezing weather, without a coat, identification, phone, vehicle or money, over an hour's drive from my home in another city while I was weak and exhausted," George wrote. This isn't systemic racism... this is just how shit our hospital systems are. They do the same thing to 90 year old ladies.
Hospitals are not hotels.
Sounds like she was treated like anyone else would have been.
Do I want to know what "two spirit" means?
People like this are exhausting for staff to care for. I'm sure the nurses and aids were begging the doctor to discharge this woman lmao.
I'm sure the Hurt Feelings Commission will come up with an accurate take on this. /s
The real story here is why the mainstream news gives people like this any attention
The second photo in the article says it all- she’s a full blown Karen with that haircut.
But what's her their position on the geopolitical situation in the mid-east?
There's still a green party?
New interim Green Party Leader
"I was away at boarding school in California at the time...." JFC what a way to start.
She has a really tough job ahead of her. The party is pretty much in shambles.
I hope she succeeds in a new role. Unfortunately her first battle is against the English language. Good luck with that.
What had caused the mudslide was a bit complicated. There was an illegal pond, I believe, installed at the property above, and fill had been added, which exacerbated the mudslide risk. But there was actually a known risk of mudslides for that slope, and technically … there shouldn't have been a development there in the first place. TIL that climate change causes installation of ponds, and that unstable slopes never existed before mankind started pumping CO2 into the atmosphere.
I saw the table and men of all ethnicities are much more likely to be arrested than women of the same ethnicity. Clearly the police are also unfairly targeting men. Not that men commit more crimes… nope, can’t draw that conclusion
I’ll take predetermined outcomes for $200 Alex…
“Taken together his report and our submissions confirm the existence of systemic racism and the impact of certain policing practices in British Columbia and demonstrate that its effects are pervasive and severe,” Govender said.
They should split into the red tories and the lizard people
I would have considered voting for O'Toole but it's gotten to the point that I can never vote for the Conservative party ever again.
Is he waiting for a participation trophy before resigning?
I feel for the guy too.. Hes actually 1 year younger than Trudeau yet he looks like he could be his creepy uncle.
The first week of the 44th Parliament is coming to an end &amp; I can't help but notice the approach coming from Erin O'Toole and the Conservatives. It tells me what they're really worried about &amp; gives a glimpse into where their focus is. It also tells me that we likely shouldn't expect much from them in the months ahead: 
recall elections please
This submission appears to related to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and its impacts on Canada. Please see this post for resources on this event: https://www.reddit.com/r/canada/comments/nbxior/covid19_health_support_megathread_9_reminder/ COVID fatigue is real, but please remember this is a real, serious disease. The following rules apply:  Do not post false/misleading information, conspiracy theories, or unproven medical claims. Find medical / scientific information in medical subreddits.  You are not required to agree with all measures put in place, but engaging in / promoting / encouraging the violation of relevant public health laws or guidelines will result in a permanent ban.  Public health authorities are not the enemy. They are not immune from criticism on this subreddit, but do not claim they are part of some plot to promote some variety of authoritarianism. Cette présentation semble liée à la pandémie de COVID-19 en cours et à ses répercussions sur le Canada. S'il vous plaît voir ce poste pour les ressources sur cet événement: https://www.reddit.com/r/canada/comments/nbxior/covid19_health_support_megathread_9_reminder/ Veuillez ne pas publier d'informations fausses / trompeuses, théories du complot, politisation des ordonnances / directives sanitaires, et surtout ne pas faire de soumissions encourageant les autres à défier les ordres de santé publique à ce subreddit. I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please  if you have any questions or concerns.
At this point I'm certain journalists masturbate while writing these articles
[removed]
What to do? Sack up and stop being fearful fools. Live your damn life as billions of our ancestors did throughout all human history when faced with an illness countless times worse than this pathetic excuse for a pandemic.
[removed]
[removed]
Surfs up brah!
Buy-into Mark Zuckerberg's meta-verse before the rest of the world stops ridiculing him and then completely buys in.
Every year the likelihood of having a wave of Covid is going to be 100% just like the flu, this is the stupidest observation I have ever seen. Well, one of them anyway.
Imagine we're Hobbits. Pretty cool? Maybe? Is this the equivalent of second brunch? I'm getting kinda full.
At what wave will the media decide this is finally over? Everyone who wants a vaccine has one and most people are back to living their lives
I love how rather than walk, cycle, carpool with family, take her own car, etc, Dr Malgorzata gets into strangers cars then lectures them about Covid safety.
At this point, KCCO?
Whatever you have to do to sell papers and ad space I suppose..
Pretty sure the pictures are proof that they were not members of the media watching on, but active participants being handled together. Wonder if The Narwhal can be held liable for breaching the court order.
You know what I find rather disconcerting? The fact that in order to provide media coverage and have access to the protests you must agree to put a positive spin on the protests.
So these journalists are sharing living quarters with the protesters?
Journalists or protestors?
The Narwhal has become (has always been?) a ridiculously biased source on this subject. The prevailing narrative is actively suppressing the voice of the Wet’suwet’en people, including female hereditary chiefs who were stripped of their titles by the other "hereditary chiefs" for speaking in favor of this project.
Thank you to our brave LEO doing what they can to maintain law and order in this country. Thank you to narwhal for showing their bravery.
This pipeline is for China, right? To get fossil fuels to China most efficiently?