In before lockdown and curfew by October
Can someone explain to me how our health care minister is somehow surprised that we are so low on nursing staff? Like this has been common knowledge for YEARS even before covid...
https://www.iheartradio.ca/cjad/news/opposition-accuse-dube-accused-of-being-obsessed-with-vaccination-at-the-expense-of-the-rest-of-the-network-1.16080355
When are we going to start actually holding the government accountable?? When we go into lockdown again this winter, it would have been 100% preventable if our government wasn't totally useless.
My gym is not checking the vaccine passport and I low key want to file an anonymous complaint because I think this is dangerous behaviour (look at Alberta they are back to restrictions)
Edit: they started checking . Something must have happened
C'est une bonne nouvelle pour nos enfants.  
[https://www.lapresse.ca/covid-19/2021-09-20/le-vaccin-pfizer-biontech-sur-pour-les-5-11-ans.php](https://www.lapresse.ca/covid-19/2021-09-20/le-vaccin-pfizer-biontech-sur-pour-les-5-11-ans.php)  
On continue d'aller dans la bonne direction.
Anyone know how I can report establishments that let people in who are NOT vaccinated!?
[deleted]
I know this is long for everybody but what's the best estimate for when is the pandemic going to end? We've been 90% vaccinated for what feels like months already.
Is anyone else worried about what will happen after most of the population gets vaccinated? What if its not a high enough percentage ? Are we gonna become like in Australia? I understand that theirs a virus but its 99,7% chance of recovery, aren’t we making a big deal? How much longer is it gonna last ? What the hell is going on
ZERO checking of the QR code at my gym this morning! 😂😂😂
Came back from the US today, the covid test at the border got results back in less than 8 hours. Pretty impressed. I'd expect that time just to transport it to whatever lab but there must be one close or onsite maybe
EDIT: Sorry, this response is not related to Montreal. Mods will probably have to delete this.
Does anyone know what happened to Aaron Derfel?
He hasn't updated his Twitter since late July and I miss his daily updates.
According to Dre. M. Drouin at her press conference today, in Quebec the data shows that:
* The unvaccinated are 4x more likely to catch covid than the vaccinated.
* The  unvaccinated with covid are 30x more likely to be hospitalized than the vaccinated.
La foule "anti-mesures" est-elle malavisée? Oui.
Le gouvernement va-t-il commodément s'en servir comme bouc émissaire sur lequel blâmer notre système de santé en déroute malgré des années de négligence, d'incompétence et d'incapacité à penser plus loin que le prochain cycle d'élections? Oui aussi.
Anyone else super worried about the impact on the healthcare system next week when 20K employees will be suspended? I understand how important it is to be vaccinated, but I feel like the government didn't bother putting a back up plan in place and our healthcare system will indeed collapse with even less staff available. What happens to all the people who have family doctors that will be suspended Friday? They need to go back on the waiting list for 5 years hoping they get a new one? What about people who had surgies scheduled in the next few weeks? Follow up appointments?
So I’m going to a concert soon at the MTelus venue (bought the tickets in January 2020…) and I’m wondering about what I should be expecting. Will everyone be wearing a mask during the entire concert? Will we have to socially distance ourselves in the crowd? Anything different because of covid (outside of passport required)?
If any of you went to in-door concerts recently, I’d appreciate details from your experience!
Comment peut-on signaler les restaurants qui ignorent les mesures et ne demandent pas le passeport vaccinal? Je ne trouve rien sur quebec.ca
......
How can we report restaurants that are ignoring the vaccine passport measures? I looked on quebec.ca but couldn't find anything.
Edit: Oops just realized this was answered already further down. Submitted a police report. Sorry for double-post!
Fuck. So first the passport app I couldn't download because I have USA Google account.
Then I get a raw apk and it says I'm not vaccinated fully. I got a second dose outside of QC and brought in proof and had them fix the record after weeks of hunting the fuckers down in a place that would do it for me despite months of backlog appointments.
Now the site is crashing and the one time I got through it tried to tell me I can't use the online form to get proof anymore. But idk if that was an error or like a real issue.
I'll have to call tomorrow I guess and pray they can fix it over the phone. Good stuff...
Edit:
Ok so, site is okay right now (3am) and I got a different message from the website. This one gave me a new QR code and it does infact validate in the app. Thank goodness. 
So, tldr, if your original QR code does not validate in the app, check for an updated one through the Quebec website! And if you're region blocked from downloading the app, just get the apk from a trusted mirror or downloader.
ma petite contribution positive.  
Les nouveaux cas semble se tenir bas; on dirait qu'on a passé à travers la 4eme vague.
(incluant les écoles, cegeps et universités, salles de spectacle .. , le retour tranquille au bureau de plusieurs personnes.... )
Oh boy I am not looking forward to tomorrow. The self service portal says it's not possible to download my proof of vaccination, and as far as I can tell without that QR code I'm fucked. I have the phsyical paper saying I got my second dose back in June, but no QR code on it :(
Hi everyone, I'm curious if there is any real-world or clinical data on whether vaccine passes like what have just been implemented in Quebec are actually effective at reducing spread of covid-19? In other words, in the actual types of locations in which they are being required like restaurants and cinemas (EDIT: and the real-world ratio of vaccinated to unvaccinated clients that could be expected in those places, and other mitigating factors like masks still being required during a film screening, etc.), is there any data on how well they limit transmission?
I've tried a few Google search terms but the sources I've come across seem to just take it as a given so I'm curious what the actual rationale is. Like if you have 30 people in a restaurant where 3 of them are not vaccinated, how likely is it that any of those 3 actively have covid and if they do how likely is it that any of the other 27 in the place will become infected given that they are vaccinated? Compared to a restaurant where all 30 clients are vaccinated? Compared to a school or factory?
(Maybe this is better in AskScience or something but I figured I'd post here because it's specifically relevant to Montreal and I've had some good discussions on similar topics in the past! Thanks)
Vos meilleurs calendriers de l'avent?
Antirouille pour une voiture 2018, oui ou non?
Does anyone know of a school/children's non-profit/etc. that takes electronics? I have a plug-in drawing tablet that I no longer need, it's lightly used and works like new.
What are the seasonal favorites (e.g. dessert, drink, meal) that Montrealers love to eat?
Quels sont les meilleurs endroits pour acheter un bon manteau d'hiver ? Points bonus pour les options sans fourrure.
What are the best places to buy a good winter coat? Bonus points for non-fur options.
If visiting November 26th - December 1st, will a parka be too warm? I am coming from a place where it is currently 15* Celsius high temperature. 
Thanks!
————-
Si vous visitez du 26 novembre au 1er décembre, une parka sera-t-elle trop chaude ? Je viens d'un endroit où il fait actuellement une température élevée de 15* Celsius. Merci!
(Je repost ici, sorry mods!)
Hey so, comme cadeau de Noël, j'aimerais offrir à mes parents une soirée au   
resto (après le temps de fêtes), mais je cherche surtout un endroit un   
peu hors de l'ordinaire, soit avec un thème, ou un spectacle ou une   
ambiance simplement original.
J'ai amené mon père à O'Noir il y a quelques années, et il a bien aimé   
l'expérience, et étant donné qu'une article 'TOP 10 RESTAURANTS TO TRY   
IN MONTREAL - NUMBER 7 WILL SURPRISE YOU!'  ne peut aller que si loin,   
je viens demander votre avis!
Avez-vous une place que vous avez aimez? Une place qui a été 'overhyped' selon vous?
Bref, lancez-moi vos suggestions - merci d'avance!
Hello all! Bonjour! My partner and I are visiting for the first time from 12-26 to 12-28. We're really looking forward to seeing some of the tourist attractions, and are wondering what the general vibe of the city is between Christmas and New Years. The live music calendar looks really empty so I imagine nightlife options will be limited?
Bonjour avec la neige qui couvre la voiture et puis les chaussures complètement mouillés
Je cherche une station (pas trop cher) pour nettoyer l’extérieur et l’intérieur.
Avez vous une bonne pratique pour l’auto?
Montreal info neige n’est pas mis à jour depuis 3 mars pour l’instant. Est ce que c’est encore valable ?
We are going to Montreal over Christmas and I can't find any information \*for sure\* that tubing will occur in any of the parks.  I've been checking all the parks websites.  Has there been an announcement about it?
Kanuk si tu as le budget
Kanuk. Tu px en trouver dans les friperies. 
Mais ca vaut la peine d'en acheter un nouveau aussi. Tu serais convaincu apres avoir visiter leur magasin sur Rachel !
Jeans Jeans Jeans has Save The Duck
I was born and raised here so I'm very used to the weather. Yesterday was -3c. I had my winter coat, socks, boots, scarf, beanie, etc and it felt cold as fuck. 
When you're not used to it, it's rough. A parka is a good idea.
There's no snow. There hasn't been much snow before jan/feb in the last few years. 
But you never know.
Thank you for the help! I was on the fence about a parka or just a lighter down jacket.
Definite parka weather
How can I buy this painting ?
Nice work!
There's one in Fairview (West-island) as well. I just wonder how long those cake pieces can sit there before they spoil, or are they just full of preservatives so that they can last longer...
Ahh yess! Finally. A vending machine made for me.
10$ for a piece of cake 😬
These look so good! The only thing that is throwing me for a loop is that they’re made in Hoboken? Like why would we need to import cake from NJ? There isn’t somewhere local that could do this?
There is one at Les Galleries d’Anjou too
I got terrible explosive diarrhea eating one of these cakes.
I saw this while wandering around at midnight tonight! it seriously peaked my interest and walked around it 2 times lmao I’m allergic to peanuts so im not too sure it’s safe for me tho.
These machines have been all over Toronto for the past couple of years. Decent cakes, but not for $10-12 per slice.
I need this
I seen someone take a picture of this cake vending machine, today at 3-4pm! I would like to try it. Next time!
Hoboken, New Jersey? Seriously!? Not a place that evokes confidence in those cakes and I am from Jersey.
LOL, faut croire que je l'ai manqué la dernière fois que je suis allé au Centre Eaton! Quoique tout ce que j'ai fait c'est rentrer, acheter un jeu à la Tour de Jeux, pis manger un yero poulet Kojax avant de repartir, sans vraiment regarder ailleurs ou me promener...
Holy shit is that still at Eaton centre now?!
I know what I'm doing this afternoon! :3
Bruh on importe vraiment des tranches de gâteau du New Jersey?
I was in Vegas last week and there was one outside my hotel. Feels so weird to see it here too.
I love this vending machine so good! I never got to try the cookies though ☹️ I don’t live nearby anymore ☹️☹️☹️
a lot of Funky tuff going on at Eaton's over the years. There was that infamous restaurant with a Marine theme; and on another floor; a train
When I watched cake boss on tv I always thought he was mainly a cake decorator. His cake flavours don’t really appeal to me. They aren’t as exotic as something you would get from French pastry or even from a cupcake at Les Glaceurs.
there’s one of these taking up an entire unit at bayshore in ottawa aswell
Where in the center? That red velvet at the bottom looks too good
Wow j'aime tellement les couleurs!
Wow! They both look amazing!
Wow ! Merci de partager c’est vrmt cool!
Ça ressemble à "fuck, il y a une tempête de neige, mon téléphone est mort, j'ai fucking froid, je vois rien,  il est où le putain de restaurant?"
Mannn c'est fou!
La 2e on dirait l'avenue McGill College vu de Place Ville Marie mais version futur cyber-punk.
I love how these turned out! Very suiting to MTL actually, I want them on my wall. Tres cool.
Damnnnnn this is so cool, beautiful really
Excellent
Oh shit, Wombo a crée un app comme Artbreeder? Faut que je l'check.
Très cool, ça me parle à un niveau près du coeur.
Cooool. En plus c'est deux thèmes que j'adore.
Sheeeeeesh cest vraiment cool
Fantastic, Bravo
Needs more traffic cones
Transfer AI?
That is so cool.  i would love to get a horizontal wallpaper of these without the framing and text.
WOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOW
Très beau résultat
goddamn you people are easy
Beautiful
>In a blistering decision released last week, the panel chastised officer Michael Boutin for knocking the man’s Samsung phone out of his hand and then getting him to unlock it so that he could erase the footage.
Let me understand: The "blistering" decision was that the cop was "chastised"? WTF does that even mean. It's time we dipped into the SPVM's hockey fan teargas budget and used the money to stick cameras on these fkn clowns 🤡
What punishment did the cop receive? How is the most important detail in this article not mentioned?
Yet theres no systemic racism eh Legault?!
Man fuck this shit
Il faudrait que ça soit un crime pour les policiers d’effacer un vidéo d’un téléphone qui leur appartient pas.
But the cop talk the truth /s
>WTF does that even mean.
probably something along the lines of: "Aww, you poor, poor, little policeman. You must have been so scared for your life seeing that mean man in his big mean SUV trying to film you like that. No wonder you got upset. Let's give you some paid vacation until all these mean people forget about your little mistake and leave you alone. Get lots of rest baby, and you'll be back to full power-tripping in no time."
A paid vacation most likely. 
Said he was chastised and only mentioned:
> full and complete cooperation in the application of sanctions when determined
Means the jury is still out on his inevitable slap on the wrist. They'll wait until the attention has died down before deciding I'm sure.
Pour ça, il faudrait qu'il y aurait des réelles conséquences pour eux de le faire. Mais ce n'est pas bon pour le système 😉
Alors, je sais que je vais me faire downvote pour ça, mais cet article est boboche en criss... Première image qui ne me semble pas être à Montréal (on dirait la rive sud, mais peut-être que je me trompe) ensuite, parler du viaduc Van- Horne et mettre une photo du mur légal de Rouen (ça crée un faux sentiment de vandalisme et créé du sensationnalisme), pi après mettre des photos des commerces laissés à l'abandon au centre-ville et nous faire croire que les gens ont peur... Mais pourtant ils aiment bien prendre leurs vacances à Paris, ou Barcelone alors qu'il y a un phénomène de graffiti beaucoup plus présent dans ces villes (ce qui n'enlève rien à leur attrait touristique).
De plus, les commerces abandonnés vont probablement se transformer en condos inabordables pour la population locale, so je peux comprendre le ras-le-bol de certains jeunes.
« Le fléau des graffitis » oh boy y’ont pas les priorités à la bonne place. Imaginez se sentir menacés par des tags, surtout que Montréal est connu pour ses murales et son art de rue.
Je suis d'accord avec toi. Ça fait très "pearl-clutching" comme article.
Le seul bon point que j'ai pu en tirer est qu'il y a beaucoup d'espaces commerciaux vacants qui se font tagger. Si des boutiques venaient à s'y installer, cette partie du problème s'arrangerait toute seule.
J'aime d'ailleurs comment ils disent aussi (je paraphrase) "On n'a pas de statistiques mais il y a une explosion du nombre de graffitis!!!"
Et son graff de niveau internationnal.
Petit typo sur le mot demander : demadner
Quand j'étais petit, j'avais ecouté un documentaire sur les séquoias et je pensais que l'antenne était un séquoia sur le mont
Intéressante lecture! Merci du partage
Probablement pas la eule faute, mais c'est ocrrigé, merci.
Next up, I'll likely do the Old Port or downtown.
For some reason, I love walking downtown during Christmas time, as long as there's a little snow.
not again... hopefully wont last two weeks this time.
&#x200B;
Thanks for posting, I would have missed the announcement
Thanks
Bizarre je suis abonner aux notifications de la ville et j'ai rien reçu, heureusement que je l'ai vu ici. Quelqu'un à reçu la notification?
Beaconsfield somehow dodged a bullet?
that map seems useless
### Water Boil Advisory Has Been Lifted
https://montreal.ca/en/notices-and-alerts
https://montreal.ca/en/alerts/preventive-boilwater-advisory-pierrefondsroxboro-pointeclaire-dollarddesormeaux-kirkland-ilebizardsaintegenevieve-baie-durfe-20211127235247?fbclid=IwAR39lQ5BnouUDB0Jhbmnrsat2bL42mKd2TcFkXQOTIIJ6V6tlsVm0pZ0Ocs
Not sure if your are In Pierrefonds, but it did indeed suck when it lasted so long last time.
Oui je l'ai reçu.
Beaconsfield gets its water from the treatment plant in Pointe-Claire village, and that southern sector of Pointe-Claire is also outside the affected area.
Doesn't seem to be on the list:
https://www.pointe-claire.ca/en/news/boil-water-advisory-in-effect-as-of-november-27-2021-in-the-west-island/
Nor the map, if you click through a bit.
'Le Labyrinthe'  au vieux port avais un theme d'eau vers la fin des annees 90
Si je me trompe pas, c'etait en face du Centre Eaton. C'avait pris la place du Palace (ciné avec des film a 2.50$). Tu pouvais entrer par la rue Cathcart.
Je me rappelle pas du nom. Désolé!
Sur Saint Catherine Metaphoria
Tu parles d'un parc aquatique?
Tu ne penses pas au Fort Angrignon par hasard? Un centre d'amusement, il y avait des jeux d'eau entre autres.
Le Cache-A-L'Eau à Boucherville?
Ce n'étais pas dans le vieux-port. Je suis pas sûr que c'était au centre-ville, où dans les environs
En plein ça!
Non, pas de mémoire. C'était downtown et il y avait des arcades et des trucs du genre.
Centre Métaforia? Oceania?
Oui ta question a été déjà demandé ici. Malheureusement je ne rappelle plus le nom mais fais un cherche ici et c'est sûr que tu vas le trouver.
Drette ça et effectivement l'entrée était sur le côté.
C’était pas dans le building où y a un Five Guys aujourd’hui qui a passé au feu?
Je m'ennui de Mirabel.
J'ai eu la chance de décoller et atterrir à Mirabel le mois dernier en 737 nolisé. On doit pas être grands milléniaux sur la liste puisque le dernier vol commercial avec passagers date de 2004!
Mirabel, c’était l’équivalent dans les années ’70 du 3e lien de la CAQ. S’il y en a aujourd’hui qui ont la nostalgie de cet éléphant blanc il y en a qui se souviennent avec amertume que les Libéraux de Trudeau père ont exproprié pour le construire les meilleures terres arables du Québec. Et prendre un autobus pour se rendre à l’avion plutôt qu’une passerelle, ça faisait Tiers Monde.
Check this bizarre-o relic of the parking structure:
https://www.google.com/maps/@45.6842307,-74.0301282,3a,75y,194.53h,97.7t/data=!3m6!1e1!3m4!1st_qR--MCu9qk0gQUx5JB_w!2e0!7i13312!8i6656
Moi aussi. Quand j'étais petite et que je venais rendre visite à la famille ici avec ma mère, on atterrissait toujours à Mirabel. Pour moi qui venait de la campagne où il se passait rien de septembre à mai, quitter mon bled pour venir passer les fêtes à Montréal, c'était magique.
Le moment où on arrivait dans la zone des douanes et où t'essayais de spotter ta gang parmi tous les gens qui envoyaient la main sur la plate-forme au niveau supérieur, c'était toujours très spécial. 
C'est con, mais j'ai eu beaucoup de peine à l'annonce que le terminal serait détruit. J'y suis allée un après-midi avant le début du démantèlement du terminal. On avait peu d'espoir d'être capables d'y entrer, mais juste pouvoir regarder à l'intérieur par les baies vitrées m'aurait fait plaisir. Malheureusement, la démolition du parking devant le terminal nous en coupait l'accès.
C'était quand même très surréaliste comme expérience, de se tenir au milieu de cet immense parking désert et d'y écouter le vent hurler.
RIP Mirabel.
ETA: S'il y en a que ça intéresse, la série "Les Grands Projets Québécois" (me semble que c'est comme ça que ça s'appelle) a un épisode de 45 minutes (en français) sur Mirabel. Il est disponible gratuitement sur YouTube, et il est vraiment excellent. Je le recommande fortement.
Me too.  Was like going somewhere real special.
C'est le terminal qui faisait la place.
Je ne suis pas vraiment d’accord, mirabel est un aeroport beaucoup mieux construit que montreal trudeau en terme d’efficacité, d’attenuation de pollution sonore et d’espace. Il y avait des projets d’autoroutes et de metro jusqu’à l’aeroport, qui n’ont finalement jamais ete construit par le provincial (alors que comme vous soulignez les aeroports sont feredaux) pour quelque raison… dommage, aujourd’hui ADM exploite trudeau pour le commercial et mirabel le cargo ainsi que le développement aéronautique.
Ouep je l'ai admiré tout les weekends en montant au chalet
> en août dernier, l’accusé s’est retrouvé mêlé à une autre histoire d’arme à feu à Laval. Alors que Thomas Makdessi était passager d’un Range Rover, le conducteur, **Zakaria Zaki Rouaghi**, a été arrêté avec un pistolet Glock 19 chargé qui se trouvait dans sa sacoche, selon le jugement.
Zakaria Zaki Rouaghi était jusqu'en mai 2021 membre du Conseil jeunesse de l'Arrondissement de Montréal-Nord. 
https://www.lapresse.ca/actualites/grand-montreal/2021-05-20/propos-haineux/montreal-nord-demet-le-president-de-son-conseil-jeunesse.php
>Au cours des derniers jours, Instagram a supprimé l’un de ses billets pour violation de sa politique entourant le discours haineux. La publication invitait les membres de la communauté musulmane à une contre-manifestation, dimanche dernier, pour dénoncer des manifestants pro-Israël, qu’il a qualifiés de « criminels sionistes qui occupent la Palestine ».
>Dans d’autres vidéos publiées sur Instagram, il traite une agente de la Sûreté du Québec de « p’tite madame stressée » et l’ensemble des policiers de « cochons ».
>En avril, il a aussi mis en ligne des vidéos dans lesquelles il se targue d’avoir reçu, avec des amis, pour 6000 $ d’amende pour violation du couvre-feu imposé dans le cadre de la crise sanitaire et affirme qu’il va « mettre toute la police de Montréal sur la CSST ».
>Il s’est aussi filmé, au début de mai, en train d’invectiver des employés d’un magasin à grande surface après qu’un agent de sécurité lui eut demandé de remettre son couvre-visage. Dans la vidéo, M. Rouaghi refuse d’obtempérer, affirmant avoir une « condition médicale », qualifie les caissières de « p’tites filles » et menace le magasin de poursuite judiciaire pour violation de ses droits fondamentaux.
Un charmant personnage!
Quand ta masculinité est si fragile qu'un seul commentaire sur ta sacoche déclenche une chaîne d'événements qui t'emmènent en prison. Ouf.
"Ça va être une sacoche Gucci"
*clique*
"Sur sa sacoche Gucci"
Jsuis trop fort.
r/ImTheMainCharacter/
it's not a man purse, it's a satchel
Crissez moi ça dans un trou
Ya tiré sur 4 dudes pi yen a pas pogné 1? Pas pire champion.
À la lueur de l'article et des fréquentations du monsieur, c'est un ordure, j'espère qu'il va être en prison très longtemps.
Sa sacoche a pété sa coche.
>Les policiers ont aussi découvert 30 000 $ en argent comptant, deux caissons pour entreposer des armes de poing, une boîte de munitions et des dizaines de pièces d’identité. Une saisie qui suscite « de sérieux questionnements » sur le mode de vie de l’accusé, conclut la juge.
«De sérieux questionnements»?????? Ostie là, madame la juge, qu'est-ce qu'il te faut, là???
Apres "Godasse" chez les Hells, voici "Sacoche" le caïd du Banana Republic
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dIhFU8JG\_j0
Sacrez-moi ça en taule. 
Je suis pro-gun mais c'est pas des jouets sacrament !
Wow, c'est un ami de famille/ami d'enfance à moi. Oui il est clairement dangereux mais c'est pas la prison qui va changer ça. Cet homme a passé sa vie de façon marginalisée, on se moquait souvent de lui, ses parents ont eu leur petit lot de problèmes, et il a trouvé le confort dans la drogue et ensuite le crime.
C'est cliché mais il a sérieusement besoin d'aide.
Les fameux influenceurs de Montréal-Nord qui nous font la leçon. 😂
Quand les gens en 2021 comprennent pas encore qu’un homme peut avoir une sacoche…
It’s European!
It’s a fanny pack.
"2 ans de probation, c'est le mieux qu'on peut faire"
Bin mieux davoir la peine maximale
De mémoire, cette station a été annoncée bien après le REM au complet et ne faisait pas partie des premiers plans.
Nope. La construction est en cours mais la station ne sera pas prête avant 2023.
Il me semble que sur le plan original la station était supposée être sous le bassin Peel à côté de l'hypothétique futur stade de baseball, et qu'ils l'ont changé l'an passé quand ils ont réalisé que le projet de stade était DOA
J'ai vérifié et la station n'était pas dans les 24 annoncée au départ mais était parmi les stations potentielles : https://www.lesaffaires.com/uploads/images/original/a1222de71de664b67c5e27bc27de1af4.jpg
Tu peux suivre la construction ici:   
https://forum.agoramtl.com/t/station-griffintown-bernard-landry/216/25
They changed the plan from a tunnel to a bridge pretty early. They've been working on the new Lachine Canal viaduct since 2018.
That necessitated a station north of the canal for Griffintown rather than the underground/underwater station serving both sides of the canal. There is still the possibility of a future station around Bridge street, which could serve a stadium and/or residential development south of the Peel basin.
If you are having a meltdown, maybe you should focus on getting help before even thinking of getting rid of your things.
Renaissance? There's tons of them, but your transport issue remains.
I can help either with transport or a friendly shoulder.
Post in local groups for free with a note saying no reservations. I do that in local parenting groups all the time and things go fast. You clear stuff out without needing a car and people get things they need for free. Win win.
To get help for your meltdown situation, you can always call **Info-Santé** at **8-1-1**. You select the option for "Info-Social", there will be an option for "crisis situations", you press the corresponding key and can speak with a social worker live.
There is also **Espace Mieux-Être Canada**, at **1-888-417-2074**. It's in English, French (and even some Indigenous languages). **Press 9 for English**. You can speak with a licensed social worker or psychoeducator live as well.
**Both are free, confidential and open 24/7.**
Let me know if you have any questions! Take care.
I put mine up on Facebook Marketplace for free and got someone to come within a couple hours.
ETA: You need to be VERY clear that they need to take everything, you'll have people asking to just take a few things or wanting to come sort through it.
You can give your stuff to the Centre jeunesse near you. They do a kit for every kid who leaves the CJ at 18 to go to their first apartment so you can donate everything you don't need anymore. From clothes, bed sheets and curtains, to your old toaster and kitchen utensils. Not sure how far you're willing to go to donate your stuff, but the nearest from you seems to be in Verdun on rue de L'Église.
I have room at home, if you can get an Uber to Rosemont, I can keep your stuff for a while.  
I don't understand why this is downvoted lol. Probably best for her to keep the stuff and sort through it once she's done melting down. But if it gets donated, I don't mind LOL.
You sure you're not within walking distance of a second hand drop off? No idea where you live, but there are a lot of them around.
Chez Doris or Resilience Montreal
Forget your bags and get some help? https://santemontreal.qc.ca/population/services/besoin-daide-ou-situation-de-crise-centres-de-crise/
Get in touch with these fine people, they need such stuff and have a vehicle to pick it up:
https://www.welcomecollective.org/
Maybe I could come pick it up. How much of it is there?
Hey, are you planning to donate them? If so, some OBNL pick up donations like
https://gfgsmtl.qc.ca/en/donate-clothes/home-pick-up/
Or write at this fb group asking people to volunteer picking up stuff at your place and drop it at the NGO
https://www.facebook.com/groups/1005041203222884/?ref=share
If you are not in a hurry to give them away, le support does home pick up. Even if they say due to covid, they do not, they do.
Is the woman still alive ? Why she didn’t take her stuff with her ?
facebook groups : VTCT veux tu ça toi - Montreal  
discord for montreal : https://discord.gg/9MmkDac9  
kijiji / craigslist  
goodluck
I had never heard of them until now but Welcome Collective accept donations and will pick them up if you have large items or a large quantity of small items.
Could be worth looking into : https://www.welcomecollective.org/en/donate
Well this is a cry for help.
Just a shot in the dark here, but if you were living with a female at this property, and she is still on the lease you can be held responsible for getting rid of everything. Sometimes the crazy is worth the risk. Just wanted you to know. If it's not much stuff you can rent a storage locker, pay a month forward then let said person know where their belongings are and how long they have to pick them up.
Vidéo en francais disponible ici : https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KyoGppTe2lY
Ce projet, de même que le nouveau pont Champlain, démontre que Montréal est capable de travaux publics très impressionnants.
Y a un gros pénis à côté du gars à [2:27](https://youtu.be/KyoGppTe2lY?t=147)
Je suis sûr que y'a du monde qui vont chialer parce qu'on met le ROC en valeur alors qu'on est au Québec /s
Après ça ils disent ne pas pouvoir creuser pour éviter de défigurer Sherbrooke Est qui est également dans le roc 🤷
Ça ressemble à une interminable introduction de jeu vidéo. Pire que celle de Half-Life.
An English video will also be released on Sunday.
So yeah, it's a bigass hole.
English Video available here : https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c9h7vbvZpo4
Le REM est mené par une société privée
Chu un peu ootl mais messemble que j’entends pas à moitié autant d’allégations de corruption/collusion, ou de retards et surfrais majeurs que sous l’époque Tremblay/Charest
Great catch
Here I thought the most impressive aspects were cutting down transit times from U de M to downtown, but that's even better
Je pense qu'ils ont dit que un des problèmes c'est les infrastructures souterrains qui empeche les travaux. Plus de détailes ici : https://www.cdpqinfra.com/fr/actualites/communiques/questions-frequentes-sur-linsertion-en-souterrain-du-rem-de-lest
UPAC, AMP, SCT, VGQ, BIG... Etc.
Disons que ya beaucoup de yeux quand on fait des contrats publics
Le rem a deja son lot de surfrais
Ça va venir
C’est plus facile sous le mont royal, pas d’égout et de lignes haute tension
Ça ne parle que du centre-ville ce lien, et justement ils ont changé d'idée pour le bout sur René-lévesque après avoir dit que ce n'était pas possible.  En espérant que la même chose arrive sur Sherbrooke Est mais j'en doute puisque la machine de PR est bien engagée présentement.
Sherbrooke Est et Edouard-Montpetit c'est pas mal du pareil au même.. bâtiments proches (plus proches sur E-M), ligne de métro proche, conduite d'eau/égouts centenaires etc.. quand on creuse dans du roc bien en dessous, c'est possible.
Most of these grocery stores are selling AA quality for AAA prices. They max the shelf time as long as possible to minimize losses. 
Most of the time people dont bother with the hassle of going back for a refund. Probably why Costco is packed 7 days a  week now ; rarely their fresh produce sucks.
Yes. Berries, grapes and tomatoes, theres always a few moldy one
Clementines too. At least one per box.
Used to be a fruit manager for most of my career.
This is a consequence of supply issues greatly exasturbated by a lack of manpower.
There is not enough employees and the ones that work are less motivated. Also not having enough staff usually translates in no time to do trainings which impacts the quality of the product.
All the products you have mentionned have to be verified daily and when placed on the shelf, but when you're missing staff, departments turn on pack mode when your only focus is putting stock on the shelf without any quality control.
Also in the recent years the higher management only cares about efficiency, by constantly reducing budgets of manhours.
no supply, no stock boys, and it's winter.
If you buy from Costco, look at the packaged and or picked up date on the big boxes. I wanted to buy clementines on Monday(Nov 21), on the box it was saying packaged on Nov 6 , I gave up and bought some apples instead.
At provigo or others, depending on the packaging, you might find the info.
And yes I have noticed more and more in bad shape veggies / fruits, but this is all related to the container crisis combined with the lack of labour, happy 2021!
Les céleris chez Maxi étaient répugnants, une vraie honte de proposer ça aux clients, à 4$!
You know you can return it to the store?
Welcome to supply issues.
Ne jamais oublier que ce travail est fait par des étudiants au salaire minimum qui n'en ont rien à foutre.
Just had to throw out 2 new containers of blueberries... I mean, groceries are already a big chunk of the budget, if everything  fresh spoils In 2 days...
Yeah, worse than I've ever seen it. Supply chains are still fucked I guess?
IGA dans mon coin la viande y doivent la reemballer jusqu'à temps que ca soot insoutenable. Je ne sais pas combien de fois j'ai acheté du poulet (pilon, haut de cuisse ou cuisse) ou du porc (pork chop, ou saucisse maison ou epuale de porc) pis 24 à 48 heures plus tard c'était rancis et avait une odeur de pas frais. Alors j'ai du jetter la viande. C'est la que tu te dis c'est pas pour rien que le prix avait de l'allure, c'était de la viande border passé date.
Your first mistake is paying full price for stuff. I don’t buy any fruit that’s not on sale, otherwise they’re not moving enough product quickly enough for it to still be fresh. 
I only buy grapes, strawberries, cherries and raspberries when they’re on sale. Otherwise they’re nasty. Even still sometimes they’re gross, but at least it’s not guaranteed. I never buy fresh blueberries. I’ve not once ever had palatable blueberries from a grocery store. 
Peel-on fruit you’re usually ok to buy when it’s not on the front page of the circulaire. Oranges are still a gamble on whether or not they’ll be mealy and dry or juicy and tasty but the other stuff is pretty consistent.
Look out for local fruiteries, in my exp it’s much better vs big chains
Don’t you chose your own produce?
Lots of news recently about supply chain problems and delays in shipment, likely making produce take longer to get to you.   Buy frozen when you can.
Twice now I’ve bought bell peppers that look completely perfect on the outside and then when I go to cut them open they have black mold all on the inside 🥸
As the winter months arrive, the produce is going to come from further away.  Combine that with the entire world experiencing logistical slowdowns, the goods will be less fresh.
The worst offenders I have seen lately have been romaine lettuce heads and strawberries.  It is hard to find really nice ones lately.
Another reason might be your grocer doing a poor job of storing the produce or the hour you go shopping.  You may be sifting through scraps.
Nope.
Ca depend vraiment des épiceries. Dans mon coin, pas vraiment de problème. Le Métro a coté   de la place Jean-Talon, j'ai vu des truc moisi jusque dans la section surgelée, c'est pour vous dire...
Thank you! I love your posts!
So there is nothing to worry about. Nice! I can put my plastic in the brown bin this week. Thanks
What happened in 1888?
Records are meant to be broken
another 5 months until I have to pick up dog poo!
edit: a lot of people are down voting missing the joke and not realizing I dont own a dog
It snowed a week ago.
My post is just information.  You get to choose what you deem worthy of worrying.  This year's first measurable snowfall was unusually late.  If that does not matter to you, then go about your day.
Lmao first snow of the year 15 cm
Indian winter?
After living in the plateau, I understand! I found your joke funny. It's true that a lot of people slack in picking up their dogs poo in the winter and when spring comes, it's a minefield.
Sure, which is why I put the word "measurable" there.  This was the first time the airport recorded at least 0.1cm of snow.
Edit: I originally wrote "at least 1cm of snow", but I really should have written "0.1cm".
Thank you weather man very useful
If they only start measuring at 1cm, isn’t it kind of pointless to compare it to older data under 1cm? Because it has definitely snowed at least 0.2cm before today.
They start measuring at 0.1cm, and this is the first day this season when the airport recorded at least 0.1cm of snow. (I corrected my comment above ... I meant to say 0.1cm).
The last day the airport recorded 0.1cm of snow was April 21st.
Oh ok, thx for the clarification!
Lol that interview is a great example of so many idiots in the lifelong restaurant scene. 
Imagine bragging to the new Yorker that you punch people at your burger place. 
These kinds of people are so annoying.
Nice. Fuck that guy
Entrrevue a Radio-Canada: https://youtu.be/rs_0ioroYcU
Pretty depressing. I didn't follow him much and I wasn't a fan of his restaurants (a little out of my range) but what he's saying in the interview is sad but true for much of the resto industry. He's talking about not just losing the hard labour but also losing the "brain trust". This is the hard earned restaurant experience and know-how. Having experienced employees who know how to run the ship are worth gold and now they're gone. Plus the rising rents making running a restaurant a barely profitable venture.
The pandemic has exposed issues with wages, skills, gentrification, high rents etc. The resto  industry is pretty fucked now and I'm afraid the future will be more fast food with quality dining being way too expensive and unattainable for most.
Like him or not, he was the face of the biggest culinary institution in the city. End of an era.
c'est du réchauffé comme news
This guy is and always has been a tool.
He’s really annoying but has a great publicist!
That New Yorker interview and every one since read like cries for help. I hope he gets the help he needs.
Yeah trying to make people happy with amazing food and trying to run a business that employs people and treats them fairly.
Fuck that guy!
Just curious, I know the guy is an anglo but his french sounds perfect to me. Is there a hint of an anglo accent? 
Just asking because I hope to get my accent that good one day:)
Hey, they could have kept the brains by not sexual harassing staff, making it a cesspool for addicts, yelling and belittling people and oh yeah: PAYING THEM A FUCKING LIVABLE WAGE.
I had to go to strippers with my bosses. I had to be sexual harassed and I had to watch as their business moved into Costco and got another revenue stream. I had to watch them write checks to their sons and the Mercedes Benz they drove was written off as a busines expense.
But hey I was just a waitress. And my wages were subsidized by the clients. Wtf do I know?
Good fucking riddance! So done with that environment. left it 10 years ago and.....
I'm never goin' back again! *Cue Fleetwood Mac*
Joe beef is still the absolute worst "high end" restaurant I've been to in this city. Food, service, ambiance, all terrible. Had to move the fucking table to stand up and bother both neighbors. The place is a joke
Coulda sworn that's La Banquise, Ma Poule Mouillee, Schwartz, or one the Mile End bagel makers.
Half-kidding aside, Joe Beef et al (& Pied Du Cochon) think rich, heavy food = better. Overrated. For real, classic fine dining that won't send you running to a bathroom, try something like L'Express or Il Cortile, or the ITHQ restaurant for quebecois fare.
Normand Laprise aimerait te piquer une jasette.
screaming at and punching your staff is an interesting idea of treating them fairly
>McMillan admits to getting violent, saying, “Joe Beef is the nicest restaurant I’ve ever worked at. But have I screamed at people? Yes, I have. Have I punched people? Fucking yeah.
you're probably right though. everyone's mad at him for being too nice
A fraction of a hint if you pay attention, but yeah, his French is pretty much perfect.  He sounds like he learned French by speaking with native speakers his whole life, not by taking classes.
Try vin papillon. Much lower impact and much more veg
He also could've sent an employee to hospital by making him drink raw chicken blood. He thought it was a big joke.
I am going by the words of actual employees.
He’s a passionate person who has made mistakes but the vast overwhelming majority of the time he’s a wonderful chef and owner
Un des bon spots est le coin Ontario/pie-ix: un village des valeurs côté est et un renaissance côté ouest. En plus, si tu marches un peu vers l'ouest sur Ontario il y a un armée du Salut. 
Tu vas clairement trouvé quelque chose que tu aimes entre ces trois spots là
Estate sales : - I think Rhonda Bly has more clothing, but I'll let you judge.
[http://traceyabbeytaylor.blogspot.com/](http://traceyabbeytaylor.blogspot.com/) 
[https://www.rondably.com/](https://www.rondably.com/)
There's a place called "The Little Shop" near Acadie metro. When I went I found they didn't really have much men's clothing, but they've got a lot of vintage women's clothing.
Thank you! I haven’t seen the Tracey Blog before so i’m excited. I missed the last estate sale by Rhonda, I wish they did more of them.
Ça va donc devenir seulement un immense centre d'achat avec aucune mixité d'utilisation qui va favoriser encore plus le déplacement en voiture? Ça me semble très rétrograde comme idée. Non ?
Mont-Royal ré-affirme son statut de  parasite urbain. Les condos étaient ce qui rendaient ce projet décent.
Il faut lire le reste de l'article, il veut garder la clôture/haie, il pense à inverser des flux de circulation pour empêcher encore plus les non résidents de traverser son oasis de riche (dont les rues sont déjà conçues pour décourager le transit), il ne pense qu'à profiter de la localisation enviable de VMR sans contribuer à la ville qui l'entoure.
Honestly, this is one that I cannot understand at all.
What do the NIMBY mayors of Pointe-Claire and TMR think is going to happen to the malls that are desperately trying to build housing on their properties to have a captive patronage so that they can sustain themselves in a 21st century economy. Malls are just not that attractive anymore. Fairview, Royalmount and Rockland are all going to struggle if they don't get their housing plans acted on.
This project was the most mixed use possible, right next to rapid transit. 3000 condos in this context would have next to no impact relative to the mall being built. Removing the housing component makes absolutely no sense to me. They took an easy chance to build a really good housing, commercial and transit set up, and just squandered it because of *Traffic is bad there!**^(TM)*
Lol. "Faut augmenter la densité" qu'ils disent. "Construisez des logements proche des stations de métro" qu'ils disent. Et la un tata bloque 3000+ logements a coté d'une station de métro et les *mêmes* applaudissent.
Well, la nouvelle a probablement fait monter la valeur de ma maison, merci.
No this is not great news.
There were only two possible futures for royal mount at this time.
One is as a glorified Marché centrale (pure commercial and office) and the other was  more like dix30. Dense commercial and office with dense résidential mixed in. 
 Neither is great. But some residential would limit the amount of cars coming in slightly. It would also promote some more small scale local business. 
If it's fully non résidentiel... Ouf it's gonna create a ton of congestion. 
My last hope is that they don't provide much free parking. The only way we can control the volume of cars is by having paid parking.
Les maudits NIMBYs qui empêchent la construction autour des métros sont la cause à la fois des problèmes de transport et de la pollution causée par les voitures. Il y a de la place en masse à montréal pour que tout le monde qui le veuillent puisse vivre sans auto.
Ville Mont-Royal devrait être dissoute.
>Selon lui, les Monterois ne veulent pas de la partie résidentielle de ce  
 mégaprojet, en raison de la pression que ces nouveaux résidants   
exerceraient sur les services et les infrastructures municipales,   
notamment sur la circulation automobile déjà extrêmement pénible aux   
heures de pointe.
Quand même drole qu'il utilise le même argument pour tuer la partie résidentielle du projet que ceux qui trouvent que c'est justement important d'avoir du monde qui vivent là pour réduire les besoins d'avoir des voitures.
Faut croire que le concept de mixité a l'air vraiment difficile a Montréal. Déjà que le projet était pas fameux, si ça fait juste devenir un gros centre d'achat avec des bureaux, ils sont aussi bien de tuer le projet tout de suite avant que ça devienne un gros échec.
Un esti de shit show ce projet la.
La crise du logement? Maudit boomer arriéré
So, what will happen when TMR's residents have kids and they need a place to live?  The kids will go somewhere less well off, gentrify that area, and kick lower-income people out.  Or they will be pushed out to far-flung suburbs, increasing car usage and traffic.
> C’est un peu plate, a-t-il dit à La Presse. Évidemment, ce n’est pas ce qu’on aurait désiré. Je comprends, le maire est nouveau en politique. C’est un projet d’envergure incroyable. C’est normal qu’il veuille le comprendre comme il faut. On ne sait jamais, peut-être qu’ils ont de bons points, des idées auxquelles on n’aurait pas pensé.
As I was reading the response of the Royalmount project CEO, I was imagining him preparing a briefcase full of "gifts" for the new mayor 😂
Je vote pour lever un siège de Mont-Royal. On coupe litérallement toutes les routes vers et de TMR jusqu'a ce que le nombrilisme arrête.
Est-ce que Montreal a meme besoin d'un autre gros centre d'achat de ce type? Qui a demander ce projet? les citoyens? Pffft. je doute.
Gardez les centres d'achats de ce genre a l'exterieur de l'ile... et garder l'ile pour des marcher plus locaux,  plus pietoniers, favoriser des environnements plus "relax" pas avec 1000 autos qui se battent pour du parking. Faciliter les pietons et cyclistes a se deplacer, avec des carrees verts et commerces/resto/cafe pour creer une vie qui va persister les weekend apres 5pm. Pense que ca a mon avis personnel (bon je suis qui..) pas mal plus interessant qu'un gros competiteur a 10/30 dans la pire emplacement possible a Montreal.
Et je dis toute ca en tant qu'un mec qui habite hors de l'ile depuis plusieurs annees. Ce projet je ne le comprends pas..
He doesn’t want to have a afflux of new younger less-wealthy condo dwelling residents that would change the politics of TMR.
Why does TMR own/manage territory it only touches on one corner anyway???
Been calling this since the beginning.  Anyone who knows where royalmount is, knows this was a bullshit project from the start.
The only surprise was I was sure the condos were going to go up anyway, but the theatre, restaurants and mall were not.  This was ill conceived from the start.
>Living in the sprawl,   
>  
>Dead shopping malls rise like mountains beyond mountains  
>  
>And there's no end in sight  
\- [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rH\_7\_XRfTMs](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rH_7_XRfTMs)
Ok so he doesn't want the revenue from the extra property taxes these new condos would generate?
I think Maybe Peter Malouf might have a substantial stake in Dollarama ( married the daughter of the Cofounder,
If it's the same Peter malouf born in 1952 ).
Then going for mayor is to help assure he keeps his taxes low through Dollarama whose warehouse resides in that area.
That's really unfortunate, but I can't feel TOO sorry. They had access to free immunization and chose to infect others. I feel sorry for those left behind, even if I think they're idiots.
GET VACCINATED!!!
Encore des délires religieux à la fin...
Don't you just love it when nature takes over their little lives and how they now say they feel stupid...
People in 3rd world countries fight to get a vaccine. Here it is free and people come up with freedom and pro choice. Someone mentioned it above, just lack of education.
[deleted]
I hate to say it but it's typically low educated people who  are dull of bogus theories. I've seen it with the people around me, friends,  relatives, co workers, etc ... They all have one thing in common, high school education with maybe some minimal post secondary. 
These clowns were posting podcasts on Facebook this summer, you might still be able to find some but he took his Facebook page down.
No sympy for any of them
Oh well
I feel zero sympathy for these people.
Have no empathy if that suits you, but atleast pay attention to the science. 
You can still spread covid with or without the vaccine. 1 year long studies in england have proven that.
He was PLANNING on getting the vax SOON.
Yeah right. They clearly didn't care about anyone but their own selfish asses.
This article is written for a very specific set of people.
Unfortunately, not only... Even people with a university level education in the health sciences are falling prey to misinformation, fud, and populist manipulation...
Yes, you can. This was never in question. However, the risk is greatly reduced (almost 4 times more likely to catch the disease, almost 15 times more likely to end up in the hospital, for the unvaccinated, at the moment). This is a no brainer. Get vaccinated!
Source: https://beta.ctvnews.ca/local/montreal/2021/11/26/1_5683598.html
I am vaccinated, because if been forced. The government took my health routine away from me. I was no longer able to work out and do the things that make me healthy. I got covid, while un-unvaccinated and It wasnt that bad for me.
After im forced to get vaccinated when i allready have the anti-bodies?
The fact I wasnt able to work out at a gym, yet I could go by alcohol and weed, while not leaving my home shows how sick the whole situation is, no pun intended.
Bouhouhouhou poor you, the badevil government doesn't allow you to spread your germs like you want.
Im from Poland, living in Canada. You should never put all your trust in the Goverment, my family history taught me that. They are people, imperfect, insecure and motivated by things not always clear to us, whether it be money, clout or tribalism.. You should always question their motives.
12 month studies show the vaccine does not prevent spread after a awhile. And many epidemiology experts think we will all get covid eventually. We have to invest more on covid treatment rather than kicking in the wind with vaccines. 
Read the science, and come back when your ready to have a conversation. Act your age, are you 12 years old?
Even pfizer sponsored media companies agree with that science 
https://www.cnbc.com/2021/10/04/pfizer-covid-vaccine-protection-against-infection-tumbles-to-47percent-study-confirms.html
Eating healthy, working out and getting vitamin d is more effective than a vaccine.
Obviously do both if you're worried, ignoring the science and acting like a mrna vaccine is the end all solution is myopic.
And that's exactly why Eastern European countries are being ravaged. Their vaccine rates are abysmal and directly correlated to huge outbreaks and deaths. We are not a soviet bloc country here. Yes, question the government but there's a reason we have things under control as much as possible. Yes the vaccine wanes, we know that already.
I completely agree with that. Critical thinking is always important.
However, I also disagree with the view that governments are always out to get you and oppress you.
There are areas and decisions that benefit us and are so clearly for our and the common good that it blow my mind people are still against it on principle.
Universal healthcare, seat belts, privacy protection, fight against climate changes and endemic-level disease vaccinations are a few examples that spring to mind...
This page won't load. Tried on mobile and desktop.
It's back. The hosting was just a mega clusterfuck.
C'est la période des souper d'équipes de travail qui ont 2 ans de budget d'accumulé...
Va falloir être plus lousse sur tes restrictions un peu! À 10min du Quartier des Spectacles, tu te limites beaucoup d'options.
Chinatown!
Pour une version plus raffinée de la bouffe portugaise, essaie [Helena](https://restauranthelena.com/). Je sais qu’ils ont une salle privée et ils ont une bonne relation qualité/prix. Ça deviendra hors budget seulement si c’est un repas bien arrosé…
>~150pp
Hey big spender, geeze.
Restaurant Da Emma (777 de la Commune in Old Montreal) might be a good bet. Quality Italian food, and not all pasta-based. They start serving at 6:00, and will hit your budget, even with wine.
Bar à vin ça te va? Pullman par exemple?
J'aime beaucoup le St-Hubert BBQ du Complexe Desjardins, mais bon...
I see you put Toqué, and I know its little brother Brasserie T is closed, but has anything taken its place yet? It was one of the two container restaurants between the Place-des-Arts and Jeanne-Mance (on the quartier des spectacles).
I believe Kamúy is now the other container (don't quote me on that).
Everything that's been there was pretty damn decent, but it's a very small space. Good luck!
le taj is pretty good, not too far from quartier des spectacle
Brasserie?
Tiers Paysage
L'express
Maison publique
Montreal Plaza
Leméac
Jun-i
Joon
Maggie Oakes? Les Enfants Terribles?
Possibly overlooked restos are the ones inside hotels across downtown and Old Montreal. Do a Google maps search of hotels in that radius and look up the dining/restaurant options on their websites. Some good choices possibly in there.
Maybe you can suggest a deposit? They might be afraid you'll cancel on them.
Cadet?
Fish & Bone?
You could try H4C par Dany Bolduc , a little costly but near by and really good
Try Gentile Westmount or even their pizzeria right next door
Shay on ND in Little Burgundy, la Canting in Nordelec, Perles et Paddock, Bird Bar
Folle photo.
C'est ben hot comme photo, bien fait!
Une meilleure composition serait difficilement imaginable.
Beautiful! How long did it take to cross over? I assume it is without the use of your telescope.
Super belle photo. J'habite juste à côté!
I was like, "Trevor would really like this!"
Cool! Combien de temps d'exposition?
This is behind my house , sometimes during the summer people set fire to the inside and it makes oart of the neighborhood smell like old vagina
chemtrail innit
incredible image
Nice pic! As-tu utilisé gpredict pour savoir quand et où la ISS apparaitraît?
Magnifique
Ⓐ
Nice job man. C’est malade.
C'est super beau! As tu un tracker (site web ou app) pour savoir quand l'ISS passe au dessus de la ville?
Any chance you’ll make prints?
Love how the ISS trajectory and chimneys almost mirror the anarchy symbol - incredible composition
Merci!
Merci!
Cela demande de la pratique, mais après quelques fois cela devient beaucoup plus facile
J'ai un collègue plus âgé qui nous racontait plus tôt cette semaine:
"La semaine dernière, mon gars de 8 ans voulait se mettre du vernis à ongle. Moi, dans mon temps, je me serais fait battre pour ça, c'est 100% certain. [le reste du groupe entre 25 et 45 ans était pas mal d'accord avec son analyse] Mais là, il l'a fait puis après ça tous ses amis ont capotés quand ils ont vu ça, puis la tous ses amis de gars sont rendus avec du vernis de toutes les couleurs!"
Il fait de plus en plus froid ces temps-ci, mais j'ai toujours aussi chaud au cœur.
Bonne journée!
J'ai changé de job dernièrement et c'est fou comme je suis moins stressé, moins anxieux. Ma santé mentale va beaucoup mieux!
Chronique d'un enseignant au secondaire: Je trouve ça toujours particulier la récolte de denrées à l'école quand on est en milieu défavorisé pour les paniers de noël. Généralement, on accorde un privilège à ceux qui en apporte une certaine journée comme le droit de ne pas porter l'uniforme. Il y a pas mal des élèves qui vont recevoir les dits paniers chez eux dans les prochaines semaines. En même temps, je suis heureux qu'on sensibilise ceux qui ont plus de moyen à la réalité des gens qui sont dans le besoin. Parfois, certains jeunes pensent que la pauvreté ce sont seulement les assistés sociaux ou les gens dans la rue, j'avoue que les premières fois que j'ai été confronté à la réalité de la pauvreté autre qu'à la télé ou l'itinérance est quand mon père nous trainait comme bénévole lors des journées de paniers de noël du journal de Montréal. C'est un bon ''reality check''
je fais pas ça souvent, mais j'aime ça aller me chercher un café le matin; ça fait ma petite marche quotidienne.  
même quand il fait pas beau.
&#x200B;
(Juste bin hâte de pas avoir à mettre un masque, je commence à être tanné là)
Le vendredi, c'est ravioli.
J'ai entamé une diète dite "fasting". J'ai opté pour 16/8. J'ai également repris le gym. Pas facile tout ca. Mon objectif: perdre 30 lbs minimum.
Hey donc je suis enfin ENFIN arrivée à Montréal. Je dois passer un examen le 9 décembre donc je reste tranquille, je révise, mais je voudrais aussi sortir un peu si possible. Je connaissais déjà MTL toute petite, mais ça a changé depuis 1999…
Oh and I speak English as well, so all en/fr mixes are fine with me.
Café et bullshitting quelque part au centre-ville ?
Suis allé sur St-Hubert aujourd'hui pour chercher mes macarons à la pâtisserie. J'ai voulu en profiter pour manger un bol de Pho. 
Ai googlé Pho sur St-Hubert et ai trouvé une adresse pas trop loin de la pâtisserie.
Arrivé à l'adresse, pas de resto. Merde, ils ont fermé...
C'est là que j'ai lu sur la porte que j'étais chez M. Pho Nguyen, notaire.
Google avait pas tort.
Enfin la neige! Je sais que je suis la grosse minorité silencieuse mais j'ai hâte au froid, c'est juste pas normal aucune bordée rendu en decembre..
J'ai potentiellement une offre d'emploi dans Hochelag, ça me stresse un peu - mon lieu de travail serait a côté du site d'injection. Est-ce qu'il y en a parmi vous qui ont une expérience de travail/vie dans le quartier? Je me demande si j'entends surtout des stéréotypes en fait..
J'ai découvert les macarons au coconut de la pâtisserie du Rosaire sur St-Hub cette semaine.
On a fini la boîte en 5 minutes. J'en rêve depuis. Je retourne m'en chercher 2-3 boîtes.
Avez-vous des boutiques chouchou à Montréal? Vêtements, décor, nourriture... J'attends vos suggestions!
moi qui pensais ca allait etre de la neige... bon de la pluie
Je fête ma fête ce weekend. 33 ans. Avec famille et amis.
j’ai été porter mon cv cette semaine pour une job de nuit et je suis honnêtement fucking excitée face à ça
I do not wtf is this
C'est tellement plus sain que la masculinité ne soit plus (autant) basée sur uniquement des aspects externes.
ngl dans le first half je pensais que c'est la parent qui le battait et non pas les autres dans la cour :/
cool.  
ça va être le fun quand il va sniffer le stuff pour enlever le vernis à ongle !! :-D
Aww tellement wholesome, j'ai beaucoup d'espoir en cette génération! Byebye la masculinité toxique.
Je te comprends tellement. J'ai changé de job il y a quelques mois, et pour le premier fois de ma vie, j'adore ma job. Genre, des fois quand j'ai rien a faire, j'allume mon ordi puis je commence à travailler dans mon temps libre.
Bravo!
On oublie parfois qu'il n'y a pas une seule job qui vaut d'endommager notre santé mentale et/ou physique.
You ask for “divulgation de la preuve”. They must provide it before your court date
I don't have an answer to your question but I will say that if you're looking to contest a ticket, you better have overwhelming evidence that you're right. 
I had my car towed while it was legally parked. I had my ticket showing I was towed at 5:30am and picture/video that the sign where I parked said I was allowed to stay until 7:30am. Judge said my evidence was lacking and only dismissed the ticket because she didn't believe I'd lie under oath.
I can't say for your current situation, but to be ready for next time: get a dash cam.
Also, at first I thought you were talking about a motorcyclist. Although a bike is commonly used to describe both motorcycle and bicycle, biker usually means motorcyclist, so to avoid confusion, stick to cyclist.
As someone else said at "the divulgation de la preuve" you'll get the backing of the ticket. You ask about a recording, Montreal police cars do not have dashcams. Are you looking for something else?
I dont think so. I mean even if you could, whats to stop them saying it got erased or wtv. They dont need it to convict anyway as the police report will be more than enough for the judge
Buy a good dashcam tho bro, its gonna save you plenty of headaches down the line
What recording are you looking for? SPVM doesn’t use dash cams nor bodycams.
How much does it cost?
From my understanding, yes you can. The recordings are considered property of the people and are used for exactly this purpose; protecting citizens and officers. Just because it’s a road violation shouldn’t make it less important.
Mais rendu là, c'est la juge qui est straight up entrain de niaiser, non?
So you’re saying OP needs overwhelming evidence, but in your case the judge dismissed it based on her trusting your word.
About 120$, with -2 inaptitude points. I'm mostly worried about the points.
To me, it felt like a way to ensure I don't ask about consequences for the people that towed my car despite having no legal basis to do so. It put me in the "be grateful you won at all" state. 
This was years ago and I'm still annoyed at this event.
Evidence for thee, my word for me. The lesson? Hope to get a nice judge.
My issue is that the evidence was clearly in my favor and she just waived it away.
Tu peux négocier avec l'avocat de la couronne. Comme ça a été dit: divulgation de la preuve. 
Ensuite tu donnes ta version à l'avocat. Quand tu seras prêt. Bla, bla, bla, je croyais que le cycliste semblait me donner la priorité après environs 5 secondes d'attente, bla, bla, bla. Le policier ne pouvait pas voir étant donnée que (photo satellite google *ça prend des ''preuves''*, photos sur place si tu peux etc.) l'angle est impossible, bla, bla.
Tu vises 0$, mais disons qu'à 50$ sans point de démérite (c'est le plus important, pour les assurances par exemple), tu dis oui.
T'as pas besoin de te rendre sur place. 
Bref: contacter l'avocat, demander les faits, présenter des faits (photos, contrat, emails, google map), argumenter pour un doute raisonnable.
Ça devrait se régler sans aller en cour.
Not worth the time or money. Besides you'll get them back in a year.
Its probably just a tactic, I had a similar tone when the officer lied in his statement.
Doute raisonnable... très important! #12angrymen
Two years from the date of conviction. I’d contest based on principal to drag it out
Drag what out? The point refund happens two years after a guilty plea (meaning from the day you pay the fine). Dragging out doesn’t do much unless you already have like 14 points and these 2 points will get your license suspended… then you drag it out until you get some points refunded!
Salut frérot , regardes the simpsons, c’est drôle et ça va t’aider avec l’anglais 100% ! 
Vraiment la musique, les films et les shows... tout ça va vraiment t’aider. Crois moi! Donnes nous tes nouvelles dans un an.
My mom is from a small Greek village, learnt English all by herself. Radio Newspapers TV. She told me her trick was to speak English as much as she could . Lived here long time, my French is ok. No one ever laughed or made fun when i messed up or got stuck  People appreciate a genuine effort. If not fuck them. Taking classes is a great idea. Also a way of meeting new people. Good luck. Your willingness to learn makes me have no doubt that you will.
ça va se faire tout seul.
plus tu va lire en anglais et parler/écouter en anglais, plus ça va être facile.
&#x200B;
le plus drole, c'est que tu vas parler en anglais avec des gens qui ont le même niveau d'anglais que toi et que vous allez tous vous comprendre, et que le vrai anglo, va rien comprendre.
Ça tombe bien tu retournes aux études entoure toi de gens qui parlent anglais et y a rien de mieux que l'école pour trouver des nouveaux amis. J'ai aussi appris l'anglais en partie au travail donc quand d'il sera temps de prendre un stage ou essaye un mieux bilingue, si tu as la possibilité 
Je t'encourage à faire un de ses programmes qui incluent une bouse spécialement pour le bilinguisme et c'est [gratuit](https://francaisanglais.ca/programmes/). J'ai fait le programme Explore au cégep c'était une super belle expérience sur le niveau social et linguistique.
Ps. Par contre mon français écrit est toujours à chier 😅
Personnellement regarder des séries et des films en anglais avec des sous-titres anglais m'a aidé.
D'autres approches plus radicales mais plus efficaces :
Aller à une université anglophone, vivre dans un quartier anglophone, vivre en colocation avec des anglophones, travailler dans un milieu anglophone ... Avoir un/une conjoint(e) anglophone ...
lis, écoute des films ou des vidéos sur youtube en anglais avec les sous-titres, comme ça tu peux associer le son avec l’écriture du mot, pis si tu games, mets tes jeux en anglais
>Il y a un an j’ai décidé de faire un retour aux études, pour un bacc enfinance à l’UQAM. Je compte éventuellement pousser pour une maîtrise. Etje sais que le milieu de la finance exige une maîtrise quasi parfaitede la langue anglaise en plus du français. D’où le pourquoi du comment.
Pas tant que ça.  Tu dois le comprendre et être capable de le parler, mais c'est pas grave tu si fais quelques erreurs de structures, à moins de tomber sur quelqu'un de vraiment snob et cabochon. Pour ce qui est de l'anglais professionnel, ça se développe rapidement quand tu es dans ton emploi, le vocabulaire revient et  tu deviens confortable dans ton rôle.
J'ai aussi appris mon anglais sur le tas, j'ai grandi en région, donc c'était 0 nécessaire l'anglais, aujourd'hui je travaille en commerce international alors je voyage à l'étranger (quand y'a pas de pandémie)... J'ai appris rapidement que l'anglais est encore pire que le mien dans plusieurs entreprises d'envergure, dépendamment où tu vas! Le monde s'en fait pas vraiment, tant que tu puisses communiquer, rencontrer les besoins et prendre une bière avec eux :P
Salut! En plus des autres conseils déjà donnés (consommer de la culture dans cette langue, etc.), regarde si t'as l'option de prendre des cours d'anglais dans le cadre de ton programme. Il y a souvent des cours au choix ou des cours de type "English for business". Si c'est une option pour toi, une session d'échange dans une université dans un milieu anglophone va vraiment faire une énorme différence, car tu peux aussi te faire des amis anglophones, etc. Il y a des bourses de mobilité, qui s'ajoute à l'aide financière déjà disponible.
Il y a déjà d'autres très bons conseils ici (regarde netflix, films séries télés avec sous-titre) 
Mais puisque tu es à l'UQAM, je te suggère d'essayer les cours d'anglais langue seconde. Il y a tout une gamme de cours d'anglais de disponible au 1er cycle.
Beaucoup de bonnes idées ici.  Je veux ajouter que tu peux aussi lire des romans en Anglais pour augementer ta vocabulaire.
There is no faster way to learn the language than dating and/or living with an anglophone roommate. The other ways is listen to radio, television and podcasts in English. Read books in English, starting with visual books like anime, work your way into juvenile fiction like harry potter, and then finish with more mature book series. There is no trick to learn English but if you don't expose yourself to it more, you will never learn. I know little burgundy employment centre had super affordable language classes might be worth seeing if they still offer them.
I will write this in english to help you a bit. We live in Montreal, there are tons of anglophones here who want to learn french as well. I am sure you can find an exchange with somebody!
Aside from that, immersion man. Play video games in english, switch your phone, watch TV, listen to music. Just do everything possible in english.
[deleted]
Regarde la télé avec sous-titres - ça aide beaucoup à apprendre les bons mots (juste écouter peut te tromper). Et essaie de lire, commence avec les BDs et après les livres YA (young adults). L’YMCA est très bon, mon conjoint a fait des cours de français là bas et cela lui a aidé beaucoup à s’améliorer.
Belle initiative pour rencontrer des gens!
*Line ups around the block*
Cheers!
Is Andrew still alive?
so far.
TIL que c'est la fille de l'autre.
Bon, du népotisme même choisir la voix du métro à st'heure!  /s.
J'ai hâte de l'entendre dire "dou Dou DOUUU"
Comment a va faire pour avoir des rôles si est toujours à la STM pour faire les annonces dans le micro??? 😶
Being the transit voice in your city would give you the best party trick at local gatherings.  If it were me, and I was around people who didn’t know me, I’d start rhyming off stations just to trip them out.
Attends… elle a pas joué la blonde de Martin Matte dans Les beaux malaises? Pis sa mère jouait la mère de Martin? Quand même drôle ça.
Édith: Les beaux malaises 2.0 scusez
Dommage, j'aimais bien la voix de Sarah Jeanne Labrosse
Started from Zéphirin A. Pépin, now we here.
Quelqu'un a l'extrait?
Met don't la voix de Ginette Renault à place
Pourquoi pas avoir retenu la voix de Méo?
C'est quoi les chances...
Hanniballll
Film the new season of Hannibal here XD
[deleted]
Pourquoi embaucher une actrice pour faire une voix qui sonne comme un assistant numérique? Ça serait tellement plus flexible de la remplacer par un synthétiseur...
Et puis, je m'attendrais à plus d'une comédienne. 
Et c'est pas comme si ça créait un emploi pour une artiste pauvre.
elle va s'arranger avec l'horaire de sa mère pour lui demander de la remplacer
Caroline est quand meme assez connue... et pas juste au Québec, elle a récemment eu le premier role féminin dans la série Hannibal.
Je crois que tu te trompes avec Julie Le Breton (qui jouait la blonde de MM) mais Caroline Dhavernas jouait en effet Monique jeune (la mère de MM) dans les scènes de flashbacks !
je maintiens que la meilleure option etait Francois Bellefeuille
"heille ceux qui descendent a Deux-Montagnes la? ben s't'icitte. aweillez!"
Edit: d'avant sa coupe de cheveux, ca fit mieux
Not a book but there's a series of documentaries from the mid 80s produced by the NFB and CBC that had the ambition of explaining to the rest of Canada what was happening in Quebec regarding all this independence talk from the late 60s to the early 80s. It's really well produced and does a good job of explaining the situation in an objective way. It focuses on the personal and political path of both Pierre-Eliott Trudeau and René Lévesque. Two very different stories and both are very telling about the different forces defining the political identity of Quebecers. Highly recommend. Very well done. It speaks exactly about the line between the personal and political that are so intertwined in Quebec. And because it's meant for the rest of Canada it doesn a great job of giving lots of context about what was happening in Quebec affecting everyone, not just those two political figures.
[https://www.nfb.ca/film/champions\_part\_1/](https://www.nfb.ca/film/champions_part_1/)
[https://www.nfb.ca/film/champions\_part\_2/](https://www.nfb.ca/film/champions_part_2/)
[https://www.nfb.ca/film/champions\_part\_3/](https://www.nfb.ca/film/champions_part_3/)
Je ne sais pas si c'est exactement ce que tu cherches, mais en 2016 il y avait un excellent livre qui était sorti, [Le Code Québec](http://www.editions-homme.com/code-quebec/jean-marc-leger/livre/9782761946414), qui explique en détail plusieurs points qui distinguent les québécois des canadiens (et des français). Écrit par Jean-Marc Léger (de Léger Marketing), le prof Jacques Nantel de HEC et le journaliste économique Pierre Duhamel.
Ça parle pas exactement de politique (souveraineté, etc.) mais ça énumère des différences culturelles entre les peuples québécois et canadiens, données à l'appui. Tu pourrais trouver ça intéressant.
**Imagine a population of people who came for the Americas, not to be French anymore but to be a "new people".**
Champlain, upon founding Quebec City, sold the King of France on the idea that intermarriage with the Indigenous people would accelerate the colonization of New France.
What history fails to mention is that Champlain had, instead, for goal to create a "New people", neither French or Indigenous but a new people with its own identity, not tied to and not answerable to Europe.
>He (Champlain) wondered whether the two distinct races (French and Indigenous) could ever meld to create the new people he wanted ([Srouce](https://books.google.ca/books?id=zwK-EU_RLR8C&pg=PA77&lpg=PA77&dq=champlain+wanted+to+create+a+%22new+people%22&source=bl&ots=TFht5PmmBy&sig=ACfU3U1o3yKdxayDKtZgXpd7KGnAH89GGg&hl=en&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwiwqoKA47X0AhXbTDABHaZsBMoQ6AF6BAgREAM#v=onepage&q=champlain%20wanted%20to%20create%20a%20%22new%20people%22&f=false))
Eventually, Champlain got its way and intermarriage in New France became the norm more often than the exception.
This worked out so well that the King of France in 1627 felt compelled (by Cardinal de Richelieu) to [extend French citizenship](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cardinal_Richelieu#New_World) with all the rights of a Natural Born Citizen to any sons and daughters of former French settlers born in Canada and to all Indigenous people who had found God. The right to inheritance, to own wealth, to own land **in France !!!** As if they were born in France, obviously to reinforce the loyalty of this "new people" to France.
>The descendants of the French who are accustomed to this country \[New France\], together with all the Indians who will be brought to the knowledge of the faith and will profess it, shall be deemed and renowned natural Frenchmen, and as such may come to live in France when they want, and acquire, donate, and succeed and accept donations and legacies, just as true French subjects, without being required to take letters of declaration of naturalization
Then this new people decided to call itself "Canadians" and many were indistinguishable from their Indigenous lineage while others looked more European, but all lived together.
That lasted for about 180 years and it was good, though lives but good lives.
This was so good that in 1663, the King of France, realizing Canadians were a "distinct" people who he did not really understand, decreed the formation of the "[Sovereign Council](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sovereign_Council_of_New_France)", which allowed the Canadians to mostly govern themselves as long as France remained it commercial partner.
**Then all hell broke loose.**
Then the British arrived, carrying with them the "old problems" of Europe and the "race theories" that were prevalent over there.
And the British conquered the Canadians by beating the French troops, the Canadian militiamen and their Indigenous allies.
**The dream of a "new people" almost died**
The Canadians who were the descendants of the former French settlers with a significant side of Indigenous ancestry got pulled back into the "European problem".
* They were settled with a King they did not care for
* They were forced into legal and political institutions that were not theirs
* Then they were involved despite themselves in the American Revolution with the [taking of Montreal and the attack on Quebec city](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Invasion_of_Quebec_(1775))
* Then they were taxed to support the British colonial wars elsewhere in the world
* Then they were [united by force to Upper Canada](https://www.thecanadianencyclopedia.ca/en/article/province-of-canada-1841-67) (Ontario) in an attempt to dilute the power of the French population and had to sponge up its budget deficit. (1841)
* Then the Canadian [Parliament in Montreal was torched](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Burning_of_the_Parliament_Buildings_in_Montreal) by a bunch of English fanatics who believed that Parliament was too nice to the French (1849)
* Then Canada was created (1867) and Ottawa was put in charge of the Indigenous people **and the "Canadiens" were forced to decide if they were French, thus could live in cities, or Indigenous, thus pushed into reserves.** Most chose to identify as French.
* Then they were told to enroll in the British Army to [fight against the Boer](https://www.thecanadianencyclopedia.ca/en/article/south-african-war) in South-Africa. (1899)
* Then they were told to enroll to fight for the British in the First World War and [were shot with machine guns](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conscription_Crisis_of_1917#Quebec_Easter_riots_and_the_end_of_the_war) by the Canadian Army when they refused. (1917)
* Then they were told to enroll in the Second World war to "defend France", a country most knew nothing about...
* Then they were told in the 1960's that they were no longer "Canadians" because English-Canada had adopted the identity along with the symbols of French-Canadians, forcing the "Canadiens" to become "Quebecois".
* Then they were told that Canada was an officially bilingual country but soon realized that you can only speak French between New Brunswick and Ottawa and nowhere else...
**Then you wonder why there is a sense of alienation?**
The truth is that the "Nation of Quebec" is a distinct Nation within Canada because **it was already a distinct Nation from France** even before the British arrived in front of Quebec City in 1789.
When the British realized the "French" were really the "Canadians" and that they would be too difficult to turn them into "British citizens", they allowed the "Canadians" to retain their language, religion, culture and institutions and even the civil code.
The dream of a SOVEREIGN Quebec (not necessarily independent by Sovereign) is only the continuation of this dream of creating a "distinct people in the land of North America", one that is not French, one that started as a mix with the indigenous people, one that had its own name: "Canadian", its own culture and history different from France.
**The original Canadians never colonized Canada, the British did.**
When the British Conquest (1789) happened, there were, according to the British, at most 60,000 "French" in the whole of North America despite 158 years of "French" presence on the land. Meanwhile, in the six American colonies there was at least 1.5 million British colonists.
You can hardly call 60,000 people in North America "colonists", but 1.5 million is another story.
The "French-Canadians" (really the original Canadians) never built any large cities in Canada outside the Saint-Lawrence valley (Quebec, Montreal and Trois-Rivières), the area where their Indigenous allies allowed them to live. Apart from military fortification and trading posts, the bulk of the "French" lived in Quebec. Acadia in 1714 had only about 2,800 people.
So, the "French-Canadians" were not expansionists or "colonizers", they kept to the areas where they were welcomed to settle.
**The British conquest has turned that ambition of a "New people" on its head and Quebec has tried to keep it alive since and will continue to keep it alive as long as they draw breath.**
So asking why there is a sense of "alienation" in French-Canada is to not understand that :
1. The French-Canadians are not French, they are the "original Canadians"
2. Their "Canadian" identity was taken from them so they became "Quebecois, Fransaskois, Franco-Ontarien and such...
3. They are a distinct Nation within Canada, because they have always been a distinct Nation from everyone else, from the French, from the British, from the Americans and, today, from the English-Canadians
4. They never wanted to be involved in European problems, because their ancestors came here specifically to be a "new people". That is the dream Champlain had sold them on before they crossed the Atlantic.
You may consider reading Pierre Vallières', *Nègres blancs d'Amérique*. Also, the manifesto of the FLQ, which you may find here...
http://faculty.marianopolis.edu/c.belanger/quebechistory/docs/october/documents/FLQManifesto.pdf
Bande de colons by Alain Deneault just came out and is an essay on the peculiar colonial position of French Canadians. Akos Verboczy Rhapsodie Québécoise is translated, and offers an interesting point of view on being independantist and an immigrant.
The first short story in Atavismes by Maxime Raymond Bock basically reenacts a fictive FLQ kidnapping (also translated), and has other short stories that deal with Québécois identity.
If you want books not exactly about Canada, but about Québécois alienation, I suggest Poussière sur la ville by André Langevin (novel, older but still pertinent, also translated), and Une sorte de lumière spéciale by Maude Veilleux (poetry), which both talk about small towns and feelings of dispossession in vastly different tones.
I think you'll have a harder time finding a more contemporary book that is primarily concerned with English Canada, since it hasn't been a main point of opposition/identification for a while. If you haven't watched [Speak White](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sCBCy8OXp7I&t=64s), it's worth a shot if you want a more personal/heartfelt reflection on the topic, but it's also older.
Books by Jacques Lacoursière, Le Livre Noir du Canada Anglais by Normand Lester and Nègres Blancs d’Amérique.
Just watch Bon cop bad cop
I read Two Solitudes by Hugh MacLennan. It is a post WWII publication but worth the read. The Mordecai Richler demanded I pay more attention to current events in Quebec..., perhaps both deserve a revisit.
I do not understand French well enough to appreciate the nuances from a francophone perspective/ publication; thanks for the other suggestions. I will give it another go.
I found *Sorry, I don't Speak French*, by former official languages commissioner Graham Fraser, a helpful backgrounder on the language socio-politics of esp. Montréal and the National Capital Region. (Ironically, I read in one review that the French translation was not very good!)
The Anglo Guide To Survival In Quebec by Aislin et al.
[This book](https://www.amazon.ca/N%C3%A8gres-blancs-dAm%C3%A9rique-Pierre-Valli%C3%A8res/dp/2892950678)
Vallières in French
Si tu veux te plonger dans la réalité francophone montréalaise avant les années 70, lis du Michel Tremblay comme La grosse femme d'à côté est enceinte
It's not exactly what you're looking for - but if your going to read Vallières - I urge you to read 'Oh Canada, Oh Quebec!' by Mordecai Richler.
[https://btlbooks.com/book/fear-of-a-black-nation](https://btlbooks.com/book/fear-of-a-black-nation)  
Fear of a Black Nation; Race Sex and Security in 1960s Montreal by David Austin. 
Especially in the third chapter or so, he breaks down quebecois revolutionary political thought and the history foregrounding it. The rest of the book is a fantastic examination of the Canadian and quebecois security state, and revolutionary Black politics of the time and since.
Duplessis by Conrad Black.
thank you for your interest! merci pour ton interet!
L'histoire du Québec pour les nuls. Honnêtement un super résumé de l'histoire qui explique bien, mais sans innonder de détails.
Lois 101
Very good recommendation. moi aussi j'ai regardé ce documentaire, première fois que j'immigrais au Québec et suivais des cours de francisation à l'UQAM.  QNF est une excellente source pour comprendre le Québec.
[deleted]
Le pire est que cette jeune sauvage, Pauline Cauchefer, est louangée par les réseaux de femmes d’affaire, qui lui donnent raison
En tapant le nom de cette jeune femme sur Google, j'ai pu lire d'autres articles et je viens d'apprendre qu'elle possède plusieurs immeubles sur ma rue ! J'avais un couple de voisins, ils me faisaient un peu rire avec leur look et leur comportement vraiment bs, qui s'est fait évincée ya quelques mois, c'est madame Cauchefer qui a acheté l'immeuble ! Y a des travaux de débutés qui ont cessé depuis. C'est juste laissé là, à moitié fini et sans locataire. Très utile pour le quartier tsé. 
Vraiment pas nice comme pratique. Encore une fois on se demande quand est ce que les administrations vont faire de quoi pour encadrer les pratiques douteuses...
>Si elle fonctionne souvent verbalement, c’est parce que « le côté humain est très important », fait-elle valoir par courriel. « Si un conflit survient avec un locataire, il est alors évident pour nous qu’avant d’embarquer dans une dynamique légale, nous avons des discussions avec nos locataires, afin de trouver des solutions. » 
La dame harcèle ses locataires par textos et appels, mais ne veut pas rencontrer les journalistes de La Presse en personne...
Je sais pas ce qui me désole le plus, les individus bien nantis des vieilles générations qui maintiennent un *statuquo* qui les avantagent, ou ceux des plus jeunes générations qui font perdurer le *rat race* et participent à l'érosion de la qualité de vie de tous, mais surtout, ceux de leur même génération.
J'imagine qu'elle a travaillé tellement fort pour accumuler sa mise de départ... Calvaire
Son nom est trop proche de cauchemar :P
Tant que le prix des maisons/blocs va augmenter et qu'il n'y aura pas de réglementations pour éviter les hausses de prix sauvages des logements ainsi que des propriétés, on va voir ce genre de comportement. Sur ma rue, une triplex vient de se vendre bien au dessus du million. À ce prix, comparé aux salaires moyens dans Montréal, les chances sont que ce soit un "investisseur" qui se l'ai procuré. Les logements de cette maison cependant se louent en dessous de 500$ par mois. Ca couvre à peine les taxes municipales et c'est pas mal certain que les nouveaux proprios vont essayer de trouver un moyen de les sortir.
Enfin bref, ca prendra plus qu'un petit nombre supplémentaire de "logement abordable" pour gérer cette crise mais notre mairesse (ainsi que l'opposition) en ont vraiment rien à fouttre et le fait qu'aucune solution n'a été apportée durant les élections le prouve bien. L'argent obtenu par les hautes taxes municipales fait bien paraître la mairie.
Le fait que c'est encore possible d'utiliser le marcher immobilier pour investir au détriment des autres alors que c'est un des besoins primaires de tous les habitants, c'est dégeulasse.
late stage capitalism.
This person is so dirty, she wants 500 properties? To gauge everyone around her? Living is a necessity of life and this person is parading it like some get rich quick scheme. There should be a limit to this, and she says she bought a house at 21 for 600K with no help? My ass!
Horrible
Taxons les investisseurs immobiliers qui laissent leurs unités vides pendant plus qu’une période de transition raisonnable. Ou Les investisseurs qui laissent leur immeubles insalubres trop longtemps pour pouvoir raser et reconstruire à neuf à des prix exorbitants. Ou ceux comme elle qui laissent des apparts vides.   Et t’axons les propriétaires qui laissent leur pied à terre vide la majorité du temps.
Chaque propriétaire (et les entreprises associées) devrait avoir un numéro unique au TAL et les propriétaires récidivistes pour des renovictions/insalubrité devraient recevoir des amendes en plus du dédommagement aux locataires. 
Ça va en refroidir quelques uns!  Contrôler un immeuble qui représente un besoin essentiel pour la communauté (le besoin de se loger) devrait venir avec de plus grosses obligations.
On s'indigne, avec raisons, mais je suis quand même curieux d'entendre vos solutions face au problème. Si le gouv s'en mêle, ça ne fait que diviser la population
C'est son pitch de vente d'être "self-made". Mais prenant en compte qu'elle ment sans arrêt, on peut assumer que cette information venant d'elle est aussi un mensonge.
Dans ces milieux là (les mordus de l'immobilier, club d'investisseurs en immobilier, etc.) il n'y a que des requins donc ils se chassent entre eux.  
Je suis prêt à parier qu'elle a utilisé un prêteur privé pour ses cashdowns (voir pour tout les bâtiments) et qu'au moindre coup de vent, elle se fait ramasser.  
Ces gens là payent des "formations" où on leur pousse ces fameux prêteurs privés, de sorte que le prêteur fait tout le cash pendant que les Pauline de ce monde portent tout les risques, et inévitablement se ramasse au TAL (qui n'est pas assez sévère pour les récidives, on va pas se le cacher) et souvent plus loin (au civil pour harcèlement, vandalisme, mise en danger de la vie d'autrui, quand on les a pogné à démonter les trucs anti feu pour que les pompiers expulsent les derniers locataires).
Blanchiment d’argent.
C’est écrit dans l’article que sa famille est bien nantie à St-Martin dans les Caraïbes. Le problème dans tout ça c’est qu’ils (spéculateurs), débarquent dans des quartiers populaires. Qui ont un cachet familiale de voisinage que tout le monde se connais. Font de l’aliénassions des logements transformés en condominium. C’est ça qui cause une crise du logement. Il n’y a pu cette dynamique de proprios, locataire qui existait. En plus maintenant avec la nouvelle loi des assurances qui oblige les acheteurs de condo à avoir l’argent pour backé la valeur des logements de l’édifice à portée de main. Au cas ou. Les moins bien nantis ou les personnes célibataires se font éloigner de leurs quartiers qui étaient à 5 minutes de sa jobs pour un appartement à 2h d’auto le monde n’arrive plus. Peuvent pu se placer de l’argent de côté pour un jour aussi devenir propriétaire forget it man.
Le journal Metro postait [Cet article](https://journalmetro.com/inspiration/habitation-et-immobilier/2730735/tour-du-proprio-triplex-a-25-ans/) cette semaine. Je  voit pas pourquoi ces gens sont celebré quand cest probablemejt leurs parents les prêteur privé
Elle vient de saint martin, ses parents sont probablement hyper riche
Ses histoires de femme “self-made” sont 100% du BS. Je l’ai connue au secondaire, elle était la typique “mean girl” riche. Ses parents possèdaient plusieurs propriétés ici et à Martinique. Elle se vantait des salaires à sept figures de ses parents. Je n’étais pas du tout surpris quand j’ai lu l’article.
Les gens en général ne comprennent rien à la vie, peu importe ton réseau ou ton statut social.
The best time to do this is clearly in the winter, there isn't any added headaches associated with parking in the winter.
I suggest "FREE IF YOU CAN GET OUT" or "FREE IF YOU SHOVEL OUT YOUR SPOT" parkings.
Bien tabarnakk, c’est bon ça! Too bad I have all of the stores I need to get to without going downtown.
let's not subsidize transit, let's not encourage commerce in areas that purposefully lack it, let's just give free parking to shoppers in a neighbourhood where a minority drive or own a car. 
free parking comes with hidden financial and social costs that we will bear to the benefit of merchants and suburbanites who would not put up with a fraction of the chaos they generate if it were in their own yard. 
yet still the curmudgeons in the opposition will label them as radical environmentalists. disappointing but expected.
Drôle de double discours.
I guess it’s a good move. There is just a lack of parking because of all the building projects going on. I was down there Saturday and last night and everywhere was busy. Reading parking signs is key
Soir et weekend sauf que le déneigement est effectué entre 19h-7h.
La ville centre aurait dù essayer de trouvé de compromis entre les contracteurs privé en modifiant un peu les parcours et les rues en échange d'un déneigement de jour.
Cependant de la façon que la ville centre gère les contrats de déneigement c'est une utopie de leur demandé ça.
Est ce que quelqu’un a une carte où paramètres pour la stationnement gratuit? Atwater? Frontenac?
Stationnements gratuit pour 3
C'est exactement le contraire de ce qui devrait être fait, le prix devrait augmenter pour diminuer la demande. Et le prix des vignettes devrait être plus représentatif de la valeur de se stationner en rue.
Quel stationnement… c’est juste des pistes cyclable mtn
Il y a plus des h&m et sports experts au centre-ville. Restaurants, bars, centre bell, place des festivals, etc.
Diminuer l’achalandage dans les commerces? pas sur que c’est ça l’objectif.
>Glenn Castanheira, directeur général de la Société de développement commercial (SDC) Montréal centre-ville, se réjouit de l’annonce car le centre-ville a été durement frappé par la pandémie de COVID-19. Il rappelle que des initiatives ont été mises en place afin de favoriser la reprise économique du cœur de la ville.
Je veux pas dire que t'as pas raison, mais c'est intéressant de voir que les commerçants pensent que c'est une bonne idée.
Oh non! y'a une rue qui a une piste cyclable! Ça veut dire que je ne peux plus aller au centre-ville et utiliser les 10 autres rues à côté faites pour la voiture :(.
À l'épicerie, ils vendent du choux de Bruxelles, pis j'haïs ça pour mourir. Ça fait que je ne vais plus à l'épicerie pour tout le reste. Comment ils osent utiliser de l'espace de tablette pour un truc que j'achète pas.
Je suis sur que si on prend le % d'espace dédié aux velo vs dédié aux char ca va ressembler a moins de 10% vs plus de 90%
https://i.imgur.com/s78UJCq.png
Reviens en stp
Pauvre ti chou. Montre-nous sur la poupée où le cycliste t'as touché.
Mais ceux qui ont de la difficulté de s'y rendre n'iront pas.
T'as pas compris. Il faut regarder seulement l'effet immédiat sans penser aux conséquences et au bigger picture. /s
How much HDR do you have
\- Yes...
A tad overdone with HDR (handrails are glowing) but otherwise a great shot
Nice composition, cool it a bit with the HDR though.
Did you nuke the jpeg?
Deathloop
It looks great!
Looks like a movie poster. Awesome!
/r/ShittyHDR 
( ͡° ͜ʖ ͡°)
Very nice picture!
You said you photo shopped (if that’s the right word)it ?
Nice effect..
Dramatique!
I love it.
This is gorgeous !
Wheely cool picture
I like this style. What did you use to take and edit the pic?
how I miss a world not teal and orange...
Thank you :) and it was part of the effect i was looking for because i wanted it to pop for instagram as the shot wasnt for professional use
Part of the effect i was looking for, this shot was for instagram not for a client or my page :P so i give myself more freedom to make it pop
Yes i MOAB'ed it for artistic purposes :P
<3
Glad you liked it :D
Je suis une personne ''racisée'' (terme absurde) et je trouve le contenu de cet article d'une insignifiance consommée. 
Un exemple de pépites dans cet article: ''les familles défavorisées et les nouveaux arrivants n’ont pas nécessairement les moyens d’avoir accès à la nature''. Putain, y a des raquettes à donner sur Kijiji, pis y a plein de parcs accessibles au coeur de Montréal!!!
J'ai horreur de cette tentative de ''racisée'' tout.
Cet article est tellement insipide, j'en ai mal au cheveux.
Je pense qu'il y a beaucoup de jeunes pas trop favorisés dans la vie (racisés ou pas) qui ne sont jamais sorti de la ville pour aller dans la nature ou faire des activités de plein air.
&#x200B;
Aller trainer dans un parc urbain la nuit, c'est pas la même chose
Ils n'ont jamais passé une nuit en plein air, vu des animaux "sauvages" ou même des animaux de ferme.
Juste offrir la possibilité d'offrir ça à nos jeunes est une bonne idée.  
Plus jeune, j'ai eu la chance d'aller dans un camps de vacances subventionné pour des jeunes comme ça; j'ai super trippé fort. (Le Camp Marcel dans Lanaudière)
> En plus d’être une adepte de plein air, Jacqueline Scott est doctorante à l’Université de Toronto
Tout s'explique.
J'avoue que les Nazis sauvages qui se cachent dans le bois des fois ça peut être dangereux.
Je trouve que cette article est pertinent, car en tant que personne noire ayant grandi dans un milieu pauvre à Montréal (rue Pascal gang 😂) c'est vraiment les sorties scolaires à mon école qui m'ont montré les merveilleux parc nationaux du Québec. Mes parents n'avaient tout simplement pas d'argent ou le temps nécessaire pour faire la route. Bref, si je peux contribuer à un fond qui permettrait à des jeunes de visiter des parcs gratuits, je m'y prête volontier!
Il pleut aujourd'hui, personnes racisées surtout affecté.
Ciboire.... tout le monde peut marcher dans la rue dehors, non? Effectivement, ça commence à prendre des proportions ridicules...
S’il ils le savent pas que c’est disponible est ce qu’on peut les blâmer? La première fois que j’ai fait du hiking c’est avec des collègues de travail il y a cinq ans et depuis je suis devenu accroc. Pour les gens qui on pas d’auto c’est pas facile d’aller à Orford, je savais m’en pas qui avait un groupe qui offrait des lifts en bus.
>, y a des raquettes à donner sur Kijiji
Je ne suis pas racisé et AJA
Les cadets, c'est gratuit.
ouais franchement y'en a des pires articles que celui-ci. C'est très vrai que les jeunes de milieux défavorisés et/ou immigrants ne font pas autant d'activités de plein air qui sont de seconde nature pour les gens plus aisés et/ou plus longtemps établis au Québec (randonnée dans les parcs de la SÉPAQ, ski, planche a neige, même camps de vacances/d'été, etc.) dû a plusieurs facteurs, notamment l'argent. 
C'est cher l'équipement pour tout ça, comparé à une balle de foot dans le parc.
Très pertinent de faire l'effort d'étendre l'accès à ces activités qui sont, dans mon opinion, une partie centrale de la culture québécoise moderne. C'est bon pour l'intégration aussi.
Dans le sens que les gens qui aiment le plein air sont éduqués?
ROFL
Mère nature ou personne non-genré nature ?
C'est quelque chose d'assez répandu aux États-Unis que le hiking soit du "white people stuff" dans la perception populaire des communautés noires par exemple. Pareil pour la natation, en effet pas mal de ces communautés n'y avaient juste pas du tout accès.
Dans le sens que c'est le genre d'absurdité qui sort des universités anglophones depuis 10, 15 ans déjà. Alors c'est pas surprenant.
C'est ce que c'est une espèce de [mentalité de crabe](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crab_mentality) que certains communauté se font entre eux et pétant «*que les membres d'un groupe tenteront de réduire la confiance en soi de tout membre qui réussit au-delà des autres, par envie, ressentiment, rancune, complot ou sentiments de compétition, pour arrêter leur progrèent?*»
https://montreal.ca/alertes/avis-preventif-debullition-deau-rues-marieanne-est-et-saintdenis-arrondissement-du-plateaumontroyal-20211125182626
Lol, could’ve specified the streets instead of alerting the entire borough for one block
There's so many of these in a year, and odds are I'll hear the warning hours after I should've started taking precautions.  Feels like I should be boiling my water all year 'round if I live in Plateau just in case.
Hiring on merit should never be an issue. I support equality of opportunity not of outcomes.
Damn, when did merit stop being good enough?
This is a whole bunch of stupidity and bad politics, not unexpected from an American scientist.
He got grants rejected because he refused to fulfill some basic bureaucratic obligation that everyone else at the university is obviously having no difficulty doing. From the article it appears that all he needs to do is simply make a stated declaration that he will consider diversity in hiring or something, which he refused to do so he could make his stupid reactionary point. 
Don't put your egghead politics above the health of your research program and you won't have any problems.
J'ai beaucoup d'admiration pour ce monsieur, si vous lisez ceci, bravo pour vos convictions.
De même coup, honte a l'appareil gouvernemental fédéral qui a complètement perdu les pédales.
"the Canadian Institutes of Health Research, gave Dr. Lana Ray, a professor at Lakehead University in Thunder Bay, Ont., a $1.2-million grant to study cancer prevention using traditional Indigenous healing practices. When the award was announced, Ray said “We need to stop framing prevalent risk factors of cancer as such and start thinking about them as symptoms of colonialism.”" 
This is the part that interests me. What kind of healing practices are we talking about here and why are we bringing colonialism into cancer research? Is that even relevant?
Knowing how the engineering labs are staffed, I'm pretty sure it's a matter of gender equality rather than color of skin. I would have said that yes, finding women is hard in engineering, but chemical ? I have seen chemical engineering labs almost full with women of colors, so let me have some doubts about him hiring "based on merits".
Source: Spent way too much time in Uni labs in this city.
This is a really hard issue.  When I was younger I would have probably sided with Prof. Kambhampati, but now I don't really agree.  We have seen time and time again that just the act of inclusion and diversity breed more inclusion and diversity which in turn promotes voices that we normally wouldn't have heard. He is a scientist so if he really wants to understand he should probably look into the research.
>“I think what’s happened is the woke and the social justice warriors have made a moralistic argument the way the religious right used to make moralistic arguments. And now people are afraid to challenge them. But I think it’s okay to say I believe that equality is a morally valid position. I believe that meritocracy is a morally valid position.”
Sorry but using the term 'woke' and social justice warriors hurts your argument.  Those are derogatory terms and not desirable for civilized discussion.  Its not a religion, its math.  Women make up 50% of the population, but I assume your lab is no where near 50% female.  Hence why government grants probably want you to consider being more diverse.
It seems like NSERC has been completely captured by the EDI true believers and opportunists. Look no further than their embarrassing response to the Tomas Hudlicky essay in 2020. Everyone, including the NSERC president, was quick to denounce what was a fairly standard conservative opinion.
The only way I see this changing in the short-term is if the QC government tells the federal government to stop forcing our scientists to pass these EDI purity tests. There's basically no political pressure coming from anywhere else as all the university admins are on board with the program.
Long-term, these are bad ideas and will run their course but by that point our universities will be filled with a bunch of mediocre researchers.
Well, he has a point.
Juger une personne selon sa race au lieu de ses mérites = être raciste.
Ce prof n'a pas eu sa subvention parce qu'il n'était pas assez raciste.
First of all, we all know how fucked up and literally shooting in the dark looking hiring is. We haven’t figured out this hiring thing, yeah it’s pretty hard. Anyone who thinks it’s easy hasn’t really done it enough and certainly anyone who thinks people hire just on merit is a dumbo (expect a reddit sub to be full of folks who have never hired a single person in their lives, and hopefully never in a position to do so. Think overpaid software engineer who thinks he is king of the world for writing some lines of code some lame ass adtech company) Yeah it’s easier to hire based on merit in some disciplines and industries relative to others but this “wE onLy Hire On MeriT” isn’t going to cut it either. That argument died 10 years ago so people be ready to have something else. Just go do a tour of STEM undergrads or even high schools and see how dismissive and sexist guys can be towards their female colleagues as well as the attitudes teachers and professors who are men can have towards them and then you got some dumbass talking about equality of opportunity or whatever. This is like the guy who is like why can’t you get an A in calculus man,  just quite your job and focus on classes, easy for you to say when your dad is paying your rent and has 100k waiting for you to use in a downpayment for a condo. There is no such thing as equality of opportunity. You must be some privileged upper class white man with the endowment benefits of having had ancestors who were colonizers, slave owners and coerced their way into becoming land owners to think that.
Not recruiting based on merit is discrimination at this point. At this point we systematically favor PoCs which kinda already taints what merit constitutes since some people were given opportunities they didn't necessarily deserve in the first place.
These are some big claims. Odd that the only evidence to back it up is, "I’ve had two people say that was the kiss of death.” Apparently all of academia and society is crumbling because two random anonymous people said so.
The tread over in /r/canada has lots of info in it for anyone interested.
https://www.reddit.com/r/canada/comments/r15uap/minority_professor_denied_grants_because_he_hires/
We need more courageous people like this.
Finally someone speak up about this.
Such a misleading title. "HE BELIEVES he was denied..." Ok great National Post, why is this a f***ing article even. Complete bs propaganda
Lmao this is not academia works and this article is incredibly misleading
It’s ranked one of the best schools in MTL. Just out of curiosity, is this Royal West?
I know a white guy who played the gay card to get promoted to the c-suite, pis ça donne qu'il n'était même pas gay. On peut voir sa face dans les affiches promouvant la diversité pour la financière ________.
Je suis beaucoup trop vieux pour le savoir moi-même... Pourquoi est-ce que les jeunes sont si hésitants à se faire vacciner? Ils s'en foutent simplement parce qu'ils se croient invulnérables, ou est-ce qu'ils sont activement contre les vaccins? Est-ce que c'est rendu badass de ne pas être vacciné?
I don't know?  My son's school has 95% vaccination.  They had vaccine drives at the school and very few parents opted out.  I assume it is parents electing not to get their kids vaccinated.
oui.
[deleted]
Peut-être pas invulnérable, mais je te garantie qu'ils n'ont absolument rien à craindre.
What part of the science says they shouldn't get vaccinated anyways?
Less sick is better than more sick, with the added bonus of being less likely to kill a parent or loved one.
[deleted]
Même se sentir comme de la marde une semaine avec la COVID est pire que le vaccin. Mais tsé, il y a toujours le risque d'infecter un parent ou un autre proche qui est à risque même s'ils sont vaccinés.
[deleted]
Les personnes à risque dans ton scénario sont vaccinées elles? Il est ou le problème.
Nothing stops the spreads.
Vaccines significantly reduces the spread of the virus. Every study, every single one has that conclusion. Take your pick.
Les vaccins ne sont pas 100% efficaces, surtout avec les immunocompromis. Tu connais le concept d'immunité de groupe?
It is my understanding that quarantines and strict lockdowns have been shown to stop the "spreads" [sic].
[deleted]
It is not true that **EVERY** study has that conclusion. Here is but one example wherein no conclusion even remotely resembling that is to be found...
https://psycnet.apa.org/record/2018-01016-033
Après un, deux, ou trois boosters?
Fair, for humans. Though in practice it remains impossible to contain/snuff out because of the vast amount of essential services.
We can’t just send everyone home for 14 days :(
More importantly, good luck locking down every feline and animal that can contract and spread covid. The beauty [/s] of zoonotic viruses.
COVID is here to stay guys.. There are very few dumb luck scenarios that could reduce its relevancy (ex. negative evolution) but these are quite unlikely. It’s much more likely it will be part of all the standard childhood jabs we get (+boosters).
Yes but at some point if you don't want 2020 level restrictions forever we need to rely on measures other than isolation to start getting back to normal. 
Vaccines and masking are the easy ones. Better to resume some normal activities with a bit of caution than not do them at all.
No, it’s not my job to keep you informed. I literally said every single one;
that implies you haven’t read a single reputable study. Or just a summary…
It is not **'ect'**. It's **'etc'**, as in 'etcetera' -- which derives from Latin, 'Et Cetera', "and the rest".
Le son d'un Français qui vient de découvrir le Plateau.
Could this be a leak alarm? Gas or something else? Consideting there's a garage, I'd call 911 so they could redirect you to the fire dept. If they don't find anything, you could also call the police (514 280-2222) and ask of it's possible to send your recording.
This thing is hardcore nuisance!
Also, if you smell something weird around the garage, never hesitate to call 311 and ask them to redirect you to the hazardous materials inspectors. I had to do this in March 2020 bc there was a heavy smell of solvents in my area, and they inspected the garages first.
To me, sound like a turbine
ça semble venir du tuyau qui sort du mur du fix auto. 
c'est probablement un appareil de chauffage quelconque avec une sortie de gaz qui scille. Le problème est probablement à l'extérieur... le sortie de gaz fait un effect de sifflet avec la pression d'air/de gaz qui sort.
The video makes it sound like a vacuum? It's probably the poor encoding though.
It’s probably something loose in some ventilation system, probably on the rooftop of a big building or at this garage. You can ask the garage to check their system, but can also call the police and they’ll investigate (I did it once because I thought it was a car alarm that didn’t go off for a whole day and they found out which building it came from).
One of those hybrid electric cars is stuck on [reverse](https://youtu.be/SlQ8y_2cPt8)
Fix Auto got a bitcoin mining setup
Va voir Fix Auto? Vous êtes plusieurs voisins à entendre la même chose; choisissez le moins gêné du groupe et envoyez le parler à Fix Auto. Je vois mal ce que tu attends de r/montreal…
My bad. It's my new notification alert tone. I posted a 15 year old photo on Tinder and a bunch of angry ladies calling me a liar after meeting me.
HONHONHOOOOOON!
I was wondering whether it's an alarm but it fades in and out at irregular intervals.  
There was a [similar issue in central Edmonton](https://www.facebook.com/watch/?v=2663000507271610) not long ago, and nobody could figure out what it was. The theory is that it's some kind of vent or siding that's causing a sound when wind blows over it, and that's kind of what I'm inclined to believe.
what you hear in that video is exactly what it sounds like. I was worried that my phone wouldn't be able to pick it up well but it actually got it pretty clearly.
I second this. Sounds like a large powerful wall mounted vacuum.
Lol this is ridiculous, but it made me laugh 😂.
Took a second to understand what you were saying though, way outta left field !
It should at least be notified to a 311 employee bc it's certainly not a normal thing. It's not an industrial park!
It's how I roll. Yo.
[Nouvelle face, même gang de crosseurs / Même face, même gang de crosseurs](https://i.imgur.com/gV5QkdH.jpg)
Ah ben 'ga don.
Prison
De vrais mafieux...
Hey j'avais complètement oublié Gérald Tremblay! Ayoye!
Est-ce vraiment les mêmes personnes ou vous avez juste collé la face de Coderre sur l'affiche d'Union Montréal de 2009?
Si c'est le cas, il faudrait le spécifier autrement c'est de la désinformation que vous faites.
Check donc ici par toi-même.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2013_Montreal_municipal_election#Seat-by-seat_results
J'ai tu d'l'air d'un mod ciboire? 
Ta job si OP (à moins que toi et OP soyez un) ne veut pas répondre à une question à laquelle il/elle a déjà réponse.
> J'ai tu d'l'air d'un mod ciboire
La moindre des choses si t'es de mauvaise foi c'est d'avoir l'energie de faire tes verifications quand on te donne les ressources pour le faire.
> si t'es de mauvaise foi 
Vouloir comprendre l'intention d'OP est de mauvaise foi maintenant?
Le Vieux Munich??
http://www.vanishingmontreal.com/2011/07/vieux-munichmedley.html?m=1
Urban explorer types documented the building pretty well just prior to its demolition in 2011.
https://www.uer.ca/locations/show.asp?locid=29008
It's sad to think that so much fun went down on that plot of land just 10-ish years ago and almost nobody remembers it now.
The demise of Le Spectrum pains my inner music fan even worse. Far worse, tbh.
https://www.uer.ca/locations/show.asp?locid=26691
Old Munich, for sure, with the oom-pah-pah band on the rotating stage, the balconies, the much defiled and royally uncomfortable picnic tables, and the beer wenches with their well-developed stein-carrying arms.
It was reinvented as Le Medley show bar after a fallow period.
https://www.cbc.ca/news/entertainment/montreal-hall-le-medley-closes-1.945177
I saw a Steve Earle show there one time. I think it was in the early-to-mid 90s. Steve tried to play a mellow acoustic singer-songwriter type segment in the middle of the show. And some smashed out of his gourd dumbass was yelling out "COPPERHEAD ROAD!" nonstop while falling all over himself throughout the whole thing.
Steve didn't come back to town for a good ten years after that fiasco. That night a fuse (supposedly) blew at the Theatre Outrement in the middle of his set and he played though it unamplified with a roadie shining a flashlight on him and his guitar, like a champ. It was a memorable return to town for sure, but fuck you all the same, dumbass, for making me do without ten years of Steve shows.
It is now condos, like the rest of that area
Le Vieux Munich. I've been there in the past. It was a lot of fun.
Leaving the Old Munich often left me fuzzy!
80? 81? Definitely a few good times.
That was the very best. Wild & unruly. The best vibe I ever experienced. The waitresses carried large Bucks with foam spilling all over the place. At a given point of the night people danced on the tables. The bands is something that came later in their last years of being opened.
Fuzzy Laval
Le Vieux-Munich c'est exactement le stage circulaire! Par la suite c'est devenu le MEDLEY, endroit mythique de la musique heavy métal de MTL
[https://www.facebook.com/watch/?v=10155708157461052](https://www.facebook.com/watch/?v=10155708157461052)
MERCI!!!!!! c'est exactement ça
Looks so cool, I wish I'd had a chance to go there.
Wow. The Spectrum pics... Oof.
Best music venue in Montreal as far as I'm concerned. Huge loss.
this is so great!!!
I remembered a similar view, but probably 15 years later [https://www.uer.ca/locations/viewgal.asp?picid=311543](https://www.uer.ca/locations/viewgal.asp?picid=311543)
I totally forgot about Le Spectrum!!
>I love stories live these!, thank you
OUI!!!!!!!!
Étrange de voir le Medley avec toutes les lumières allumées. 
RIP, c'était ma place préférée. Leur Tribute Club avait des cover bands crissement bons aussi.
tabarnak méchant party
That was great, thanks for sharing.
Il n'y a pas de quoi! 🙂
Avez-vous remarqué que depuis l'élection, des dizaines d'usager (tous avec des comptes de moins d'un an) qui venaient à tous les jours, ont soudainement disparus!!
J'imagine que le budget marketing a été couper,  maintenant que la campagne est terminée.
Excellent, comme dans le cas de trump ça va être deux fois plus drôle les voir perdre une deuxième fois!
Ok.
Ça ressemble aux manœuvres de Trump en 2020
Possiblement oui. Après, une fois la campagne terminée, on est tous en mode latence pendant quelques temps. En tout cas, c'est mon cas.
P.S. j'ai ce compte depuis un an environ, mais je vous jure, je suis payé par personne!
😂😂😂😂Bon la conspiration qui commence a brouiller la tete du monde, je passais plus de temps dans le subreddit de Montreal pcq jetais seulement interessee par le subreddit pour suivre et parler des elections municipales. S'il y a un événement qui m'intéresse, je vais passer plus de temps dans ce subreddit pour le suivre d'aussi près que possible. Même chose avec les oscars, la saison des oscars approche et je vais passer plus de temps dans le subreddit lié aux oscars. Je peux t'assurer que je ne suis pas payé.
So true
tu trouves ca drole?
t'as tu idee combien ca va couter aux contribuables?  
OK OK, in b4 qq1 me dise "combien ca couté la formule-E?"
Pendant ce temps un citoyen qui conteste un ticket et qui perd doit payer des frais additionnels, si le recomptage ne change rien, y'a tu qq1 qui paie la facture?  ou c'est nous?!
Ce n'est pas irraisonnable de demander un dépouillage quand on a un écart d'à peine 23 votes dans une grande ville comme Montréal.
C'est assez faux. Voici des exemples de recomptage/dépouillement judiciaire au municipal en 2017.
https://ici.radio-canada.ca/nouvelle/1067440/recomptage-mairie-longueuil-josee-latendresse-elections-municipales-sylvie-parent
https://www.tvanouvelles.ca/2017/11/08/equipe-labeaume-accuse-de-retarder-le-recomptage
https://ici.radio-canada.ca/nouvelle/1067849/recomptage-electoral-lisa-christensen-103e-elue-projet-montreal-depouillement-vote
Même pas proche de ressembler à ce que Trump a fait.
Je l'ai vu ton chèque signé Cenis Doderre, essaye pas.
Pis t'es qui toi?
On se calme… C’etait une joke …
C'est vrai qu'y a pas eu d'histoire de *grabage de pussy*
Trump 2020: I demand a recount!
Coderre 2021: I demand a recount!
Totally different
qq1 qui postait sans arret pendant la campagne, en faveur de PM si jme trompe pas.
j'peux vous dire de sources fiables que les candidats/elus de montreal-nord ont passés quelques heures ici; autant du monde de PM que d'EM
[pussy gate](https://cdn.newsbusters.org/images/family_guy_-_petey_iv_-_09_12_01_pm_1.jpg)
J'veux dire c'est logique juste toi et moi à s'ostiner poliement ça serait dull :p
we all crave the juicy internetZ drama.
Sans en vouloir à /u/stoopidfuckinshit, je trouve que ce titre est pas mal paresseux. Je n'avais aucune idée ce que "MACM" ou même "PVM" veut dire.
P.S.:  Le Musée d’art contemporain (MAC) annonce l’ouverture de ses nouveaux espaces à Place Ville Marie (PVM) dès le mercredi 1er décembre 2021
English press release:
 https://macm.org/app/uploads/2021/06/Communique_Annonce_MAC_2juin2021_VF_EN.pdf
smh ngl wtf
'New in town'? That's my best guess.
to be fair, personne dit MACM, tout le monde dit MAC.
Point taken. But c'mon, how much drugs do you have to be on not to know what PVM is?
Si je comprends bien, ton français est fonctionnel pour le quotidien, mais tu veux plus: tu veux le maitriser.
Ce n'est pas évident parce que dans la vie de tout les jours on ne reprend pas les autres qui font des erreurs. Surtout s'ils arrivent à s'exprimer dans une langue seconde. En plus le français est remplis de piège où tombent même ceux qui parlent cette langue depuis toujours, dans les accords de verbe par exemple. Ou juste savoir si un mot est masculin ou féminin, il n'y a aucun truc: il faut l'avoir appris et l'avoir retenu.
Je travaille avec plein de monde qui sont dans ton cas - des anglos qui peuvent fonctionner en français et s'en tirent très bien. Je leur demande souvent "veux-tu que je te reprenne quand tu fais une erreur?" et la plupart disent oui. Alors souvent après un meeting je leur donne un mini cours. Mais ce n'est pas évident - je ne suis pas professeur et souvent pour bien intégrer une règle il faut la comprendre. Mais ça fait des discussions intéressantes et souvent ils apprennent des nouveaux trucs.
Je te suggère: 
\- demande à tes proches de te reprendre si possible quand tu fais une erreur. C'est pas tous le monde qui vont le faire mais ça peut aider. 
\- essaie de ne pas t'appuyer sur ton anglais. Si tu ne connais pas un mot ou tu ne ne t'en souviens pas c'est tentant, et normal, de prendre le terme anglais, mais décrire la chose, utiliser une définition habitue ton cerveau à "rester" dans une langue. Et il y a plus de chance que les gens te disent le bon terme au lieu de juste continuer avec le terme anglais.
\- Lis en français, ça aide à intégrer des structures de phrases et des règles plus complexes. Les conversations de tous les jours ont un vocabulaire assez limité, des structures de phrases plus simples et familières. Quelque chose de plus complexe que des articles de journaux. Idéalement un peu de variété, des romans de fiction vont prendre un niveau de langue différent et plus nuancé qu'un essai politique ou une biographie.
\- Sois patient: ton français s'améliore déjà j'en suis certain. Tu apprends progressivement par absorption et même si c'est frustrant à ton niveau acuel tu fais ton chemin tranquillement. Lire et pratiquer plus vont accélérer les choses mais ça prends toujours du temps.
I’m in a very similar situation to your own (although I followed my immersion elementary school experience with a full-French junior/senior high school and only moved here this year). But then I didn’t speak a word of it for ˜17 years before moving here.
I think the difference between being conversational in French and actually *proficient* in French is larger than a lot of people realize. I expect you are in a similar boat to me, where I am passively fluent (enough vocabulary to understand what’s being said/written), but not actively so (enough vocabulary to express myself as well in French as I can in English). I think I can mimic the Québecois accent well enough that people don’t always switch to English when I speak to them, but I know that I formulate phrases in an anglophone way (ou “[la] façon [dont] j’ai construit la phrase était incorrect”).
I’ve tried a few things to improve, including speaking French at work, joining French-only sports leagues (volleyball is easy enough, but WOW is the basketball lingo ever hard), attending remedial Francisation courses (paid for by our tax dollars, so it’s worth taking advantage of those if you can figure out how to sign up), and meeting 1x or 2x weekly with a tutor I found on italki.
Out of everything I’ve tried, easily the most helpful has been meeting with a tutor. People will rarely ever correct our French in day-to-day life, but having conversations with someone whose **job** is to teach you how to speak properly will make a huge difference. If you can find a good tutor, your progress will take leaps and bounds.
My first language is English, but I grew up in Montreal, my father is French, my girlfriend is French, I work in French, etc. I always spoke French due to the fact that I grew up here, but there was a period of time it got a little rusty due to where I lived and my friends. Here's a few things that helped me:
* Leave Montreal, move to the regions. Nothing will improve your French better than living out in the boonies where nobody knows what the fuck you're saying if you speak English. 
* Consume all media in French. TV, radio, newspaper, your internet  browser, whatever. 
* Shoot the shit casually with people from places that have heavy accents. You will eventually pick up their accents. I spent a chunk of my summer hanging out with some people from St Jerome, trust me I adapted quickly.
Ton français écrit est très comprenable, si ça peut te rassurer. Quelques fautes de genre (feminin/masculin) et de syntaxe simple, à part ça, c'est admirable.
Ya pas d'autre façon de faire que de pratiquer pour devenir bon dans une langue. J'apprends des langues depuis un bout, et plus on en sait, plus on réalise qu'on en manque. Ça peut sembler intimidant et même décourageant parfois. Faut pas arrêter et simplement se baigner dans la langue. Télévision, musique, interactions dans la vie réelle. 
Et le plus important: la consistence. 
Lâche pas le morceau.
I really feel this! I'm really not bad at French, I get lots of compliments on my speaking from people who have seen my progress over the years, but I'm really not at the level I want to be. 
I work in a French workplace but I still end up making close friends with those that are bilingual. I attend meetings and sit on various boards and participate in volunteer activities in French but the level of exhaustion I feel after an evening trying to follow a meeting in French is disheartening. 
I think if you're a really good communicator in your mother tongue it's harder to feel positive about your progress in another language. 
I don't really care about making grammatical mistakes in French, I find they're often mild enough that I'm still easily understood, but I wish I had more richness in my vocabulary, especially idioms and turns of phrase and that I was better at understanding that type of speech in others. I'll be following a conversation really well and then a couple of my co-workers with heavier accents and more "colourful" speech will jump in and I'm lost. 
I've decided that I'll take a sabbatical at some point and really just work on my French. I know I'll need a tutor or some kind of university program, I don't think I'll get what I want from just asking people to correct me.
L’UQÀM a un certificat en perfectionnement français langue seconde :
https://etudier.uqam.ca/programme?code=4650
Or to put it less dramatically, that I can speak french but I sound stupid when I do.
I so hear you on that one! 25+ years I lived in Montreal and no matter how well I spoke French, francophones found me to be "cute". Don't get me wrong everyone is very nice and very accommodating when I made errors or forgot a word, but I could never make close francophone friends, only acquaintances. Even from the family I married into, I never felt accepted, more of a novelty. I found this to be the hardest part of living in Montreal.
Exact same case pour moi. Commenting to get some advice!
I grew up in Montreal with a francophone father and anglophone mother and am probably in a similar situation. I still struggle often since my dad and I developed a relationship where he speaks in French and I respond in English.
What’s been helping me lately as I try and practice are a few things:
1. More exposure to situations where I can only speak French
2. Deliberately trying to consumer more francophone media: there’s a pretty hilarious podcast called “Les Pires Moments de L’Histoire” which can help the ear and expand vocab
3. Using a tool like Fluent. It’s a chrome extension that translates parts of the page to French and helps you learn those words in context. Great for expanding vocab!
I still struggle with m’exprimer tout d’un coup but the more I put myself in situations where I have to, and the more vocab I expose myself to, the easier it’s getting. Good luck on your journey!
Salute for speaking both language ma man. Thats tough.
I'm not a native Anglo, just an American who has lived here for a couple years and is dating one, but I don't know that there's necessarily a difference between learning French and becoming fluent if you are in an advanced level class that will go way beyond vocabulary and expressions. I've made a TON of progress with the YMCA of Quebec. I think working on grammar will help with your speaking as well - their conversation and grammar course is great and what I've been doing, but there is also just conversation. They'll give you a test and determine your level. There's also the free one from the government of Quebec that I can't try because I don't have the proper immigration status, but if that's available to you, you might try it.
I also love all of the Radio Canada podcasts for trying to hone my accent and turns of phrase, then there is a whole French Canadian section of Netflix, and you can try something called "shadowing" where you listen to someone speak, pause, and try to repeat it as exactly as you can just to get the sounds down. There are some I think I might never master (the ai like in "mangerait" vs. "mangerai," for example), but there is always room to improve!
I have a master's degree in my 3rd language and I've worked at a corporate language centre.
I did "French immersion" through school, but I also have a bachelor's degree in French (2nd language). Then I moved to MTL and discovered that my fluency (i.e. the ability to speak with fluidity and not stop to think), SUCKED! I had always had time to think before raising my hand in class. 
I've now been in MTL for 10 years, married a Frenchman and get complimented often on my bilingualism.
Here's how I did it:
1. As mentioned by others, the absolute best thing is to *ask francophones to correct you*. Down to each article and detail. This includes awkward phrasing. Increase difficulty as needed. What I mean is maybe at first they correct for understanding, but once there isn't much to correct, get them to correct your constructions. Get used to the phrase "Ça ne se dit pas", or 'you can't really say it that way' and provide you something more authentic. 
2. For comprehension and passive knowledge:
First, watch French shows with French audio and English subtitles. This teaches you to think in "equivalencies", not direct translations. Sayings, slang and general ways of speaking. (Do you have bigger fish to fry or d'autres chats à fouetter? ;) ) Once you can understand 90% of that, switch the subtitles to French and allow your brain to work only in French. Then, remove the subtitles.
3. To improve your fluency/fluidity when you speak:
Set aside time to only speak in French. You mentioned having a francophone partner? Tuesday is French day! Or one week French, one week English. My partner and I do a monthly switch so we both keep up with our second language and get to speak 100% in one language. It's like a muscle and no matter how good you get, fluency is ephemeral.
4. Avoid doing the classic Montrealer thing: Franglais! Reserve that for when learning mode is done and you've earned a break. Until then, speak only in one language at a time. When you hit a blocker, either ask how to say the word you're looking for and use it in the sentence or find another word/phrase you know in French.
5. Your accent. Decide what your end goal is and be pragmatic. Do you have a good ear? Can you make all the sounds and use them properly? Do you just need practice or are some sounds too difficult for you to pronounce? If your pronunciation makes it difficult for the listener to understand, start there.
6. If my first 5 points are out of reach in your circumstances, consider a more formal approach. By formal, I do not mean group classes. Your goal, from your description, is not to write well or learn bottom up. Your goal is top-down learning because that is what is missing in French Immersion. Use Duolingo, find a conversation partner or take private lessons. 
Personal Advice on your mindset:
1. Get over how you *should* speak or how advanced you are because of your schooling. French immersion isn't proof of fluency, sadly. It's more like familiarity with plenty of vacabulary and a working understanding of French. The reality is we spoke using French words but it was more akin to directly translating English. Kids whose parents decided they had to do it aren't motivated to try and emulate the correct pronunciation. They don't want to look uncool, so they speak with a heavy English accent and speak in English with the teacher isn't in earshot. The teacher can't possibly correct all the errors kids make and most are just going through the motions.
2. When being corrected, don't waste time explaining your error or justifying that you made it. Get over yourself. Accept it and use the moment to make a deliberate mental note.
3. People switching languages isn't related to the language or culture. It's the path of least resistance because a conversation becomes awkward when the message is clouded. Don't take it personally when people switch. It depends on the person's tolerance/desire for decoding things. If your goal is to speak French without people switching, make your communication easy to understand by: reducing errors, maintaining fluidity and curbing your accent. 
Best of luck and hope my novel is useful! 😂👍👍
I have long suffered the same problem... I think it's the accent, and more specifically, people's experience with LISTENING to others speak with an accent. Back in Ontario, I noticed people from smaller towns/cities would have a harder time understanding someone speaking english with an accent than say, someone from Toronto would. I assume it's the same case here, if a francophone is used to only hearing someone speak with a quebecois accent, they will have a harder time than someone who is used to hearing more variation. 
As someone who's been here for a decade and still runs into this problem-- I think the only real solution is full immersion somewhere where you don't have the ability to fall back into English.
The good news is that your French is good.
The bad news is that mastery can't be taught. It's acquired.
The best way to get there is to consume a large quantity of francophone media. As much as possible, read and watch the news in French. Follow French podcasts on topics of interest. Go out of your way to watch French TV shows. If sustained, you'll eventually learnt the intricacies of French. You'll stop making mistakes because they don't "sound right" to you; you'll grok French.
Other people are unreliable. They'll often switch to English. Media won't since it's read-only.
Speech will lag behind everything else. It's always the last part to get right, since speech leaves less time to ponder and adds the complexity of pronunciation. Focus first on learning French and then move on to speech, the final boss.
This thread is me. Makes me more comfortable to know that there are more people in the same boat.
Deux ans et demi ce n'est rien! Tu semble savoir fait beaucoup de progrès et je t'en félicite. Fais-toi des amis Québécois francophones et tu verras des progrès exponentiels
Je suis bilingue, mais j'ai appris le français avant l'anglais donc je ne suis pas dans ta position. Mais un truc que je peux facilement comprendre qui est difficile pour un anglophone qui apprend le français (surtout le Québécois) c'est le genre des mots. Une pomme est un mot feminin. Pourquoi? Parce que mon c*l, voila pourquoi. En vrai il y a surement une raison mais sa reste tellement lointain ce n'est pas facile de comprendre la logique de pourquoi une pomme c'est féminin mais un trotoir c'est masculin. 
Je pense que le meilleure moyen de remedier a la situation est le même que pour toutes les langues. Ecouter des emissions dans cette langue, lire dans cette langue et se pratiquer a parler la langue. Sa semble bête, mais entendre la langue permet de découvrir de nouveau mots et entendre la prononciation de mots que l'on connait déjà. Lire dans la langue permet d'avoir une meilleure syntaxe et parler permet de pratiquer sa bouche et ses cordes vocales aux sons de la langue. Me A anglais ne sonne pas comme le A francais. Pareil pour le E. Sa prend de la pratique pour bien maitriser.  
Translation : I'm bilingual, but, compare to you, I learned French first so my situation is nothing like yours. I can completely understand why an English speaker would have trouble learning French simply because in French we assign a "gender" to objects. And said gender determines the pronouns we use in front of said word. An apple is "feminin" meaning it's 'feminine'. Why you ask? Because my *ss. No but seriously, there probably was a reason but it's such an irrelevant reason nowadays that there is no easy logic to understand. An apple is feminine but a sidewalk is masculine. 
I think the best way to learn any languages is to listen to things in that language, read in that language a practice talking the language when you can. I know you heard it before and it sound too simple and stupid to be true, but it does work. When you listen to tv shows in a new language you partially understand, you learn new words, or get to hear worrds you already knew being pronounced correctly. Reading lets fou learn better syntax, what words comes first for instance. And talking lets you practice your mouth and vocal cords to make the sounds you want to make. The letter A is not pronounced the same in French and in English. Same for the letter E. It takes practice to get it right.
I'm in a similar position - I get by fine in day-to-day, even in relatively complex social situations, but I can get lost if conversation is too fast or too accented. My written french is far from perfect as well, and I work with a volunteer organization that's largely francophone, so I really wanted to improve my written french for our members, and get more comfortable reading French so it's not such a slog going through any training materials, or simply coordinating with other organizations.
My solution, so far, is to take the distance-ed version of the Francisation courses offered by my local centre des services scolaires, (school board, but not really since Legault abolished school boards). I have been having trouble dedicating the time I should, but I feel like I am improving. I'm much more comfortable with certain tenses, and am improving, slowly, my knowledge of what's masculine & feminine. And it's dirt cheap.
Faut te laisser du temps rendu la, c'est tout... 
Continue ce que tu fait, lis des livres ou ecoute de la musique ou la télé en francais... inscrit toi dans des activités de groupe ou des cours. Y'as pas de secret miracle. 
Comme ont dit par ici; awaye ostie kevin, continue comme çô!
I highly recommend the program at Centre St. Louis. It's $50 for an immersive, 3 month course that incorporates reading comprehension, writing, and loads of conversational practice. There are field trips that get you out into the city to practice french with people, and there are "after school" social events so you can keep practicing with your peers.
I went in at a very basic conversational level and came out with way more skill and confidence. Unfortunately the pandemic meant that I got stuck inside for a year and a half and lost a lot of the hard work, but I really enjoyed the program.
Duluth est tellement mal pavée que tu pourrais la considérer piétonne :P
A ma connaissance c'est pas mal ça... même que dans le vieux, J'en connais pas vraiment une qui est fermée à l'année...
Il y a quelque projet anecdotique d'ancienne rue convertie en chemin piéton : terrace Mercure à côté du parc Baldwin, ave Parc Stanley à Ahunsic, rue Gilford sur le plateau, prefontaine dans Hochelaga. 
Si on étend la définition un peu, on peut peut-être inclure la promenade Valois (une ancienne voie ferré) la dedans!
Groll
Édith: pourquoi je me fais downvoter? La rue Groll est piétonne
Rue McTavish à McGill est une rue piétonne
https://montreal.ca/sujets/rues-pietonnes
>je ne compte pas les projets de 3 mois de piétonisation temporaires estivales) 
ce sont les meilleurs.
La piétonnisation du Mont-Royal me manque tous les jours. Quelqu'un d'autre souhaite-t-il que la ville en fasse un élément permanent?
I know Valerie Plante is making Rue Duluth and Rue Roy zone pietonne soon.
Il y a une tonne de petites rues qui ont été transformées en petite place, petits parcs urbains.
Toutes les rues si tu marches sur le trottoir.
pourtant, il y a plein de chars a journée longue qui roulent dessus...
It should be though, or at least more of it.
Également la rue Roy (entre Coloniale et De Bullion) sur le Plateau (en travaux actuellement).
Je t'ai pas downvoté (tiens, un upvote) mais c'est peut-etre pcq Groll c'est plus une ruelle qu'une rue? C'est pas parce qu'elle a un nom que c'est pas une ruelle.
c'est une ruelle verte, pas une rue piétonne.
La carte
 https://montreal.ca/lieux?mtl_content.lieux.installation.code=RUPIE&listType=map
oui, mais c'est juste temporaire.
&#x200B;
Ce que je comprends, c'est qu'à part quelques endroits dispersés dans la ville, on n'a pas d'espace piétonnier permanent (à l'année longue) à Montréal.
J'étais en train de prendre une bière sur la terrasse de Billy Kun un mardi pluvieux en août et l'achalandage était étonnant considérant le mauvais temps. Ça me faisait penser aux rues piétonnes en Europe. 
Je pense qu'on devrait rendre la section de Mont-Royal entre Henri-Julien et St-Hubert piétonne de façon permanente, et en faire une sorte de rue partagée plus à l'ouest et à l'est, comme ce qu'on vient de faire sur la rue Ste-Catherine entre Bleury et Mansfield.
c'est vrai que ça serait beau! avec des décorations de Noel en décembre et ensuite des emmenagements comme des Brasero ou autre.
Quand tu dis "livres de RPG" tu veux dire genre d&d game manuals ou Fantasy novels?
Y'a [l'Abyss](https://www.abyssgamestore.com/fr)
[Game Keeper](https://www.gamekeeperverdun.com/) à Verdun! Et je crois qu’ils rachètent des cartes et des jeux aussi.
Renseignez-vous auprès des écoles proche de chez vous! Souvent il y a des clubs de jeux 
/jeux-vidéos. Sinon, peut-être les bibliothéques ou les cafés ludiques? Si vous allez les vendre vous pouvez donner l'argent à un OBNL après comme Grands frères/soeurs de Montréal, Centre Jeunesse etc. 
D'ailleurs, j'ai beaucoup aimé joué au *Mice and Mystics* avec les enfants d'un ami. C'était un bon introduction au Donjons et dragons (dépandamment sur l'âge des enfants).
À Montréal, je connais que le Valet de Coeur. Si tu passes à Québec, va à l'Imaginaire à Place Laurier, c'est 3-4 fois gros comme le Valet de Coeur.
Chez Geeks
- Game keeper a verdun
- Crossover Comics sur Notre-Dame
Plaza st-hubert ya quelques boutiques cool
Pour t'en procurer, les autres commentaires ont bien ciblés les bons magasins à Montréal.
Pour ce qui est des manuels que tu cherches à te départir, si tu cherches à les vendre et non à les donner, je conseillerais potentiellement de regarder leur valeur sur ebay car ceux hors d'impression peuvent obtenir un bon prix. (Ex. Le système Dark Heresy de Warhammer 40k, je ne vois aucun exemplaire du manuel de la seconde édition disponible)
Oublies mon avertissement si tu veux les donner!
Il y a L'Expedition et Carta Magica sur rue St Hubert, ainsi que Face to Face et Gamekeeper a Verdun. Si t'es pret a te deplacer un peu, j'aime beaucoup 3 Dragons sur le rive nord.
Pour acheter les trucs de RPG vieux et rare, a mon expérience ebay est la meilleure source. Ca prend un peu de patience.
Si t’es enfants sont encore petits (4-6 ans), [la série Ma première aventure ](http://www.game-flow.fr/premiereAventure)est très populaire chez nous. Je les achète chez Randolph.
Port de tête sur Mont Royal (francophone) et Drawn and quarterly (anglophone) dans le Mile End ont des sections pour enfants (et adultes!) plutôt formidable. Je les conseille fortement!
La boutique Imaginaire aux promenades St-Bruno en aurait peut-être.
L’Abyss sur Jean-Talon a une bonne sélection si ma memoire est ok: https://www.abyssgamestore.com. 
Aussi, si les PDF ne te font pas peur, le site https://www.drivethrurpg.com/ est une vraie mine d’or à bons prix. 
Ah je vois que tu veux vendre aussi: cherche des groupes marketplace sur facebook de joueurs locaux et annonce tes livres dans le groupe marketplace (mon téléphone est anglo, désolé je n’ai pas la traduction sous la main): comme ça ton annonce va tout de suite cibler le bon public et tu auras moins de mauvais clients à gérer. C’est ça que je fais pour mes jeux de société et j’ai pu vendre quand même assez de jeux sans tracas de d’idiots qui te font perdre ton temps.
Plus genre Game Manuals.  
Merci, l'Abyss a l'air intéressant, j'aime bien le concept style Randolph !
Et ils achètent tes livres de seconde main. Pas des masses, ie on me donnait 5$ par livre de Pathfinder, mais les livres DnD peuvent encore valoir cher, il y a des collectionneurs.
+1 pour Chez Geeks
Grand fan de Cross Over personellement, ils sont vraiment sympathiques et même si leur inventaire est des fois un peu bas, ils peuvent te commander un peu tout ce que tu veux.
un des co-owners etait en train de developper son propre boardgame(avant COVID), jai imprimé ses prototypes!
ce magasin est vrraiment une petite mine d'or pour tout les amateurs de RPG, boards games et cartes
Je connais de qui tu parles. J’étais sur le kickstarter du premier. :)
What's with the English signs?
Big moment in my childhood was going to the Paramount Cinema (now Scotia bank) and passing by that place. I couldn't believe such a thing was allowed to exist in plain sight.
Now that's fine art, love it!
You took a little liberty with the signage 😉
Le plus triste pour moi est que le five guys est brûle aussi :(
You are officially awesome.
Woow beau travaille
The real tragedy is the Five Guys being closed...
Good picture,  good job. Truly a sad day part of my youth went up in flames. 🔥🔥
Super sexE
Great job!
[Neighbours are all restos but the sexe was too hot!! rip 5guys](https://globalnews.ca/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/MicrosoftTeams-image-11-1.jpg?w=2000)
Gotta have cones.
Je viens pas de Montréal, quelqu'un peut m'expliquer?
Cool drawing! Do you do custom work?
Where's the 5 Guys? The real tragedy! /jk
I think I was, there maybe thirty five years ago. 
Its a shame 😔
i need that supersex sign for my room!
Disappointed I never bought a shirt from there lol
Awesome!
94.7 Hits FM had its last broadcast in September. The station closed down. Someone else must have taken the frequency.
Avec ça et MC Mario qui a été coupé après 30 ans à Virgin Radio, la fin du monde approche.
Doesn’t surprise me- commercial radio is dead, and the pop music radio stations of Montreal have gotten worse over the last decade. 
I’m honestly surprised that the Beat 92.5 and Virgin Radio 95.9 are still on the air.
Wow it says a lot that I haven’t noticed this for almost 2 months, despite being programmed into my car radio.
>WQLR is a non-commercial religious FM radio station licensed to Chateaugay, New York owned by the Educational Media Foundation airing the EMF's K-Love Contemporary Christian format.
I miss 94.7. I would listen to it everyday for like 10 years. Times are changing I guess
I never listens to 94.7
I use to listen to virgin radio back when it was Natasha And freeway frank and they fire him.
I boycott that radio and not switch to Beat FM 92.5
They were sold to some Christian radio network consortium. 94.7 broadcasts out of the USA, it’s a boarder blaster station that did a semi decent job at making itself appear “local”.
Was this the Kanawake station?
Some more info here: https://blog.fagstein.com/2021/10/01/94-7-hits-fm-goes-dark/
Likewise I was pretty shocked when they started playing Christian music
Never been a fan of "hits" stations although I don't know about this specific one.
Best music show on the radio for me is After dark with Odario Williams on CBC music. The man is so good.
I had it programmed in my car… And I couldn’t for the life of me understand why I saved a station with songs of praise. Thanks!!
Have a look at what their final day and final minutes were like: https://blog.fagstein.com/2021/10/01/94-7-hits-fm-goes-dark/
WOW. I have been puzzled for MONTHS! They were my favourite :(
MY CHILDHOOD. That is so sad. Wow.
MC Mario c'était tu le dj du vendredi soir a 95.9?
Fun fact, I know some people that did coke with him when they were 17-19 and he was in his 40s. Dude is a fucking weirdo.
Oh non. J’écoute pu la radio puis ça parait. :(
Im honestly surprised how The Beat and Virgin are alive still as they play the same songs from the same play list *every day*. Not even new songs either. 
I don't know why but the Beat *really* likes playing for '90's throwback' Culture Beat's *Mr. Vain* or La Bouche's *Be My Lover*.  I love those songs but Holy shit, there's other hit 90's songs you can play than those two.
Im wondering on how Mike FM will do as they plan to bring something similar to club nights on Thursday and Friday nights. I wouldn't mind if it be something of the 90's music.
[https://www.facebook.com/warren.haughton.1/videos/394442005620457/](https://www.facebook.com/warren.haughton.1/videos/394442005620457/)
https://www.facebook.com/569097055/videos/1035161147282401/
I go to Concordia and this might sound biased, but generally speaking McGill is it's "own world". The residences, buildings, staff, profs, and students are living in a separate world. Not a single word of french aside from merci and bonjour, and most international students, Canadian students, and even local anglophones don't even attempt to speak the language. Mostly because all their surroundings doesn't either. Most of my colleagues at Concordia speak French, and most of the international students I've met ( that come mostly from Qatar, Dubai, Saudi Arabia) were enrolled in some " lycée Francais" in the Middle East ( learning french is a  popular thing among upper social classes there)  speak French. I can't blame those that don't speak, well because they dont "have to" since they get served in english pretty much everywhere ( everywhere aka downtown). It kinda sucks for the rest of us local quebecers that had to do mandatory french classes in cegep and what not and seeing these people getting away with nothing and graduating earlier
Pas très surprenant de la part de McGill.
McGill est malheureusement très francophobe. 
Quand ce n'est pas des membres du personnel qui te font sentir comme de la marde si tu leur parle en français, c'est les étudiants Canadiens ou Américains qui te méprise. **This is not Qwebec, you’re at McGill here. **
Et si tu as le malheur d'être francophone et blanc... oh boy! You're the cause of everything wrong in this shitty province.
Et ce comportement devient internalisé par les employés et étudiants Québécois.
Le pire, c'est que McGill est un superbe Université avec des programmes et des labo de cycle supérieur vraiment top.
McGill is gonna McGill
Oh boy more overblown outrage ammo for Legault to use to pour more money into the OQLF.
Maybe he'll take it away from hospitals or infrastructure this time.
I went to McGill and I met quite a few people, even from out of province or other countries, who were smart enough to make the most of their time in Montreal to learn French or some French at least. They left with a diploma and an extra language. That's pretty smart. Unfortunately many more did not seize the opportunity and that's just too bad for them.
oh wow an anglophone university not offering a program in French this is outrageous
HAHAHA that's the most McGill thing possible. J'ai étudié là-bas, et en tant que natif de Montréal c'était juste weird de bord en bord comme expérience.
Pas surprenant. J'ai enseigné le français à McGill justement (pas à cette école par contre, dans un autre département). Beaucoup de mes étudiants avaient décidé d'apprendre le français après 1-2 ans à être à l'uni sans avoir appris des mots de base. Pourtant, ils vivaient à Montréal...
I have couple of friends studying in McGill. None of them actually speak french, not even on a daily basis, also there are so so many international students at mcgill its not easy for them to just start speaking french at once i mean :/ i expect this
French students and local students do communicate between themselves in French, if that matters.
Retour du mouvement McGill Français quand?
This discussion reminds me so much of the short story North by Clark Blaise. The part where the mom made her boy skip school to go meet the old jewish lady in the ghetto to discuss the boy's education.
Here’s the Wikipedia section on this topic. How is imposing another colonial language, French, on an English speaking university with 30% international students, any better? Quebec sure tries hard to erase centuries of Anglo history in the province.
“McGill is one of three English-language universities in Quebec;[152] French is not a requirement to attend.[153] The Faculty of Law does, however, require all students to be 'passively bilingual' since English or French may be used at any time.[154] Over 40,000 students attend McGill, with international students accounting for approximately 29 percent of the student population.[155] The majority of students are fluent in at least two languages.[156] Francophone students, whether from Quebec or overseas, now make up approximately 20 percent of the student body.[155]
Although the language of instruction is English, since its founding McGill has allowed students to write their thesis in French, and since 1964 students in all faculties have been able to submit any graded work in either English or French, provided the objective of the class is not to learn a particular language.[157] The University has a bilingual language policy and charter.”
About Time
The target audience seem to not understand French. Would a French version be needed.
And how is this news worthy?
Yeah, the "McGill bubble" is absolutely a thing
Yeah, McGill is absolutely its own little world. I would say professional degree programs like Law, Medicine and Education are the exception, since a) students are more likely to be locals and b) anyone wanting to work in those fields in Quebec (esp. law) needs to have a strong command of French.
that's unfair assessment. I have two degrees, one from concordia and one from mcgill. for those who are from qubec, they can speak french. mcgill has a bigger portion of people who weren't qc resident (almost two third, whereas at concordia two third were qc resident) and it's normal that at mcgill, we use english more exclusively because we work with people with different backgrounds, whereas at concordia, there are more local people who can speak french. besides, i select mon entourage not because of which language they speak but because of who they are.
Thought this was going to be about the wages.
pourquoi pas aller manifester dans les McDo, Burger King, Harveys ou autres grandes chaines? ben non, c'est ben plus le fun de taper sur la tête des restos du Québec qui peinent à survivre. 
Je ne mange pas de viande, entre autre car je crois que le bien des animaux prime sur sur que je me mets dans la bouche. mais je trouve tout de même complètement hallucinant d'entrer dans les restos et faire de telles actions. au pire, restez sur l'espace public... le trottoir. 
ceci dit, il y a 25-30 ans, mon père s'occupait de 4 porcheries. je l'aidais pour certaines tâches. on nettoyait les enclos des porcs à tous les jours. même si les enclos sont "petits", habituellement les porcs ne font pas leurs besoins au même endroit où ils mangent. il faut par contre nettoyer souvent si on ne veut pas qu'il y ait de la merde partout.
Si y en a un qui prend soin de ses animaux, c’est bien Martin Picard.  Franchement, c’est n’importe quoi.
There's proper ways of protesting stuff and this isn't one of them. Scaring people in the restaurant is using fear to get what you want, using fear makes you no better then the people are you protesting.
I don’t think it’s the first time animal cruelty activist have protested au pied de cochon.
[deleted]
Lazy and ineffective.
Repris par CTV news. Source officielle [ici](https://fb.watch/9rnk9MT09T/).
Isn't this a weird choice for an anti meat protest? They grow their own food for the restaurant, am I wrong? Wouldn't this make better sense at a grocery store or generic restaurant that doesn't specialize in local farm foods?
J'ai faim.
Je leur aurait donné un gros coup de pied de cochon aux fesses. (c't'une blague là).  
mais j'aurais appelé le 911 sans attendre.
Don’t these people have better things to do?
Malade mentaux.
CE N'EST PAS DE LA NORRITURE!
C'EST DE LA VIOLENCE!
... qui goute bonne en tabarnac.
Ya and all of them wearing clothes made by 2 year olds from China. Please gtfo with your bs. Losers.
I keep reminding vegans that if it wasn't for us meat eaters,  cows, pigs, lambs, etc... would be extinct.
Comment avoir dlair dun épais. Bravo
La classe mondiale. Des champions du monde animal. 
J'en inviterais un à manger au prochain souper.
A day can’t go by in Montreal, without a protest of some sort
Same here. Very disapointed they are choosing such a cliché subject as meat consumption. In addition, to better protest, go to the farms directly, block trucks carrying meat. I'm no saying we should keep consuming meat the exact same way we do, but if you want to rally people to your cause, don't ruin their weekend night.
14 jeunes vidanges qui vont être libérés dans les prochains jours...
Tant que le judiciaire ne se réveille pas, c'est un coup d'épée dans l'eau
Content voir le forces policières ne sont pas niasser long temps avec le augmentation  d' incedents d'armes a feu.
Je dirait plus comme dans le jello. Tu sacre un coup ça fera pas grand chose. Mais si tu continue de donner des coups un moment donner le jello s’efface.
[deleted]
Pis là,ils vont d’entretuer avec des couteaux pis leur familles font pleurer qu’on soit pas triste
s'ils sont capables de trouver facilement 15 armes comme ça en quelque jours, imagine le nombre d'armes qui sont en circulations...
Quand ca parle d'une question d'heures et des ages aussi différents c'est plus des jeunes qui délatent...
A quelle fréquence punch tu ton Jell-O?
C'est les jeunes vidanges qui s'en servent pour tuer des enfants en pleine rue.
La job du judiciaire est de protéger la société de gens ayant des comportements antisociaux et violents. 
La réhabilitation est la job de l'état, soit dit en passant, pas le judiciaire...
C'est pas banal de faire l'acquisition et être en possession d'une arme à feu, ne pas avoir des répercussions judiciaire c'est de banaliser les armes à feu.
Fiez-vous pas juste au titre de l'article pour une fois.
*Éviter une explosion des coûts*
Il faudra, cela dit, que la facture du projet, évalué à 10 milliards de dollars, demeure raisonnable, estime François Legault. Le premier ministre n'exclut pas d'augmenter le financement de son gouvernement au besoin, mais pour l'instant, il préfère rester prudent sur le sujet.
«À ce moment-ci, on n'exclut rien, a-t-il indiqué. Vous savez, on parle d'un coût d'environ 10 milliards... Si jamais il fallait tout enfouir, ce serait 20 milliards. Ça, ça ne serait pas acceptable.»
Si seulement il disait la même chose sur le 3e lien...
you're not my mom!
Yet.
Auntie-mom!
Les réserves autochtones ne sont-ils pas une passoire pour le marché noir d'armes à feu?
Je me rappelle de reportages des années 80 qui montrent la contrebande rentrant par Akwesasne. On sait depuis longtemps que c'est le problème mais le fédéral refuse d'y faire face.
Et pendant ce temps là Plante/Legault/Trudeau veulent s'attaquer aux propriétaires legal d'armes à feu.
Tant d'effort gaspillé pour aucun retour. Imaginer si l'argent et le temps investi pour le programme de rachat d'arme legal allait plutôt au controle frontalier et à de l'aide aux communauté à risque! Mais non, gaspillons notre temps à frapper sur le mauvais clou.
Mon chum me dit que ça vient des imprimantes 3d pi j'en reviens jsute pas à quel point c'est le pire argument de con... pi en plus j'ai entendu quelqu'un dire ça aussi dans une discussion au téléjournal. Hé tabarnak que c'est sorti du cul en tabarnak comme idée ça.
Gunlandia aka USA
Encore les chasseurs de canard...
Les autochtones
D'imprimantes 3D?
Oui. https://www.tvanouvelles.ca/2021/03/25/je-sur-la-route-des-armes-illegales
*Nous reconnaissons que cette fusillade se déroule en territoire non-cédé.*
En dehors du débat sur les droits des amérindiens, ne serait-il par possible d'avoir une double frontière, soit un contrôle à la sortie de la réserve, qui évidemment ne serait pas imposé pour les membres du clan
J’ai vu ça sur une carte récemment que l’île Cornwall a l’aire être une île pratiquement non surveillé par aucune des agences de douanes. Les douanes Canadiens sont sur le côté Canadiens, les douanes Américains sont sur le côté Américain, donc chaque côté peut amener 100 lbs de coke, tout déposer sur l’île et revenir comme si rien ne s’ai passé.
> On sait depuis longtemps que c'est le problème mais le fédéral refuse d'y faire face.
veux-tu vraiment une crise d'oka 2.0?
C'est pas comme si ça existait pas.... Mais tu peux être certain que si la polisse en avait saisies, ne serait-ce qu'une seule fois, il l'aurait présentée en très très grande pompe lors d'une conférence de presse spéciale.
only the frame receiver can be 3d printed. you can't really 100% 3d print a fully functioning firearm.
then you have to purchase the barrel, slide, action, magazine, even bullets etc. - gun stores in the country won't sell you any of these items without a gun license. so they order/smuggle them from the states just the same.
> qui évidemment ne serait pas imposé pour les membres du clan
Ca donnerais quoi, alors ?
C'est une des possibilités, mais 1- une grosse partie de la contrebande pars en bateau depuis la réserve. 2- Ne pas l'imposer pour les membres du clan, ca défait un peu le but de la chose, non?
Selon vous il ne faudrait pas s'attaquer au problème parce qu'on nous menace de violence armée?
On ne peut pas tolérer de territoires ou la loi ne règne pas, et encore moins avoir de tels territoires sur la frontière.
So the easiest method is still : acquire a firearm illegally. 3d printing does nothing to change that
look up the FGC9. less than 500 $ US to make, everything is 3D printed or purchased at a hardware store. pretty crazy.  
but yeah, when you can simply buy an untraceable 9mm for 300 $ CAD ...
Not really related but I thought I'd mention you can get shrooms by mail order from BC. Good quality product from a reputable company at fair prices. $70 minimum order though (payable by e-transfer only). Sucks if you want to sample all the different types.
https://mmjdirect.co
Rien de plus permanent qu'une solution temporaire mise sur pied par le gouvernement.
Ils veulent aérien savoir!
Si on attend après l'unanimité ca va être long.
CDPQ infra est plus intéressée par le développement immobilier que par créer un système qui dessert la population existante. Ils placent les stations à proximité de terrains non développés afin de maximiser les redevances que les développeurs immobilier devront leur payer (112$/ mètre carré pour les nouvelles constructions 1km autour des gares).
À quand le "55 ans après son entrée en fonction, le métro de Montréal ne fait toujours pas l'unanimité"?
Mais yé aérien dans l'ouest.  Par contre, on n'a pas déjà deux lignes de métro, alors on ne peut pas se permettre de chialer
Les shots de drone au-dessus des chantiers actuels sont vraiment belles.
"On veut plus de transport collectif dans l'est de l'île"
Ah ben là parfait
"On veut pas de transport collectif aérien dans l'est"
Ah okay on va mettre une partie souterraine parce que au complet ça va être trop cher.
"Naaaaaon on en veut pas pentoute deins airs"
.....
Je déteste comment, étant donné qu'on parle de transport en commun, certains doivent automatiquements s'arracher la chemise en défendant le projet de toute critique et accuser tout le monde d'être des NIMBY ou pro char.
 La vérité c'est que c'est un projet fucking rushé de papa mégalomane Legault, sans aucune consultation avec quelconque organisme municipal ou intermunicipal (ARTM), qui dessert mal la population visée et qui a un impact à très long terme sur notre ville. On a assez eu de Drapeau qui a scrappé la ville sans consultation au nom du progrès.
Bon tout le monde se fait shafté avec du aérien a part pour saint leonard, ouais bizarre ca.
What's the problem with above ground? Noise? Because at all hours of the day, jackasses who ignore the speed limit use boulevard St Jean baptiste as a racing strip that you can hear several streets away -- right next to an old person's retirement house -- So i don't think a tram would be any noisier.
Edit: and the guy complaining about noise lives next to a highway... Surprising he didn't mind they highway
Made me laugh out loud while browsing Reddit in the bathtub. Thx my dude
Its kind of a theme in urban planning circles at this point.
On devrait arrêter d'essayer de rendre tous le monde content. On peut prendre les inquiétudes des citoyens et essayer de les addresser, mais quelques citoyens ne devrait pas avoir le droit de véto sur un projet qui va bénéficier la ville au complet.
Ca veut pas dire qu'on peut pas avoir un meilleur processus. C'est ridicule que l'ARTM n'ai pas ete impliquee dans un dossier comme celui la.
100% d'accord.
En même temps c'est mieux ça que Radisson et H-B qui sont a coté de quartiers de maisons unifamilliales...
Haha on a 100% un remake de ça avec le prolongement de la ligne bleue.
Imagine if they proposed to build a metro today. "But it'll take decades and it's gonna cost billions!"
Je crois que ça crée moins de controverses dans l'Ouest vu que ça ne passe pas dans des quartiers résidentiels!
NIMBY's of the world unite!
Il semble que le provincial laisse carte blanche à la cdpq infra pour faire ce qu'elle veut, et l'ARTM se fait imposer des trucs comme la clause de rabattement, la "vente" des terrains de la ligne deux-montagne ainsi que sa fermeture beaucoup plus longue que prévue.
if you need training to know not to pepper spray a man who is not resisting, you are not intellectually fit enough to have a job at all
We don't need police with better training. We need to stop wasting so much money on police and put some of that funding into community support and mental health support. Including crisis teams equipped to handle these cases. Police shouldn't be anywhere near people in mental health crises.
[deleted]
Can we just have social workers working in tandem with the police to answer to these calls.
It will not solve everything, but a lot of these situations could turn out way better than they do at the moment... Also, the workers might be able to help some people on the streets too.
If you have a family or friend in mental health crisis, NEVER call the police. This is what happens or even worse like Alain Magloire story.
Simple: pass a law wherein cops abusing their power get subjected to the same thing they inflicted on their victims. They’ll think real hard before abusing their power.
I don’t get it, no one needs to train me not to attack someone who is tied up. What am I missing?
[Well this blew up, 47k upvote on r/publicfreakout](https://old.reddit.com/r/PublicFreakout/comments/qz0zl2/montreal_police_pepperspray_man/)
Takes a special kind of denial to be a cop, the kind that denies humanity.
More non-action responses as always
Dude should consider himself lucky not to be dead.
The way that cop jumped infront of him with the pepper spray, definitely looking for a reaction to escalate further
Just because he's standing there does not mean he is not resisting.
That being said, I do wonder whether the officers escalated the situation to this point by being agressive and insulting or if they genuinely tried to nicely and calmly to talk him down and he just refused no matter what they tried. Sometimes people just can't be talked down.
At some point, if they have reason to think that the guy is a danger to himself or to others, they have to restrain him one way or the other.
Another way to look at it, as crazy as it might seem, is that they might have just saved someone's life by doing this. Maybe even his.
But in the end, I wonder if someone not wearing a uniform, non threatening and trained in deescalating people in mental crisis could've talked him down.
Yawn.
Resisting man ultimately taken into custody.  Non-story if not deemed to be aggressive *by his friend, who called the cops on him.*
Oh, but social workers would have handled it better.
"Can you please calm down, sir?"
"No."
"Okay cops, I tried.  Take him."
We only know about these stories because of video evidence. Imagine how often this stuff happens off-camera.
I mean, police forces are known for rejecting high IQ candidates, the whole system kinda depends on it. Can't have your cogs begin to question why the gear is spinning.
139 upvotes for a lie, guy was resisting. says so in the article
Actually we need both as police are most often the ones called to handle such cases.
Ideally, the police force would be separated into social intervention units and criminal units.
[deleted]
Almost every police tech student I knew at Abbot was an asshole. They're drawn to the job.
The thief is either on some drug or suffers from some mental illness or both. Pass by the area from time to time, maybe you will see them but expect to be dealing with someone out of their mind and no sense of time.
Oh man, relevant story.
I had a bicycle (well, 3) stolen out of my garage last spring. 1 was a super generic kid's mtb from Walmart that you see everywhere, but the 2 others were rather unique, or so I thought!!!
Maybe a month ago, I see some guy riding my bicycle going up Atwater. I stop him, angrily demand where the fuck he got his bike from, he says it sat for years at his neighbors' blah blah blah. Until I take a better look and holy shit it's the same model as my bike but not mine.
I felt like such a moron. I obviously apologized to the dude, but geez what are the odds.
I've never ever seen any my stolen bicycle anywhere again, and they were pretty distinctive.
Honestly, if the thief is a meth head offer him 20$ in exchange of the safe return.
What a beautiful bike! Best of luck
If you ever find the bike in the future, id strongly recommend sticking an AirTag or a SmartTag to the bottom of the seat or something so that in the future it is traceable. 
Best of luck in your search!
Clearly the person that took the bike really believes it was theirs, otherwise they wouldn't have bothered with the signs and with calling you by phone. Perhaps such vintage bikes could resemble each other quite closely after so many years? I hope you resolve this weird situation.
A bike like this is not as rare as you think -- it could be a case of "mistaken identity", where the guy who took it genuinely believes it's his.
Is it by any chance an older Francophone man going by the name of Benoit, kind of rotund and balding? If so, yeah he stole your bike.
Honestly, and I know it's not nice, but your best chance of getting it back is to carry a spare lock with you in case you see the bike somewhere, and do what he did -- lock it up with your lock and cut his lock, steal it back.
If you look around bike coops and such, they sometimes have vintage fixer-uppers. If it's the style your partner is after, and not the very specific individual bike, you could find an inexpensive replacement that way.
Good luck!
How much this bike worth? I’m talking about monetary not sentimental.
I'm sorry for the pain to you and your partner. It is indeed a beautiful and distinctive bike, I can well imagine how shitty this feels, and I will keep my eyes open for it on the bike paths.
And how did you come in possession of the bike? It’s not anywhere in the post and I wonder if you might have bought a stolen bike. Just a question because it’s not unheard of…
On ouvre l’œil. Un vélo de même ça ne passe pas inaperçu. Si le [siboire de] voleur est aussi *confus* que vous le dites, il va peut-être le garder « précieusement » dans son appart ou garage. Mais sinon, je crois que l’histoire est très claire et bien documentée. Bonne idée de faire appel à la communauté en plus.     
Bonne chance!
C'est dommage. Je suis désolé. Mais cherche un autre vélo. Shopping c'est le fun. I don't mean to be an ass by that comment. Upvote pour le post bilingue.
meth is a hell of a drug...
maybe they had the sign ready to go as a cover, so that any witnesses would just say "oh well wtv i guess" and move on
So are we cracking down on bike thief or are we just driving cars till we die.
I want to ride my bike to work. But the damn thing almost got stolen with the quick release.
What is the make and model of that bike? I check CL and Kijiji daily, so I'll keep an eye out.
I like how no one mentions asking the police for additional help. When I got mine stolen outside my house, I've rarely seen such apathy in someone eyes and tone than at the police station when I told them about my stolen (unmarked) bicycle.
Some cities have active campaigns about marking bikes and actively documenting them on Project529 to help retrieval efforts. I'm half surprised a cycling friendly city like Montréal doesn't implement that.
tl;dr buy a shitty used bike for 150$ and put reflective hello kitty stickers on it so no one wants to steal it. There's no point in buying something nice here, especially for commuting on pot-hole ridden roads.
If you can get a hold of the guy and have receipts from c&l of the new parts (that makes it unique) maybe there's a chance you could convince him/involve the police?
I saw your sign near La Fontaine. Good luck!
had a similar thing with a homless man who just walked off with my dog, while i was paying inside. 
luckily my friend found them in an ally.
the man got frusteated, shouting the dog was his and we had stole him ect. we asked what the dogs name was he said "Bolo". 
i told him call the dog, my dog ignored him, i called "Nala" and she strained on the leash to come to me. we just went see its not your dog. 
he droped the leash and went to sit in a box. i really love my dog so was happy to get her back, though part of me thought she probably would of brought a lot of happiness to this lost soul.
Stop spreading lies and using photoshop trickery ...you know the bike is mine.
The political issue aside, as someone with a massive hard on for trains and public transit, I really wish they would block highways instead of VIA rail. Our train network in Canada needs some love. :(
C’est quoi le rapport entre d’une part, le Canadien Pacifique, et, d’autre part, la GRC, Coastal Gaslink et les Wet’suet’en?
Here we go again
A cette distance, tout ce que ça va faire c'est de faire chier le peuple d'ici pour absolument rien. Qu'ils prennent l'avion et aillent manifester là où ça va compter... Pas ici.
Petit heads up:
- les chefs élus ont été élus par 55 personnes sur une communauté de 3000
- leur jurisdiction est applicable sur la réserve uniquement donc pas sur le territoire ancestral non cédé
-d’un point de vue légal, le Canada est dans le tort selon l’ONU
Pour ceux qui veulent analyser ça d’un point de vue purement légal et se faire une tête : 
https://www.lrwc.org/canada-legal-brief-international-law-wetsuweten
Bon pour ceux qui ne sont pas aller lire l'article. C'est des manifestants qui ont bloquer une voie du CP dans le mille end a Montréal. Donc a première vue cest pas des autochtones et donc ya pas raison de se lancer sur un débat.
C'est tu au moins des membres de premières nations qui bloquent les voies?
You know what will make people care more about these causes? Increasing the price of their groceries, and making shortages worse…
-protesters, probably
I am a big fan of Amtrak.. took the train from Chicago to west cost many times..
If I can say few words....
Via Rail does not need some love... it needs realistic price for travellers...
they did not block VIA rail in any way.
Our train network brought about death and destruction for the Western nations, seems fitting they block it.
De ce que je comprend, ils bloquent les chemins de faire car 
•Ça dérange/fait parler mais ça reste une action pacifique 
•C’est en même temps un geste symbolique, car les chemins de fer sont important dans l’histoire du Canada et ont aider/accélérer le processus de vol des terres par le couronne britannique/Le Canada ainsi que la colonisation
Here we go again… the government of Canada sending in armed mercenaries to impose colonialist pipelines through unceded First Nations territory, arresting journalists, violating constitutional rights.
La bas les manifestant (qui sont pacifiques) se sont fait ramasser et arrêter par la GRC, qui était armée. Ça ferait pas de sens de se rendre la bas. 
Aussi, pour ton information, quand ils (la nation wet’suwet’en) disent que le pipeline est en territoire non cédé, ils ont 100% raison. La plupart du territoire du Canada a été cédé, par la signature des traités numérotés (qui ont été signé de manière vrm sketch et pas legit. Leur légitimité est donc questionnable), à l’exception de la majorité Québec et du BC. Le pipeline est sur un territoire qui, légalement, n’a jamais été cédé ou acheté par la couronne britannique, donc n’appartient pas vraiment au gouvernement du Canada.
Merci pour ce lien! J’ai beaucoup de mal à comprendre ce qui se passe surtout au niveau de la loi par rapport à un territoire non cédé
>les chefs élus ont été élus par 55 personnes sur une communauté de 3000
Si tu fais référence à [cette élection](https://www.burnslakelakesdistrictnews.com/news/maureen-luggi-elected-new-chief-of-wetsuweten-first-nation/), ta représentation de la situation est tellement biaisée que c'est difficile de croire en ta bonne foi.
La cheffe de la *Wetʼsuwetʼen First Nation* (une des deux bandes Wetʼsuwetʼen associées au *Carrier Sekani Tribal Council*) a été élue avec 55 voix **d'avance** sur ses deux rivaux. 107 personnes ont voté sur 183 électeurs éligibles.
Il y a eu un apel a l'action de solidarité.
No that’s just how you piss more people off
With respect my fellow train comrade, I don't think the issue is ticket prices. The issue is that our train network is massively underfunded and underdeveloped. I'd pay extra money if it meant having reliable and frequent high speed rail between Quebec city, Montreal and Toronto. 
High frequency rail is coming to the Windsor corridor at least. It'll give us a network worthy of the 1990s. Which is an improvement.
So you have a week waste getting across the country?
Yassss
Domination total si on regarde les stats.   
https://twitter.com/clubdefootmtl/status/1462516190669070346/photo/1
I might be out of the loop on this but when did we stop calling them the Montreal Impact?
GO CS! oups, CF!
J'avais entendu a la radio ik y as quelques mois que le club en arrachait. C'etais vrai?
Woohoo champions of nothing
Immensely thought out! Mmh wondering if this comment will hit the generateor as well...
oh boy... huh, 14 janvier 2021... and its been drama over drama over drama since then...
Geez alright. Also just looked it up and it's not club de football as I thought it was. It's club de foot. Please correct me if I'm wrong but that sounds not only incorrect but stupid.
You're not wrong
Le moins d'auto et le plus de transport en commun possible! On va s'en foutre de la pollution visuel ou sonore quand on va devoir déménager dans des camps a cause des changements climatique.
On a besoin du REM de l’Est pour stimuler la construction résidentielle et partiellement régler le problème d’accessibilité actuel. J’espère vraiment qu’on trouvera une solution où chacun trouvera son compte, et je pense que ces exemples la vont dans la bonne direction.
Aérien = pas beau
Souterrain = trop cher
La meilleure solution n'est-elle pas de passer au niveau du sol sur la rue sherbrooke? La solution la moins chère, facilement accessible, et on réduit la place de l'automobile en même temps!
C'est pas vraiment les même contraintes cela dit. À la Haye dès que tu fais du souterrain il faut avoir de quoi pomper.
Un aspect cool avec le netkous dont ils ne parlent pas trop dans l'article c'est que le bruit est étonnamment cassé, comme si il se projetait moins loin.
Juste non, c'est pas vraiment plus beau, la nuisance visuelle et sonore va rester la même, au sol ou rien...
Its also completly absurd when people complain about visual/noise polution when talking about anything compared to a car. Like just walk outside into any major street in montreal and actually listen. Cars are really, really loud. And car infrastrucure, like parking lots and wide roads, are some of the most depressing looking places in the world.
Exactly.  It's amazing how there's rarely this extended handwringing over ubiquitous car infrastructure.  It's everywhere, it's ugly, it pollutes, and it makes tons of noise, yet somehow new public transit infrastructure needs to be 100% perfect.  They need to put up noise barriers on the elevated route and get on with it...
Imagine vivre sur fucking Sherbrooke au Centre-Ville pis tout d'un coup tu te dis "Oh mon Dieu, un train aérien est l'élément définitif qui va créer du bruit et de la pollution visuelle"...
Faut être complètement con ou avoir un doctorat en dissonance cognitive rendu là
Si le REM est un peu la même chose que les sky train de Vancouver, il n'y aura pas de pollution sonore. Je pense que mon vitamix fait plus de bruit que le sky train.
Oui, et l'alternative, le métro sous-terrain, ne sera jamais construit. La ligne rose, aujourd'hui, coûterait plus du double du REM actuel au complet. C'est beau le métro, mais on aura jamais les 4-5 nouvelles lignes qu'on a de besoin si chaque ligne coûte 15-20 milliards.
Le développement durable, c'est aussi le côté social. On a pas besoin de sacrifier l'urbanisme pour régler les changements climatiques.
Je suis pour le REM, mais pas en aérien au centre-ville
[removed]
Des passages à niveau sont incompatibles avec le REM. Un train sans conducteur doit être complètement séparé du traffic. 
De plus, le plus que un train interagit avec les chars, le plus de chance que le train doit bloqué pour une raison ou un autre. Au heures de pointe où il y aura des trains à chaque 2 minutes, c'est sur qu'il aura des problèmes.
En fait comme le mentionne l'article et un autre qui est paru sur le train de Copenhague, les pires sections de ces trains seraient quand ils sont au niveau de la rue et qu'ils bloquent de long segment avec des barrières pcq'il faut isoler les tracks avec un mur. C'est bien mieux quand c'est assez haut pour permettre de la circulation dessous.
Dans un monde idéal on pourrait tout enfouir super creux pour pas cher sauf qu'on vit pas dans un monde imaginaire donc... Aérien it is
La solution la plus logique serait de la faire passer sous terre sur Sherbrooke. L'article le mentionne aussi, un tracé aérien peut se faire correctement sur une rue assez large avec déjà du zonage commercial. 
Ce que la Caisse propose, c'est de la faire sur Sherbrooke, qui est presque 2x moins large que dans l'exemple, et de la faire passer à travers des zones résidentielles de densité moyenne - duplex/triplex et bloc d'appartements de 3-5 étages. La Caisse veut l'argent qui passe par la ligne verte en rejoignant HB sans vouloir un tracé qui a du sens pour le quartier.
Et la 40 surélevée qui passe dans tout Montréal c’est bien ça par exemples ? Avec du trafic h24 dessus c’est super reposant.
> au sol ou rien...
train au sol + distribution de jetpacks à toute la population Montréalaise pour franchir le rail en sécurité, ou rien...
/s
Isn’t it supposed to be virtually silent?
Qu'est-ce que tu as fumé? Un train au niveau du sol c'est le pire des deux mondes.
Dans le chemin autant pour les piétons que les voitures.
Pas plus beau.
Aussi bruyant.
I guess un peu moin cher mais... juste non
À moins que tu veuilles un tramway, no way qu'un TRAIN c'est logique niveau rue...
Yeah I don’t see how the REM would be worse than freakin’ Notre-Dame est
The early pandemic response of this hospital was very very effective. Consequently they were able to keep this horrible disease outside of their facilities.
Je pensais que l'hôpital chinois était fermé?
We have a Chinese hospital? I wasn't aware.
Neat!
If only China itself could have kept it away..
C'est devenu un centre d'hebergement pour les ainés - cependant, l'institution a decidé de garder le même nom de 'l'hôpital' pour des raisons historiques.
Second sentence of the article:
> A resident at the Montreal Chinese Hospital, a long-term care home located near Chinatown 
Hell it's even in the sub-heading. Not a hospital, just a very divisively named long-term care home that caters exclusively to Asians and is near Chinatown.
They did. They're the ones who implemented an actual full lockdown early on and are basically back to normal now.
Agreed
> just a very divisively named long-term care home that caters exclusively to Asians and is near Chinatown.
L'idée c'est que tu as des services de CHSLD en cantonais et en mandarin. Il y a des endroits similaires avec services en grec, italien, hongrois, yiddish, etc.
>just a very divisively named long-term care home that caters exclusively to Asians and is near Chinatown.
It appears that way to people ignorant to its history. Might also be due to one's own racism.
After arresting journalists and healthcare workers trying to spread the word. This was in November 2019 btw. If they had let the word out and closed their international flights at the time, it could have been prevented.
Full lockdowns only after letting it leak worldwide sure.
By barricading people in their homes, would you have preferred that?
Oof, that's one way to look at it.  Another is that they tried to cover it up initially, let it plant seeds across the world, then went full lockdown and refused to accurately and transparantly report on covid cases or the source of the disease to save face.
Except, they aren't.
Edit: Don't know why I'm getting downvotes, but China is far from being back to normal as they want to achieve 0 covid cases before easing their measures.
But hey get downvoted for telling the truth.. it’s clear where the virus originated.
Aucune objection a ca, mais si tu appelles ton CHSLD Montreal Chinese Hospital quand on a des trucs come Montreal Children's Hospital et Montreal Jewish Hospital c'est que t'essaie clairement de brouiller les cartes et d'induire les gens en erreur. Et c'est sans dire que c'est pas un hopital.
I like your username and the truths you speak.
Why are you being downvoted this sub is crazy.
Au départ, c'était un vrai hôpital et c'est devenu un CHSLD ensuite: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Montreal_Chinese_Hospital
On y a été ce weekend et il faut porter le masque même si c'est en extérieur. Il y est interdit de circuler avec des boissons ou en mangeant. Et c'est peut être mon aspect cynique mais j'ai eu l'impression que c'était de la crap made in China essentiellement... Joie
JJ'y suis aller et j'ai eu une expérience a l'opposé. 
Si le masque est obligatoire, alors pas grand monde suivait cette règle. Personne ne vérifiait non plus. Je n'ai pas remarqué les panneaux, mais ca veut pas dire que c'est pas vrai. 
Le monde circule avec vin/chocolat chaud, sandwich, etc. 
Plusieurs petites boutiques d'artisanats du québec présente leur produits. 
Manque juste la neige, mais j'ai trouvé ca bien! Ca avait pas d'allure de pas avoir de marché de Noel depuis 3-4 ans. Ma fille de 7 ans a adoré aussi.
Plot twist : il est allez au mini marché de Noël et non pas au grand marché de Noël.
Honnetement ils peuvent bien parler de tous les unites speciales qui travaillent 8-5. Ca prends de la presence policiere au centre ville la nuit et une unite mobile dans un point centrale pour repondre rapidement.
C'est comme les annonces de violence conjugale sur la radio. C'est bien cool, mais je ne pense pas que la personne qui va frapper ca femme dans une rage va s'arreter et se dire "c'est vrai ils m'ont dit de ne pas le faire a la radio"
Ils font plein pour les apparences mais peu d'actions ont de l'impact actuel.
>C'est comme les annonces de violence conjugale sur la radio
I don't think those are for the benefit of abusers. Maybe it wakes a victim up and makes them realize their situation isn't ok or lets people around them find signs of the problem.
It also primes people to change their attitudes. The dominant attitude toward domestic violence used to be "it's none of our business what happens in someone else's home," and that's still sadly common enough in some circles. People tend to shift their attitudes towards what they perceive to be socially acceptable, and increasing the intensity of our response as a community to domestic violence occurring within it *will* shape social attitudes to follow. Especially in younger people.
Moi je suis toujours en train d'expliquer aux gens combien Montréal est belle. Mais puisque l'on est entre nous... Y a que moi qui trouve que c'est un peu laid comme tour ?
Un beau fluff piece de Quebecor qui a une valeur négative sur ce sub.
Je travaille à PVM et j'adore.
Depuis qu'on m'a expliquer que la forme de croix du bâtiment a été construite pour permettre d'avoir plus de fenestration vu de l'intérieur, je trouve ça pas fou pentoute !
Je comprend ce point de vu, mais honnêtement, je ne l’haï pas du tout. Par exemple, je considère qu’elle a vieillie bien mieux que la [tour BMO à Toronto](https://images.app.goo.gl/VJbpLz2Bxd2Rvk7B9), qui a été inaugurée près de 10 ans après.
>Y a que moi qui trouve que c'est un peu laid comme tour ?
Oui
La PVM est un symbol culturelle des années 60s. C’est peut-être un style architecturale qui n’est plus à la mode mais ça fait pas 10 ans qu’elle est là quand même. C’était le symbol de Montréal pendant les Expos, les Olympiques et tout les problèmes politiques majeurs qu’on a eu pendant la Révolution Tranquille. Elle mérite ça place dans le paysage Montréalais.
J'pense que tout à Montréal est beau si on compare avec le Marriott.
Le Marriott est original comme tour. Jamais vu quelque chose pareille.
On parle bien du gros pénis en béton texturé avec un cylindre en tôle sur le dessus? C'est du brutalisme soviétique cheap assez commun.
Peut-être je devrais pas trop discuter par rapport au gratte-ciels de MTL, j’capote sur tout les gratte-ciels mdr. Il y a juste 2 choses que j’aime pas: Des gratte-ciels au dessus de 205m de hauteur et tout les crisses de condos générique qui se font construire partout. On va avoir l’aire à Toronto si ils continuent avec  ces gratte-ciels de merde là, il y a absolument aucune créativité dans leur architecture.
Le polygraphe c'est de la pseudo-science.
100%. couplé avec d'autres méthodes d'intérrogatoire, ca peut faire pression et amener à des réponses, mais seul, ca donne aucun résultats concret
Oui, tout le monde sais ça... mais si tu lis l'article il y a bien des chances que cet homme soit innocent.
Il a deja passe plus de 29 ans en prison pour une sale job de la part de la courone. La courrone a même caché ou du moins oublié, de la preuve qui aurait pu innocenter cet homme.
Mes 3 coups de coeur dans ce palmarès:
\-la murale de Fluke à LaSalle (quel regard!)
\-celle de Maliciouz dans Rosemont (elle fait un travail exceptionnel, j'ai vu plusieurs de ses oeuvres dans St-Michel et ailleurs, son style se démarque tellement!!!)
\-et celle de Ankh One dans Hochelga-Maisonneuve... Je ne savais pas qu'elle était consacrée à Espace pour la vie. Je comprends maintenant la composition de la murale...
Fluke fait toujours des superbes murales. J'adore son style.
Woow j’adore 😍
Je ne reconnais plus le Montreal dans lequel j'ai grandi, celui ou les motards criminalisés faisaient exploser des bombes dans des quartiers résidentiels et la mafia eliminait ses adversaires en plein jour.
I don't really understand these articles, I used to hear gunshots all the time where I used to live in Lasalle and it was never reported, why are gunshots being reported in the news now?
Dans tous les cas, il y a des fusillades tout le temps maintenant !!
Ghetto
C'est à Montréal-Nord, pas Ahuntsic. Tu parles d'un journalisme de qualité...
Les gens se sont fâchés quand des innocents ont été tués.
Quand un mafieux se fait tuer sur son perron ou un biker dans son garage tout le monde s'en sacre.
Ah, le bon vieux temps.
😂😂😂
Because it suits the media narrative.
enjeu politique.
sensationalisme des medias.
Cops want more budget for cops
probably because there seems to be an actual turf war thing going on, and TV5 tends to always report those things, more so than english media (my guess)
Saturday at 3pm though. Isn't it more exceptional?
Fear has been a tool of government since the start of the pandemic. Im the eyes of All Mighty Legault, it worked *very* well. He learned, and adapts the strategy.
Ahuntsic un ghetto? Il faut vraiment pas connaître le quartier.
Every Ghetto every City! - Lauryn Hill
L'intersection des rues Sackville et Port-Royal se situe bien dans le quartier Ahuntsic-Cartierville.
[Source: une carte officielle](http://ville.montreal.qc.ca/pls/portal/docs/page/lib_arr_fr/media/documents/carte_arr_ahc.pdf)
À ta défense, il serait comprenable qu'une erreur soit commise en indiquant qu'il s'agit plutôt du quartier St-Michel, car cette intersection se trouve directement sur la délimitation entre les deux quartiers.
On aurait pu parler de St-Michel et/ou Ahuntsic-Cartierville, mais pas de Montréal-Nord.
Edith: Un commentaire hautain retiré.
C’est dans sault-au-récollet qui est dans Ahuntsic. T’as tord.
never forget le jeune qui est mort de l'explosion du bunker des Hells dans Hochelaga.
j'habitait sur dorion,(le bunker etait sur la rue voisine, joublie le nom) juste en face. la deflagration a fais tomber des briques de l'immeuble ou mon pere restait
C'était pas mal plus en public que ce que l'on se rapelle 
https://memoireduquebec.com/wiki/index.php?title=Guerre_des_gangs_-_%C3%89ph%C3%A9m%C3%A9rides_-_1995._%28organisation_criminelle%29
Kind of a spaceships vibe!
Beautiful!
Whoa, that's a great shot indeed. 
Quite the challenge for sure. 
And had to stay up pretty much all night, it was cloudy that night.
Stunning shot! Edmond Chung is legit 👌
r/evilbuildings
That’s a great photo. Also, I love how the stadium looks low-poly.
Nice 👍
Very nice
Woah thats a very cool shot
Beautiful. It really shows off the shoddy workmanship of the stadium.
Looks like a Sandcrawler
Oh wow! Thanks for the feature u/stamatgeorge!
Nice!
Tellement magnifique, bravo au photographe ♥️
They should print and sell these!
Wow. Very nice. Great catch!
Wow that's a crazy picture
Dune 2 - The Big "O"
&#x200B;
Amazing photo, love it!
This looks like a shot of those Destroyers in Star Wars!
Amazing shot!
…damn the Big O is just a concrete monstrosity
I’m all for this, although the STM and the cities involved need to make sure that: 1. Buses to and from the station are frequent enough that drivers can choose to take the bus without consequences. 2. Have a cycling infrastructure that will allow the majority of people get to and from the stations without feeling like they are putting their life in danger. 3. TOD, density is key to making these stations lovely and viable.
Honestly I'm 100% for this plan. I understand that it may turn off some customers, but we have to break up with this notion that it's a good idea to use this potentially super productive land for free parking. 
I grew up in Pierrefonds and the train station was full of cars that would just sit there all day being subsidized by the transit agencies. I couldn't help but wonder if society could use that land in a way that would benefit the users and the surrounding area. Hopefully they eventually make it a majority paid at some point, or start converting free parking to daily necessities like small grocery stores, daycares, and/or housing to make transit an easier transition.
Nice. They shouldn’t even have parking in the first place, it should be five over ones. 
Grocery stores and housing are way more valuable uses of land than asphalt.
I'm betting this will backfire. Given the choice between taking a crowded bus to an REM station and taking that downtown, or simply driving downtown, most people will choose the latter.
The bus service in the West Island is abysmal as of right now, so unless the service will be drastically improved in terms of comfort, frequency, speed, and reach, people will just stick with their cars.
Granted that this is intended to force regular users to take bus to REM rather than car, but it already does not make financial sense to use public transit for occasional non rush hour users with 2 or more people in a car.  It’s cheaper and more convenient to pay for parking at destination rather than take public transit, especially with additional parking charges up front making the value prop to take public transit even worse.
J'ai plus l'impression que le monde vont prendre le char jusqu'à Montreal tant qu'à payer pour la parking anyway. Mais ça va certainement en convertir plusieurs à l'autobus aussi c'est sûr.
It seems that when it comes to transports, there is always a relevant r/notjustbikes video :
https://youtu.be/vxWjtpzCIfA
I'm for this, except I've lived in a city that tried implementing this sort of thing for their LRT at the station I used, and it backfired (Calgary). When they made parking free again, the lot filled up again. Though I think they kept the spots closest to the pedestrian overpass leading to the station as paid spots (IIRC, the lot would be nearly filled up well before 7am)
Major difference is this: this change was implemented on a station that had been opened for almost 6 or so years. Perhaps implementing a paid parking system from the get-go when the new stations open may have a different result?
Meh I couldn't care less. We live in the city and the REM for me will be to go to the airport and downtown. Everything else is by car. Sucks for the 'burbs people tho.
Think the main parking needs will be in the west Island. TBH, I'd just provide all the parking for free around the stations in those areas with the goal of getting some of these people to use public transits when the West is known to drive everywhere 99% of the time.
I think no one red the article: Between 20% to 30% of the Brossard or Deux Montagnes…
[deleted]
None of this exists.  The stations open next year.
That’s crap. If you want to encourage people in the suburbs to take the train, you need free parking and easy access. 
The current plans for the West Island are going to ensure the lack of success of the REM: no parking, no access other than bikes and buses. People will continue to take their cars to get to work because they need the car to drop off their kids at daycare/school and get to their destination.
Yup. Preach it sister. And AI would be proper to study this.
I’m mostly in favour, I just wish they did more to encourage us to not drive to the station. As someone who used to have late-ish shifts (arriving at Panama around 10/11 pm), the RTL buses were so rare that it made sense to park there. It was either drive home from Panama or wait 45 mins for the next local bus to come by.
For what it’s worth, there have been tons of small businesses and restaurants right next to that parking lot for years. In general, they don’t do so well. The Loblaws shut down in 2015, and is now a vaccination centre, and the mini mall was razed for the construction of the REM station, although that felt like it was just a Halloween pop-up shop and empty units near the end.
Then you'll have less usage of the actual trains, and aggravating all nearby residents by on street parking, defeating the original purpose of trains.
Agreed. Free parking is not a public good, it's a subsidy.
It just doesn't work.  The suburbs are already built and are spread out by design.  The REM is intended to reach these suburbs and get their cars off of downtown streets and it it means having people park in a parking lot then it is by far the lesser of two evils.  The alternative to not parking at the REM for most users will be to not use it because the transit services to reach certain REM stations will be inadequate.
No parking lots = traffic downtown and an underused REM.
Let them be pay parking lots.  It will be a money generator for a system that will likely lose money (like the rest of Quebec transit systems)
I agree and I would assume it's in their plans. Going from thousands of spots to zero probably would piss off a lot of people, so they probably (based on what I'm getting from their comments in this article) the plan to do the following:
1) Partially paid
2) Fully paid
3) Fully paid with some spots converted for businesses
4) All spots converted to businesses and housing.
It's very much in their economic interest, but even though they're a "private" company, they still need to play the the political game. 
Better late than never!
Je ne sais rien sur eux sauf qu’ils sont près de chez moi, mais Artisans of Azure semble comme un option!: https://artisansdazure.com
Sur la plaza St Hubert entre Bellechasse et Beaubien y'a une boutique Médiévale. Par contre je ne sait pas si il font des locations.
Essayé avec eux-autres https://g.co/kgs/HFnYny
Ils font des armures pour le jeu de rôle grandeur nature, genre Duché de Bicolline.
Il y a aussi Zardwin sur la rive-sud de Montréal: https://zardwin.ca/
Appelez moi : +1 (514) 432-2090
Je suis 0 connaisseur mais j’allais dire la même chose. Ça a l’air pas pire quand je passe devant.
Mon ami travaille là et c’est de très bonne qualité.
(ça s'appelle Le Dracolyte)
That’s the number for Bain Coloniale ain’t it.
>Après tout, la mairesse gagne 3,5 fois le salaire moyen au Québec, pas 165 fois, comme certains patrons d’entreprises inscrites en Bourse avec le même nombre d’employés.
>...
>Ne pas payer nos élus adéquatement risque de coûter plus cher, au bout du compte. Certains élus, pour compenser, pourraient se laisser tenter par des enveloppes brunes. Ou encore, « arrondir » certains règlements municipaux pour ne pas écorcher des entreprises susceptibles de les embaucher après leur passage en politique.
CEOs must be the least corrupt people with the highest moral values out there.
Puis à l'autre bout du spectre, quand tu regardes les offres sur québec-municipal / site de l'UMQ, il y a des tonnes de villages et de petites villes avec des élus et des responsables à temps partiel qui font moins de $50 000/an. Comment est-ce que ces places-là vont recruter des gens qui savent comment ça marche? J'avais appliqué à une job municipale à 2 heures de route de chez moi, après l'entrevue ils me voulaient mais n'étaient pas capable d'offrir 60k/an pour un poste de direction double domaine urbanisme ET environnement!!
C'est sûr que tu te ramasses avec des juniors et/ou des retraités dans des conditions comme celles-là...
Mayors are rarely the highest paid municipal employees. They’re paid like a white collar middle manager or mid level professional for the city. Compared to those salaries, an elected official makes a pittance a for the responsibility they have.
>Certains élus, pour compenser, pourraient se laisser tenter par des enveloppes brunes. 
Cet argument, qu'on ramene souvent pour les juges, les députés, etc, je le trouve tellement contraire a la réalité. Au contraire, plus c'est cher payé, plus on attire des gens qui veulent le poste pour faire de l'argent, au détriment d'un désir de service public, et qui vont être succeptibles a la corruption.
> se laisser tenter par des enveloppes brunes
Qu'ils se fassent payer 80k ou 140 k, les enveloppes seront toujours les bienvenues.
Tu sais la raison pour laquelle les policiers et les juges gagnent cher c'est pour éliminer la corruption.  Si tu ne me crois pas vas faire un tour où ils sont mal payés.
Ouch.
60k$ par an c'est méchamment rough pour un diplômé universitaire.
Coût de la vie p-e plus bas mais c'est quand même très moyen, surtout que ça monte pas vite les salaire dans le public.
What kind of mid-level professional gets such salary? I'm ready to jump ships.
>Si tu ne me crois pas vas faire un tour où ils sont mal payés.
Je vous dirais, si vous croyez cela, allez faire un tour la ou ils sont bien payés...
J'fais 31$ de l'heure avec un cours de 5 jours pour travailler en appui sur corde (j'descend en rappel). En ce moment j'suis en vacances mais quand je retourne a Vancouver j'vas demander 35 a mon boss pis j'vais l'avoir. Je travaille pas 2000 heures par année parce que ca me tente pas donc je ferai pas 60 000, mais au pro-rata je fais plus avec les moments ou je me fais payer de l'overtime a temps et demi.
off the top of my head: engineers, public relations coordinator, IT
Par exemple?
https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Indice_de_perception_de_la_corruption
Engineers don't make alot of money anymore though...
Va demander a un résident d'hochelaga ou se situent les crackhouses pis demande toi pourquoi la police les laissent opérer impunément quand tout le monde sait ou ils sont.
They can make the $150-175k that a mayor would make rather easily at the city.
C'est bizarre, faut pas oublier ces articles:
Montréal, championne de l’IA ? Pas vraiment ! (2019-04-03)  
https://www.tvanouvelles.ca/2019/04/03/montreal-championne-de-lia--pas-vraiment  
Element AI report shows Artificial Intelligence talent leaving Canada  
[https://betakit.com/element-ai-report-shows-artificial-intelligence-talent-leaving-canada/](https://betakit.com/element-ai-report-shows-artificial-intelligence-talent-leaving-canada/)
Element AI licencie 42 personnes  
[https://www.journaldemontreal.com/2020/12/02/element-ai-licencie-42-personnes](https://www.journaldemontreal.com/2020/12/02/element-ai-licencie-42-personnes)
Artificial Intelligence in Quebec: A Tightly Knit Network. Montréal (2020)  
https://www.ost.uqam.ca/en/publications/artificial-intelligence-in-quebec-a-tightly-knit-network/
Non seulement on a rien appris du fiasco d'Element AI, on ne semble même pas vouloir en apprendre quelque-chose.
Bengio avait essayé d'aller gober toutes les subventions au début de la pandémie pour ceux qui ont oublié.
*Joke plate sur l'intelligence naturelle*
... au détriment d'à peu près tout le reste.
Parce que vous remarquerez -- les governements n'investissent pas plus en recherche.
Les départements de mathématiques rapetissent à vue d'oeil, on perd des profs à gauche et à droite. Dans les sciences de la nature aussi (sauf en sciences appliquées à la santé). En sciences humaines -- vaut mieux pas en parler.
Le bulldozer des bros de l'IA fait mal à à peu près tout le reste de la communauté académique.
Ce communiqué de presse a été très bien transcrit. (Bengio a une machine de RP impressionnante)
Heureusement car l'intelligence tout court elle n'a définitivement pas subit de croissance
Intelligence artificielle? Ça doit être dû à la campagne de Denis Coderre /s
Ils font généralement l'erreur de compter le "talent" en terme de nombre de doctorats et les "avancées" en nombre de papiers publiés. Alors que des doctorats complètement inutiles il y en a a la pelletés et c'est la même chose pour les papiers; il y a des dizaines de milliers de papiers publiés chaque année en AI et peut-être quelques-douzaines ont un impact.
Bon, I guess que j’irai pas me spécialiser en IA.
Faut entrainer l'AI pour apprendre, on ne fait que lui pitcher du cash pour valoriser et finir par vendre aux Americains. C'est de la grosse bullshit, tout comme 95% de la "fintech". But hey it looks good on paper.
Faut voir l'arrogance du monsieur d'envoyer un de ses étudiants en entrevue pour dire de lui qu'il est la personne "la plus important en IA" (ce qui est ridiculement faux).
Wow sérieusement tu as aucune idée de ce que tu parles. A quoi ça sert les subventions qui vont au MILA tu pense? Je t'invite à t'informer un peu avant de lancer des accusations comme ça. Le gars aurait pu aller aux US et travailler pour une des top cie et aurai sûrement eu plus d'argent que ces dites subventions pour lui seul. Il a plutôt choisi de favoriser l'éducation et fonder le MILA. En fait son frère travaille pour Google et lui aussi aurait pu faire pareil, ça en dit long sur la personne.
Est-ce-que tu fais référence à la app Covid du Mila? Ou à autre chose?
*petits rires et approbations de la tête*
Connais tu le jeu Go? Ce jeu est classé comme l'un des jeux de société le plus dur au monde. Et en moins de 3 jours, une I.A. a non seulement maîtriser le jeu, mais à même réussi à développer ses propres tactiques crus inimaginable/impossible par les humains depuis les **4000** dernières années.
Met toi ça en tête, les humains jouent à ce jeux depuis 4000 ans et il y a eu des centaines de milliers de jouers. Yet en moins de 3 jours seulement, l'IA à surpasser tout humain et à développer des tactiques crues impossible. En 3 jours, cette machine a fait plus que XXX millions d'humains en 4000 ans.
**Ça va plus loin**. Ils ont utilisé une IA en pharmacie. Et en moins de 24 heures, l'IA à trouver de nouvelles manières pour faire de meilleurs antibiotiques.
Bloquer l'IA devrait être un crime aussi grave que la trahison ou la désertion. La prochaine puissance sera le pays qui aura maîtrisé **et** implémenté l'IA à grande échelle en premier.
Il doit utiliser National ou une autre firme du genre. Quand il décide de rayonner dans les médias, du moins Radio-Canada, ça rayonne très fort!
>  il y a des dizaines de milliers de papiers publiés chaque année en AI et peut-être quelques-douzaines ont un impact.
ok, mais c'est ça la nature de la science, on ne sait pas ce qu'on ne sait pas. C'est très difficile de savoir d'avance quel papier va avoir un impact, desfois ça prends, 2, 5, 10 ans. Quand le papier sur les GAN a été écrit, on trouvait ça ben comique et personne à l'UdeM n'aurait osé s'imaginer que ça exploserait comme ça 4-5 ans plus tard (ou que ça allait être utilisé e.g. en pharmaceutique).
> des doctorats complètement inutiles 
On parle de doctorat en vrai science, pas d'un doctorat en sciences vacances/baccalauréat en art.
> il y en a a la pelletés
Encore une fois, On parle de doctorat en vrai science, pas d'un doctorat en sciences vacances/baccalauréat en art.
Je travaille en IA, il y a beaucoup de bon et vrai travail. Et ca paye vraiment très bien. Mais ca prend AI + un autre domaine d'expertise pour l'appliquer. L'erreur c'est les boites qui embauchent une trollée de finissants avec leur doctorat en AI et pensent pouvoir faire des produits avec ca. Tu ne peux pas régler, vraiment régler, un probème dans un domaine que tu ne maitrise pas, peu importe l'outil.
Maybe the schools library has copies of old yearbooks? Alternatively if there is a Westhill HS alum Facebook page you could ask there
Specifically one photo from 1 of the year books. Just not sure which one.
Je ne connais pas grand chose en photo, mais la saturation des couleurs fait que ça ressemble à une photo qui aurait été prise dans les années 70 ou 80.
Wow. Belle image.
Ta photo est sexy. Tu as l'oeil !
One of the rare awesome shots in this sub. Beautiful.
The sky and the tree is making this shot so beautiful, love from Pakistan, huge fan.
Wow!
Vraiment une nice photo & cool processing
Wow, that's beautiful! Great composition and colour!
Doux jesus, t’as des choses à m’apprendre. Nice shot!
Excellent on dirait une photo sur r/japanpics
Wow!
Magnifique ❤️
Nice framing, really good composition
Love the Japan showcase there, if you read some of the information you realize just how authentic it really is. Beautiful
Très Nice. Avec quoi as tu shooté?
I was there 6 weeks ago. Incredible experience.
Nice color
Great pic! Tried to get a similar angle when I was there and botched it terribly :)
Where?
Ok
Pourquoi est-ce que la police et les pompiers ont une escouade de musiciens...?
That election was a grand slam.
They got musicians now? I think “re-allocate funds” was meant for something else but i mean. I’m not city accountant
Ark.
Défilés, funérails, autres céromonies?
C'est assez courant dans ces corps de métier (encore plus pour l'armée).
Si on regarde la GRC: 
[https://www.rcmp-grc.gc.ca/en/history-the-rcmp-musical-ride](https://www.rcmp-grc.gc.ca/en/history-the-rcmp-musical-ride)
[https://rcmppipesanddrums.com/](https://rcmppipesanddrums.com/)
[https://rcmppipesanddrums.com/band-history/](https://rcmppipesanddrums.com/band-history/)
&#x200B;
Police Ottawa:
[https://www.ottawapolice.ca/en/about-us/Pipe-Band.aspx](https://www.ottawapolice.ca/en/about-us/Pipe-Band.aspx)
[https://www.ottawapolice.ca/fr/about-us/Pipe-Band.aspx](https://www.ottawapolice.ca/fr/about-us/Pipe-Band.aspx)
&#x200B;
J'ai rien trouvé pour Montréal
I agree! Having a progressive municipal government is a nice contrast to our provincial overlords.
It's a taxpayer-funded PR campaign/hobby.
I feel like everyone was “progressive” but in their own ways, with some being a worse “progressive” than others. I think this was the best outcome and honestly, she didn’t have much of a chance when legit the entire city shut down due to the pandemic.
So... You wanted to publically ask a question, so your could answer it to yourself?
Tbf it wasn't actually a question. More like an fyi
I read the answer and summarized it. There's a heading that's literally "A public relations entity" in the links OP submitted.
Chronique d'un enseignant au secondaire : j'ai eu beaucoup de fun à discuter de l'histoire du 13,50$ au pied de cochon avec les jeunes de secondaire 5. Ils sont exactement au moment d'être des travailleurs au salaire minimum mais avec la pénurie de main d'oeuvre, ils peuvent en profiter et faire un peu plus. Ils travaillent beaucoup dans des épiceries comme commis ou caissier/caissière et j'espère fortement qu'ils vont pouvoir profiter du fait qu'ils ont le gros bout du bâton pour une fois.
Chronique rénovictions, le proprio a fait sa dernière offre. On a vraiment essayé de raisonner avec lui. Il nous offre 14 mois de loyer pour partir. Chu brûlée, fatiguée, j'ai plus une miette d'énergie à mettre pour me battre contre un capitaliste dépourvu d'empathie. Faut que je sorte d'ici au plus sacrant.
Edit car ça spécule : je paye 635$. Je doit maintenant faire apparaître dans mon portefeuille 500$ de plus par mois pour trouver de quoi de décent.
J'suis super contente, j'ai gagné une paire de billets à CHOM pour aller voir the Damn Truth ce soir!! Ça fait plus qu'un an et demi que j'ai pas vu un show de rock, j'en rebondis sur les murs! J'ai vraiment hâte!!
Sinon j'ai commencé à faire des remplacements au service de garde de l'école en plus de ma job de surveillante. J'ai des groupes plus cools que d'autres, mais c'est quand même le fun, puis ça me permet de mettre mon plan diabolique à exécution: corrompre la jeunesse par le rock'n'roll. Donc quand je surveille un groupe, je fais toujours discrètement jouer du rock sur mon téléphone, dans l'espoir que ça leur rentre subliminalement dans la tête!
Bon week-end tout le monde!
Rencontres de parents cette semaine. Il ne m'en reste plus que quelques unes! Ça se passe généralement bien et je suis bien chanceuse d'avoir des parents qui ne me blament pas (encore) pour les botes désastreuses. Sinon, j'ai dû laver le minet en vitesse ce matin, le rasage avait super bien fonctionné pour le caca dans le poil, mais là, le poil repousse. C'est pas plaisant laver le derrière d'un minet récalcitrant.
The metro needs to rethink it's prices for the post-covid era. Pre-covid I left my car at home and just used a monthly pass; driving to work every day vs 80$ a month was a no-brainer.
Now though, I work hybrid. I spend about 5 days a month in the office, and usually spread out not back to back. 6$ a day for metro vs driving, suddenly my car looks like a better option. Especially that my car is clean, air conditioned, and doesn't have people begging for money in it. 
The STM no more needs to turn a profit than the hospital system; why not have a pass valid for 10-12 hours and a maximum of 4 swipes within that time, for 3 or 4 dollars? That would make me leave my car at home, that's for sure.
Just got the schedule for our retour en presentiel and I’m losing my mind. 
I’m sitting in the office today, alone and shivering because it’s so cold in here and doing basically nothing because I wrapped up my work for the week yesterday, but I still am mandated to show my face in the office for two days a week. 
I’m going into overdrive on applying to places that will allow remote work because my mental health simply cannot take being confined to a cold office building in the middle of winter when the sun goes down at 4. I don’t know how I did it before but I can’t go back.
> Je sette mon statut à Do Not Disturb pour avoir le focus qu'y me faut pour régler des tâches priorité-un par rapport à des systèmes critiques
> Je me lève pour aller aux chiottes
> Je reviens à 12+ direct-messages de plein de membres de l'équipe des ventes qui font aaaaaaaaaa help plz chus bloqué please do asap omg omg c'est urgent
Un autre vendredi typique...
Le vendredi, c'est ravioli.
J'en suis  à 25 courriels d'échange qui ont commencé il y a 1 mois et demi avec l'agent des permis de la ville pour l'excavation de mon sous-sol qui doit commencer lundi. J'ai des plans d'ingénieur, d'architecte, je ne touche à rien qui doit passer par la CCU et il trouve encore le moyen de retarder la livraison du permis avec des requêtes dont il n'a pas besoin pour ensuite se rétracter et dire qu'il "continue l'évaluation". Frustrant.
Premier cours de couture cette semaine! Finalement expérience un peu triste: on était beaucoup pour un seul prof, le rythme était super rapide donc le prof passe pas mal de temps avec les plus doués pour pas qu'ils trouvent ça plate pis le reste de la gang ben...on en arrache. Au moins maintenant je saurais être poche dans le comfort de mon appart..
Je sais que c'est pas chic a dire, surtout cette année, mais j'ai bien hâte aux soldes du vendredi noir. J'ai vraiment besoin d'un nouveau manteau d'hiver - au cas ou l'hiver arrive..
Podcast du moment: [L'histoire nous le dira](https://ici.radio-canada.ca/ohdio/balados/7454/histoire-laurent-turcot-epoque-recit) par Laurent Turcot [FR]
Ce podcast utilise l'histoire et des fois la culture pop pour démontrer des liens avec notre vie actuellement. Laurent Turcot est un historien spécialisé en la deuxième guerre mondiale, mais souvent il fait les liens avec des actualités. Il présente l'histoire dans une manière quand même accessible car souvent je le trouve très sec comme sujet à écouter. C'est vraiment intéressant comment la société répète les mêmes fautes. C'était un podcast recommandé à moi par quelqu'un sur ce subreddit donc merci! :) Je le recommande pour des gens aussi en apprentissage du français!
Any Montreal musicians want to jam this today/weekend? Any skill level welcome!
En rédigeant du contenu pour une formation que je donnerai dans les semaines à venir, je me suis gouré et ai mis Code 14 au lieu de Code 18 (voir définition du Urban dictionary).
Par chance que la personne contact, qui révise mes documents, chez le client a un bon sens de l'humour.
I just started a job that pay 10k more than my other job.
I'm supposed to do 20% work from home 80% à job.
My Old job never disconnected from my WiFi since I started new job. How do I know: le pare feu block l'accès WiFi de mon nouveau téléphone Nokia And several sites like fetlife.com are banned sur mon WiFi perso. Lol
So I cant do 20% of my work because emploi A might commit unintentionally corporate espionage sur emploi B. Before you asked, I called IT, ancien gestionnaire etc.
ROFL
To make it even better HR is sooo behind sur la paperasse à la nouvelle job j'ai quasi accès à fuck all. Lolllllll
First day at work? I cleaned a keyboard for like an obscene amount of money. Ma nouvelle boss était comme "yo j'ai mis un rush"....
I'm like on vacation without being on vacation and it is glorious. It's nice cause I've been busting my ass for the past 15 years. 
HEY job A et B: might want to look into this guys cause you're wasting a lot of time on money. J'espères que qqn de TI voient mon post. Jfc lolll
Tu fais bien! 🤟
Oh fuck me. This is beautiful.
The fact that you are raising our children brings me great peace.
Rile the youth up and send them out in the world.
Rebel.
It's time le monde des finances puts their money where their mouth is. Better salaries and wages for all crisse.
Onward câlisse!
T'es visblement pas prof d'économie et tu ne semble pas comprendre les répercussions de ce que tu viens de faire. Ce serait bien que le prof que tu es laisses ses opinions personnelles de côté et enseigne de façon pédagogique des notions en rapport à des sujets qu'il maîtrise. 
Prépare ton speech sur les cycles de la récession tout de suite, ce sera une belle façon de te reprendre.
C'est poche à dire, mais des fois notre santé mentale eat plus importante que ne pas lâcher le bout. Prend la meilleure décision pour toi :)
14 mois de loyer c'est une bon deal, prends le.
S'il est prêt à t'offrir 14 mois de loyer, fais lui une contre proposition pour 24 mois de loyer. Quitte à partir, autant partir la tête haute.
Ben oui ! Les profs en francisation au Ministère de l'immigration adorent ces vidéos, et les apprenants adultes en profitent bien aussi :):)
J'ai aimé les videos que je viens de regarder, je vais les partager avec des amis qui sont en train d'apprendre le francais. Merci
En tant qu’Autrichien qui a vécu au Québec, je suis abonné depuis quelques mois ✌🏼 j’m bien!
Merci pour le partager. Votre blonde a une personnalité très genial. Ces videos étaient recommendé pour moi par YouTube il y a une an. Je les regarde depuis. Ils sont vraiment bonne pour améliorer mon français, et découvrir les particularités du français Quebecois
Super! J’ai vécu à Montréal et ça me manque bien, ça fait plaisir à voir. Merci à ta copine
C'est vraiment bien! Je vais partager ça avec mes ami.e.s en apprentissage, merci!
Pendant un instant, je pensais que ça allait être une vidéo de "Geneviève, votre prof de français québécois" (aka *maprofdefrançais*), une autre belle ressource pour les gens qui apprennent. Bravo à ta blonde, c'est vraiment super!
Ouais je suis un subscriber il y a quelques mois et j'aime ses videos! J'apprend beaucoup avec elle, mercei becaucoup de ma part!
Ça me rappelle quand TV5 diffusait une série Québécoise à l'époque et il y avait des sous-titres lol.
C’est adorable.
I understood everything other than arrow, for some reason I did not know La Flèche is arrow lol. great video. Quick question for OP. Was this filmed recently? I'm coming to MTL in December, I bet nobody will be wearing t-shirts :D
Je la trouve vraiment sympa et posée, j'ai regardé plusieurs de ses vidéos!
wow, this channel looks like an incredible resource for learning.  please say thanks to your partner for me.
Excellent!
Très intéressant, je pense que ça pourrait aider mon conjoint qui a de la misère avec son français. Merci du partage et bravo à ta blonde, c'est très bien fait et instructif sur la ville en plus. Quelle bonne idée!
Pour vrai? :) Ma blonde a enseigné pour le Ministère, ça va lui faire plaisir d'entendre ça!
Cool! Merci! :)
C'est super! Merci! Je lui fais part de ton commentaire. :)
Haha, c'est vrai. Au moins ici c'est pas pour aider des Français à comprendre quelqu'un qui parle la même langue qu'eux... En tout cas j'espère! :)
Haha! Well, there you go, you learned something... Which is the very purpose of the video! :)
As for December, I guarantee people will NOT be in T-shirts by then! This was filmed in late September, so it's already colder now. Hope you enjoy your visit!
Une fois j'avais un problème fucked up avec un voisin violent.  On se parkait tous dans la rue avec des vignettes donc aucune place assignée.  Le gars voulait pas que je me park en face de chez lui car c'était "sa place".
Il était violent et menaçait et tout. Moi petit kid soumis je faisais comme ... Ok.
Une fois je me suis parké proche devant chez lui et j'avais eu une mauvaise journée et il est sorti faire son numéro car apparemment la veille je m'étais mis chez lui. Je lui ai gueulé dessus et envoyé chier.
Le lendemain matin j'avais deux pneus crevés et pas de preuves.
Tout ça pour dire que une connaissance, en lui racontant mon histoire, m'a dit qu'il connaissait un gars louche qui se ferait un plaisir de remorquer sa voiture et l'emmener à son dépotoir pour transformer son char en cube ni vu ni connu.
Je trouvais ça nice comme idée.  Eh ben batinsse, j'ai meme pas eu le temps de prendre une décision que son triplex a passé au feu.  J'ai vu le gars au TVA se faire interviewé et dire qu'il n'était pas assuré et avait tout perdu.
Damn.... Je l'ai pu jamais revu et je me disais qu'il est chanceux d'avoir encore son char!!!
Edit : sorry you post was in English. I forgot since we're always switching language over here.
Call the city, there's an option to report someone blocking a vehicule. They will ask you if you want to have him towed or only get a ticket.
https://spvm.qc.ca/fr/Fiches/Details/Vehicule-mal-stationne
Dam i would be so pissed
Since the owner is including a private parking spot, he should be responsible to make sure that you can use this parking spot. You often find building owners who have deals with the towing companies regarding this type of issue. In those case, they put a sign telling the offenders that the towing will be charged to them.
Call the SPVM: (514) 280-2222 ext. 5
Ask them to move the car.
Tu fais remorquer le véhicule, envois la facture au propriétaire du véhicule, il va t'envoyer chier, tu le poursuis. 
Ou tu fais sans résultats ce qui a été mentionné dans le thread.
Try letting the air out of his tires every night.
Si c'est sur une voie publique il faut appeller Stationnement Montréal.
Si c'est sur un stationnement privé... urg je dirais que c'est un litige civil et il vous faudrait obtenir une injonction? Bonne chance.
You can’t have it towed unless it’s a commercial property, even then…
You would Have to call the cops and set the precedent. Might not leave you in the best standing with someone you live next door to.
My advice is to find out who the vehicle owner is,does he live next door or have some legal premise to park in said location?
In the end you catch more flies with honey than with vinegar.
If he is your neighbour use reason and decency.
If it doesn’t work you have no choice but to call the cops
For when its going to be freezing outside : egg it, removing it fucks up the paint.
If not freezing just crack them on the wipers so that it makes a mess when they'll activate it.
Also pretty great on building windows.
Call the police first if they still do it call any towing company but it'll be kn your expense
[deleted]
Up to your landlord to control it. If they don’t you have to take them to the Tribunal Administratif de Logement. Keep all conversations on record where you’re asking your landlord to resolve it. 
This is obviously not a quick fix.
Call 911. I'm not joking. I already face a similar situation and called the police station they told me to just call 911
Outside of COVID: look up and call your local non-emergency police number for your borough. However, right now they ask to call 911 for these scenarios, so just call them and they'll send someone. 
I had to ask for tow last month in a similar scenario as yours, so this is the current procedure.
Call the city. If they can't do anything, leave a note on the truck. If/when they move the truck, invest in a "no parking" sign (Canadian Tire or Home Depot) and set it up at your parking spot. 
If all fails, call your landlord. Since it's included in the rent, they are responsible for making sure it's available.
Let the air out of his tires just enough for him not to notice until he drives away
Karma trop real
Let the air out of his tires. Repeat until 'tard gets the message.
C'est rien de nouveau, je me demandes même pourquoi tout à coup ça fait la nouvelle.
La partie de Benoit Dorais me fait rire comme s'il pense avoir quelque chose, tout ce qu'il reste à la famille Zampino c'est au nom des enfants donc bonne chance.
À un moment donné ça pourrait être le Dunwich Borers de Fallout 4
c'est de toute beauté voir ca !
Trois ans de dynamitage,  de pépine, de marteaux piqueurs et de grinder sous ma fenêtre de bureau à l'université . J'ai pas un peu hâte que ça finisse. Avec les condos de luxe qu'ils construisent pas loin (un scandale de l'UdeM mais c'esr une autre histoire) c'est vraiment un coin bruyant, poussièreux avec du traffic de camions lourds depuis quelques annees. J'ai vraiment aimé le break quand on était en télétravail ...
Ceci-dit j'ai aussi très hâte de prendre le REM.
Le syndrome du Boulevard Tashereau: Les stationnements en avant, c'est terriblement laid. Faut avoir la vitrine prês du trottoir et le stationnement, si il y a, a l'arrière. Mais une fois que c'est déja construit, pas évident a changer.
Ah puis un peu de végétation sur le terre-plein ca ne pourrait pas nuire.
TIL there is a ~~strode~~ stroad called Maurice Duplessis Blvd.
I can think of 2 things to do to revitalize the strip... A [diet](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Road_diet) and a name change!
aboot fooking time.
un REV sur Maurice-Duplessis jusqu'à Larcordaire (genre) et un REV sur Lacordaire pour rejoindre la piste Rachel.
Didn't Maurice Duplessis torture tens of thousands of Quebecois children and other innocent people?
How many other places in Montreal are named after the Grande Noirceur?
Step 1 is probably dropping minimum parking requirements for businesses on that street.step 2 is making it not a stroad Luke other comments have said.
But the people who actually live there would probably think we're bicycle communists who just hate cars and want to bankrupt small businesses.
The guy wants new signs and facades for the aging strip malls and probably a grass median so it looks nicer as they drive by.
First they'd have to demolish the huge refineries... No one wants to live there
I am so glad to see that Not Just Bikes got real popular
This place is a shit hole the people there all look like criminals i was ina store 10m and was afraid they would steal my car
Exact. Ce vidéo (en anglais) l'explique très très bien: [The Ugly, Dangerous, and Inefficient Stroads found all over the US & Canada](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ORzNZUeUHAM&ab_channel=NotJustBikes)
C'est difficile à changer pour ce qui est existant et fonctionnel. Mais rendu à la fin de vie, on peut exiger que toute construction soit fait, comme tu dis, avec le stationnement en arrière.
Malheureusement ça peut prendre des décennies, donc il faut commencer tout de suite. Normalement, ça prend un plan de densification avec un plan de transpOrt collectif qui va signaler au développeurs que l'endroit devient moins centré sur le char.
L'arrivée (possible) du REM sur Taschereau serait une bonne occasion de rammener les bâtiments le plus près de la rue et déplacer les stationnements à l'arrière, en partant a proximité des stations de trains.
Shit you beat me too it.
>With its four lanes of traffic, bare cement median and black lamp posts, Maurice-Duplessis Boulevard isn't much to look at, but that doesn't mean it's got nothing to offer, Moubarak asserts.
That's the problem right there.  No plants, or places to sit are going to fix it.  You need to reduce it to 2 lanes, reduce the speed limit, and provide services to get to it easily.  Remove the strip malls and place the buildings closer to the road.  Probably put places to live on top.  Essentially you need to overhaul it not to be a strode and create an actual space for people, not cars.
Fyi it's *stroad. Strode is the past tense of strut (til).
Pas fou! Je suis allé qu'une fois dans ce coin là et c'était parce que je voulais faire une ride de vélo différente en passant par Anjou plutôt que mon tour habituel de l'est de l'Île. S'il y aurait un REV, ça me tenterait pas mal plus d'y retourner, parce que passer par Anjou, c'est assez poche.
En plus, le REV sur Lacordaire pourrait se connecter au REV sur Marseille, qui peut t'amener dans Hochelaga-Maisonneuve. Après, ça en prendrait un autre sur Hochelaga. Notre-Dame est beaucoup trop loin et inconfortable.
Oui sauf qu'un REV sur Lacordaire, il y a déjà une voie réservé aux autobus et au covoiturage donc Lacordaire serait presque à 1 voie la plupart du temps.
La seule façon qu'il y serait instauré c'est si les citoyens aux abords de Lacordaire et les élus le demande et ça ce n'est pas pour demain.
Langelier aurait été une bonne option mais c'est trop loin et il faudrait qu'il finisse de rejoindre Langelier jusqu'à Montréal-Nord ce qui traine depuis des années donc Saint-Michel serait l'option la plus viable.
Yup. It should be renamed «Boulevard des Orphelins de Duplessis». 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Duplessis_Orphans
That's funny, my aunt that was mad black people started to move there says the same thing.
... Matante?
Le fait qu'il va prendre 10-20 années n'est pas raison de ne le pas faire. Les hollandais l'ont fait!
Ca n'arrivera-pas: la ville de Longueuil met tout son argent dans quelques secteurs seulement, et le reste est laissé a dépérir.
Places like these are ripe for redevelopment as mixed use. 
We have a housing crisis, so let's build homes near businesses, some condos that aren't tiny, townhomes or whatever. Let make housing that makes the area more attractive. Businesses and people will benefit.
Then, take advantage of the REM coming and facilitate access by building a high quality bus lane with signal priority that can get people to the REM quickly. 4 lanes don't bother me if 2 of them are for transit for most, if not all day.
I hope it's not just "let's put some trees and hope that makes it better". Let's make it a destination.
It would probably be much more effective to become your own Montreal Special Doodoo Unit and send the offending baggies into the nearest bin yourself but good luck
Did you really call and report this instead of picking them up and throwing them away yourself?? It takes like 4 seconds to do, jesus. Do you really expect a squadron to come to the exact location just for this. I often pick up trash when I see them it's not that hard (I'm not excusing the person who let the bags there is the first place, they should also learn to not let stuff around)
On the 311 website:"En tout temps, téléphonez au 311 si une situation dangereuse nécessite l’intervention immédiate des travaux publics, par exemple :accumulation importante d’eau dans la rue, branche d’arbre tombée ou sur le point de tomber, débris qui bloquent la voie publique, feu de circulation défectueux, nid-de-poule qui a causé la chute d’une personne ou des dommages à un véhicule, panneau de signalisation illisible"  
Allo oui 311? ya un caca de chien par terre vite !
I mean, a couple of poop bags does not require an emergency response team. When they come for a regularly scheduled clean-up, it will be dealt with. Or you could put on a glove and toss them in a trash can.
I take a photo on the Montreal app and so far, they’ve picked things up including some asshole’s cat litter bag that was opened by a rodent.
That lady is wrong. She decided on her own that it's not worth it, but I can confirm that they do come pick it up when you call.
Jesus Christ pick it up yourself.
Thats not the role of government.  A bag of poop on the side of the road is hardly a public health concern.  Use a bit of hand sanitizer and pick it up…and dog owner’s get your shit together.  I get 60 small bags for a fucking toonie at dollarama
Edit.  Building a community is more than just paying taxes and expecting shit to be done for you.  People need to collectively put in work
Imagine seeing dog shit and calling 311, complaining to them, then going to Reddit to complain about not having the poop picked up. What a life
"I was expecting them to send a unit"  😂😂😂😂😂
Maybe it was a miscommunication, like they thought you wanted somebody to go after the poop-depositor and not just clean up?
But I also endorse the [Montréal – Resident Services app](https://ville.montreal.qc.ca/portal/page?_pageid=5977,117631570&_dad=portal&_schema=PORTAL) to report less-urgent issues to the city rather than calling 311.
C'est la responsabilité du propriétaire de l'animal de ramasser la merde et de la jeter dans une poubelle. Par contre, s'ils sont pris sur le fait par un policier, ils peuvent écoper d'une amende. 
S'il fallait que quelqu'un appelle le 311 à chaque fois qu'un petit sac de crotte est trouvé sur le trottoir, ils n'en finiraient plus.
Par contre, dans le centre-ville il y a des employés de la ville qui ramasse les trucs par terre avec un petit balai et une poubelle. Eux ils le ramasseraient probablement. Mais ils ne sont pas présents dans les petits quartiers.
This is what’s wrong with our society. Why not do a good deed and pick it up yourself? Doesn’t it take way more effort to call the city when you’re literally right there? 
I know it’s not your duty and the dog owner shouldn’t leave it there in the first place but sheesh
What a waste of resources this is. If they do come, they should be fired. The expense to deploy a truck out for this. Just crazy. Man, you people and your first world problems. Just pick it up.
>I called 311 to report that someone had left a couple of doggy bags (full) on the street.
Holy fuck, i wish i had no real problems in life too.
As other people said, do it through the app. Easier than to talk to a sassy human lol
[deleted]
People are being all snarky here, but it's not a far fetched question to have. OP is just asking, "shouldn't all trash get picked up by street cleaners". I will never forget when I went to the city of Tours, in France, and I witnessed a city employee whose job was to go around in a scooter and vacuum poop off the street.
street sweepers will clean it once a week or so in the non-winter months. then its left to rot all winter
Essaye avec l'app de demande de service : https://montreal.ca/sujets/application-montreal-services-aux-citoyens
Hahaha serieusement ? j'ai appellé le 311 a québec 2 fois: 1 fois une palette de bois sur la laurentienne dans la voie du centre le soir, super dangeureux sont venu très rapidement.
2e fois quand une bouche d'égout non standard  genre 2pied x 6 pied c'est enfoncé et est tombé dans le fond j'ai fait un genre de périmètre et je les est appelé, c'était réglé le lendemain. 
Jamais jaurais eu l'idée d'appeller pour un sac de caca, hahaha.
The fact that none of them can see this is a horrible idea is bewildering.
"Nobody wants this so you both get it!"
So basically neither city will be attached to this team? What's the point of all this?
Montréal is already not that much of a baseball city, so how is having a shared team going make that better?
how about no
Why tho?
Montreal should instead put its money on the Saputo case. L'impacte has a monopoly over soccer in Quebec to a point where it is unhealthy. I know a soccer school that has been having problems because they are developing better prospects than l'impacte itself. They are also making it harder for semi-pro teams to get recognition. They are literally a mafia.
Saputo mind is somewhere else so it would be better to offer better programs to continue what Sports-Étude does.
This goes for Baseball too since i know it's hard for some kids too to get to any levels.
News at 5. La polisse nous dit qu'il faut plus le polisse. Et le Saint-Laurent est mouillé!
Il faut plus de *beat cops et moins* de *donneux de tickets.* Les policiers patrouillent rarement les quartiers à pied; ils doivent jaser plus avec les jeunes, les résidents et les commerçants.
Truc que j'ai aimé de Tokyo: A tous les X coins de rue il y a une mini station de police avec généralement un seul policier, souvent debout dehors. Il est pas la pour donner des tickets, mais pour venir en aide et intervenir en cas de besoin.
Alors qu'ici la mairie traite plus les policiers comme des précepteurs de taxes.
&#x200B;
https://pbs.twimg.com/media/EYZWQoqU8AALoth?format=jpg
Non.
C'est quoi les images avec des guns de la deuxième guerre et des armes militaires soviétiques????
TVA fait du sensationalisme de marde comme d'habitude.
Donc la façon de réduire la violence est d'avoir plus de gens violents dans les rues.
Ça a du sens.
A la place de demander à la mafia de faire leurs travail la police devrait focuser sur les armes illégales que des “bon p’tit gars” vendent dans la rue
Ils le faisaient en tout cas dans mon quartier au moins entre 2000 et 2010 +/- pour ce que je me souviens. Ils venaient nous voir au jardin communautaire pour s'assurer que c'était sécuritaire ou juste pour prendre des nouvelles des alentours et jaser. Je sais pas ce qui est arrivé mais un moment donné c'était fini. Et aussi: bonjour les tags jusque sur les portes de maison/garage et les autos. Il n'y a probablement pas de lien entre les deux, c'est juste révélateur de l'évolution de la place. Et c'est un quartier cher, proche d'une grosse compagnie de jeux vidéo dont on ne dira pas le nom. Je veux dire par là que c'est pas un endroit délaissé par où personne ne passe.
C'est des armes saisies a Montréal, ne vous en plaise ou non.
[https://www.lapresse.ca/actualites/justice-et-faits-divers/2021-08-13/operation-du-spvm/une-quinzaine-d-armes-a-feu-possiblement-liees-aux-hells-angels-saisies.php](https://www.lapresse.ca/actualites/justice-et-faits-divers/2021-08-13/operation-du-spvm/une-quinzaine-d-armes-a-feu-possiblement-liees-aux-hells-angels-saisies.php)
Pourquoi forcer sur les armes illégal et les trafiquants, quand tu peux forcer sur les armes obtenues légalement par les citoyens qui actually respecte la loi.
Dans le reportage de TVA tu as même une image avec 2014 écrit sur le panneau de la police ils sont allé chercher loin en titi.
Moi, non plus je ne reconnais pas la Montreal de Legault où le loyer commence à 500$, 600$.
Legault couldn't find Montreal on a map.  Montreal doesn't vote for him so he does nothing for the city.
Way to wash your hands and take 0 responsibility.
Of course he doesn’t recognise Montreal. We didn’t vote for him ha!
Based on the data here [https://www150.statcan.gc.ca/t1/tbl1/en/tv.action?pid=3510007101&pickMembers%5B0%5D=2.1&cubeTimeFrame.startYear=2000&cubeTimeFrame.endYear=2020&referencePeriods=20000101%2C20200101](https://www150.statcan.gc.ca/t1/tbl1/en/tv.action?pid=3510007101&pickMembers%5B0%5D=2.1&cubeTimeFrame.startYear=2000&cubeTimeFrame.endYear=2020&referencePeriods=20000101%2C20200101) I don’t see any red flags at least until 2020 and I doubt anything will be significantly different in 2021.
Based on the data from the SPVM reports available here: [https://spvm.qc.ca/fr/Pages/decouvrir-le-spvm/lorganisation/Rapports-annuels](https://spvm.qc.ca/fr/Pages/decouvrir-le-spvm/lorganisation/Rapports-annuels)
The number of yearly homicides since 2000 is as follows: (excludes parts of the metro that SPVM doesn’t operate in as the figures from statcan show figures for Montreal CMA)
2000: 49 
2001: 66 
2002: 47 
2003: 42 
2004: 41 
2005: 35 
2006: 43 
2007: 42 
2008: 29 
2009: 31 
2010: 37 
2011: 35 
2012: 35 
2013: 28 
2014: 28 
2015: 29 
2016: 23 
2017: 24 
2018: 32 
2019: 25 
2020: 25
Basically in line with the downtrend in the Montreal metro area and pretty much against the idea that homicides have gotten worse. When journalists take a quote from a politician, they should cross check it against what the data says (and yes we can debate whether that data is comprehensive or not) and give a full picture to the readers on the topic.
I checked all the reports in that page and the only one that reports the number of homicides involving a firearm is the one from 2020. I am not sure where the person quoted in the article saying firearm related homicides doubled since 2013 got that number from.
I suspect they were referring to the gun related homicide numbers in all of Canada that seem to have jumped from 134 in 2013 to 277 in 2020 based on data available here https://www150.statcan.gc.ca/t1/tbl1/en/tv.action?pid=3510006901&cubeTimeFrame.startYear=2013&cubeTimeFrame.endYear=2020&referencePeriods=20130101%2C20200101
legault so in touch with the population of quebec, no loner recognize the biggest city in the province. gg
Va t'en sur ton 3e lien, lego! J'ai TELLEMENT hate de ne pas voter pour toi. Also CTV needs to learn that the fact that a politician said something is not ALWAYS news. I won't click the link to drive their metrics, but if this isn't rageclick reporting, I'm not sure what is. Do the story on the shooting, but not the "Montreal is now a cesspool" hot take that some washed-up old papa who hasn't been to a "less affluent" burrough in 20 years decided to say in public for his voteurs de bainlieu.
[deleted]
Ok faque si je résume l'opinion de plusieurs...
Legault c'est un cryptofaciste qui dit ça uniquement pour diviser les montréalais du reste du Québec et par un raccourci douteux, les anglophones et les francophones.
Z'êtes débiles - Coderre a construit toute sa campagne sur la peur des gangs de rue et est indéniablement plus populaire chez les anglophones. Succès souvenir:
>« Nous pouvons avoir un agenda préventif, mais nous devons avoir une forte présence policière en même temps. Je pense aux papas et aux mamans qui ont peur parce qu’ils ne veulent pas laisser leurs enfants aller au parc », a lancé M. Coderre, chef D’Ensemble Montréal, plaidant pour une forte lutte contre le crime.
Wasn’t he born and raised in Sainte Anne de Bellevue?
Maybe he should focus on that town’s municipal politics for a change, we can always use a new mayor
C'est du dogwhistle. "On ne reconnaît plus à Montréal", c'est juste assez vague pour faire des clins d'oeil aux boomers xénophobes de banlieue tout en ne l'étant pas trop comme ça il ne peut pas se faire ramasser.
C'est notre républicain populiste québécois light.
Il a déjà connu Montréal ?
Blaming Trudeau for a provincial problem.
God what a stupid fuck.
Continues with these hot takes to drum up fear, but ignores the data that is easily accessible given how people put it up in the comments
Va chier legault baby boomer a marde
La raison pour laquelle Montréal est une ville sûre c'est que notre tolérance envers la violence est très petite. Même que c'est pas mal tolérance zero. 
C'est pour ça que les gens réagissent aussi fort. C'est pour ça qu'après chaque événement, les medias en parlent.
Chaque événements de violence est un événements de trop.
This morning (november 18th) knife attack near rue des Carrieres and Iberville ..... more and more violence.
J'ai vécu sur le  coin Pascal/Lapierre. Oui, il y avait des meurtres à l'occasion mais de la à avoir peur, pas du tout. Souvent  ce ne sont que des jeunes inconscients.
[Pour tout le monde qui cherchent à gaslighter ici, le crime avec une arme à feu est à la hausse à Montréal.](https://journalmetro.com/actualites/montreal/2656643/bilan-spvm-criminalite-en-baisse-lusage-darmes-a-feu-en-hausse/amp/)
“As shootings climb…” 
Statistically, aren’t they almost the lowest in the entire decade?
[removed]
Good video, horrible timing. Should have released it in the summer instead 😅
Manqué la meilleure à mon avis, Iconoglace sur Beaubien dans la Petite-Patrie
Most of shops in the video are pretty bad with ice cream way too sweet. Here are better options:
Pile ou Glace  
Café Gelato St-Laurent  
Gastronomia Roberto  
Gelaterie Pierino
Jme tappe pas 12 minutes de vidéos pour savoir si Boboule à Verdun y est. Si oui bon video. Si non bullshit.
My dark horse pick: Chocolaterie Chocomax on Decarie. Their ice cream and particularly the vanilla  and/or chocolate soft-serve is a cut above anything else I've tried. I think the ice cream is off season right now though!
J'aimais le Bilboquet, quand j'habitais Montreal.
Missing quite a few good ones; Les Givres, Wild Willys, Bo-Bec, Havres aux Glaces, Choco Max. At least they didn't forget Kem Coba.
My personal favourite is Quai des glaces in Lachine. 
Try the butter toffee flavoured ice cream. It’s sooooo good. 
I heard their Key Lime pie is also very good.
is this one of those videos where 90% of the places are located in the Plateau?
I'm glad they included Swirl, but the ice cream at Noble Cafe is meh (the coffee flavour is WAY too sweet) and they didn't include Les Givres???
Take in that it was snowing in Montreal yesterday
I wanna try these, I'm an ice cream guy and have lived in Bologna (Italy) for 6 years and after those years there unfortunately none of these look  like a real good one. Oh boy, I miss that place too much, there was even a university called Carpigiani (Gelato University)  where the ice cream & patisserie is the only department.
Nut allergies kinda suck lol
Really thought out! Mmh wondering if this comment will hit the generateor as well...
https://youtu.be/UcN7SGGoCNI
Moi de voir tout ce beau monde manger dla cremaglace en plein été au chaud, en 2019 sans pandémie ca m'a rendu aggressif, et un peu triste :/
Bélanger. Coin Chambord.
je me disais la même chose
And their chocolate is really good too, they're by far my favourite for a vanilla soft serve dipped in dark chocolate.
Amazing soft serve unlike Diperie down the street which I have no clue why it gets lineups.
> Deux jeunes de 17 ans sortent alors de la voiture. Le duo tente de kidnapper un adolescent du même âge qui sortait de l’école. Un ami de la personne visée a voulu s’interposer. Les deux victimes ont été battues et ont subi des blessures mineures. Un des suspects a tiré dans les airs, avant de prendre la fuite en voiture. 
What the fuck
>Le tireur présumé a été contrôlé en soirée. D’abord arrêté pour voies de fait et tentative d’enlèvement, il a été libéré avec conditions après sa rencontre avec les enquêteurs.
Hm...
Le gars a recruté 3 amis criminels (gangstérisme? Préméditation?), s'est procuré un pistolet (arme de poing = arme restreinte, donc très probablement illégalement), s'est promené en véhicule avec une armée prohibée chargée, à déchargé cette arme dans un lieu public, a commis des voies de fait ainsi qu'une aggression armée sur un mineur, s'est sauvé de la police, s'est fait prendre...
PUIS AU FINAL OU LUI DIT C'EST COOL PREND TON $200, PASSE GO, PIS JOUE UN AUTRE TOUR EN ATTENDANT?!
Calvaire, si tout ça ne permet pas au policier de dire "ok mon chum, tu vas passer la nuit en prison en attendant de voir un juge" alors qu'est-ce que ça fucking prend?
Voyons, il me semble que si t'es un gouvernement qui est au prise avec un problème de violence par armes chez les jeunes, la première chose que tu fais c'est de rendre ça le plus dur possible pour eux: si on te pogne avec un pistolet, tu rentre en dedans en attendant ton procès, pas de possibilité de libération avant le 2/3 de la peine, pis des affaires comme ça, tsé?
Pas surprenant. J'ai fréquenté Curé-Antoine-Labelle et Polyjeunesse durant mon adolescence, c'pas vraiment les pogos les plus dégelés de la boîte, mettons...
Story time
J'ai un ado dans une école publique un peu rough et un autre dans un collège privé, disons, pour faire image, du top 10, et ni un ni l'autre ne réagit vraiment à toutes ces nouvelles concernant la possession/l'utilisation d'armes par des jeunes gars de +/- leur âge. 
Et ce ne sont pas des tough du tout, même plutôt de gentils nerds proprets, à leur affaire et soucieux de bien agir et d'avoir des amis sur le sens du monde. Mais même eux, ça ne leur fait pas un gros pli... Je leur dis que ça devient notre affaire quand c'est des passants, du monde pas lié au crime qui sont atteint, et leur réaction est plutôt fataliste. 
Alors que nous sommes une famille unie, qu'on fait des sorties, du sport ensemble, qu'on discute à tous les jours, au déjeuner, au retour de l'école (2 parents en télétravail) et au souper, qu'ils font encore une partie de leurs devoirs à la table parce qu'on s'intéresse à ce qu'ils apprennent, etc. Et, malgré ça, ils sont désensibilisés.
Au début de l'année scolaire le plus jeune a reçu des menaces anonymes répétées par textos qui disaient en gros "t'apportes 200$ à tel endroit à telle heure", une place vraiment proche de chez nous, "si t'es pas là, on sait où habite ta famille". Il n'avait aucune idée de qui ça pouvait venir, n'était en conflit avec personne, etc., donc il a conclu que ça ne lui était pas adressé. Pour le dire franchement, il était plutôt indifférent...
De mon côté, j'ai fini par trouver (par amis et parents d'amis interposés, tout un labyrinthe) qu'il s'agissait d'un garçon qu'il connaissait du primaire. J'appelle sa mère et lui transfère les textos; elle capote ben raide, et j'entends son fils lui dire que c'était une joke. Heille. Si j'étais flabergastée, je pense qu'elle l'était encore plus. Je n'ai pas porté plainte à la police, mais on a eu une sérieuse discussion à quatre disons...
Tout ça pour dire que c'est vraiment dans l'air du temps et qu'aucune famille/communauté ne peut venir à bout de cette culture de chnoutte par elle-même. C'est la responsabilité de tous de "rattraper" les jeunes le plus tôt possible, sans isoler les parents. Nos enfants sont exposés à tout ça bien malgré nous; on a beau les élever dans des conditions maximales et vivre dans un milieu à des années lumière de ceux qu'on nous présente dans les médias comme étant les plus touchés par cette culture, ça finit par les (nous) atteindre pareil.
Jesus. Fucking. Christ. What the fuck.
Bon... on est rendu la asteur hein.
Apparemment, c'est la pauvreté qui transforme les jeunes en psychopathes...même si ces jeunes là viennent de riches familles
Il faut que la violence cesse. J’adore ma ville et je déteste quand ce genre de situation se déroule.
Bon ben c'est pas juste Mourial qui va mal.
Just sublime mate
J'ai lu quelques que par que Montréal est la ville qui a eu le plus de coup de feu dans des écoles.  Que dans toute l'Amérique du Nord et du Sud aucune ville (dans les lecole) en as eu autant que la province de Québec. 
C'est tu vrais ?
(Sorry for my French lol)
> Deux jeunes de 17 ans sortent alors de la voiture. Le duo tente de kidnapper un adolescent 
hier, a montreal-nord vers 16h-16h30, une adolescente(15-16ans) a ete approchée par un suspect, prise au bras, tiré dans la rue, et le gars a tenté de la rentrer dans une voiture (possiblement avec un complice qui conduisait)... une dame qui a vu la situation a composer le 911, bloquer la rue avec son vehicule, la police est arrivee est l;e gars fut arretté/menotté
j'en sais pas plus, mais fuck ca fait peur la en plein jour de meme.
C'est halluciant
Il s'est passé quelque chose de similaire dans mon coin de banlieue aussi, des wannabe gangsters.
Un vrai film tout ca. Bientôt dans un téléroman prêt de chez vous
dude i graduated high school with 3 murderers (the same murder) and they served 3.5 out of 11 years sentenced.
Deux raisons possibles derrière ça, selon moi:
1. Le suspect a accepté de collaborer avec la police pour leur permettre de remonter à la source de l'arme en question.
2. La police a pas trouvé l'arme durant l'arrestation. Ils espèrent donc que le gars est assez tata pour retourner la chercher après être sorti de l'interrogation, et il se fait surveiller.
Ça prend au moins 18 ans pour avoir un PAL ou RPAL, donc assurément illégal.
Aussi, si tu es chez toi et te fais attaquer, et tire un coup de semonce, ben tu vas te faire confisquer tout ton stock, perdre ton permis, et au mieux tu vas passer des années en cour, sinon amende+prison.
Faut pas se surprendre que les détenteurs de permis sont en criss de toujours être les bouc émissaires et de voir leur stock devenir prohibé pendant que les vrais criminels s'en sortent avec une tite tape.
Vraiment... Pauvres ados qui se ramassent là à cause que c'est la seule école dans leur secteur. La violence est présente à presque tous les jours là-bas :'(
That's an actual expression people use? Well alright then.
j'pas contre. (et j'ai pas d'auto)  
ça prend des bornes sur les rues, ça prend des bornes dans les garages publiques et privés.
Tout à fait d'accord. Et pas juste à Montréal, partout dans la province. C'est ce qui m'a fait loué une hybride vs une voiture électrique à 100%, le peur de manquer de bornes pour recharger. Je comprends pas pourquoi toutes les stations services et les haltes routières n'en contiennent pas plus. On veut moins de véhicules polluants, mais la voiture électrique reste encore comme une voiture qu'on devrait utiliser pour des petits déplacements seulement...
Absolument.  Tu ne peux pas encourager (ou forcer) la population à choisir des véhicules électriques si ils n’ont pas de bornes de recharges. Quand je magasinais mon auto, j’ai cherché des bornes autour de mon quartier et franchement c’était pitoyable.
C'est un peu n'importe quoi... La Norvege est le pays ou l'electrique est (et de loin) le plus democratisé dans le monde, la comparaison de n'importe quel territoire VS Oslo va toujours etre a l'avantage de ce dernier... J'ai une full électrique a Montréal, j'ai TOUJOURS des bornes disponibles a moins de 500m de chez moi (j'en ai 6 dans ce rayon, toujours 3-4 de libre MINIMUM en tout temps). J'ai été a sept-iles en vacances cet été avec l'auto, j'ai une autonomie d'environ 450km (l'été, pas l'hiver hein :D), et y avait des bornes ultra rapide (400km rechargé en 50 mins) tout au long du trajet. Des bornes, et un reseau vraiment dense, on l'a déjà au Quebec, c'est plus d'autos électriques (et pas ces atroces 'plug in hybrid' hein), donc plus d'aides gouvernementales qu'il faut (en particulier sur les BEV d'occasion), pas plus de bornes (encore que je trouve ca cool, c'est juste qu'on en a largement assez)...
1- Montréal est "car cancel culture". Va sur le banc de parc au coin d'Iberville/Hochelaga pour lire un livre dans le traffic, mais t'auras jamais de borne pour ton char, oublie ça: les urbanistes trouvent pas ça beau.
2- Ils ont réussi à vendre les autos mais pas l'infrastructure de recharge qui va avec: ça a toujours été con de croire que t'allais arriver et oh une borne ! Tu vas toujours te battre pour une borne à Montréal, toujours, peu importe le nombre qu'il va y avoir.
3- T'auras pas de bus urbains à charge rapide, tout simplement parcequ'il n'y a pas de place pour les infrastructures de recharge: ça va être des charges lentes pendant la nuit. Jamais ils vont prioriser des bornes de recharge pour des véhicules individuels quand il n'y en a même pas pour le transport collectif.
encore faut-il quelle soit fonctionnel! https://www.journaldequebec.com/2021/11/16/des-bornes-de-recharge-hors-dusage-lors-dune-interruption-electrique-1
Y a une affaire que je catch pas : y a des cyclistes et citoyens écoresponsables à Montréal qui sont tannés des chars parce que ça pollue pis que c'est dangereux pour els cyclistes. Mais même quand on va avoir plein de chars électriques, les ceuses qui conduisent comme des troudkus vont quand même être dangereux pis ça veut même dire qu'y va probablement avoir plus de chars à Montréal, vu que certains citoyens écoresponsables vont s'en acheter, vu que ça pollue pas. Donc je comprends pas de voir autant de Montréalais être autant pour l'idée des chars électriques....
Non! On a pas besoin de plus de bornes. On a besoin de plus de borne rapide et pas le stupide "rApIdE" ou "uLtrA rApIde" du circuit électrique qui font au maximum du 50 kW au mieux. 
Ça prend \_au moins\_ du 100 kW et ça doit être sur le bord des autoroutes et des axes principaux de transport. Tsé, la recharche de voiture électrique sera toujours plus longue que cette de voiture à essence, il faut donc sauve du temps à quelque part. Donc entre montréal et québec quelques points d'arrêt qui représentent des détours de 3 min maximum avec une cinquantaine de borne >100 kW. Ça c'est une infrastructure qui changement vraiment des mentalités. 
NB: 100 kW ce n'est pas exagéré comme minimum puisque les nouvelles bornes tesla font du 250 kW.
Y'a un problème avec tout ça.
C'est ben beau l'électrification de l'automobile, mais à un moment donné le réseau électrique aura peine à fournir. On ne peut pas juste brancher plein de bornes de recharge partout comme on veut. Ça risque de surcharger le réseau.
Ça prend un investissement massif au provincial avec Hydro-Québec pour assurer le succès d'un tel projet. Et encore je trouve que c'est pas très réaliste.
Je suis pas mal certain qu'avec les mesures annoncées, les producteurs d'automobiles électriques ne pourront pas fournir à la demande. Les batteries qu'on a en ce moment ne sont pas suffisamment adéquate pour une production de masse, dû aux minerai nécessaires pour sa production et aussi à cause des limitations en terme de temps de recharge et de problèmes de chaleur durant la recharge rapide.
Ça nous prend une batterie à état solide au plus sacrant et il faut qu'on priorise davantage l'expansion du transport collectif - et pas juste municipal. Ça nous prend plus de trains rapides entre les régions.
Et pas juste dans les parkings de Rona.
Le Quebec est le plus gros producteur d'electricité en amerique du nord. Ca serait une bonne chose.
ça prend des rues en bon état aussi hen!
This idea blew my mind.
Aux haltes routières!
Les bornes sont grosses et laides, ya tu moyen de faire de quoi de souterrain? En ville ça va être super horrible...
Ça prend du metro partout 😜
Ça prend des bornes aussi dans les parkings de ruelle en-arrière des blocs de condo/appartements.
Quoique j'ai pas grand espoir que ça arrive.
ca prend des bonnes a recharge rapide, et quand je dis rapide, aussi rapide que faire le plein d'essence, sinon on dirait des vaches plugger sur des machines, mais ici c'est les vaches qui recoient du lait de la borne
Vraiment? La [peur de manquer de bornes?](https://lecircuitelectrique.com/en/find-a-station/) Tu es dans un coin ou il n'y en a pas du tout?
Tu penses pas qu'avec plus d'autos électriques les bornes a coté de chez toi qui sont toujours libre ne le seront plus?
Try shwap club. They will give you a store credit for every piece of clothing they take.
Empire Exchange?
I think you can do this at Marché Noir on Ontario
Set up on any random corner in the mile end on a nice weekend.
Commenting because I’m also curious. I’ve heard of renaissance but have never experienced it myself!
Your garage
Nobody wants to buy your mustard stained white tank tops
They’re very picky they say no Zara, fast fashion… which is what I mostly have
Rennaissance takes donations, they do not buy
I'm sorry for you, but fast fashion is usually a no go for thrift resellers. It will be hard finding a shop that will want those kind of pieces. What you can try is selling them yourself on websites like Depop, or do a garage sale this summer
But "professionnal" clothes resellers? Though luck.
Yeah, I make a couple trips a year to Renaissance to drop off older clothing. It goes back into circulation. (As im\_pod said, its a donation. You get nothing tangible.)
I know that’s what I was saying. I know there’s places like in Germany where you can both buy and sell clothes by weight
faut croire que les gens avaient besoin de changement
Pourquoi le quartier le plus densément peuplé a voté pour coderre
Would be a good idea to have a label on each map for clarity.
Source-better view of map: [https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/montreal/valerie-plante-coderre-montreal-1.6251274](https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/montreal/valerie-plante-coderre-montreal-1.6251274)
Plante: Purple
Coderre: Blue
Holness: Green (very small)
Carte de l'embourgeoisement circa 2021
I dont get it.
thought PM had RDP already?!
anyhow, PM got stronger in Ahuntsic.
L'arrondissement le plus densément peuplé est le plateau Mont-Royal. Tu réfères à Parc-Ex? Si oui, c'est parce que c'est majoritairement immigrant non? Je suis sous l'impression qu'au Québec les communautés suivent souvent le sens le plus "liberal" puisqu'il s'agit de l'avenue politique qui ouvre le plus de portes à l'émancipation économique.
Chaque calice de carte postée ici ne fait aucune distinction entre  
- Vote pour la mairie  
- Vote pour l'arrondissement  
- Vote pour le conseiller    
RDP est typiquement le genre d'endroit à voter Coderre, mais à voter localement pour le candidat de PM. (ou l'inverse, whatever)
Ouais, ça doit être ça. Et messemble que parc-ex est plus dense (21,000/km2) que le plateau (12 840 hab./km2) mais c'est Wikipedia qui me dit ça
Merci pour la precision!
Oui c'est pour ça que j'ai référé à l'arrondissement plutôt qu'au quartier, sinon en effet Parc-Ex doit bien être le plus dense.
Difference c’est que la mairesse et le chef de police n’ont pas été faire de photo op à la mort Meriem.
Refuse the search get suspended , get searched find vape pen get suspended. Since when are staff members allowed to pull strip searches? Searching a backpack or desk is one thing but asking to remove clothing is a charter violation.
Ouate de phoque
Pendant un moment je me croyais dans le journal des oignons
Of course the ministry of education sides with these messed up teachers.
Revolting. I hope the families take legal action.
What would have happened if female students were subjected to the same process?
A mon opinion, si c'est assez grave pour vouloir chercher sous les vêtements, c'est assez grave pour appeler la police et les parents a la place. Si c'est pas assez grave pour appeler la police ou les parents, laissez tomber.
Si un prof demandait a un de mes enfants de baisser ses cullotes, je lui collerait tellement de poursuites que ses descendants auraient besoin d'un avocat.
It should be so simple to keep students in class, and to not coercively strip them. Easy even.Their drug policy (which may be federally or provincially imposed) is archaic, punitive and carceral, and is not designed to keep students in schooling, but to intimidate, humiliate, and abuse students; it does nothing to prevent drug use, educate about drug use, or humanise drug users.
&#x200B;
if you are making students strip at school, that is sexual harassment; these kids should take legal action, this was totally unwarranted.
More trouble for the Lester B. Pearson School Board. Oh well.
Not for a weapons search. Not for a drugs search. But for vapes. Insane.
When I was in high school a fee decades ago all the students would smlle cigarettes on the steps of the school at every break and it was fine.
Times have changed but I don't know if this is better.
"The Lester B. Pearson School Board says it is investigating and in a statement said it did "not believe there was any malicious intent underlying these actions."
So if someone doesn't know something is wrong, it's ok?
Tout ça pour un vapoteur? Sérieux??
Sue that school. Doesn't matter if the kid was being disrespectful or not, it's insane that they even considered this.
2005: Montreal students upset after being told to hike their pants
2021: Montreal students upset after being told to drop their pants
We need a new national holiday to reflect and reconcile with the victims of this crime
One way of thinking of this is that we entrust schools with our children, and occasionally they have to wield the power of parents. If this teenager had been embarrassed by a search by his parents, it wouldn’t be in the news.
[deleted]
> Searching a backpack or desk is one thing but asking to remove clothing is a charter violation.
desk and locker is ok, school property. backpack requires police to empty it out.  They can however ask you to empty it out, at this point you pull out w/e you want and thats it, they cant force themselves in, but you can also refuse, period.
[deleted]
Its not rly about siding with the teachers, they just wanna avoid possible conflicts with the unions...
Try Thèsez-vous, near metro Jarry. The space is specially thought for PhD students who are in redaction. You can book your spot for 5$/4h, get free coffee and tea, can bring your lunch. The students work/study/write for 50min, then everybody takes a break at the same time for 10min, and go for another 50min stretch. It SAVED my sanity for the last year of my PhD.
Not sure about university spaces but the BAnQ can be a nice place to work/study.
Try one of the Anticafés, the originals were cheap coffee shops where you pay by the hour for unlimited coffee, snacks, wifi, etc. Some of them are still cheap, new ones are a bit fancier and expensive
The one on Place des Arts is super cozy but pre-covid was overcrowded
Try the one on Ontario Est for a more neighbourhood vibe and is even an antique furniture store at the same time
Go to UdeM. Just straight up walk in and go to a library or to a computer lab, no one will stop you.
You can also go to the Désautels school of McGill on weekdays straight through the front door.
If you're feeling adventurous there is also an underground entrance to Burnside Hall that is open in the day all days of the week.
You're technically not allowed right now because of pandemic measures, but no one cares. Actually, people care so little there is a homeless person that has essentially been living in Burnside hall for a few years now.
Thesez-vous has co-working spaces in Montreal (around Jean Talon/Jarry métro). You need to reserve the spaces and they go fast, but they're specifically geared towards graduate students writing/working. They also organize writing retreats outside of the city if you're into that (or at least they did pre-covid).
I mean they can be busy and crowded but I'm the Concordia library as I type this and its not super crowded. 2 seats to my right and two seats to my left are empty. Other spots to work and study would be actual university classrooms that are usually empty at this time but doors are unlocked. Mcgill and Concordia specifically. Otherwise, theres Crew collective cafe its beautiful and most people are there working and studying
Atwater Library, Westmount library, Mordecai-Richler library
Depending on your budget, Crew Café has a coworking space (separate section from the actual café), where you can rent a desk! Lots of people I know have tried it and loved it as they now work from home!
Not sure where you're located, but the Vanier Library on Concordia's Loyola campus is cozy af and it was always pretty easy to find a quiet corner. Little out of the way though.
Try the Bibliothèque des Lettres et Sciences Humaines (BLSH) on the Université de Montréal campus. It's huge and always quiet, even when crowded
Insiders Cafe and Cowork is good place! They have a location on Crescent and St.Denis.
Maybe look into "Breather"? Used it a few years ago, they might still be active.
Bibliothèque des sciences de l'UQAM at Place des Arts. There's no one downstairs.
Caravan Cafe in Côté des neige has a working space upstairs. It’s a cozy place with free coffee and tea.
Library at Berri uqam. Gorgeous spot
Edit:there are also we work spaces I can't remember the name but there is a cooperative one on Ontario I think in the east end. Maybe your employee would be ok with that. It's slightly across the street from Atomic café.
Bain Colonial is quite relaxing and they serve an all you can eat sausage buffet.
Oh my god. This is incredible. 
I'm in a similar situation to OP and this is exactly what I need right now.
Wow! Ça me donne le goût de m'inscrire pour faire un doctorat!
It became 6$ :(. Many universities offer promotional codes though. But +1 for thèsez vous, its the only place i actually get shit done productively.
Is that only for PhD students?
Ils devraient faire le test à 3h52am pour qu'il soit plus réaliste. /s
Surprenant que leur stratégie pour sensibiliser le monde est d’envoyer des fausses alertes.
Edit, par exemple:
Avant, j’habitais dans un condo où le rdc était partagé par McDonald. Régulièrement ils déclenchaient l’alarme de feu par erreur pendant la nuit. Après une couple de fois, le monde restait couché au son de l’alarme.
Quand le lave-auto d’à côté a pris feu à 2AM, tout le monde qui n’avait pas la vue sur le feu de leur fenêtre pensait que c’était encore le McDo, alors que cette fois-ci, c’était bien vrai (heureusement, les pompiers ont bien contenu l'incendie).
Testing for next lockdown and curfew
Incroyable ces tests ! Ça va sonner en titi
C'est fini
the damn thing ignored Game Launcher's DND and popped right on top of my game.
Ah, the joys of a rooted phone: I just disable the services of the app, and the app itself. If I want news, I'll seek it myself. Nothing else then an alarm, to me
Pour moi c'est l'effet contraire, ça me désensibilise. Après Toute les alertes amber a des heures pas rapport et aussi 1-2 alertes pour la covid, je ne regarde même plus avant de fermer la fenêtre.
c'est plus une vérification que le système fonctionne que de la sensibilisation. Peu importe ce qu'ils disent par contre, ils vont se faire chier dessus car il y a tout le temps quelqu'un qui va chialer.
Tu penses que les alertes amber devraient juste être à des heures raisonnables...?
Ok calme toi yen a apeine eu des alertes
Presque personne ne regarde avant de fermer la fenetre: C'est le seul moyen de faire taire l'alarme. Et une fois qu'on silence l'alarme, on ne peut plus lire l'alerte.
C'est un design absolument mauvais.
Il peut aussi penser que les alertes Amber ne devrait pas utiliser le plus haut niveau d'alerte disponible qui indique un danger pour TA vie immédiatement.
Le monde enleve l'option parceque ca sonne a 3 ou 4h du matin. En plus l'alerte est la meme qunne attaque nucléaire. 
Pourquoi pas débarquer d'un échelon ou 2? Ca passerais mieux. A date toute les alerte on ete a des heures de fou, ou presque.
Underrated comment.
Oui. 
L'objectif est d'inviter les québécois à être attentifs à des caractéristiques précises chez des enfants et leurs accompagnateurs. Pour ça, il faut que les gens qui reçoivent l'alerte la lise attentivement, puis qu'ils sortent pour avoir une chance de voir le dit enfant.   
En envoyant l'alerte aux petites heures, 3 à 5 heures AM disons (on en a eu une il n'y a pas si longtemps dans ces heures il me semble), tu atteints 2 groupes de personnes principalement : Ceux qui sont en fin de shift et qui ont déjà peu d'attention et les gens qui dorment. Très peu de chances que ces 2 groupes de personnes lisent attentivement l'alerte amber pour porter une attention particulière dans la journée qui suit. 
Tu envois la même alerte à 7-8 heures du matin (un délais d'environ 4 heures, pas tant que ça), ceux qui viennent de se coucher suite à leur shift son en tabarnak, mais ça l'air que ce n'est pas grave réveiller du monde. Ceux qui viennent de se lever on déjà pris un café et peuvent lire l'alerte avec attention, puis sortent travailler. Mon avis est que le gouvernement a beaucoup de chance d'atteindre son objectif d'avoir des ados et adultes qui portent attention avec le deuxième scénarios. Pis en plus, tu ne fait pas chier genre 75% et plus des québécois.
Je suis déjà calme. 
Je fais juste dire que ça a l'effet contraire a l'objectif du gouvernement sur moi.
Il suffit d'aller sur r/Quebec pour lire l'alerte après avoir muter la patente qui sonne.
Ça c'est valide comme critique, mais c'est pas ce dont OP s'est plaint.
How dare they, essayer de trouver un enfant disparu et possiblement en danger pendant qu'on dort, pas mal moins important que mon sommeil ou qu'une bombe. Il devrait le chuchoté dans les rues a place, ils trouveraient plus vie et sans nous déranger! /s
Please use the [new thread](https://old.reddit.com/r/montreal/comments/qx8350/the_winter_christmas_and_nye_20212022_thread_le/?sort=new), I corrected the years
Utilisez le [nouveau fil](https://old.reddit.com/r/montreal/comments/qx8350/the_winter_christmas_and_nye_20212022_thread_le/?sort=new), j'ai corrigé les années dans le titre.
Restez alerte, il y aura clairement des visites guidées gratuites de Montréal annoncée d'ici quelques semaines!
Je viens de voir qu'ils ont mis des sapins illuminés sur St-Laurent.
Falalalala lala la la.
Avez-vous des suggestions pour les meilleures bûches de Noël ? Je voudrais aller ailleurs qu’à Première Moisson
C’est pas 2021/2022 le temps des fêtes?
Can we call it the Mods' Tour now? Organized by r/Montreal
Pâtisserie Rhubarbe, Sachère, Patrice Patissier ou Chez Potier. Mais je te conseille de réserver assez tôt.
Fuck. ben oui.
On se fait des tshit!
\+1 pour Rhubarbe.
Ah super, je vais regarder ça aujourd’hui. Merci beaucoup!
Ça arrive à chaque élection, les gens font des erreures humaines et comme tout est à la main...
JOURNAL DE MONTRÉAL FAIT UN GROS TITRE QUI FAIT PEUR À TOUT LE MONDE.  
Il y a et il va toujours avoir des irrégularités dans le comptage de votes.  
Et je préfère qu'il y en a sur des votes en papier que des votes électroniques.
Pour avoir souvent dû recompter deux fois ou plus ma caisse du temps que je travaillais à l'épicerie....
Toute une erreure...
> Denis Coderre n’a reçu aucun vote dans le décompte officiel pour la mairie de Montréal, même si ses candidats locaux en ont eu respectivement 22 et 32. Pendant ce temps, le candidat à la mairie de la ligue communiste, Beverly Bernardo, a obtenu son meilleur score en ville : 35 votes.
Ils décrivent comme une “irrégularité” tout ce qui ne suit pas la tendance. C’est sensationnaliste mais je ne vois rien dans l’article qui ressemble à une fraude. Leur enquête consiste à chercher des chiffres dans une spreadsheet qui s’éloigne de la moyenne statistique, plus l’échantillon est grand, plus il va y en avoir. Je n’ai pas de misère à croire que les habitants d’une meme rue aient décidé de voter marxiste en masse… à la grandeur de montreal, il doit bien y avoir une sous communauté de marxistes quelque part. Ils sous entendent aussi que tout le monde vote pour le meme partie aux 3 paliers sans tenir compte des candidats (et que tout le monde vote aux 3 paliers). Dans 2 semaines les mêmes journalistes d’enquête vont trouver la rue avec le plus de décorations de noel à montreal et appeler ça une irrégularité.
> * Urne 56:  Curieusement, le candidat indépendant à la mairie de Montréal Dimitri Mourkes en a eu 82.
> * Urne 506: Le candidat indépendant Dimitri Mourkes obtient quant à lui 33 votes, son troisième meilleur total sur l’île. 
> * Urne 920: Le candidat indépendant à la mairie Dimitri Mourkes, qui arrive juste avant Mme Plante dans l’ordre alphabétique des candidats, a obtenu 127 votes, son meilleur score en ville. 
Ça fait beaucoup de votes pour un NPC!
Clean mate I like the use of fold and gradient!
Does JdM have an axe to grind against Plante?
Il y a des commentaires qui font peur !
En gros, l'intégrité de l'éléction est à poubelle mais whatever hein, c't'une bonne gauchiste qu'y a win...
Oui, papier compté à la main. La tricherie plus facile à découvrir, plus de chance qu'elle demeure marginale.
>Et je préfère qu'il y en a sur des votes en papier que des votes électroniques.
Ça
Pas de surprise avec leurs problemes de main d ouevre decrie avant l election
Une autre conspiration de Big Pauvre contre les opprimés de la droite.
Calmos, des erreurs comme ça arrive tout le temps et c'est juste important pour les luttes sérrées où y'aura justement un recomptage.
STOP THE STEAL! COUNT THOSE BALLOTS! STOP THE VOTE!
t'es meme pas original
Donc nous avons un système où on peut rapidement voir des anomalies, avec des données ouvertes pour tous les citoyens, et un protocole pour recompter toutes les urnes qu'on veut.
Pis on a problème d'intégrité?
Big Pauvre wow
you know what would help? certainly not tougher gun laws or any of that shit. 
how about social programs for disenfranchised youths? How about communities denouncing the street gangs in their own communities instead of protecting them? How about parents parenting and providing better role models for their children instead of 6ix9ine?
its a sad state of affairs right now. and inflation, wage stagnation, and the overall economy certainly doesn't help those at risk.
Ça fait changements des ''causes'' comme les antivax ou le couvre-feu.....
Organisé par le Forum Jeunesse de Saint-Michel: https://www.facebook.com/ForumJeunesseSaintMichel/posts/4258322464279043
Qui est mort dimanche dernier? Ca l'air que j'habite en dessous d'une roche, j'en ai pas entendu parler
We cant be soft on crime or this city will end up like San Francisco or Chicago. A criminal behind bars is a criminal that cant harm innocent people. I am not against marches, but it will take more than to change anything.
Non contre les stupides qui veulent prendre nos armes.
C'est drette à côté de chez nous, autant le meurtre que la marche.
C'est pratiquement aussi proche que ce qui est arrivé 15ième/Crémazie il y a deux mois.
Ridicule.
Ça va faire quoi une marche anyways? Comme si quelqu'un était pro-violence. C'est pas une manifestation qui va faire dequoi.
On a eu des élections et le monde ont élu le status quo. Il y aura aucun changement. Le libéral fédéral a saisi l'opportunité pour renforcé sa loi sur les légaux, ça a rien changé pi ils s'en félicitent.
C'est juste ridicule qu'on en soit rendu à ça à Montréal.
Je dis ça je dis rien. Il y a aucune solution à la monté de la violence réalisable dans un état libéral comme on vie présentement.
check le premier commentaire
"how about social programs for disenfranchised youths?"
lol
> certainly not tougher gun laws or any of that shit
They might. Closer to 9/10 firearms used in violent crimes in Canada are illegal (as in never legally owned in Canada) firearms mostly smuggled in from the US. 
Despite this, recent (2017) legislation removed all mandatory minimum sentences related to firearms offences, for individuals, convicted of a criminal offence with an illegal firearm. 
But it gets better, the recent Order in Council (2020) re-classified about 100,000 different firearms that were up until that point legal to purchase if you obtained the correct licence, as prohibited. Meaning that over night, a lawful gun owner, with a lawfully obtained firearm, now possessed a firearm that if they transported or used at a range, would be facing criminal sanctions that still have a mandatory minimum prison sentence of 1 year if convicted.
Maybe if we imposed as harsh of penalties on criminals with illegal guns committing violent crimes with them, as we did on law abiding Canadians, we'd make some progress.
Je suis d'accord avec toi, sauf là ou tu oppose "certainly not tougher gun laws".  Il y a quand même une différence entre un jeune sous l'influence d'une culture gangster, et un importateur d'arme du crime organisé, et je suis sur que "gun laws" ça s'applique assez différemment de un à l'autre. 
Comme dirait la petite fille de Old El Paso : Porque no los dos?
As you said, this economy will have a major impact on things to come. Violence will only increase if people can't afford rent, food and other basic necessities.
Wô là... T'en demandes pas mal.
Ça prend déjà des meilleurs revenus pour les employés, des loyers plus abordables, moins d'heures de travail pour s'occuper de nos familles, des programmes sociaux.
Heille, ça coûte de l'argent tout ça!
/s
They dont use legal gun. But social program and social help for the people in need is necessery
People need to stop with this kind of discourse. The solution is two pronged: better enforcement and better alternatives. Yet, a lot of people here are gaslighting and ignoring that gun laws or 'any of that shit' have an essential role in fixing the problem.
Ultimately, yes, the system has a role in the problem, but we must not forget that there is an individual responsibility to the people who decide to engage in violent crime.
Guns have no place in Canadian society.
Malheureusement il y aura pas autant de monde.
Un p’tit jeune de 16 ans aucunement reliée a sweet fuck all.
Soutenir la famille? Aider les jeunes à assimiler leur trauma? Voyons sous quelle roche tu vis.
En plus que c'est difficile à faire un drive by stabbing.
canada already has tough as shit gun laws in regards to acquiring a legal firearm. More restrictions on that won't help the illegal guns already in the country.
for example, banning legal handguns on the island of montreal, won't do fuck all for gun crime. Banning arbitrarily black rifles because they look scary and "assault-y" makes zero sense either.
Which laws would you make tougher?
C'était évident: l'application de la force est proportionelle. Plus le gars se débat, plus il faut appliquer de force. C'est la réaction du gars qui a fait dégénérer l'intervention.
Je lis les commentaires et il y a vraiment 2 différents enjeux ici.
1 - La STM doit-elle demander aux agents d'utiliser de la force quand un passager ne paie pas et tente de se sauver?
2 - Les agents ont utilisé de la force PAS pcq le gars a sauté les tourniquets (ils en arrêtent des dizaines par semaine sans utiliser de force) mais pcq'il a tenté de s'esquiver, s'est débattu et a montré des signes d'aggression envers eux.
Man the girl screaming was annoying. If anything, screaming like that for no reason makes things worst, because the guards cannot think properly.
I like your work m8
That’s point of busting someone on the turnstile just check fares randomly as they do in Europe.
[deleted]
So we conclude this is normal and accepted procedure for a jumped turnstile? We're okay with this?
I dont get it.
Jump the turnstile; get tackled harder than Brady after his defensive line failed to block the blitz.
I'd toss a creampie in a politician's face and wouldnt even get tackled that hard ffs.
This response gets me every time -  BuT hE WaS rESisTinG!  Ya no shit, most people will have an automatic defense response to being tackled/arrested/restrained.  That's why de-escalation tactics exist...
On a un "génie" (/s) de juge qui a décidé que c'était illégal.
- Infraction au code du métro
- Refuser de s'identifier a un agent de la paix après avoir commi une infraction
- Prendre la fuite alors qu'on est en état d'arrestation
- Résister a son arrestation
Oui, juste pour 3,50...
Yeah, because the video doesn't show everything that hapened before, and the guy was really agressive. 
Don't trust everything you see on social media.
Yes, we are.
Arretez de prétendre que ca c'est "juste" parce qu'il a sauté les tourniquets: C'est parce qu'il a sauté les tourniquets, c'est fait prendre, a refusé de s'identifier puis a pris la fuite et finalement résisté a son arrestation et aggressé les agents.
Il y a des cas ou les agents de la paix ont tort, mais ca n'en est pas un.
Ton exemple est pas très bon...approches-toi de Jean Chrétien voir si tu va te faire étrangler ou pas lol
Heille, il venait de sauter les tourniquets, il s'est pas fait arrêter par hasard, donc son "réflexe de défense", il peut se le mettre ou je pense: c'est lui l'aggresseur.
The thing is, we don't know from that video if de-escalation tactics were used. Maybe they were, and failed. 
All that we have is the report of an independant attorney who says that the agents are not to blame. So what the videos shows is now a moot point, and the real discussion is: can we trust the judgment of that attorney, and if not, why?
I hate that this comment is being disliked.. so many boot lickers in Montréal
Mordu quelqu'un jusqu'au sang....
En pleine fucking pandémie !!!!
ive seen a guy jumping the turnstile and get arrested at Square-Vic, just before COVID and it was a sad ass scene.
Guy went down the stairs with us(GF and I)as we passed with our cards, he jumped and ran for it towards the cote-vertu direction, but the arriving train was going the other direction, so he got screwed. The agents came running downstairs, the guy tried to run past them and VLAM BAM FLIM FLAM SHIMMY SHIM SHAM, guy was tackled, almost made a solid corkscrew 900 misty flip before landing in a semi-majestic as fuck position, something a Cirque du Soleil contortionist would have been jealous about... but ouch.... all that for $3.50?  good thing there are no red lights in the metro...
Ouf, certaines des soumissions sont juste horriblement mauvaises
Je propose Louis Riel. Le leader métis pendu par MacDonald, figure marquante dans l’histoire autochtone et francophone du Québec et du Canada
Someone suggested making it a rotating platform of statues, every year or so get a new one and replace it. Don't know how well that would work out economically but I think it'd be cool.
Cool d'utiliser le mot Charette.
https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charrette\_(expression)
On devrait mettre une statue de René Lévesque, c’est son boulevard et il devrait regarder l’immeuble de la Sun Life qui a changé son adresse qui était sur Dorchester lorsque le boulevard a changé de nom. 
En plus, MacDonald était un colonisateur raciste à la limite fasciste et Lévesque est un libérateur inclusif, ça mettrai le poids sur le changement que le pays opère.
I'm not entirely sure if there already is a statue somewhere, but I'd think it be cool to have a statue of Leo Major.
He fought in WWII and successfully got an entire Nazi occupied town to surrender by himself by tricking them with grenades. He's French Canadian, and a war hero to match the war memorial behind the pedestal. If another war hero is suggested, I'd be open to it as well.
I've seen some people mention Louis Riel which I also thought was good but I'm not sure if that would be the best place for him because the war memorial is behind him, but if he got a statue somewhere I think it would be a good idea.
However, for the mention of Rene Levesque, bold to suggest it but respectfully, no. Or non if you prefer. If you want a French Canadian up there then it should be a uniting figure, not a separatist and definitely not a separatist in Montreal.
It would have a bit of a Soviet feel, but we could make one of healthcare workers.
[It's a good one](https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charrette_\(expression\)). Unlike your link :-P
Est-ce que Rene aurait donné la moitié du Québec aux peuples autochtones ou il aurait utilisé la même excuse que les colonisateurs ''oh on est tous Quebecois''.
Écoute-je te dis ça en tant qu'immigrant et minorité visible. Jamais je n'ai vu un peuple craché autant sur ses pères fondateurs que les blancs d'occident.
Les memes et satire qu'on faisait au sujet du white guilt sont devenu réalité Lol. Vous devez comprendre que chaque peuple a commis des crimes. La seule différence et que vous les avez fait à une époque où le monde commençait at etre de plus en plus connecter. Et donc c'est resté marqué, car tout le monde pouvait en parler.
Me semble qu’il n’y a aucune porte du Sunlife qui donne sur René Lévesque.
Il y a une statue de René Lévesque sur ce boulevard https://imtl.org/image.php?id=3913
>  La seule différence et que vous les avez fait à une époque où le monde commençait at etre de plus en plus connecter.
Donne moi  donc un exemple ? Le traité de la Baie James ?
C'était leur adresse légale à l'époque, ils ont changé la journée que le boulevard a changé de nom.
> La seule différence et que vous les avez fait à une époque où le monde commençait at etre de plus en plus connecter.
> Donne moi  donc un exemple ?
What do you mean ?
Désolé, je te crois pas.
Comme ça date d'avant l'internet, les informations sont difficilement trouvable, mais je vais les trouver.
J’aimerais bien ça. J’ai de la difficulté à croire que l’adresse est à une place sans porte. La compagnie Sunlife est partie en 1978; Dorchester est devenu René Levesque en 1987. Le Carré Dominion (Dominion Square) est devenue Carré Dorchester. C’est difficile de retrouver l’histoire quand elle change avec les governments.
Dans La Presse, il mentionne que le chef est par intérim.
Donc, ils vont se chercher un Denis 3.0 ou un ancien élu fédéral/provincial connu.
Who?
This texture has navigated right into my heart.
Gaétan Barrette!
C'est un conseiller de Ville Saint Laurent
Si c'est pour éviter Valérie Plante, pourquoi pas
malheureusement pour toi, Barrette n'habite pas à Montréal.
Comment on evite Valérie Plante? On fait le tour du pot! Haha!
Ca prends juste 1 an d habitation. Il a assez de temps avant 2025
Ou on quitte Montréal avant l'invasion wokiste de QS aux prochaines élections
"Je déménage dans votre ville pour être votre maire"
Très winner! /s
Il faudra d'abord qu'il se rende à Montréal avant de que Valérie Plante interdise aux hommes blancs de traverser les ponts
Ca arrive pleinement pour les elus federaux et provinciaux
Moi c'est les buffets chinois que je m'ennuie.
Horrible singing IS BACK !!!
Tant mieux pour eux!
No mentions of Asian-owned karaoke, might be worth checking them out and supporting them too: Pang Pang + Bar K are my faves.
Damn, I never knew karaoke was THAT popular.
Yuck 🤮
C'est ouvert depuis longtemps
It's part of the fun though!
I missed it so much 😍
I miss the old Karaoke Bar in front of Cock and Bull
faut que tu ailles dans les bons Karaoké!
They have been opened for a while
Pang pang has been open for awhile
Why lol
It's the reopening craze. People enjoy it, and it had been more a year since they've been able to karaoke.
Title of your sextape.
Pour aller manger avec un buffet ou par commande?
Justement, les *bons* karaoke ne sont-ils pas ceux où les chanteurs ne le sont pas? Il y a des années de ça, mais mon ex et moi nous nous étions ramassés à une taverne de Pointe-St-Charles (qui existe toujours d'ailleurs, mais son nom m'échappe) pendant la soirée karaoke. Une toune quétaine après l'autre, des interprétations plus que douteuses, mais maudit qu'on avait ri. Musique pourrie, mais l'ambiance était super bonne parce que c'était évident que les gens étaient là pour avoir du fun et pas pour essayer d'impressionner quiconque.
I know Bar K had been operating as a bar since it's been allowed, has Pang Pang been having karaoke nights?
Because without Asians, there'd be no karaoke. And it's nice to support other small local businesses that have suffered through this pandemic.
Empathy towards our fellow beings is lacking. How do we get it back?
C'est pas là où ils construisent des condos de luxe? Sur l'ancien site de l'hôpital pour enfants? Quelle ironie
Winter is gonna be rough
What I don't get is that there is a shelter/warming tent probably 100 feet away from where she died.  The story says she was kicked out of the metro entrance and that is about 10 feet away from the shelter.
Could be that she was suffering with Mental Illness..... that would explain a lot...... sad situation 🙏⚰
The title of this post is dehumanizing. 👎
[removed]
It's a feature, not a bug.
An economy should exist to serve a society, but instead our society now serves the economy. For this to work, people have to be forced into work by making them afraid of something. If we helped all the homeless, fed them and lodged them, then no one would be afraid of being jobless and homeless and wouldn't just accept being exploited as easily.
It also helps that everyone has had the idea beaten into their heads that it's OK to be selfish and to ignore the suffering of others. Because our economic system also depends on us being as selfish and individualistic as possible. The less we support each other and work together, the easier we are to exploit.
It's possible the shelter was full, or she was refused entry for some reason, or maybe she was intoxicated and passed out before reaching it.
When I worked at Mcdonald near downtown ( Metro Frontenac) I realised that about half of the people who were homeless where people with mental illness while the other half were people who had drug addictions. There are no resources for them so they are left on the street. Its really sad because as far as Im concerned, they are both health condition and should be treated that way. Leaving these people freezing in our street and having to deal with violent gang member is unfair and cruel. It wouldnt make sense to let someone who became disable due to a workplace accident rot in the street, so why we allow people with addiction and mental illness to have such an horrible life.
We watch this happen and do nothing. Maybe *we* are the mentally ill.
I hope you never find yourself in a situation where you don't have a place to house yourself for winter.
You’re a bad person.
Come on now that is a horrible thing to say
Not the first time I hear that hot take, I think it's interesting.
How do you picture the emergence of such a system? Do you think there is some conscious autority purposefully creating / allowing homelessness so as to scare people? Or do you think it's simply an emergent property of any capitalist society? Is it something else? Natural selection of culture, maybe?
I, myself, find it hard to believe there would be people with the power, the interest and the malice to do such a thing, but I can see the theory being defended. I haven't thought about the systemic hypothesis hard enough to have a semi-working theory.
From my understanding, they are pretty much a no refusal place (unless, I imagine, they are extremely violent).  They opened up that tent last year after a person froze to death since they were refused entry to another shelter.  He was either drunk or had an animal (can't remember which) and therefore no allowed in most shelters.
there are ressources, a lot of them simply chose to not use them for a variety of reasons.
There are places where you can volunteer to make a difference
Covid breakouts have the shelters breaking their general “no refusals policy” last I checked there were 5 or 6 active breakouts meaning those shelters aren’t accepting new intakes.
Le proprio se défend en disant qu'il aurait dû indiquer : "à partir de xx.xx$/l'heure".  Avec expérience ou pas en cuisine, que tu aies 20 ans ou 45, une personne ne peut vivre dignement au salaire minimum, encore moins à Montréal.
C'est payé plus cher chez McDo !
Je connais quelqu'un qui travaillait à la Cabane du Pied de Cochon. Les salaires ont toujours été merdiques mais c'est aussi les horaires et le nombres d'heures travaillées qui sont insensés. Pas rare qu'il faisait plus de 12 heures en une journée en étant payé à un taux fixe par jour... Ça revenait souvent en bas du salaire minimum... Pis attends toi pas à te faire lancer des fleurs... C'est ce qui était attendu de tous. Enfin on en parle mais ça fait des années que c'est comme ça...
Je suis cuisinier, et c'est trop bas pour le travail qu'ils demandent. 
Trop bas tout court, mais aussi pour le ravail demandé.
Labor shortage uh? Sounds more like a living wage shortage.
Ca l'essaye de faire du PR
Again if you have 20 years experience in any other industry you'll be making more money compared to Hospitality. I've been doing this for 25 years and don't waste your time, you'll work weekends, holidays and be in some terrible conditions. It's not worth it do something else.
Oh non, pauvre monsieur Beaudin can’t afford renos on his second chalet in the Laurentians if he pays a living wage..
Fuck you bud, stand over the grill yourself.
Y'en a une chiée de job conme ça
Hey... je suis surpris de voir qu'y a de la magouille d'argent dans le domaine de la restauration....... 🙄🙄🙄
Au moins il l'affiche sur son annonce, passe tout droit et le gars va finir par augmenter son offre. Pas de temps perdu avec une entrevue pour te faire offrir 13.50 à la fin.
ça vaudrait tu la peine de blaster son google review? (en étant honnête, pas parler de la nourriture faussement, mais y écrire qu'il sous paye les employés)
Si c'est un salaire légal et qu'il arrive a trouver des employés, il est ou le problème?
Salaries in kitchens also vary in relation to your station. A grill cook will typically make more than a garde manger.  You have to of course take into consideration experience.
But yea he's full of shit with that statement.  He wants to pay the lowest possible wage while putting the most possible in his own pocket.  Some people will still want to work there for the reference on the CV.  Same thing for Normand Laprise At Toque. Might pay better salaries but you're working 60-70 hours a week.
Every holiday season Picard hires a bunch of people to keep up with the production of his items (pies n' shit).  As far as I know, pre pandemic, most of those temp hirees were paid minimum salary.
Yep j'ai travaillé la bas pas très longtemps mais le shift de 17h était monnaie courante (pas de pause pour manger évidemment ca serait trop compliqué tsé)
>Pas rare qu'il faisait plus de 12 heures en une journée en étant payé à un taux fixe par jour... Ça revenait souvent en bas du salaire minimum
Pretty sure that is actually illegal...
Unemployment due to covid ends soon if I'm not mistaken? Sooner or later the people won't have a choice. The employers know this.
mais "personne veut travailler".... non, on veut mais paie nous.
Y'a des douzaines et douzaines de nouveaux avis 1 étoile :)
c'est la nuance entre légalité et décence. Certains la comprennent, d'autre pas.
ça l'air intéressant. 
:thumbsup
Construction uber?
On dirait oui
> Lancée en février 2020, cette jeune entreprise se présente comme une plateforme numérique capable de faire le pont entre les propriétaires désireux d’entreprendre d’importants travaux de rénovation à leur domicile et des entrepreneurs généraux souvent mal outillés pour répondre aux besoins d’informations et de précisions de leurs clients.
Mais le problème c'est toujours trouver qqun de fiable
Si on se base sur Uber taxi... Ca va produire des extrêmes des deux bords
Pour ceux qui ne le savent pas, « Au pied de cochon » est l’un des restaurants montréalais les plus connus (et parmi les plus cher), qui s’amusent à payer leur staff le minimum pour des conditions très exigeant.
edit 1: yes I know front of house staff tips out to the kitchen, but it’s very small.
edit 2: I also know it isn’t the *most expensive* culinary destination in Montreal, but it’s considered expensive for the average quebecois, and it’s unfortunate that with such a high average cheque that the staff is paid so poorly.
I made the post to highlight that the food service industry, which I grew up in and love so much, unfortunately continues to cling on to a broken business model. The idea is to stimulate discussion, that’s it.
Je suis très surpris... Je n'aurais jamais imaginé ce genre de salaire dans cette catégorie de restaurant! C'est un peu scandaleux...
Just for context... Vices&Versa, un bar à bières avec un menu assez limité, paie ses cuisiniers 18$/h avec un pourcentage des pourboires de service en plus.
[https://www.facebook.com/jobs/job-opening/753329195337771/](https://www.facebook.com/jobs/job-opening/753329195337771/)
Si un bar qui sert des frites et des hamburgers a les moyens de payer 18$/h, c'est honteux qu'un restaurant aussi célèbre que APDC soit aussi avare.
McDo paye littéralement mieux que ça.
WTF?!
C'est pas une pénurie de main-d'oeuvre, c'est une pénurie de salaire!
C'est riche comme Cresus cte gang là. SHAME ON YOU gros poilu.
Edit : GROS LOL, La Presse qui nous lit. SALUT LA PRESSE
https://www.lapresse.ca/affaires/entreprises/2021-11-15/au-pied-de-cochon/vives-reactions-a-propos-du-salaire.php
13$hr was crap when I was a cook 20 years ago. So glad I left that industry. Is feeding a bunch of assholes worth evenings wkds holidays and stress? No thanks I cook at home now ....
Tellement une mauvaise condition de travail là en plus. Ils sont cocké au maximum aussi pour pouvoir runner. Leur cabane à sucre est pratiquement runner par des esclave qui ont pas de vie car ils les font travailler 18 heures par jour, 6 jours semaines.
I mean McDonald’s offering $17+h. You have an abundance of choice to work wherever
Ça ressemble à l'industrie du jeux vidéo, plus la boîte est connue, moins elle paie cher. Au final disant : "C'est un privilège travailler ici, et les gens font la file ~~fille~~ pour avoir ta place".
A ce prix là ça mériterait de se faire bombarder de faux CV.
I’ve been working in this industry for over 20 years. It doesn’t pay for experience it pays for the position needed. Don’t dedicate your time to this industry unless you open your own place, it’s not worth it.
“I don’t understand why you don’t put the company above your life! We give you 13.50!!!???”
Basically them.
Treats you like shit, pays you like shit.
“Yeah we need 25 000 more immigrants in the country each year because the population doesn’t buy in our bullshit”
Nothing against immigrants as I am one. Problem is their solution doesn’t fix anything rather they prey on desperate immigrants.
Pour la cerise on top, remarquez que le temps plein n'est même pas garantis! Ils ne veulent pas risquer de te donner des bénifices.
Labor in the year 2021 is basically indentured servitude if ur not making at least 50,000 a year. Things have gotten so expensive , and companies have not paid the average worker enough money in decades. Companies are greeedy fucks. I dont dream of labour. Employment is death
Eurk. mettons 35h semaine, ca fais 24k par an grosso moddo. On parle de 2000$ par mois dans un coin ou les 1 et demi se loue 1200$ par mois. Pis j'ai meme pas penser aux taxes.
issshhh.
Omg, j'ai vu ça ce matin. Carrément insultant. J'me cherche mieux, comme on devrait toujours le faire, mais j'suis plus reconnaissant de faire substantiellement plus comme line cook/grillman. C'est aberrant comme salaire, doublement pour l'établissement.
Et combien le tip des serveur.ses qui veulent probablement pas le partager.
Il n'y a pas de penurie de d'employee, juste une penurie de travail qui paye assez pour vivre. Malheuresement, les petites entreprise qui exploitent les travailleurs ont toujours plus d'influence sur les politiciens que les travailleurs.
Denis Coderre be like: personne prend le bixi
I really took advantage of bixi this year. Usually twice a day.
J'ai rentabilisé mon abonnement cet été ça c'est clair.
I think my upstairs neighbours actually stole a bixi bike lol. They're moving out and they cleaned a green one out of their apartment. One of them rode off on it and didn't come back with it, so I guess they returned it?
One time I saw a bixi tandem during one of this summer's cycling events.
C'est mon moyen de transport préféré durant l'été. Tellement pratique et vraiment pas cher. (Si tu prend l'abonnement early birds)
Sur les pistes partagees entre pietons et cyclistes, les bixi electriques vont trop vite.
I always found it weird that every single time I want a bixi, all the racks in my area are completely empty. And the rare times I do see some on racks, I’ve never seen an electric one. Just my luck I guess?
Love bixi!!
C'est vraiment le complément idéal à la carte OPUS. Pas a t'inquiéter de te faire voler ton vélo (je me le faisais voler aux 2 ans avant), ni de payer pour le faire réparer ou pour le remettre en état au printemps. Aucun entreposage... C'est vraiment pratique! Et les stations couvrent de + en + l'île, permettant de se promener pour le plaisir.
Après le million de passage sur le REV et une saison record de Bixi, que je ne voie plus personne dire que l'utilisation du vélo est surestimée à Montréal.
Same. The electric one has been a blast to use. The pricing structure made it as economical as the metro and quicker too. The hardest part was to reliably find one when you want one.
I saw one in Sainte-Anne-de-Bellevue last summer. Talk about your 'WTF' moments.
Is it actually possible to steal one what? I thought they could be remotely locked or localized ? No?
Once my bixi bike didn't lock to the station, so they asked me if I could maybe keep it in my home until an employee came to pick it up.  Maybe that's what happened to him haha. I just left it unlocked at the station
some people dont lock the bikes properly so you can just take them
same - I saw them on Tour de l'Ile!
c'est psa des super bon velo pour de la super longue distance ! ahaha c'est drole le gars doit avoir pedaler 2 fois plus fort que les autres
Les vélos électriques, point.
Les pistes multifonctions c'est pas mal de la chnoute à la base. C'est pas sécuritaire d'avoir piétons et vélos partager la même petite bande d'asphalte.
Occam’s razor: someone entered the wrong numbers when making a change (e.g. they looked up a lost card and got yours accidentally before transferring/deactivating), or a bug in the STM software.
Just a couple guesses.
I have no idea about how that happened but I'm interested to see someone who knows answer
Non seulement la carte est encryptée et il n'existe aucun exploit connu, mais il n'y a pas de base de données pour les cartes anonymes. Tout est sur la carte. Rien de ce qu'il t'a dit n'est cohérent.
Ça ressemble plutôt à qqch comme l'antenne qui brise ou autre dégât physique sur la carte. Tu aurais pu tester ça sur un valideur de bus (qui ne fait aucune requête réseau en direct). Mais par contre si c'est vraiment une désactivation "à distance" alors le valideur du métro l'a écrit sur la carte.
That's terrible, STM needs to launch some investigation on this. Anything can be hacked, it just depends if it's worth it.
The same thing happened to my bf and I card last week. We lost like 13 passes
A mon avis, un tel transfert est seulement possible si un agent STM fraude, parce les cartes elles même ne peuvent pas être clonées, a ma connaissance.
Demande quel agent a fait la désactivation de ta carte, et contacte la sécurité STM.
Always keep the receipt that way you can claim it at the stm ticket office.
Les agents n'ont pas accès à toutes informations. Porte plainte sur le site avec ton numéro de carte et l'equipe responsable pourra enquêter. Ils prennent ce genre de chose au sérieux, car s'il y a une fraude, il peut y en avoir d'autres.
What's OPUS card's tech? NFC?
Les billets sont conservés sur la carte.
Donc si ta carte s'était fait cloner, tu aurais encore tes billets.
La seule chose reliée a une database est une liste de carte à désactiver quand elles scan, c'est utilisé pour les cartes volés et les Opus à l'année quand t'annule ton abonnement.
This exact same thing just happened to my husband. He had tried to catch the bus not to long ago and the card that he thought had passes wasn't working.
 Fast forward a few days and he decides to go to the metro and fill up the card, turns out the card is deactivated so he buys a new card. 
I thought this was strange, cards expire? And said that he should talk to someone at STM as his credits should still be there and he should be able to transfer them over to the new card. Now I'm thinking that's not going to happen and I'm wondering if there's actually an issue with their system that is causing the problem.
Fort probablement une erreur cléricale. Les carte OPUS avec photo expirent généralement le 31 octobre, donc soit ta carte a été annulée par erreur, soit les passes ont été transférées a une nouvelle carte par erreur. (Lors du renouvellement d'une carte OPUS avec photo l'employé de la STM va manuellement transférer les titres de la vieille carte a la nouvelle. )
Appelle ou envoie un courriel à la STM, ils sont généralement plus utile que les employés du guichet.
Why do you all buy a lot of passes?
"I purchased a 10 pack of passes (at Station Bonaventure)"
At one of the STM machines ?
There is so little benefit to doing this, I don't think anyone would go through the trouble.
When did you purchase the physical card first? These cards are only good for 2 years. 
After this, you need to go to a STM customer center to have your tickets transferred to a new card.
STM card cloning may be a thing but I have never heard about it.
Ça m'est arrivé avec une passe du mois! Depuis ce temps là, j'utilise seulement des cartes opus enregistrées, même pour des billets.
if you don't register your card then someone else might do it and report it stolen and get the fares back
all they need to have is the card number, which might be included in the sale receipt (i believe that's the case but not 100% sure)
if you threw away the receipt (or the agent kept it), someone might have found it and accessed the number to register the card and then reported it stolen or lost
Is your card in good condition? Has it been damaged recently?   
Maybe you could have whiped the antenna? I don’t know if magnets, heat source, or other components could affect the chip or the antenna?
Pour vérifier vos cartes: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=card.opus&hl=en_CA&gl=US
Il va bientôt avoir la guignolée, tu peux te porter volontaire près de chez toi pour faire du porte-à-porte ou du tri. Ça peut être une excellente occasion de discuter avec plusieurs personnes en français!
C'est un peu loin, mais si ça t'intéresse de nettoyer des rivières, il y aurait la Vigile Verte, sur la rive-sud
Probablement que dans le groupe Facebook "Hochelaga Mon Quartier" il y aurait des gens avec des opportunités proches. 
Je te suggère de t'y joindre (si tu n'y est pas déjà) et de demander là-dessus.
Le [Centre ABC](https://www.centreabc.org/fr/) pourrait te permettre de trouver des opportunités de bénévolat.
Santropol Roulant! C'est un organisme qui fait du "meals on wheels" mais tu peux le faire à pied, à vélo,  en transport commun ou en voiture. C'est très bilingue alors une excellente place pour pratiquer ton français et découvrir Montréal.
Hospitals OP, they all have volunteer post open because they’re always needed. If you want to practice French trust me this is. The best most consistent way since you’ll be basically helping people find ring their way or within the hospital, there’s lots of chatting too. The MUHC, glen site is amazing, I’m biased because I’m a volunteer there, but hey, we are always looking for people who are willing
Bénévolat en CHSLD ou hôpital
CHSLD, maisons de retraite. Ils sont affamés de conversation les pauvres.
Je connais l’Entraide Léo-Théoret dans le Centre-Sud. C’est petit et très proche du monde
Très bonne idée! Regarde sur le site du Centre d'action Bénévole de Montréal. Tu vas pouvoir trouver plein d'offres auxquelles tu peux appliquer. Il faut se créer un compte, mais ce n'est pas très compliqué. https://www.cabm.net/
Qu'est-ce qui t'intéresse comme genre de bénévolat, et quelles sont tes disponibilités? Il y a énormément d'organismes communautaires et d'association dans Hochelaga, mais plusieurs ont des besoin de jour la semaine seulement. Rapidement, il y aura des paniers de Noël bientôt, et il y a le Chic Resto Pop qui cherchait des bénévoles en cuisine.
Great idea, I hope it works out for you.
In English? You know, since lots of English speakers have experience with this...
Merci, j’ai envoyé un courriel juste mtn!
Ah non je suis pas dans le groupe, mais je jeter un coup d’œil
Merci, je vais checker!
+1 updoot pour le Santropol. J'y ai été bénévole pendant environ 1 an et j'ai vraiment aimé l'équipe :)
Dm envoyé :)
Oui je viens de voire un program de “visite d’amitié” ca pourrait être un option parfait, merci pour l’idée
Honnêtement je suis assez ouvert à tout les possibilités , mais évidement j’ai un preference vers qqc ou il faut que je parle en français le plus souvent possible. Malheureusement je travail de jour la semaine d’habitude 9-6, donc les soirées et le fin de semaine
I mean, force everyone into self check outs and oopsie something may have accidentally fallen into my bag that I didnt pay for. 
I have no sympathy for grocery stores whose profits EXPLODED during COVID and did nothing to help their staff.
Remember people. If you see somebody stealing food, you didn't.
As prices continue to rise it will only get worse. I’ve been in shops in the UK where stuff such as cheese, meats and other expensive items were tagged/ locked in plastic security cases.
Good. Can't be angry at hungry people. Le système a fail hard quand t'es rendu a voler de la bouffe.
Is there any hard numbers about this or just some moronic pseudo-journalists pulling shit out of their ass?
ça va être le bordel avec l'hiver qui arrive et les fruits et légumes qui arrivent de l'autre bout du monde.
I was asked to leave my freaking purse at the counter in a store the other day, citing too many shoplifting. I noped out very quick.
Ils ont juste a vendre leur osti de gruyere moin cher
moi des fois j'achète des tomates en grappes mais à la machine je rentre que c'est des tomates rouges de serres heheheheheh
Let’s be honest here. The Gazette and media in general loves to blow things out of proportion. People who shoplift have always been doing it
"“If you're stealing meat from a grocer, your aim is food service,” he said."
Wut
Restaurants typically have their own meat sources, with a certain quality testing. What restaurant buys the one or two piece a person can get away with via shoplifting from subpar grocers, with a break in the chain of refrigeration too.  Chain restaurants benefit from an economy of scale from the franchise, higher end and medium high restaurants are picky af, and the rest of the business sources from different sorts of stores than grocers, generally in larger quantities leading to lower price anyways. 
What a nonsensical statement lmao
Sad times. All I can say is that PLEASE be extra patient and giving to one another. I can’t imagine being jobless, hungry, low-income etc during these times :( especially those who are homeless. Even if you don’t have spare change, try and offer a bottle of water, fruit, coffee, granola bar, anything. A little goes a long way and compassion can change someone’s day, week, and life!
Don’t worry guys, the budget will balance itself when we have printed enough funnymoney /s
ouais criminalisé les pauvres qui veulent survivre au lieu d'envoyer en prison les épais qui ont imprimés plus de cash pour aider les pauvres sur la PCU. OP arrête de spread du FUD ça l'aide pas personne. Aidez-vos proches et vos voisins et essayez de pas gaspiller.
Which grocery stores had exploding profits? Both Loblaws/Metro and their subsidiaries have had pretty average profits compared to past years.
Grocery has one of the lowest profit margin
Exploded profits? Did everyone collectively start eating drastically more food or something?
Have family in Texas and breaking and entering has shot through the roof in their area, inflation hitting this hard is going to send a lot of desperate people over the edge.
Baby formula.  Protein shake powders.
These seem to be popular targets because they are non perishable and cost quite a bit for their volume.
This isn't poor children starving and struggling to get by. People are stealing stuff, like (as the article points out) alcohol and meats to resell.
Hope those small groceries stores get the tools to slow theft down.
I went last year (second time) and was highly disappointed.  Don't think I can recommend it again.
Is it still $30 a beer?
c'est laid, le cossin lumineux sur un pied en métal laid, même pas camouflé.  
Hahahahah!!!!   
OSTI tout à la fucking auto.  
"Un **parcours automobile sécuritaire de trois kilomètres** permettant aux visiteurs de vivre la magie d’illumi dans le confort de leur véhicule."
You and I, friend, you and I  https://imgur.com/NQH1yEV.jpg
Where is that?
Sending this to my fiancé
These are always a lot more fun than I'd expect.
Oh! There weren’t any vegetables last year. Don’t know if a huge eggplant is worth the ticket price though..
Where was this picture taken?
Do you mind sharing the ticket prices? me and my mother have been curious about going but have no idea of the entree fees!
Illumi was so disappointing. Maybe better in winter with snow everywhere??...
I can’t believe people spend actual money on watching LED lights. Passing by on the 15 southbound, it looks like the lamest thing on Earth. 
I feel like even cultureless suburbanites would enjoy the chain restaurants at nearby Centropolis more.
Niceee 🙈
Right? A good amount of pieces were off. Snacks and alcohol prices are crazy. And really, some of them are super lame. The space part with the planets was soooooo meh. So much opportunity for creativity missed.
It's alright if you have young kids still amazed by that sort of thing, but yeah it's not really worth the price.
Yup and you get to watch ads for Ford and Rogers…still beautiful though
C'est à Laval. C'est sûr que tout est à l'auto.
I did by foot, much better
Illumi in laval
Illumi
J’ai fouillé et voici ce que j’ai trouvé:
Bâtiment vacant construit en 1987.
Nom du bâtiment: Phare numéro 1.
5G
Possiblement reliée aux Fleuralie il y a jadis?
Age of Empire 4 LARP.
Princesse Fiona est la dans
Une watch de chasse à Bernache
Je ne m'y connais pas beaucoup, mais je dirais une tour 5G pour allumer les ondes électro-magnétiques contenues dans nos vaccins de covid. Ou qqch du genre.
Un serpuarien.
Probablement un projet d’expansion de Bicolline.
C'est un point de sychronisation, tu monte en haut, tu regarde autour et tu saute dans le lac, après ça va update le hood autour sur Google Maps.
wow... au moins on a l'année de construction... donc ca n'a pas été construit pour les Floralies (qui ont eu lieu en 1980)
😂
probablement car c'est pas très loin...
En face du bâtiment, il y avait eu un restaurant, maintenant démolie depuis 6-10 ans.
C’était peut-être lié à ce restaurant.
je viens juste de finir une game de AOE et ca ressemble tellement aux tours dans le jeux lol
Le pire c'est que ca serait pratique car il y a surement des Bernache qui viennent se baigner dans le coin pendant l'année.  Mais je vois mal gens jouer du gun a quelques pas de la piste cyclable.
ahah.. ca m'a pris du temps avant de comprendre la référence a Assassin's Creed
Je sais que la date de construction est intrigante, vu que c’est construit après les Floralies, mais j’ai pris ces informations directement du plan directeur du Parc Jean-Drapeau.
C’est le 3e kid qui décède dans un épisode de violence cette année.
E: typo
More overbidders from Ontario, yay
Nah, stay away unless you plan to live here right away. We don’t need more non-locals driving up the price of living because it’s “so much cheaper than Toronto!”. 
Be prepared, I don’t think you’ll find very welcoming answers from folks here in our current housing crisis.
Don't, we can 't even afford to buy our own properties.
You're planning on buying a condo and what, *someday* moving here? You don't think it's selfish to buy a property that'll lay empty just so you can maybe one day move here?
Wow, the hate is strong in this thread. 
The fuck are you people on about? This person wants to buy a condo in our city because they like the city and want to live here. Why push them away?
It's not their fault you can't afford a house in your own city.
Don't come here and mess up our market. Either move or leave our market alone.
Did you start practicing your French?
Are you really asking for real estate advice on a random city subreddit?
Also, lmfao at all the commentors thinking that by yelling at one would be investor they are single handedly solving the housing crisis. Keep up the good work!
It's very doable, I know several people who have. Either before they themselves moved from elsewhere, in Canada or abroad, while they were waiting for PR, or where they plan to retire to but their kids live in it now while in school. Given prices, certainly a good idea to have a property increase with the value of where you want to be without getting too deep in speculating. 
Keep in mind condo vs co-op condo is a weird thing we have here that's very different to other provinces. Condo is copropriété divise, coop is copropriété indivise. Avoid the latter until you are ready to live in it yourself (and maybe even then.) 
It really depends what kind of property you're looking for, too. Older, more character, better area may come with more expenses and management so might be more interesting once you're living here for yourself. Etc.
So much hostility and condescension in this thread…Come on guys we’re better than this 😅
Havent done it but I know people that have. Your real estate agent can do the visit for you. For the mortgage it might get a little trickier, but nothing will stop the financing, as the property is still in Canada.
I am currently in the process of buying a condo in Montreal. I live on Ottawa. What’s your question precisely?
Be VERY careful which building you buy in…
People are haters on this subreddit, mind boggling. But no, I'm from Montreal, and I'd probably go visit before buying though, its just an 7hours drive
People are haters on this subreddit, mind boggling. But no, I'm from Montreal, and I'd probably go visit before buying though, its just an 7hours drive
Hurry up because the real estate market in Montreal is hot hot hot! Prices will keep going up and there are Bidding wars in certain areas. I recommend getting an agent because it's like a second full time job to look at listings, make calls, schedule visits, etc. I just moved into my new condo by the Canal Lachine and love it. If you can afford condos right on the canal (Griffintown or Pointe st charles) I highly recommend.
Yes, I live in Toronto and bought one. I've told all my other investor friends in Toronto to start scooping up condos in Montreal while the prices are still relatively affordable.
Im going to be moving back to montreal in may, is the rent still " so much cheaper "?
Word is the rent is starting to be comparible, is that true? Looking to move downtown
I plan to buy a condo there so I can live in it and because I like Montreal very much. If you got a issue with real estate increasing beyond affordability just know that I also have a issue with that but I can’t do much about it, the market dictate what it’s worth.
Do you really think they'll just let it sit empty? 🙄
Ça serait le fun qu’ils investissent dans leurs produits aussi… avec la prolifération des micros, qui ont pas mal tous un produit supérieur, je me demande comment les brasseurs traditionnels survivent
>je me demande comment les brasseurs traditionnels survivent  
Économies d'échelle = bière moins chère (et aussi une qualité généralement moins bonne )
>  je me demande comment les brasseurs traditionnels survivent
A lot of people don't care about the taste. They drink beer since it's cheap and will get them drunk. Or they simply enjoy the macro stuff.
It has its place. I like having cheap beer in the fridge if I'm watching the game with friends and we want to just keep drinking while hanging out. I also have a shop near me that specializes in craft beers, and I've spent hundreds of dollars there since it opened in the summer.
En ne vendant pas des bières 5 à 12$ chacunes
> je me demande comment les brasseurs traditionnels survivent 
Les consommateurs de bière sont généralement parmi les plus stables. Tu bois ce que tu buvais quand t'avais "18" ans et t'as commencé a boire. C'est peut être moins le cas maintenant avec les fans des micros mais de façon générale une fois que tu bois une bière c'est ta bière à vie.
La majorité du volume de bière reste la bière commerciale.  
Ils s'assurent aussi d'acheter des moyens brasseurs (pense à Archibald pour Labatt, Brasseur de Montréal/Trou du Diable pour Molson) et booster leur distribution en épicerie et dépanneur pour satisfaire le buveur de bière commerciale qui se sent un peu aventureux ou le buveur de micro qui ne trouve pas sa p'tite canette de gros jus à 11$. 
Et ceux qui ne jurent que par les vraies micro ont leur propre commerces et ne représentent qu'un faible pourcentage des buveurs.
La old style pilsner de molson est meilleure que 80% des bieres de micro.
Haha ça c’est vrai…
j'aimerais voir le nuage de poussière quand ils vont ouvrir les speakers du Stéréo et mettre la Bass au maximum.
&#x200B;
Douff, douff, douff , 
&#x200B;
:-D
Est-ce qu'il y a toujours des restrictions pour les rassemblements intérieur dans une maison privé? Le temps des fêtes aarrive a grand pas. 
D'un côté je suis d'accord que nous devons maintenant apprendre à vivre avec la Covid. D'un autre côté je déplore qu'après 2 and nous n'avons toujours pas trouvé de solutions à notre système de la santé. C'est là le vraie problème, uns simple augmentation dans les ICU et nous sommes tous foutu a nouveau. Ma mère est victime de la COVID, pas directement mais certainement une des stat de la surmortalité et c'est déplorable.
c'est ouvert depuis deux fds deja lol
I saw somebody once describe ICUs like an overclocked computer:   they are operated to run at near capacity always. So whether it’s COVID,  or not COVID,  it makes me think that we have been tricked.   Like what I mean is articles stating “ICUs are at 90, 100, 110% capacity”.  Because actually,  that seems to be part of their design.
la poussière doit être retombée alors ?
It is, but one covid patient taking up an icu bed for a couple of weeks takes away a lot of potential spaces for patients who would normally spend a few hours to a couple of days there after some surgeries (eg transplants).
Les Affutés
A potential candidate: heliosmakerspace.ca
They are a community workshop in saint-henri
La remise
> Les Affutés
Thanks!
> heliosmakerspace.ca
Thank you!
My brother had a membership here a few years back. As I understand things, it's a spot with shared tools, workspaces and storage space for your project. You might luck out and meet someone experienced and willing to share their skills with you, or you might not.
Woodworking's tons of fun. Post a pic of what it is you're trying to recreate and I might have some pointers for you.
Someone will be able to help there, but yeah it's not somewhere they'll make it for you. If you're interested in woodworking at all and depending on how complex it is I'd recommend giving it a shot though.
Cool, a place de jamais livrer mon colis, maintenant ils pourront simplement jamais le shipper  !
Je comprends pas comment ils existent encore, c'est le pire service de livraison et de loin.
J'étais rendu a faire livrer mes cois direct au bureau de poste pour obliger les commercants à utiliser poste canada tellement ca a pas d'allure.
Je supposes qu'ils vont essayer de se trouver d'autres clients avec Amazon qui fait sa propre livraison  depuis quelque mois.
Quand j’étais à Griffintown j’ai eu seulement 2 fois un problème avec eux (le plus drôle j’agitais à 200 mètres de leurs bureau). Depuis que je suis en 2e couronne sur la Rive-Sud, j’ai un super de service. Mes colis arrive souvent plus tôt.
Dans des quartiers moins dense genre l'est de l'ile je dirais qu'Intelcom est pas mal sans faute. Notification quelques heures avant qu'ils passent, une photo où ils ont laissés mon colis, j'aime bien! 
Mais quand j'habitais Rosemont, oui de la maudite marde comme service de livraison.
They try at my work, but we refuse them as we need Canada-wide and they can’t provide outside the CMAs of Canada. So we remain with CanadaPost for now, but they’re annoying to deal with
Ah, ça explique beaucoup. J'habite dans l'est et je comprenais pas pourquoi tout le monde chialé sur Intelcomm.
Ouin moi quand jai dealé avec eux c'était dans ahuntsic et ils livraient en moyenne 2-3 semaines en retard. Je t'avoue que ca fait un bon 3 ans que je les ai pas utilisés pas contre
Le manque de légende me fait très très mal
Super carte mais pour un  daltonien c'est extrêmement difficile à lire. ;)
Plus c'est foncé plus l'appui est fort (en proportion du vote). Plante en vert, Coderre en Orange, Holness en violet. Les sections hachurés sont les endroits ou personne n'est majoritaire.
Pourquoi est-ce que Coderre a autant de support dans Saint-Leonard et Montreal Nord?
Belle carte! 
Quels sont les districts les plus extrême en vote pour chaque parti?
Et est ce que tu as la liste complète des donnés de la carte?
walk score.png
The colour scheme you chose is very colourblind unfriendly. I suggest picking blues for coderre or even reds.
C'est quoi l'histoire avec Hollness et la petit coin de pierrefonds?  Ça semble proche de jacques Bizard?
lol, Coderre n'a même pas pu gagner dans l'ouest de l'île.  Sad!
Les cartes comme ca cest trompe oeil! Une grande surface c pas necéssairement beaucoup de monde, si tu connais pas les densités de tes zones ça peut créer des constat erronée! Sachez tous!
Une carte sans légende, sans orientation, sans titre, sans échelle, ce n'est pas une carte mais un coloriage.
Coderre a même perdu l'île Notre-Dame...
Ca représente quoi chaque petit polygone aux bordures noires? On dirait qu'ils viennent de sources différentes car certains suivent la rive et d'autres s’étendent dans le fleuve. pourquoi?
Les couleurs veulent dire quoi?
Le hachuré veut dire quoi?
Très cool. As-tu une version interactive dans laquelle on peut zoomer, voir les rues, les pourcentages, etc?
Cette carte montre aussi que Rivière des Prairies et Pointe aux trembles c'est vraiment deux réalité et mentalité différente et que ça mériterais d'être splitté en deux arrondissements.
intéressant de voir que Montréal-Nord a pris pour Coderre
Ça m'enrage que tous les administrations s'en foutent complètement d'eux
Solid green in my area
Cette carte fait vraiment ressortir les villes qui ont quitté après les fusions. Repose en paix, Une Ile Une Ville, tu étais trop belle pour ce monde.
ouain ca ressemble a une carte de l'état de la ville. en vert foncé, ce qui a été le plus maintenu dans les dernieres années et en orange ce qui a été le plus laissé a l'abandon
[deleted]
J'ai été surpris par plusieures histoires écrites cette semaine. Agréablement.
Je pense que ça va être un beau match.
La place Émilie Gamelin est dans la liste, ça me fait douter du reste
Bof..
Le monde qui chie sur tous les lieux dans la liste, bein voyons dont. On a chaqu’un nos goût puis il y a bien des places amusants ici. Les précieuses hippopotames roses méritent du respect ✊! (Parcontre,le belvédère Kondiaronk n’est pas là?)
La seule que chu d'accord est la Place d'Armes. J'ai toujours un feeling quand je passe par-là, avec la basilique qui sonne ses cloches. C'est ouvert, c'est grand, c'est beau.
La place Valois? Vraiment? Lol-le.
Moi aussi je me disais ça en lisant la liste. En  fin de compte j'ai compris que j'aime juste pas les "plaza" et je préfère les parcs avec de vieux arbres.
Elles est pourtant d'une grande originalité avec sa fontaine qui déconstruit la Ville et coule comme une rivière dans la portion gazonnée. L'ajout du bar l'été en fait un lieu qui serait des plus agréables si ce n'était pas aussi le repère des vendeurs de drogues... Pour les itinérants, il faut savoir que le lieu les accueille depuis des centaines d'années, car il y a toujours eu une soupe populaire à cet endroit (c'est d'ailleurs l'origine du nom, une Soeur qui s'en chargeait). Un îlot de tolérance et de mixité rare... Qui malgré ses faiblesse, parfois, côté ambiance, mérite sa place dans ce top selon moi.
C'est une belle petite place publique.
ça manque un peu de verdure, mais c'est quand même bien.
j'aurais fait quelque chose de plus grand pour occuper l'intersection au complet vers le sud est
Les itinérants c'est une chose, mais c'est vraiment l'activité criminelle/délictueuse le problème. C'est un endroit où je ne me sens pas en sécurité.
La place, ok. La crowd pas mal moins. Y'a un campement de sans-abris l'hiver au coin nord de la terrasse du bistro, et ça sent l'urine pas mal tt l'été - ça fait pas mal Hochlag'....
T'as vu juste! L'agrandissement s'en vient en 2022, il a été reporté à cause de la pandémie... https://designmontreal.com/concours/zone-de-rencontre-simon-valois
Elle n'habite pas à l'hôtel de ville, lol.
Il n'y a pas de «résidence officielle», elle habite simplement chez elle, où que ce soit.
994 Rachel est
demande à /u/ValeriePlante
Elle chez elle habite dans la Petite-Patrie, proche du métro Beaubien.
est-ce qu'on peut savoir l'article et la citation exacte ?
Je suspecte que tu as mal compris ce qui y est écrit 🤔
OP planning a heist.
They live in their own house.
pour les paresseux : [https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maire\_de\_Montr%C3%A9al](https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maire_de_Montr%C3%A9al)
Are you sure it isn't 3963 av Coloniale?
A person of culture right here
C’est le wiki de “maire de montreal”
https://fr.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sp%C3%A9cial:MobileDiff/60902036
C'est là faute d'un Français en 2011. 
J'ai corrigé l'article.
Résidence secondaire ;)
https://montreal.ca/en/topics/birds-and-other-wild-animals
> In Montréal, feeding wild animals is strictly prohibited so that they don’t become accustomed to humans and lose their independence.
It's too late for these racoons all the tourist feed them. Every time I go there there's at least 20 racoons all around looking for food and there not shy about it. Funny how it's ok to put cat shelter and cat food in an alley on the plateau but feeding racoons is wrong.
IMO that lady must be very lonely so let her be or be nice to her but don't you dare call the cops.
Un ami a parlé  à cette madame il y a quelque temps, on la surnomme "la racoon lady". Elle est là depuis des années, elle dit qu'ils ont tous des nom, mais que seulment 5 sont à elle et elle vie avec ces 5.Elle est quand même souvent là. Mais les raton eu, ils sont toujours là !
That's a big nope. Totally forbidden.
It’s not legal but it’s like the 10th generation of trash Panda that live like that so I wouldn’t be impressed to learn that this place is where they find 90% of their calories
No one's coming around judging you on how you make friends you know
The woman on the picture tonight took couple of raccoon's in her arms and hugged them and pet them. I was shocked how comfortable she was with them. As you can next to her on the picture, she had a big bucket with food inside she gave to them.
People who do this are turning wild animals into pets who will no longer be able to fend for themselves for ever be dependent on humand, who, in the absence of humans, will just end up dying.
If you really love animals, **leave them alone and observe them from afar.**
Ça c'est des gros ratons!
At most they would get a fine, but it's neither legal nor ok
This is illegal.
She must be stop, because the raccoon around there will become more acclimate to us and it can become a very big problem in the future ; they will expect we will give them foods at any time they would cross our path and if we not comply, it can create hostile reactions from them toward us.
Feeding wildlife of any species is a bad thing.
They will start approaching everybody expecting the same result.
They could hurt somebody or be hurt/killed by someone who isn't as comfortable with them.
Bad move all around.
Plus, it's prohibited for that reason.
Not legal but many people feel very lonely and feed urban animals to cope, fining them would seem very unjust.
No it's not, we all remember this infamous rant about feeding the squirrels https://youtu.be/0LMXOPMjeY0
Man some people are just … so lonely 🙃
they carry diseases such as rabies, illegal or not.. je ne le recommande pas du tout!
Racoons have rabbies... stay away
nope, but people still do them anyway cause they think they are being cute
This is how you catch rabies.
Super mauvais perdant. Une semaine avant les élections, à son émission, Julie Snyder lui a demandé en entrevue, s’il resterait comme chef de l’opposition, et il ne répondait pas clairement à la question, mais faisait croire que oui. C’est un menteur through and through. En plus, il blâme les autres pour sa défaite et pour la « campagne sale » alors que c’est lui qui agissait de façon sale et irrespectueuse. Bon débarras!!!
Coderre ya des forteresses? Moi aussi j'en veux. Oussé que t'achete ça? Maison Bonneville?
*arrogant, arrogante*
adjectif et nom
(latin arrogans, de arrogare, revendiquer)
Qui manifeste, à l'égard des autres, un orgueil méprisant :
«Vous allez être pognés avec moi encore»
(Denis Coderre, 7 novembre 2021)
Personne aime les gros twits menteurs? Surprisedpikachuface.jpg
Pauvre petite victime.
C'est la fin des règnes de mononcles au municipal. Maintenant, passons au provincial...
Dégouté par tout le monde..
Because of the way this big baby acted after the vote, I regret voting for him :(
Among those people who voted Plante, I think its fair to say some voted for Plante, and some voted against Coderre.
Among those people who voted Coderre, I think they almost universally were voting against Plante. 
So firstly good riddance to Coderre (side note; I personally think its a huge conflict-of-interest issue that so many politicians go straight from public office to lobbyist), but secondly Plante should be careful, in that somewhere around 40% of the people who bothered to cast a ballot voted against her; imagine if someone competent, qualified and likeable had run against her...
Pas besoin, vas au dépanneur et demande une boîte de carton, ce sera aussi solide que ses forteresses.
GND/Manon majoritaire!
He was kind of acting like a big baby before the vote too...
So you voted for the big baby because of the way he acted before the vote?
Coderre announcing his run at becoming a mayor had to have annoyed many voters who dislike Plante. I get that there are many who do not like her agenda. Coderre was never going to be the person to beat her.  He effectively ruined any chance of someone else beating Plante. In a way, Coderre ensured four more years of new bike lanes!
  Us leftist pinkos from Le Plateau should really be thanking Denis !
>  I personally think its a huge conflict-of-interest issue that so many politicians go straight from public office to lobbyist
Just FYI, lobbying in Canada is not like lobbying in the USA.
Here, to be allowed to do lobbying activities, you have to be registered and the process requires that you disclose pretty much everything of relevance, and then that information is available to the public. Here's the requirements in french:
>Si vous remplissez une déclaration comme lobbyiste-conseil :
>Si vous avez été titulaire d’une charge publique, la nature et la durée de cette charge;
>Le nom de vos clients, s’ils reçoivent du financement d’un gouvernement ou d’une municipalité, le nom de ces derniers et les montants reçus;
>Le nom et l’adresse de la maison mère de vos clients ainsi que ceux de leurs filiales intéressées par le résultat de l’activité de lobbyisme s’il y a lieu;
>Une description de vos mandats vous sera demandée. Pour vous aider, des exemples illustrent les mentions requises dans le bulletin 2004-03 et vous seront affichés au moment opportun dans le formulaire;
>La date de début du mandat doit être la date de la première activité auprès du titulaire de charge publique;
>Le nom des institutions avec qui vous communiquerez dans le cadre du mandat et les moyens de communication utilisés.
[from the FAQ section](https://www.lobby.gouv.qc.ca/servicespublic/informationnel/Inscription/Faq.aspx)
Cool je reviens dans pas long
…
If you really want to rub salt in the wound, you could take up a collection to buy Coderre a bike. You could even throw in one of those cellphone holders for the handlebars seeing as apparently road safety laws dont apply to (self-)important people like him.
Sure, but thats not the problem. This is: lets say im a politician. Part of the job of government is to regulate certain industries. Now some of those regulations are good for society at large, but detrimental to those industries. Environmental and labour norms come to mind immediately. How hard am I, as a politician, going to push to advance those sorts of laws, knowing that I want you to hire me as a lobbyist once I leave elected office?
You could even see it as an act of corruption with a differed payout; I will slow-walk and obstruct new regulations as much as I can get away with, and in exchange your company will hire me for an exorbitant salary in 10 years time...
Allô, j'peux prendre votre commande?
Rosemont: Même le long de Bellechasse, il y a seulement deux bureaux qui sont rouges. À la quantité de pancartes d'Ensemble Montréal qu'il y avait, ça me surprend.
VSMPE: St-Michel et Parc-Extension sont rouge sang. Pourtant, ce sont deux districts qui profiteraient beaucoup des politiques progressistes de PM. Des hypothèses? 
Outremont: Vote en masse contre Tomlinson à cause des vignettes?
Wow super interesting!! I worked as a scrutatrice for the election and it’s cool seeing the numbers I counted shown here! 
Out of curiosity, where did you get this count info specifically for each box?
Ahahaha. Poor Balarama.
How is this sorted I assume through polling station numbers ?
You need better data. Lasalle voted for their own party, not for Plante or Coderre.
On m'a dit que les pistes cyclables sont pas voulues par les gens du coin, mais on dirait que c'est faux.
The spreadsheet is now available from the city’s open data portal: https://donnees.montreal.ca/ville-de-montreal/resultats-detailles
Yes, the numbers are ballot box numbers (“section de vote” in French). The first set of three digits are the district and the second set are the ballot box within the district as far as I know. Note that this map doesn’t include any early voting.
These are just the results for the mayor of Montreal election… borough mayors, borough and city councillor maps are coming soon :)
Its votes for the mayor of montreal only, since lasalle’s team didnt have a candidate for mayor of mtl they had the same choices as the other boroughs. 
I was also confused at first glance.
Cool, thanks!!
On n'arrête plus d'y aller, leur smash burger est le meilleur en ville. J'adore leur petit menu, bourré de saveurs. Dommage qu'ils contestent les mesures (passeport vaccinal), on ne peut plus manger sur place
J’y irais juste pour le loco moco 😍
[deleted]
The Hawaiian is weak but unfortunately the best in town
And the owners refuse to enforce the vaccine passport, so they’re takeout/delivery only now. Massive props to them—I’ve been ordering from them a bunch to show my support! Tasty ass food made by people with principles; now *that’s* a restaurant worthy of my patronage!
Their smash burger is great! As a Filipino, the first time I tried it I was surprised it had atchara (papaya pickles). Gave me a good laugh but then I realized it was original and really good lol.
oh ils contestent?? ça me donne envie aha
Being anti-vaccine passports doesn't automatically equate with being an antivax. Je dis ça, je dis rien...
On confirme le nom d'usager
That pickled garnish is tasty!
I'm looking at their menu, but I can't find the smash burger.
How much is it and what does it comes with?
Ils avaient un post où c'était mentionné avant mais je ne l'ai pas retrouvé
"J'ai l'gooooût !  
À la place Versailles  
De m'y promener  
À la place Versailles"
Le stationement au nord-est est pratiquement vide, aussi bien l'utiliser.
Ça devrait faire longtemps que les développements mixtes existent un peu partout sur l'île, il serait plus que temps que ça commence.
Bureaux / Commerces au niveau des rues, habitations au dessus. Le tout fait d'une façon que tu peux pratiquement tout avoir a distance de marche, voir même sans même a avoir a sortir dehors. Ça ferait beaucoup plus de sens que de tout séparer comme il le font présentement en obligant les gens a se déplacer avec un moyen de transport quelconque peu importe s'il vont magasiner ou travailler, car rien est vraiment proche.
Faites attention, c’est un endroit historique : https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LN70YcJoURM
[deleted]
À la Place Versailles! 🎶
Sauf qu'il est collé sur la 25 aussi. Un beau condo avec vue sur la 25 et ses voies de service?
Exactement, particulièrement autour des métros.
Ils le font dans Wall-E aussi.
Ils le font à Toronto (Yorkdale) et dans l’Ouest de l’île (Fairview) déjà, selon moi je préfère d’avoir des « Transit oriented developments » avec accès au REM que des fucking stationnements partout
Il faut faire une rangé bureaux/commercial du côté de la 25 et des condos après.
Oui prennez mon 550000 pour un esti de condo avec des mur en carton svp!
Ce qui est con c'est que le prochain REM ne passera pas par la, meme si il pourrait. L'arrondissment a propose un trace ameliore, reste a voir si ce sera accepte.
C'est ce que Cities Skylines m'a appris aussi!
Entièrement d'accord!
550000 pour un 3 1/2, de 500pc, garage en option à 70k. 
C'est pas fou en soit de vouloir faire de l'immobilier, il y a la place autour et on peut toujours travailler le volet paysager pour cacher un peu la 25, mais si ces gens s'intéressent à l'immobilier aujourd'hui ça n'est certainement pas que pour le plaisir d'offrir un toit aux Montréalais.
Tsé, quand les journalistes font exprès pour faire de la marde. C'est quoi le rapport du passage sur la piste cyclable? Ça fait quoi, 20 ans qu'il y a une piste là? 30 ans? Pourquoi mettre ça la?
C'était impossible de dire quelle institution dans le titre ? Le clickbait c'est non.
Bon débarras. C'était une belle gang d'air bête. J'y suis allé souvent et il n'y avait jamais rien et le personnel était extrêmement incompétent et désagréable.
Surtout qur ça vient d'un problème entre les actionnaires.
Pour te faire réagir.
ouin jtais comme wtf... ils doivent manquer de mots pour l'article alors ils ramassent une vieille histoire.
Pour avoir habité à côté de ma naissance à cette année (21 ans) et avoir passé devant en vélo très souvent, la piste cyclable a toujours été un enjeu. Une femme à vélo a d'ailleurs déjà été carrément écrasée par un camion juste en face. C'était dangereux et, malheureusement, une cours à bois avait de moins à moins sa place dans un quartier aussi dense et familiale, qui, oui, se déplace beaucoup en vélo.
**Le BMR de la rue Saint-Zotique est ferme ses portes.**
J’ai même gardé la typo de l’article.
Je suis ben d'accord avec acheter local (BMR, Home-Hardware vs des grosses bannières américaines) mais pareillement le petit BMR dans mon quartier les employés s'en foutent royalement et donne pas le goût de magasiner là.
*TVA nouvelles kicks in*
> une cours à bois avait de moins à moins sa place dans un quartier aussi dense et familiale, qui, oui, se déplace beaucoup en vélo.
Je suis mitigé. Le BMR offrait quand même un service essentiel à ce quartier (pas juste du bois) et maintenant les résidents n'ont plus d'autres choix que d'aller vers des bannières américaines beaucoup plus loin. Si on préfèrerait que les gens n'aient plus de voitures ça prend une ville avec le plus de services disponibles à proximité. 
Il reste la cour à bois Villeneuve coin bellechasse / St-Laurent mais celle là aussi est entourée de pistes cyclables.
Lol so nobody ever does projects in those areas now or needs an urgent repair item? Ok
I’m not blaming a cycle path for their demise but lumber yards and hardware stores are essential to any area. Especially smaller family run stores where staff is knowledgeable and knows where everything is
Quelle typo?
N'oublie pas le Home Depot sur Beaubien. Dans l'article il mentionne que le BMR n'offrait pas d'autres produits que pour faire du rough. 
> Nous étions seuls dans notre créneau qui est le rough de la rénovation. Il n’y a aucune décoration, aucun produit saisonnier, aucun outillage. Nous avions l’habitude de dire aux clients : une fois que tu as monté des murs et que tu as mis ton gypse, tu ne viens plus icitte. Pour le reste, tu vas ailleurs. »
Je suis d'accord avec toi pour ce qui est des services de proximité, mais un gros chargement de bois les gens venaient pas vraiment chercher ça à pied... La différence avec chez Villeneuve c'est qu'il y a un stationnement plus grand et cloturé où les gens peuvent charger leur char. Au BMR cet espace là est flou et empiétait souvent sur le trottoir et la piste cyclable, forçant les cyclistes à contourner des camions.
There's 2 literally 10 minutes from the one that closed.
Je suis d'accord que ces commerces sont essentiels, mais il faut savoir où les situer. Une cours à bois qui  donne directement sur une rue purement résidentielle avec une piste cyclable c'est plus viable. C'est pas la quincaillerie le problème c'est la cours à bois qui engendre beaucoup de déplacements de camions. Inquiète toi pas il existe encore des endroits où on peut acheter du matériel dans le coin, mais effectivement il faut se rendre de plus en plus loin pour les gros morceaux.
est
"Saint-Zotique est", pour différencier de "Saint-Zotique ouest".
C'est lundi matin.... je manquais de caféine, je pense... Merci de la précision!  😎
Superbe. L'étoile est probablement Vénus.
Prise il y a 10 minutes. Aucun filtre.
Voir une étoile à Montréal? FAKE NEWS
Jupiter
prise du silo ? L'endroit est encore accessible ??
Oui, c'est Vénus (une planète), l'astre le plus brillant dans notre ciel après le Soleil et la lune
Magnifique pour vrai :)
en gossant 5 minutes sur google maps 3D, je pense que la photo aurait été prise à partir du 1569 St-Hubert (la nouvelle tour "Zenith" de mondev)
La station spatiale elle, me semblait qu’elle était pas mal brillante
Oui bien joué! c'est au Zenith, chez un ami.
*Nous sommes en 2025, Tout le monde en parle termine sa 20e saison.*
*Guy A Lepage: "Nous accueillons ce soir Denis Coderre qui vient nous présenter son nouveau livre 'Montréal ça pue pis c'est laitte; une lettre d'amour à la métropole'. Denis, la question qui tue. Allez-vous-tu vous présenter à la mairie?"*  
*Denis Coderre: "Eh bien Guy A. J'ai changé. Et oui, je vais me présenter à la mairie pour vous montrer à quel point j'ai changé"*
He said he would stick around as opposition leader this time, always full of shit.
Sauf erreur, il n'a toujours pas prononcé les mots : "félicitations à Valérie Plante pour sa victoire".
&#x200B;
C'est quand même tout qu'un orgeuilleux pareil. Il est encore en train de blâmer les médias ou ses adversaires ou je sais pas trop au lieu de dire bravo et de réellement passer à autre chose.
&#x200B;
Attitude de merde.
Edit : erreur de ma part, il a rapidement dit bravo en début se discours avant de se lancer dans ses âneries habituelles.
I quit 2, electric Boogaloo
J'espère que c'est vrai cette fois-ci !
C o m p é t e n t
Denis Coderre never wanted to serve the community, all he wanted was to serve himself.
K. Bye.
Il quitte pour se concentrer sur son prochain livre: Reretrouver Montréal.
*« Je les aime », a-t-il dit. « C’est un extraordinaire livre qui se termine, mais fort de cette expérience-là, je peux faire beaucoup d’autres choses, \[…\] tant sur la scène internationale, locale ou ailleurs. »*
My French isn't the best, trying to understand what could be *ailleurs* in this case. If not local nor international, where then?
Parole d'un ami: "Denis Coderre qui annonce son retrait de la vie politique, c'est comme Broue qui annonce sa dernière tournée."
Womp womp.
Edit: I'm coming to dislike politicians with increasing intensity the older I get. But Mr. Coderre is at another level - the very sight of him, especially in those stupid fucking glasses he's adopted to hip himself up, makes me want to go vote against him all over again. He didn't deserve to govern and I'm beyond glad he lost. Hopefully he can pack up that ridiculously oversized ego of his and find a dumber electorate far from here to try and swindle.
He actually promised he wouldn't do like last time and would stick around. So much for that pledge.
À moins bien sûr que les sondages soient en faveur d'un retour en 2025...
Oui svp. Et sombre dans l’oubli
RemindMe! 40 Months
Ha ha! 
My 2nd to last parting gift for him, was a vote NOT for him. 
My last parting wishes for him... is: 
#>!╭∩╮ʕ•ᴥ•ʔ╭∩╮!<
Quel petit homme avec un ego lourd comme un bloc de ciment.
Ya pleins de positions dans des CAs de grandes entreprises pour des has-beens politiques. Il va être ben correct.
Je le verrais bien être chez Transcontinental nous dire que les Publi-Sac sont encore essentiel. 
/s
Denis Coderre veut le pouvoir ou gagner. 
S’il perd IL quitte !! C’est un mauvais perdant, une chance qu’on l’a pas élu. S’il avait l’intérêt des Montréalais(es) à cœur, il serait resté dans l’opposition pour débattre et défendre son point. Mais NON… il quitte pour une nième fois. C’est un PURE opportuniste à mon sens!! Chow bye  bad loser 👋
[deleted]
Le 5@7 au Cathcart les jeudis (en dessous du verre) est quand même pas pire. Mais le centre ville demeure assez mort
View from below (under): 
https://www.flickr.com/photos/maple99z/51679207248/in/dateposted-public/
&#x200B;
View from high above:
https://www.flickr.com/photos/maple99z/51679825265/in/dateposted-public/
no biggie, c'est lourd du verre.
journal de montreal? oh boy...
Un article journalistique de qualité que nous propose JdM
It's literally just an ad from Ivanhoe, "Remember our overpriced food court? It has a fancy new ceiling now."
C'est un nouveau point de vue installé par l'administration municipale?
Ça me rend heureuse.
À peu près temps...
La logique : on s'entasse les uns sur les autres dans des wagons de métro fermés mais on ne peut pas laisser quelqu'un jouer du violon dans d'immenses couloirs.
Awesome! I miss boat-guy, and the old man with the accordion, the wailing lady, and all the other regulars
Wow, did anyone else completely forget that there were ever musicians in the metro? Feeling geriatric right now.
It was never really unsafe if you think about it. Less safe than riding on the actual metro itself? Can't see how that's any more safe than a musician who by choice wants to be in his corner away from people playing music to our ears. Should be the musicians choice cause it's none other than their own safety at worst
''Like customers and staff, musicians performing in metro stations will be required to wear masks unless they’re playing a wind instrument'' .
Yet another absurdity in the era of Covidian cultism .''Breathing? Mask up! Playing Jazz Flute? Spit a Phat Beat my good fellow!'' 
I hope people will begin to remove their masks when they see more of these logical juxtapositions.
Je souhaite le retour du Spiderman dansant qui siffle quand il lance ses toiles invisibles.
A oui, j'ai vraiment hate de recommencer a dire a un musicien donc la musique va sonner mal peu importe sont talent a cause de l'acoutisque des stations de métro que ça fait des années qui je traine plus de change sur moi. 
S'il y a des gens qui veulent vraiment faire de la musique là, d'accord tant mieux pour eux, mais il me semble que le concept en soit est pas fameux.
esti que c'est ridicule.
Clark & Marcy too! (the guy with the stand up bass, whose name is Marcy)
Not thaaaatt eager for wailing lady (and any wailing people for that matter), but I will be happy to see the others yeah.
I moved here mid pandemic. No idea that was a thing. Do they need permits?
"The stm is trying to gradually and safely reduce covid restrictions and letting some not have masks on! Yet more absurd covid cultism! I hope people will be able to take their masks off again soon!"
It sounds like people gradually being able to be in the metro like normal is exactly what you want, why are you so upset?
This "logical juxtaposition" is one among a series of compromises made between limiting transmission of covid-19 and other aspects of life. A wind instrument probably increases the chances of transmission but if the overall impact of covid-19 remains stable or trends downward it could be a reasonable risk to take. But I hear where you're coming from, the inconsistencies can be frustrating.
I hope people remove their masks when it is safe to do so. I hope people respect themselves and one another enough to work together against this disease.
>"Breathing? Mask up! Playing Jazz Flute? Spit a Phat Beat my good fellow!"
Don't forget "Breathing? Mask up! Having a smoke? Kill us all!"
Dehors devant le Indigo je crois?
Je suis musicien et j’ai plusieurs amis qui font ça purement par plaisir/pour se pratiquer à performer devant du monde. J’espère que tu n’interrompe pas tous les musiciens que tu croises dans le métro en plein milieu d’une pièce juste pour leur dire que t’as pas de change sur toi. L’argent n’est jamais de refus mais c’est pas nécessairement la raison pourquoi les artistes font ça. 
Aussi, l’acoustique n’est pas mauvaise en soi, c’est juste très réverbéré mais c’est pas différent de performer dans une église par exemple, il y a plein d’esthétiques musicales qui prêtent à ça.
Personne te force à leur parler..
Des écouteurs, ça existe.
Le magasin ou j'travaille en ont des tonnes de copies, tu devrais y passer faire un tour. ;)
Même chose avec les activités musicales de loisirs  (ensemble orchestraux composés d'adultes amateurs). Ils sont encore limités à 25 personne max par ensemble (même si les ensembles comptent souvent 50-60 joueurs), en distanciation obligatoire de 2m, parce que c'est vraiment dangereux comme activité. Par contre, une fois la répétition terminée, tout le monde peut sortir prendre une bière, danser, et faire du karaoké jusqu'au p'tites heures du matin. C'est 100% absurde.
Carbone Boréal! Initiative de l'UQAC, best solution au Québec selon moi.
You can give me the money and I’ll deal with this and make the city better
I second this!
Denis, is that you?
Parlez en à Ottawa...
j'ai lu "Inde"... et j'ai arrêté là. ça explique en bonne partie le problème. 
j'ai un collègue indien au Canada depuis 20-30 ans et qui a encore de la famille là bas. on parlait justement hier de faire venir des trucs d'Inde. il m'a dit jamais de la vie. il y a trop de corruption et fraude dans les usines. 
des employés sous payés. des mauvaises conditions de travail. ça donne exactement ça... une qualité douteuse.
If you pay bananas, you get monkeys.
[Les locomotives électriques originales sur cette ligne ont été en service de 1918 à 1995, soit ~77 ans.](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/7/71/CNR_Electric_LastElectricLocomotive_1995-07-06.jpg)
J'ai l'impression que les nouveaux trains vont possiblement pas tenir aussi longtemps.
je le dis depuis le début: il aurait fallu ajouter au contrat une consigne dictant un haut % de contenu Québécois pour l'ensemble des fournisseurs et sous-traitants, comme on l'avait fait pour les éoliennes, par exemple.
Je me souviens même d'avoir écrit un long post là dessus il y a quelques années, comme quoi les rabais qui viennent avec le modèle "out-sourced" sont en réalité payés en qualité réduite sur le produit fini et en misère humaine pour ces travailleurs étrangers (conditions de travail menant à faire ces choix-là, moins de règles de santé&sécurité là-bas, etc...)
Oui ça aurait coûté plus cher si ça avait été fait au Québec, mais les salaires des employés auraient été directement taxés ici et les retombées locales et régionales auraient été importantes.
C'est un peu ça le problème quand on donne des projets de services publics à des organismes motivés par le profit...
Not shocking first units will always have issues
Wow! Quelqu'un de surpris ?
Ça fait tellement PLQ comme conclusion d'un dossier mal mené depuis le début.
Qqn est surpris?
Hein??!! Bin voyons donc... Pourtant l'Inde est reconnu pour son assemblage et finition exemplaire de leurs produits... /s
🥸🥸🥸🤪🤪🤪
«Le constructeur, qui prend en charge le coût des correctifs, fait valoir que c’est justement le but des essais de modifier ou corriger des éléments.»
Cibole, imaginez si on ne les avait pas fait vérifier.
Alstom c’est de la merde. Regardez le LRT à Ottawa. Rien que des problèmes
It is probably just implying delays and thus higher cost.
Sounds almost normal to me for new projects of this scale, I mean to be expected and acceptable in a sense.
They could have bought the high speed train know-how from trains in France, Italy or China I guess... still then a *lot* of money and jobs would have moved outside the country!?
Literally no different than what bombardier does
* surprised pikatchu *
Les ouvriers sont payé 2$/hr en Inde selon l'article. Pas surprenant que si tu utilise du cheap labour que tu vas avoir un résultat cheap. Ce projet est une catastrophe depuis le début.
C'est la même compagnie qui fait les deux systèmes... Quelle surprise.
C’est une question de couper les cours pour maximiser les profits. Le train léger à Ottawa souffre de problèmes, ainsi que ceux de Washington.
Ouais : Fabriqué en Inde, en Chine, à Taiwan... mettons que....
Like
Bombardier junk would be any better
I get what you’re saying, but don’t love that expression.
Trains are also rebuilt several times over their life span… I don’t get what’s so alarmist about the train sets. It’s pretty normal stuff to have a corrections list
> won reelection after reclaiming 22,000 sq meters of vehicle lanes to create **38 neighbourhood plazas** over three years...This citywide reordering of streets put **half of Milan’s 1.35 million residents within walking distance of new public space**. The measures were strongly opposed by some residents concerned about the loss of parking and driving space, but **Milanese voters ultimately rewarded Sala with 56% of the vote**.
This is one of the things that's often lost in the "bike lane" debate. So much of pro-bike/pedestrian infrastructure comes with massive improvements to the communities, aside from just the bike lanes themselves. 
Cars take up way, way too much space and every time my neighbourhood reclaims some of that space, my quality of life goes up.
>Next month, the mayors of two cities in North America – Mike Duggan in Detroit and Valérie Plante in Montreal – will test whether voters reward their pedestrian and bike-friendly policies.  
>  
>\[...\]  
>  
>Plante’s path to reelection in Montreal on 7 November is being challenged by Denis Coderre, who has criticised her bike- and pedestrian-friendly policies. Critics have portrayed Plante as out of touch with ordinary residents, but even her opponent is careful to promise that he would not reverse her signature protected bike lane on St Denis Street.Bikelash can be exhaustingly repetitive, to the point where even media writers are tired of the ritual of discussing bike lanes solely in terms of controversy.Reflecting on a decade of bike controversies across Canada, Toronto’s the Globe and Mail this month asked: “Is the war against bike lanes finally over?”Perhaps not quite yet, but the editorial took the view that bike lanes had “grown from political flashpoints – and ideological signifiers – to standard-issue civic infrastructure”.It added: “The arguments over bike lanes are settled. They’re becoming what they should have long been: an ordinary way of getting around our cities.”They are also an increasingly ordinary way for mayors to win elections.
On sait comment ça s'est passé maintenant!
&#x200B;
&#x200B;
Et à Détroit, Mike Duggan a obtenu 75% des voix.
avant, ca frustrait les automobilistes de devoir s'arrêter à un passage pour piéton. Maintenant, c'est pas mal la norme. Les gens comprennent : ceux qui veulent traverser en sécurité sont leurs voisins, leurs enfants, leurs amis, eux-même. 
La même affaire va arriver avec le vélo, faut juste pousser cette culture pour que ça arrive plus rapidement!
C'est parce que les enragés sont ceux qui traversent le quartier, alors que ceux qui votent sont ceux qui y vivent. Entre une route avec des troittoirs élargis, une piste cyclable et une voix pour les autos, et un rue 3 voies d'autos, le choix est vite fait. Meilleure sécurité, moins de pollution sonore, visuelle et atmosphérique, c'est juste mieux.
It feels like the “debate” is usually centred around people who aren’t even in these communities in the first place.  In my experience the people with the biggest complaints rarely live in the city centres or neighbourhoods anyway. They’re commuters who want the infrastructure they don’t even pay taxes for to accommodate them first and foremost.
the summer long pedestrianisation of wellington st in verdun was incredible.
It's also getting more and more inconvenient to drive around in a city. Personally, I don't want us ending up like New York City, so the more we discourage drivers and the more we encourage cycling and public transport, the more pleasant my drive is when I *really* need to drive somewhere.
Yes!!! One thing I always bring up is—can you honestly tell me that you don’t think St-Denis is so much more beautiful and pleasant now?! I would LOOOOOOOOVE if the whole city was as nice as St-Denis is! It’s such a pleasure.
> Critics have portrayed Plante as out of touch with ordinary residents
Les gens en vélos, comme on le sait, sont plutôt des résidents EXTRAORDINAIRES!!!
J'ai déjà eu une dame me féliciter pour avoir arrêté au passage piéton. 
Ça me fait plaisir, c'est la loi lol
"I don't want those people to improve their quality of life with their own money they pay in taxes because I want to be able to park right in front of the restaurant where I go once a month with my family. If they go forward they will lose my business."
> It feels like the “debate” is usually centred around people who aren’t even in these communities in the first place.
Absolutely!
The amount of times I've had this conversation and eventually the person said "and that's why I'll never move to the city!". Motherfucker you don't even live here?!?!
> They’re commuters who want the infrastructure they don’t even pay taxes for to accommodate them first and foremost.
Exactly. And I honestly think there's an element of envy or fomo or something as well. The anger doesn't really make sense to me otherwise. It's like they're projecting what they hope living in a city is like, because they don't want to feel bad they don't live here.
What's especially interesting is that suburbanites are [plenty happy to restrict cars in their own neighbourhoods](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dqQw05Mr63E) (with cul-de-sacs, etc.). It's unfortunate that some suburbanites don't think people in urban areas have the same right.
*angry boomers who live in the suburbs*, meanwhile people like us, who live in the affected boroughs enjoy having *liveable* neighborhoods.
This came to test with Winnipeg's Main & Portage referendum.  
Winnipeg's [main intersection](https://media.winnipegfreepress.com/images/6101968.jpg) has been barred to pedestrians for decades. Pedestrians have to use an underground crossing that's very confusing and uncomfortable, and 3 years ago the mayor ran a referendum to see if Winnipeggers want the intersection closed or open to pedestrians.  
If I remember correctly opening would have added at most a couple minutes to everyone's daily commute.  
The NO ended up winning, and you can see [here](https://imgur.com/bXVPInc) the vote map. I'll let you guess where that intersection is located.
That's way too true. Looking at people complaining on Facebook about Montreal's bike paths, they don't even live on the island. It's just an older crowd that lives 30 minutes outside of the city.
Yeah, same thing with Mont Royal for me. It's a game changer for the whole neighbourhood. I'm really hoping we keep it post covid.
On the flipside, what frustrates me to no end is when a pedestrian is at a designated crosswalk just standing there like an idiot waiting for a gap in the passing cars. It's a crosswalk! You have priority! Just fucking cross the street! 
Thank you for coming to my Ted talk /rant
100% lol
Yup. Live in Plateau. If you ever see someone driving like a dickhead with a bumblebee up their ass, it's gonna be someone without a resident decal\* lol. They're the ones who are mad the neighbourhood is a "maze" (traffic diversion/calming features) and that non-metered parking is hard to find. I think most residents appreciate these features.
\*could be a resident who has off-street parking or who is a wizard at finding the unregulated spots, but more likely to be from an outlying neighbourhood/suburb
Good. Sports can pay for themselves and stay out of the city's coffers.
Si le projet de construction du stade était si rentable, comme le prétendent ses nombreux partisans, pourquoi aucun consortium privé ne veut lever les fonds pour le construire ?
En plus du fait que payer publiquement pour un stade et une équipe privée c'est débile, ce l'est encore plus pour le baseball, un sport en perte de popularité partout en Amérique du Nord.
>Bronfman est le grand manitou, mais il aura besoin d’aide pour « vendre » le retour du baseball à la population. Jusqu’à maintenant, il travaille dans l’opacité. Ses rares sorties publiques, pleines d’enthousiasme, sont pauvres en information. C’est très bien que du travail se fasse dans les coulisses. Mais si les citoyens ont l’impression qu’on veut leur enfoncer dans la gorge un concept conçu derrière des portes closes, ce qui semble actuellement le cas, l’effet de ressac sera durable.
We don't need to be convinced. Putting a dime of public money or a square metre of public land is a bad idea which just needs to go away.
I’ll take a basketball team.
Not a personal fan of Bball, but the footprint would be minuscule, and based on how well Raptors games sell out when they are at the bell centre, I think there is actually a following here that would allow for the creation of jobs, tourism, cultural (like the impacts) growth, and all kinds of goodies.
Vote me for mayor, I promise a basketball team, a purple line, to fix our streets, fix healthcare (by paying the workers what they actually deserve) and make sure teachers are well paid too.
ces plate le baseball, je dits pas que un autre sport pourais pas devenire populair aux quebec, mais on a deja esseyer pis l'interet est pas la.
As has been studied all over NA. Tax money is lost if given to fund stadiums. The rich have gotten richer over time. Let them pay.
First rule of business: Never risk your own money
Je te dirais que c'est une question d'oeuf ou de poule: tu ne veux pas payer pour stade (surtout de baseball car cat ne sert pas à grand chose d'autre) avant d'avoir une garantie d'avoir une équipe et une équipe (ou nouvelle franchise) ne viendra pas s'installer dans une ville sans garantie d'avoir un stade où s'installer.
Un beau jeu de chicken où Québec a déjà perdu.
As-tu vu le montage financier et la demande du groupe d’investisseurs?  Exactement. On parle pour rien en ce moment. Attendons de voir c’est quoi la demande.
Les études de rentabilité sont toujours préparés par les mêmes firmes. Pis on s'entend que je les vois mal dire non, c'est pas bon a leurs clients.
>Je te dirais que c'est une question d'oeuf ou de poule: tu ne veux pas payer pour stade (surtout de baseball car cat ne sert pas à grand chose d'autre) avant d'avoir une garantie d'avoir une équipe et une équipe (ou nouvelle franchise) ne viendra pas s'installer dans une ville sans garantie d'avoir un stade où s'installer.
On en a un crisse! Moi c'est le bout qui ne me revient pas. Si le stade de baseball actuel ne vous convient pas, allez chier.
On se calme. 
Cela fait plus de 5 ans que l'on parle de ce projet. Sans investissement publique, il est clair que ce projet ne va nul part, j'en conclus donc que ce projet n'est évidemment pas rentable. Il faut être un béni oui oui du libéralisme économique pour penser le contraire.
On n'a pas de stade de baseball, on a un stade olympique qui peut être adapté en multisport. Les Yankees et red sox ont joué au London stadium, ça n'en fait pas un stade de baseball.
>allez chier.
Super mature comme façon de discuter.
>On n'a pas de stade de baseball, on a un stade olympique qui peut être adapté en multisport.
Les expos ont joué des années là. Bâtir un nouveau stade est du gaspillage. 
>>allez chier.
>
>Super mature comme façon de discuter.
Non mais on les envoi chier poliment. L'important est de ne pas mettre une cenne dans un nouveau stade.
>Les expos ont joué des années là. Bâtir un nouveau stade est du gaspillage. 
Et tous les joueurs/entraîneurs disaient que ce n'était pas fait pour jouer au baseball. André Dawson est parti car ses genoux n'en pouvait plus du béton. Ce n'est pas une infrastructure de baseball. Je te répète que plusieurs matchs ont été joué dans des stades de soccer/football, ça n'en fait pas des stades de baseball.
>L'important est de ne pas mettre une cenne dans un nouveau stade.
Où ai-je dit le contraire?
r/walmartcelebrities Christiano Ronaldo
He looks exactly the kind of person to do something like that 
The fact that his name is Brayden is the cherry on top
c'est agaçant les articles qui ne donnent presque aucune information. attaque au hasard, lien avec le crime organisé ou... ?
Innocent until proven guilty.
In the meantime though, this particular suspect is most certainly guilty of looking like an insufferable douche, with a douchey pout on his petulant punum, a fake-n-bake tan, a douchey coiffe and an especially douchey name.
C’est pas le but de cette article. Ils veulent juste l’aide du publique pour trouver un homme recherché.
These government bonuses the doctors have donated to match are too dependent on never calling in sick, taking a leave of absence, or going part time.  Most of the bonus money is completely lost once you miss a day of full time work, even for normally acceptable reasons.  I have no perfect solution, but paying a higher rate + higher overtime rate may get more shifts staffed in the short term.
Just my 2 cents as a nurse who left the public hospital side.
This is frustrating
Let's be honest, 90 000$ between 90 doctors over two years is not going to hurt anyone. It's not a very selfless act.
Also. Doctors are part owners of their departments. I have a hard time explaining it but since they are mostly all incorporated, they are not really employees. This isn't coming out of their pockets, it is coming out of their bonus.
They usually have the final say on budget, projects and hiring. So, the fact they are taking 90k out of their bonuses to increase the employment conditions of their team kinda seems like the average normal move.
Let's remember that those doctors make way more than 90k a year. That for ONE of their salaries they could have that money. 
What they tell you and what is, never the same. This is why I left the healthcare system, I hate being so blatantly manipulated.
Doctors in the ER are independent practitioners separate from the hospital and should not be held accountable for the rest of hospital funding.  However, an ER doctor easily makes >5x what an ER nurse does, despite not having 5x the years of education.  
Not saying they should not be making their well deserved salary.  I just think nurse salaries have to go up too if we want people to work these jobs.
Disclaimer : this isn't the case everywhere I am aware but I KNOW it is the case at many clinics.
Doctors do make amazing salaries, that they deserve and more because most of them work 60-80 hour weeks especially when you account for training, networking and on call time.
But, they make more than they say. They have their regular salary, and they make a bonus depending on how much is left in the budget at the end of the year.
Every medical activity has two fees, administrative and for their pay. The clinic/hospital gets the administration fee, but at the end of the year, what's left over is their bonus. 
This is why staff can't ask for a raise. This is why they don't buy new chairs, or invest in the lighting. Because every cost cut becomes a bigger bonus for them. And honestly, it's an incentive. Again doctors are underpaid in Quebec so it's a huge advantage to have this kind of bonus. But it's also a mess. 
I could go on but let's just say, doctors should just be employees. What's wrong with paying someone 150$ an hour when they deserve it?
fuck yes! 
ca fais des annees que le terrain est vacant, la bouquinerie upgrade!  et pas loin de chez moi en plus!!
Ils ont pas choisi comme nom Comment faire l'amour à un Nègre sans se fatiguer? Weird...
C'est aussi super intéressant de l'installer à la frontière des deux arrondissements! Il en faudrait une à la jonction de Rosemont, Mercier et Saint-Léonard aussi (genre au coin Viau et Beaubien)!
>Comment faire l'amour à un Nègre sans se fatiguer?
Hmmm, t'es pas correct, maintenant faut désormais appeler le livre:  "Comment faire l'amour à un mot en N sans se fatiguer?"  
Edit:  /s
>Ils ont pas choisi comme nom Comment faire l'amour à un nom en N sans se fatiguer? Weird...
Ftfy
Ça devient abstrait... intéressant!
Ya rien là Justin trudeau est député de papineau et il vit sur une autre planète
/s
Malheureusement, même dans les pays où c'est obligatoire de vivre là où on candidate à représenter les élections, les politiques font juste prendre un loyer pour se mettre en conformité.
Bein voyonn doknnc
C'est normal, y ont pas de parking, fa qu'y vont vivre ailleurs 😁
toi, travailles-tu dans ton arrondissement ?
> même dans les pays où c'est obligatoire de vivre là où on candidate à représenter les élections, les politiques font juste prendre un loyer pour se mettre en conformité
So regulate that too. Surely this is a solvable problem (if we agree as a society that it's a problem).
Estii
Pas la même chose... C'est un élu
Élu, c'est pas une job, c'est un mandat de représentation.
Comme la majorité des gens, j’ai le choix de vivre dans le quartier où je travail pour seulement la moyenne somme d’un revenu négatif, ou habiter a une distance là où il y a des loyers que je peux me permettre.
(En fait, c’est faux, le WFH permanent a réglé ça, mais j’ai fait des décénies dans la situation plus haute.)
This is much more complex than it seems. Résidence principale is a concept that is blurry and needs to stay so in order to accomodate people travelling long term, people without a regular place to live, people moving temporarly for a job or to help a relative, etc. etc.   
Make it too strict and you put a lot of people in trouble
LOL!!
j'sais bien, mais j'suis juste curieux.
egalement, ya une difference entre un elu qui se presente dans un arrondissement ou il n'habite pas, VS  un elu qui a demanager pour habiter ailleurs a mi-mandat mettons.
flashback dla vague orange; quand Ruth Ellen Brosseau s'est faites elire en Mauricie(si jme trompe pas) elle ne connaissais meme pas le coin... ca c'est pas acceptable.
>  The vegetarian Brosseau knew nothing about politics or the riding, with many pork and beef farmers, and a travel time of three-and-one-half hours away from her Ottawa home by car.[14][15] She did not expect to win,[16] did not campaign, and never went to the riding, which straddles Lanaudière and Mauricie.
un cas asser special
makes no sense la... come on.  c'est meme une CRISS de job, et le salaire est bof.  if anything else than a job... c'tune vocation.
Chez les politiques, c'est exactement l'inverse qu'on observe. Ils se présentent dans dans des quartiers populaires mais vivent dans des quartiers très en demande.
> This is much more complex than it seems.
It's definitely more complex than just saying "regulate it" I agree, but I think we overcomplicate things because we're wary of being "unfair" to people like politicians. It's not unfair for us to ask that they disclose all their residences and that they have to prove which one they live in primarily. 
> to accomodate people travelling long term, people without a regular place to live, people moving temporarly for a job or to help a relative, etc. etc.
None of that applies here though. And even if it did, it's not hard to carve out temporary exemptions for things. We're talking about for politicians specifically, it's OK to ask that they adhere to some pretty basic rules that normal people don't have to.
C'est un cas spéciale effectivement mais on ne peut vraiment pas lui reprocher la suite des choses. Elle s'est investie à 100% dans son travail, a fini par marrier un producteur de porc du coin et y habite toujours aujourd'hui.
>egalement, ya une difference entre un elu qui se presente dans un arrondissement ou il n'habite pas, VS  un elu qui a demanager pour habiter ailleurs a mi-mandat mettons.
Exact, certains ont vécu dans l'arrondissement presque toute leur vie puis déménagé il n'y a pas si longtemps.
Le beau raccourci intellectuel toé chose: est végétarienne, faque elle va rien comprendre ni rien faire pour les fermiers /eyeroll
La grande séduction!
ACAB FEMME = REV
Mon dieu, je savais pas que le REV avait une portée politique aussi marquée
"Plus tard, deux étudiantes ont reçu de leur aide pédagogique individuelle (API) des courriels concernant les événements du matin. Il s’agit de Jeanne et de Laurie-Ève*. Cette dernière n’était pas intervenue en classe, mais il semblerait que l’enseignante l’ait confondue avec Laeticia. Toutes les deux ont la peau noire."
YO.
[jE vOuLaIs PaS pRoVoQuEr](https://youtu.be/D2vuMLg6BHE?t=10)
Defending your right to say a racist term while in a position of authority and mentorship is the saddest hill to die on.
on va repost combien de fois le même article avec aucune nouvelle information ou version de l'autre parti?
Hey les Wokes, vous savez que le film "Comment faire l'amour avec un nègre sans se fatiguer" existe encore ?! 
https://youtu.be/36lIf6K3_ho
Ha oui, scénario Dany Laferrière .
D'un ton "provocateur" ahahahaha
Il y a la réaction du Collège de Maisonneuve dans l'article et j'ai pris le temps de vérifier s'il avait déjà été posté.
Oui et contrairement à toi, on a lu le roman.  
\- Les wokes
La woke dans ce cas-ci c'est clairement la prof qui essaye de censurer l'opinion de ses élèves en les sortant du cours non?
Elle l'a répété 25 fois, si c'est pas de la provocation je me demande bien c'est quoi.
Super content que certains savent lire. Au moins tout n'est pas perdu. 
Maintenant, transmettez votre savoir du livre. Parce que certaines personnes n'ont vu que le film. ;))
Oui, tout à fait d'accord :)
Les profs sont vraiment crevés sérieux. Ça excuse pas ce qu'elle a fait, mais ça explique au moins en partie la dérape j'ai l'impression. Mon jeune en sec. 2 m'a dit cette semaine qu'une prof a interdit de parler de l'indépendance du Québec dans un travail d'écriture qui devait porter sur qqchose comme "Comment tu vois ton avenir?".
Un élève a demandé si c'était un sujet possible, un autre a dit que lui aussi aimerait ça écrire là-dessus (même une sorte de science fiction), il y a eu un p'tit buzz et elle a déclaré le sujet interdit. On n'aurait jamais vu ça avant, interdire d'emblée un thème qui ne porte préjudice à personne; torieu! y a un parti politique souverainiste à Québec et un autre à Ottawa, c'est pas comme si c'était des idées terroristes ou un appel à la révolution non plus! 
Mais là on dirait que la coupe est toujours sur le bord de déborder. C'est à se demander si une partie de la culture du bannissement ne se comprendrait pas aussi à travers ce prisme de l'écoeurite aigue. Genre : on ne veut plus débattre ou même dealer avec des points de vue divergeants, on est juste fatigués.
Et pendant qu'on y est, vous direz à Mathieu-Bock Côté, Richard Martineau, Sophie Durocher, Gilles Proulx et Denise Bombardier qui sont déjà en train d'aiguiser leurs crayons qu'on sait très bien faire la différence entre dire un mot dans son contexte académique et le répéter 25 fois par pure provocation.
\- Les wokes
I do see the point of the teacher though. "How do you see your future?" and "How do you see the future of your country/Canada/Quebec?" are different topics. It should be how you see the trajectory of your life. I think if a student was to go on those thematic then he would be off-topic.
Je me tiens loin des personnages susmentionnés.
Je pense pas. Pourquoi un jeune ne pourrais pas écrire "Je me vois comme politicien/ministre/etc. d'un pays nommé Québec?" Y a rien de dangereux là-dedans, de un, et de deux, je retourne ça de tout bord tout côté et n'arrive pas à voir comment on peut censurer des jeunes, sauf s'ils en appellent à la violence.
my favorite park!!! im so sad i hope its going to be salvageable…. :(
Fuck! That's some of my childhood, going up in smoke, right there..  
Best swings ever, in that park, easily 10' chains.  
Felt like you could make LEO at the top of the arc.
I confused it with Parc Outremont now that's the chalet that needs to go up in smoke. Geez, those washrooms haven't been renovated since WW2.
un suivit ?
Lacerte est pas toujours recommandable, mais ça fait longtemps qu'il signale que les élus d'Outremont ne s'occupent pas des parcs et laisse les bâtiments aller chez l'diable. Dernièrement il signalait la grosse misère du chalet du parc Outremont. C'est vraiment désolant de voir ça dans des parages aussi cossus. J'avais d'affaire dans le coin v'là qqs années parce que la garderie de mes gars était pas loin et on n'en revenait jamais, de retour dans notre quartier très classe moyenne + HLM, de la qualité de nos parcs et espaces publics.
Whaaaat ! Noooo
J'espère qu'ils le reconstruiront à l'identique pour le look (mais neuf pour les toilettes)! C'était un bâtiment de parc unique sur l'île!
Oh, man, that's why the area was closed this weekend... I thought it had to do with the canal/lake around the pavillion.
Let's just hope there's funds and time to rebuild part of it for the ice skating season and then in spring (latest) to keep the nice activities here going.
Loved to watch the dance events in the summer evenings. Lived around the area for ages and just realized that this exists in 2021.
Favorite park? When you're right next to park Outremont? BLASPHEMY! (jk)
And I built floats that went around that pond :(
>  LEO
Law enforcement officer? That's an aspiration, I guess.
En fait, je me demande s'il n'a jamais été rénové. Il date de 1925 et les consultations sur sa restauration, son agrandissement, etc. sont compliquées pcq c'est un bâtiment à valeur patrimoniale. Je ne dis pas qu'il est classé, mais il a toute une histoire liée à son architecte donc on peut pas faire n'importe quoi et souvent ne pas faire n'importe quoi = ne rien faire du tout malheureusement... Détails ici sur ce qui est projeté : https://journaloutremont.com/nouvelles/vie-municipale.
[removed]
Vers midi. On voit pas grand chose. Le parc est bouclé. https://imgur.com/a/i8HZ8H4
Lacerte pas toujours recommandable? Dit m'en plus siyouplait.
Low earth orbit
Merci pour le lien. Wow, j'étais pas loin. Ça a besoin des gros travaux. C'etait pas mal dégueulasse quand j'étais là cette été. L'intérieur d'une salle de bain dois pas être patrimoniale, change les évier et les toilettes au moins. Lol
Ben mettons que ses "photo-romans" sont parfois à la limite du mauvais goût. Aussi on ne s'attire certainement pas la sympathie du lecteur en vargeant tout le temps sur le même clou.
I know.
>L'intérieur d'une salle de bain dois pas être patrimoniale
Ben s'il était simplement restauré à son état d'origine, ce serait toujours ça de pris! Je n'aurais rien contre pour ma part qu'on y retrouve p. ex. du cuivre, des petites céramiques en mosaïques comme dans les vespasiennes d'antan, mais tsé, avec plus de pression dans la chasse d'eau et un ti-peu de chauffage!
Maybe he was inspecting the building ? That seems like an expensive drone used by companies.
There was a drone flying between the ghetto and the McGill sport center Wednesday morning, and it was operated by road workers.
Looked like that exact drone too.
I know it's probably not you but that big antenna make you look suspect hahaha
In the ghetto??
Walk up to the window. Naked.
Make eye contact with the camera.
Masturbate furiously.
That drone was going to a prison for a delivery
Better hope they had a drone license, Downtown is Class C airspace.
why you have windows ?
Do you have a slingshot?
Use it to take it down.
This is quite obviously a pro drone.
The world doesn't revolve around you, I'd bet money they gave no fucks and were doing building inspection.
This looks like a commercial drone with some kind of a special camera mounted on it — maybe they’re doing thermal imaging of the building?
Drone this big definitely requires a licence and permit to fly at a given place and time. If you’re really curious, you can follow up with TCCA, they would have a record of this.
Says the guy with a drone remote...
I bet you'll find it on a certain hub in a couple day
I hope that footage makes its way here, that’d be fire tho
SouthPark vibes
[deleted]
This is so fucked. I hate drones.
Unofficial SPVM drone
Tell him I'd be more effective at night
Lorne Crescent?
Ce mec est tellement idiot. On a de la misère à croire qu'il a fait si longtemps de la politique. Dude, t'as pas été élu la dernière fois parce que t'étais juste pas capable d'avouer la vérité avec le Formule E. Le peuple, y'aime pas ça l'absence de transparence. Là, tout va bien pour toi, jusqu'à la fin, c'est 50/50, mais on te trouve un squelette, pis ENCORE, t'es juste pas capable d'arriver "clean". À la place, il va se cacher dans les mêmes j'ai-pas-le-droit-c'est-confidentiel de marde, comme un gros idiot qui prend le peuple pour des caves. Estie que t'es con. Check le ben lâcher le parti tantôt. "J'aime Montréal d'amour", mon oeil. Il s'aime d'amour lui-même pis quand y'a pas son jouet, il va se cacher en pestant contre les gros sales de corrompus dans le parti qui l'a battu. Gros bébé idiot pas capable d'admettre ses erreurs.
[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7-9wXQpzESo](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8ow7HQvlQzw)  
musique, sfw.
M'étonnerait même pas s'il disait que les élections ont été « volées » et qu'il allait entreprendre une poursuite...
Je suis tellement curieux de savoir qui sera le Lionel Perez de service cette fois-ci.
whatever he announces won't happen
Moé je dis qu'y débarque, même si y disait y a pas trop longtemps à quel point il aime Montréal pis qu'y sacrifierait sa vie pour la protéger...
DENIS CODDERRE QUITTE 2, ELECTRIC BOOGALOO
Tant qu'à être dans le thème, on peut peut-être lui faire une playlist?
Je suggère de continuer avec [Prélude no 4, opus 28.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiwPzHJ-Pic)
Donald Coderre??!
C'était bien plus serré la dernière fois et il a pas fait ça.
En fait il a perdu d'autres élections et y'a jamais rien fait de tel.
Bonne question.
Non, ça c'était en 2017. Cette année c'est publisac boogaloo.
Criss qu'il est triste ce Chopin !
je connais pas, c'est une marche funèbre ?
Dans le cas de Coderre, je crois que cette procession est plus appropriée: https://youtu.be/8Fw1tmaYhiw?t=5044
>By Chopin's request, this piece was played at his own funeral
>Hans von Bülow called the prelude "suffocation", due to its sense of despair. In fact, Chopin's last dynamic marking in the piece is smorzando, which means "dying away".
&#x200B;
cool
That's top-notch. You should brand this.
Legit would buy
Just not Gildan, fait le avec "c'est beau" pour un produit local
The nail…. It has been hit on the head.
C'est du beau boulot, si tu peux en produire quelques centaines, tu peux appliquer sur l'appel d'offre de la ville pour des EPI!
id buy one
Love this and would buy! Keep us posted if you decide to sell :)
Ooh nice follow-up! Thought this was just for a Halloween costume before :)
If you do more tests, consider making the logo in white (like a negative on the orange space for example)?
You should make matching pants :)
I love this. I would absolutely purchase this T shirt! 😁
That’s brilliant! I’d buy that in a heart beat!
Jesus would wear this.
On va te confondre avec un cône orange dans la rue!
That's a really good but I wouldn't even know where to start. I'll do some research, thanks
I prefer Kirkland brand T shirts but the Gildans are good for trying stuff out that might fail. If I ever sell these I would use Kirkland.
Moi aussi
Good idea. I'll try that
Clown pants like the cops a little while ago…
Ton T-shirt devrait être en vente dans la boutique de [Ponto](https://www.google.ca/url?sa=t&source=web&rct=j&url=https://minyaka.com/ponto/&ved=2ahUKEwjh2YbAjpH0AhXpRt8KHQ0_A20QFnoECA0QAQ&usg=AOvVaw2VYTPgzfn9E3nDZDO1nOSf)
I mean, in a way you’re buying local…Gildan’s head office is in Montreal!
I asked Ponto. Ponto said "no". :(
Chronique d'un enseignant permanent au secondaire: j'ai reçu une lette du centre de service scolaire me disant que j'avais acquis le statut d'enseignant permanent. Finalement, après avoir gradué en avril 2013. Yé
Le vendredi, c'est ravioli.
Gros rant: fuck le changement d'heure.
Point positif: Coderre n'est pas maire.
[Fek j'ai eu une offre d'emploi Lundi.](https://www.reddit.com/r/montreal/comments/q8l7de/comment/hgqgwmf/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x&context=3) 26%-11000$ish d'augmentation. Nouvelle industrie complètement avec un beau p'tit break avant de commencer, question de me rebooter le cerveau. Tout est bien qui fini bien pis chu ben ben excitée
Ça fait un petit bout que j'ai pas publié ici. Mon travail me mine complètement en ce moment. Je l'avais dit en début d'année, j'avais une classe très faible. Là je suis rendue au point où je ne sais plus quoi faire. Hier dans l'évaluation de lecture, je trouvais une question un peu difficile. J'ai décidé de leur donner la réponse lors de la routine du matin. Malgré cela, 12 n'ont pas eu la réponse. Je suis découragée. Ces élèves là me font sentir incompétente comme enseignante. L'orthopédagogue suit seulement 2 de mes élèves alors que j'en ai entre 10 et 14 qui échouent. Pas de nouvelles de l'orthophoniste ni de la psy mais j'ai pourtant parlé de 4 élèves à l'orthophoniste et 8 à la psy. La direction sait que ma classe c'est du n'importe quoi. On essaie de me donner de l'aide mais mes élèves s'opposent à celle qui vient les prendre en petits groupes (un l'a accusé de voleuse hier). Et les parents dans tout ça? La moitié dans le déni, l'autre dans l'impuissance.  Les rencontres sont la semaine prochaine mais j'ai déjà eu 12 rencontres (où c'est mes périodes libres qui y passent). Je tombe des nues quand je dis à un parent "votre enfant ne comprends pas les consignes simples en classe, quel support avez-vous à la maison pour le Français ?" Et que je me fais répondre "it's ok, moi je peux support lui en français"... Bref, je suis découragée....
J'ai commencé un nouvel emploi il a 4 semaines, augmentation de 30 000$ par an contrairement à mon ancienne emploi ( pour les curieux, j'ai passé de 41 000$ à 70 000$ ) et c'est un super de bon emploi!
Je fais également de l'humour on the side et mes choses commence à vraiment bien aller. Les humoristes parlent de moi, des fois y'a même des humoristes quand même connus qui disent qu'ils ont entendu parler de moi et c'est vraiment cool et je commence de plus en plus à faire des shows qui me paye! Le plus gratifiant dans tout ça, c'est des gens du public qui viennent me voir après le show pour me dire à quel point ils ont aimé ça!  
Disons que mes affaires vont bien en ce moment et c'est vraiment le fun! Merci de votre écoute 😀
Some John Abbott College theatre students organized a pop-up Halloween haunted house at the former Herron Residences in Dorval. They reenacted the horrific events that occurred there during the early months of the pandemic. Apparently, it was very very frightening and repulsive. 
Too soon, I say.
Chronique d'un adulte qui apprends le vélo:
Je pense avoir fait ma dernière sortie de l'année cette semaine, avec le froid qui s'installe. J'ai moins fait de sorties que je pensais mais c'est quand même un bon début, surtout avec une débarque la première fois qui a mis quelques semaines avant d'arrêter de faire mal. Je ne suis pas encore à l'aise dans le traffic mais je pense que l'année prochaine je vais pouvoir faire des petits déplacements dans le quartier.
Ça m'est arrivé deux fois cette semaine que je vais chercher une Communauto et selon l'application elle est stationnée sur la rue et elle est juste pas là? Et je passe du temps à checker toutes les autos comme un twit
L'autre jour j'ai mis des bagels dans le toaster et ça commençait à sentir les oignons dans la maison. J'ai accidentellement acheté les bagels avec des oignons dessus. Je sais pas c'est qui qui a inventé ça mais c'est un blasphème aux bagels hahaha. Je donnerais même pas ça à un itinérant
En parlant de matins, maintenant des fois je commence à travailler à 7h, des fois à 10h. Je pense j'ai un sommeil fragile, c'est suprenant comment c'est pas super facile sur le sommeil.
Ma semaine de vacances passe à la vitesse de l'éclair et j'ai l'impression que j'ai pas décompressé pantoute.  Je redoute le retour au travail et je me demande quelle urgence va nous tomber sur les genoux cette fois-ci.  À chaque fois que je pense qu'on a éteint un feu, y'a un autre fuck-up qui sort de nulle part et c'est à nous de ramasser la marde.  Tout le monde est surchargé, et le niveau de panique est constamment élevé.  J'ai un mois de travail à me taper avant les vacances des fêtes et même si c'est "juste" 4 semaines de job... ça me tente tellement pas.  J'ai regardé un peu ailleurs, mais les prospects sont pas si jojo: changer d'emploi serait un side-grade plus que d'autre chose, avec peu d'avancement côté salaire ou avantages sociaux.  Fuck it pareil.  Si la première semaine de 2022, mon boss dit *encore une fucking fois* le lundi matin qu'on a "une grosse semaine chargée", je remets ma démission, même si j'ai rien d'enligné après.
C'est quand même drôle, j'ai plein de chums et d'anciens collègues qui me disent à tout bout de champ "Tu peux avoir ben mieux ailleurs!" mais quand je leur demande si leur job engage, tout d'un coup, c'est les criquets.
Une amie de longue date se prépare à mourir du cancer.  Elle ne fera pas le mois.  C'est plate en tabarnak.  J'haïs ça pis j'ai aucune idée quoi dire.
Je me suis enfin procuré des lumières de Noël.  C'est des petites DEL avec des ampoules en plastique de couleur.  C'est l'fun, de la couleur.  Ça me fait chier de voir tout le monde avoir des lumières blanches pis rien d'autres.  Ça fait nouveau-riche.  Fuck off, Georges, t'es pas riche, t'as un bungalow avec un sous-sol pas fini en banlieue pis c'est toute, reviens-en.
Le Bonanza Lalumière vend de la chèvre.  J'ai bien l'intention d'essayer de cuisine quelque chose avec ça.
apres 17 ans de service au meme comptoir... jcommence a penser que c'est plus ma place.
le monde me pompe;  ca veux un rolls royce au prix d'une Lada.  j'sais pas si c;est de l'ignorance ou de la stupidité mais caltard on dirai que le COVID a faites baisser le QI du monde moyen a -450
j'tanner de dire au monde de s'crisser un masque dans face, de laver leurs esti de mains.... j'suis plus consultant en arts graphiques, j'suis rendu un baby sitter a mesures sanitaires.. au debut ok, mais la fais 2 ans quon est dans ca... yen a plus d'excuses.
tk si ya qq1 qui me connais et qui lit ca, faites de quoi jsuis a boutte.
j'ai été voir un spectacle hier.  
Louis-José Houde à l'Olympia; son premier spectacle depuis un bout.  
C'était correct; il manquait un peu de rythme, il était probablement juste rouillé.
Podcast du moment: [Comedy Bang Bang! The Podcast](https://www.earwolf.com/show/comedy-bang-bang/) [EN]
C'est rare que je craque si souvent en écoutant un podcast. Le hôte (un humoriste) commence chaque épisode avec un entretien avec un invité, souvent c'est un acteur, humoriste ou réalisateur. À la deuxième partie, il invite des personnages absurdes (inventés et joués par des autres humoristes) de lui joindre et le gang commencent à improviser et c'est là je mort de rire. L'épisode de Halloween était un peu moche (trop de chant), mais les autres étaient excellents pour me sortir de l'ennuie du travail.
Il me faut une casque à écouteurs sans fil. Je cherche une paire plutôt robuste et confortable que pour la qualité audiophile (ça va être pour porter seulement en transport en commun). Des recommendations?
Bonne fin de semaine tout le monde! Je sais qu'on est tous un petit peu tanné, mais tranquillement ça va bien aller :)
Je suis soulagé du résultat des élections mais pas tant enthousiaste. Je suis aussi surpris qu'il y a pas eu tant de participation..
Sinon ça fait officiellement 6 mois que je suis au chômage pis je CaPoTE. En voulant me consoler mon chum me dit que tsé au moins y'a pleins de Mcjobs qui embauchent, pis là j'ai vu tout mes mauvais choix de vie passer sous mes yeux. Crime, j'aurais donc du faire une technique..
Est-ce quelqu'un d'autre a entendu la basse vibration ce matin dans le plateau ouest?
Moi, je veux juste savoir si y'a des brasseries comme celle de Daniel Lapointe ou Fleurimont à Montréal?
[deleted]
Je viends de terminer mon avant dernier partiel et il me reste 4 jours avant mon dernier. Auriez- vous Des idées d'endroits sympas a aller voir pour se relaxer?
On est en pénurie d'enseignants!
Centre de services: best I can do is 8 years.
Woo hoo! Congrats.
Serais-tu porte-paroles du SPVM par hasard?
Photolab Yves-Thomas is where I print my stuff, good services and easy to work with. Not sure if it’s what you’re looking for, but they also have a “starter” package with samples, examples of prints on different materials (different papers, canvas, gatoboard, etc) that could help you maybe.
Provisia. C’est relativement proche du métro Namur. J’y vais souvent et les prix sont excellents pour la qualité. La vibe est smooth aussi.
I too am looking to make some prints, black on white background, super simple designs from jpegs. I've never done this before, what would I do?
I actually need to do that as well, i usually go to Concordia Copies.
You can go to the Caïus du Livre. The make great prints and many artists in Montreal has used this printer to make their self-published books.
Wow, je suis content.
Who Tao
wow that's huge
They came to spy on us
Je me fais contacter au moins hebdomairement, mais jamais je n'accepterais de travailler pour une entreprise chinoise. Ultimement c'est aider le CCP.
wo tsao ?
LOL, after the release of Inazuma, Japanese netizen has been debating about how a Chinese developer make a better game about Japanese culture than Japanese devs themselves. Mihoyo caused a “Kungfu Panda” moment for Japan.
90% des choses que tu utilises quotidiennement proviennent de chine :|
on est comme pognés un peu.
Faut bien commencer quelque-part.
Le ciel ressemble à un écran bleu mal étiré.
Je préfère la vue qu'on a de l'autre côté au skate park, mais belle photo tout de même
[deleted]
Tu sais que la pandémie est terminée quand les gens chialent sur la STM. /s
J'étais à Peel, y'avais de la fumée au point ou on voyait pas chaque côté de quai. On a entendu le code 900-05 (incendie) avant de se faire évacuer. Au moins y'avais une bonne raison de stopper le service, mais la communication laisse vraiment à désirer.
Pis là c'est la Orange qui est au ralenti.
ESTI DE CRISSE DE TABARNAK
*laughs in remote worker*
Mais serieux quand je vois ça j'ai un surge d'anxiété, what if c'était mois juste avant un rendez-vous important?
T'a juste à patienter 10 ans, pis tu va pouvoir prendre le REM de l'Est sur un circuit parallèle.
STM ne veut pas que le monde revienne au travail.
[deleted]
les gens de la STM devrait apprendre de quoi du Japon. Ce genre de message serait innacceptable la bas.
Same thing happened to me yesterday going home. Metro was down for like an hour, insult to the injury of having to work en presentiel for no fucking reason. 
Good thing I decided not to go in today, I would have very likely quite literally lost my mind. 
Going back to work in person is really weighing super heavily on me, mentally. 😔
Souvenir de la STM: Caller un "ralentissement de service" quand ton train a pas bougé depuis 15 minutes.
S'il y a une panne demain ca va faire un x3 combo
Hier aussi, 30 minutes d'arrêt sur la ligne orange entre 8h30 et 9h.
3 jours sur 4 une interruption de service...
J'ai entendu la petite cloche d'annonce plus de fois en une semaine que dans un an au complet...
Content de savoir que jsuis pas tout seul
https://www.tvanouvelles.ca/2021/11/11/interruption-de-service-sur-trois-lignes-du-metro
La station guy concordia est complètement fermée://
Vingt ans+ de ma vie à, Séoul, Corée du Sud ne m'a jamais donné tel horrible service de metro. À Montréal j'experimente un délai quelconque au moins une fois chaque 2 semaines quoi et aujourd'hui c'est le pirrrreeee.
Ce qui m’énerve, c’est que ce n’est pas clair si prendre la orange pour me rendre à Berry permettrait de reprendre la verte pour aller à L’Assomption .
Quebec Hydro once turned my power off from 8am-3pm on a workday to do maintenance. I tweeted at them to tell them I was annoyed by their choice of time. 
They responded, "No time is a good time."
I responded, "Weekends are an objectively better time."
No response.
If this was a dad with two white girls in the exact same circumstances we would have been bombarded with 20 alerts already.
Trop peu de critère? Lmao
Lemme guess they don’t have the complexion for the protection right?
Ça me fait un peu capote que ça soit aussi compliqué.
La mère a disparue avec ses deux enfants en transport en commun? Et si c'est un enlèvement? Peut-être que la mère est victime aussi?
On devrait tout faire pour retrouver des enfants disparus, qu'ils aient été enlevés ou pas. Quelle incompétence..moi aussi je crois que si elles avaient la peau blanche l'alerte serait déjà déclenchée. C'est d'une tristesse absolue
De toute façon, l’alerte Amber c’est con right? Yen a Ben trop pis moi je dors la nuitteee. Veux pas me faire réveiller bâtinse
Man this is infuriating as I get amber alerts in the middle of the night for shit happening in Brampton, but the local gouv wont put out an amber alert for these girls that's around my area?? It's absurd.
ça n'a aucun lien avec la couleur de leur peau ou quoi que ce soit d'autre. il y a eu des cas semblables avec des enfants de toutes les origines. 
le premier critère est que les policiers ont de motifs raisonnables de croire que le ou les enfants ont été enlevés. 
Ici l'entourage est "inquiet". Le père n'est pas venu pour dire "la mère a enlevé les enfants". 
la mère est peut-être en détresse psychologique... ou bien elle ne se sent pas bien dans l'environnement où elle se trouvait à cause de pression de son entourage. on ne sait pas. 
la mère à amplement le droit de foutre le camp d'où elle se trouve, peu importe la raison... la police ne peut pas déclencher une alerte amber à toutes les fois qu'il s'agit d'enfant.
espérons seulement que la mère donnera des nouvelles bientôt pour indiquer qu'elle et ses enfants sont en sécurité.
Mais le Canada est moin pire que les États_Unis...
They mustnt've fit the profile
J'allais posté cette information cependant on ma dit de ne plus poster ce genre d'information.
Excatly what I also just wrote above. I really hope they find them all alive and well. These kids could be two of my students. My heart breaks for that poor dad.
Deux petites blondes aux yeux bleus, pis on serait (rightfully so) bombardés sans cesse par les médias. C'est fou. On peut-tu juste les retrouver saines et sauves svp?
Ca me fait chier qu’au moins 7 personnes ont pas comprisnle sarcasme sur ton poste
Ça fait parti de la game hahaha
Coderre va bouder car tout ce qui l'intéresse c'est d'être maire et pas de servir la communauté.
Coderre never wanted to serve the community, he only wanted to serve himself.
Vieux torchon.
Il n'a même pas appelé Valérie Plante suite au élections ce qui est la norme et le minimum de civisme. Il n'a pas répondu aux appels de la mairesse. 
C'est vraiment une ordure.
Edith Butler: j'ai fait une faute. Coderre est une ordure, pas un ordure.
Pas de nouvelle, bonne nouvelle.
Denis Coderre, Annamie Paul, même combat. Des narcissiques sans classe.
Criss de bébé gâté, dehors boomer!
Ça fait des mois que je le dis: c'est Déni Coderre
Guess we won't be stuck with him after all
je l'imagine dans sa batcave en train de planifier une revanche d'un grosbébé ki a perdu
Pis ça fait du bien!
I'll get downvoted to hell for not getting on the bandwagon, but ok sure, give him a bit of time? I know this sub is super anti-Coderre (I get it, he doesn't skew young), but wtf do I care if he waits a week to announce his intensions? He'll probably leave politics anyway. The guy obviously cares a lot about Montreal and put in a big effort for his comeback, and these are life-changing decisions to make in a very short time, so the media (um, TVA *cringe*) can wait a bit. Chill. Politicians are still human, even if you disagree with them. Don't inject your personal feelings into everything you read about the guy.
Edit: yay downvoted: reminder that the downvote button isn't a "disagree" button
C'est qu'il aime TELLEMENT Montréal qu'il ne peut supporter d'être moins que maire !
Il y a 2 jours, Plante a dit que Coderre a fini par répondre à ses textos.
C'est masculin ordure?
edit: non, c'est c'que j'pensais.
Edit: ça aurait pu.. c'est comme une/un opinion, ça se dit relativement bien... I wasn't french-shaming!
Next on dancing with the stars
Un peu de respect, vous seriez pas là sans nous. /s
He's a career politician who left politics to make $440k a year from the companies he did favours for in office. He is exactly the kind of politician that makes people cynical about politics. He doesn't need our sympathy.
> The guy obviously cares a lot about Montreal
So why, for the second time in a row, does he not want to lead the opposition?
> these are life-changing decisions to make in a very short time
A short time?  He's known since throwing his hat in the ring that losing was a possibility; his mind was made up a long time ago.  It's mayor or nothing for him because he's selfish like that.
Denis has been  on the political scene for 35 years. If Montrealers are so salty it is because his behaviour, (post election and during the campaign) fit exactly with the Denis we know for so long. 
Have you only followed his campaign?   Wacky candidates, lies about the cell phone, won't release his revenues unless elected... Weak platform.
Big time, this sub may as well be named, 
/ProjetMontreal. I'm probably the oldest one in here and I'm only in my 40s. Lol
The love for Plante in here is far fetched, very Trump like.
Bien franchement, j'accepterais UN.
C'est fluide, la langue (au grand plaisir de ma blonde~)
https://www.instagram.com/jadm_photography/
Good stuff in there, keep it up!
Thank you!
Salon moto too
L'événement qui va améliorer la réalité.
Pour les double-vaccinés...
How crazy. We are legit going forward with creating this split society.  1984 shit
Hey! Author here... I've also put in some locations around the city where you could take a photo of the Moon at eclipse maximum framed with some Montréal landmarks. 
I have a map of them here: [https://plateauastro.com/sightings](https://plateauastro.com/sightings)
If you have other locations that look southwest you think might be a good location for a photo, let me know! I can add it to the map.
Merci !
thank you so much for explaining in plain English where when how !!
Plaisir! Désolé, j’ai écrit seulement en anglais, mais j’espère l’info est bon pour toi
My pleasure! Hoping the weather will cooperate
Hey man no problem!
Now kith
Whenever I see that, I think “Kids in the Hall”
Honestly I don’t think a third language would be particularly useful here. Pick what you’re interested in the most.
Php and Js stacks
Spanish, Arabic and Creole would probably be the most useful generally, but honestly it all depends on where you plan to live in Montreal, and even then the overwhelming majority of people would have no problem answering in French or English.
french - english - corruption
From a Montrealer and English-to-French translator: I'd advise getting real good in French first and foremost. It's not an easy language and if you're that motivated you'll gain way more from learning French very well than half-assing it and learning a few phrases in several languages.
Although Canada is officially bilingual, the province of Québec is officially French-speaking, and a lot of cultural activities, communications, public display, etc. are in French only. (For example, the whole public transportation system in Montreal is only in French.)
Also, no matter how strong your accent is, locals truly appreciate when they can fully interact in French with you.
Just my 2 cents.
Spanish!
In my experience, no other language is useful in Montreal. I’m fluent in Spanish but never found it to be useful here.
After you're done learning french, you can choose whatever language you want. It doesn't really make a difference as almost everyone speaks french (and a few only speak english). The vast majority of citizens of arabic origin speak very good french.
I think it really depends on what culture you're in contact with most often. After French and English it all gets pretty low. It can depend on things like the neighborhood or even area you hang out in.
data from 2016: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Demographics_of_Montreal#Language
If you want to capitalize on French, then choose Spanish. If you have an interest in semitic languages, then morocan arabic is cool, also hebrew. If you want to capitalize on ~~English~~ (joking you can't it's been stripped of all grammar) anglo-saxon languages, then you can go with yiddish that is still spoken.
If you're interested in something entirely new, then iroquois or inuktitut is possble.
But if you're looking for usefulness, then honestly, mandarin is the only one that is used on a day to day basis.
To give you a somewhat serious answer, North African dialects or maybe Lebanese.
Also Haitian Creole.
Darija for arabic. Some haitian creole could be useful as well, especially with the youth.
I think it would nice to learn an indigenous language local to the area...such as Mohawk. I've learned a little bit of Inuktitut, Innu, and Naskapi over the years while living in different parts of Quebec and Nunavik.
Once you're comfortable with French, you could then learn Haitian creole pretty quickly, which can be quite motivating and make you addicted into learning more and more languages.
Python
The correct answer is Italian....Greek would be 2nd
Mandarin is next.
To be honest, knowing Italian, Northern African Arabic dialect (Moroccan/Algerian) and Haitian Creole and of course Spanish will really get you bigger opportunities in Montreal.
I say that as an Eastern European btw.
Spanish, Arabic, vietnamese, Portuguese, Italian, and Chinese are all spoken. 
I hear some lady speak German to her kids every day getting on the train, but that's just her.
I'm also American. I've been speaking French for a couple years, and learning it's still keeping me busy. I took several years of Spanish growing up, and I'm close to several people who speak Arabic. None of us consider either if those languages necessary outside of social situations. 
I don't use Spanish at all, but i hear it spoken daily.
You can learn those languages for fun, but only French and English could be necessary.
Greek
Utile mais J'aimerais  pouvoir voir où le district en question est situé.
[https://elections.montreal.ca/wp-content/uploads/2021/06/Ile\_Mtl\_District\_2020\_PDF-Web-Final-1.pdf](https://elections.montreal.ca/wp-content/uploads/2021/06/Ile_Mtl_District_2020_PDF-Web-Final-1.pdf)
Excuse moi je voulais dire par pole de vote.
I love watching the losing parties all throw each other under the bus post-élection. Dumpster fire 🔥
> « Un problème d’ego et de manque de leadership »
Honnetement Denis n'avait aucune chance des le depart. Sa personalite de "bully" ne cadre pas du tout avec ce que les gens recherchent de nos jours.
>« L’organisation n’avait aucun sens »
Et ça voulait être responsable de la mairie? aie aie aie
Peu surprenant compte tenu des résultats et du "leadership" de Coderre.
Ce qui est platte, selon moi, c'est que Plante méritait de se faire poser des questions sérieuses et difficiles sur son mandat.
La crise du logement.
Le prix des maisons.
La bisbille au sein de Projet Montréal.
Les impôts qui ne cessent de monter.
La Ligne Rose (Hahaha!).
La Ligne Bleu.
Et j'en passe. Mais rien de cela n'a vraiment été abordé durant la campagne. C'était plutôt Coderre qui multipliait les erreurs et défendait sa campagne.
(in)COMPETENT
It's the best.
C’est le nouveau slogan d’Ensemble Montréal?
Au contraire, il aurait pu facilement aller chercher plus de votes dans les quartiers non-centraux s'il avait fait une vraie campagne (il n'en a pas fait).
Les impôts qui ne cessent de monter? Il n'y a pas d'imposition au palier municipal.
La moitié de tes "questions" ne découlent pas ou très peu des fonctions du municipal.
Le Devoir a posé la plupart de ces questions à Plante dans son entrevue éditoriale:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c5jqjGilYJM
Le fait que ces sujets n'ont pas ou peu été abordés me donne l'impression qu'on est tellement mal représenté.
Aussi le gaspillage vers le banlieue.
Tout d'accord. Si Ensemble Montreal ne deveinent pas le parti du char (et Coderre ... et l'agression sexuelle), il serait plus facile de les voter. On besoin d'un parti du centre et de la modernité, pas de la populisme du char.
Peut etre, mais avec la fatigue electorale il aurait du se battre pour que les gens aient voter. Dans beaucoup de ces quartiers le taux de participation a ete tres faible (<30%)
Facilement, non. 
Il aurait pu aller en chercher plus ceci dit.
Le truc, c'est qu'avec une campagne plus agressive, notamment par rapport aux vélos et tout, il aurait probablement gagné autant, voir moins, de votes dans les quartiers non-centraux qu'il en aurait perdu dans les quartiers centraux.
Au final, il était juste pas un bon candidat pour une opposition à Plante. Et je suis pas mal sûr que les opposants se sont ralliés derrière lui faute d'avoir réussi à convaincre quelqu'un de mieux.
On lui donne le bénéfice du doute et on assume qu'il ou elle parlait des taxes foncières...
Avec un taux de participation qui est à peu près le tier de l'électorat, c'est sûr qu'on est pas bien représenté. C'est comme une élection en Iran.
Oui, tout à fait. Il ne s'est pas battu, n'a rien proposé d'intéressant. C'est vraiment son arrogance qui lui a nui.
Merci. Je vais vous faire grâce d'un "ninja edit".
i love that this is labeled under "gastronomie" but it is. 
by far the best falafel ive had in north america. and let me tell you, the secret is in the pita... the guy who runs it used to have a pita company in montreal, abu lafia. 
walked in wth my gf the other day and she proposed that they cater our engagement party.... this is precisely why im marrying her!
Fuck me, this place is delicious. The falafel sandwich is the best in the city... try it with kosher pickles. World peace in a pita.
YO THE REAL ONES KNOW. FSJ IS A GEM.
No joke, I would order the shish taouk, and thought I was eating chicken for months until a friend told me it was all vegetarian. Love this place. The chocolate babka is also to die for! I spend way too much money when I go now cause I have to try new things every time.
One of the best sandwiches in the city, for sure. Don’t let the “vegan” label turn you off, fellow omnivores. Their mint lemonade in the summer is great, and they’ll have sufganiyot come Hanukkah.
The falafel pita is on point. Pro tip: Ask for fried eggplant in your sandwich. 
Also, their salad selections are great. Good options: Thai eggplant, brussel sprouts, quinoa salad, tabbouleh, cauliflower. 
I always leave with a medium sized container of hummus and a bag or two of pita. Their hummus is heavy on the tahini. Not everyone's cup of tea (my wife and kid don't love it).
Great Falafel and the lady at the counter is the best.
I was an OG. I lived nearby when they first opened a couple years ago and I went there pretty frequently.
I don't ever bother getting falafel from anywhere else. Nothing comes close, it's the real deal.  Also the owner speaks english, french, arabic and hebrew , welcomes like 99% of his customers in their own language.
:( MTL tu me manques.
I found out about them only recently through family recommendation. My goodness, it is the best falafel I've had outside of Israel, and somehow makes me even love halva! 
This place is a must
no parking and its mad ghetto area. but agreed the food is great. i go there almost everytime im in the area for the gun club.
Ahhh love em! My old job used to order really awful pizza for events and at one point switched to Falafel St J and I don't think I'd ever been happier about a free meal. I don't think I've had a single bad thing from them
Yes best falafel hands down! 
There's also another one that's really good too called Falafel Yoni
Was painting in Lachine and my friend has celiac disease and when we got there he listened and heard her issues and got out a better bread from us with flour imported from Israel. He spoke to me and my friends with so much kindness and passion. I wish it was closer cause that was one of the greatest meals I’ve ever had.
Chaque vendredi je manges un pita a la place a Lachine. Cest mon resto préférer à Montreal. Un sérieux 10/10. J'espère juste qu'ils vont pas exploser en popularité et descendre en qualité...
Thanks for the recc, absolutely going to give it a try!
[deleted]
I was super sceptical, but I tried the shish taouk plate and was floored!  I went in prepared to hate it. Love the salad selections also.
Avec tous les choix de salades quand tu prends l'assiette
I found those kijiji link: https://www.kijiji.ca/v-oeuvre-d-art/longueuil-rive-sud/tuque-des-expos/1310078387?undefined
https://www.kijiji.ca/v-oeuvre-d-art/laval-rive-nord/deux-kit-de-tuques-et-echarpes-des-expos-de-montreal/1487803785
Let us know if its still available!
[I tried this place ](https://www.collectors.com/sports-item/vintage-montreal-expos-toque-winter-hat-beanie-pompom-baseb/-809692549550349063)
I tried baseball shops around us (Canada) nothing so far. I *REALLY* appreciate anyone's time while looking and keeping their eyes peeled. 
I know it sounds dumb as it's "only a hat" but it's the one gift his father gave him that meant something to him (they used to go to the games together when he was a child). 
He's been a mess since. 
The worst is we think he lost it at the surprise birthday party I threw him last weekend. So the entire thing is messing him up as he was so grateful for the surprise and all his friends showing up but then he loses his hat (which is like, almost, a family heirloom) all at once. 
He's so freaking heart broken it's killing me. I just want to replace it. I know it won't be the same but than we can start a "true" (funny) winter heirloom based on a gift, gifted by love/replaced also by love.
Idk how to word it. Sorry if it's just a rambling.  I'm also going to try to post on other subreddits. Not sure which yet. Argh, this sucks. :(
This might sound stupid and cheesy, but have you considered getting a different expo hat? Like it would be a gesture of new beginning for you two, while also having a hint of nostalgia from the previous hat?  
I’m putting myself in his shoes and being gifted the same hat, i don’t think it would be the same thing, knowing it’s not the one my dad gave me years ago.
Try Logo Sport on St Laurent... i've found some nice vintage stuff there.. and if you ever go in person, theres a few thrift shops close by who sell old sports jackets and tuques...
Push comes to shove, perhaps you could ask a knitter to make one for him?
https://www.ebay.com/itm/154302075372
best i could find.
MVP
I messaged both adds! Thank you :)
Really hope they answer! I'm so excited! Thank you so much!
Thanks for your reply and sharing your thoughts.  
Actually, I did order him a similar but different one on etsy and it simple wasn't the same. For him, he wants the exact same one back :(
I reached out to the two links that were shared and really hoping I can get my hands on it! Wish me luck and have a great day!
Boo :(
That's a really bad copy and/or attempt of the winter beanie am looking for.
The colors are not even 360 degrees 
That's said, you're freaking cool for trying and pointing me towards the right direction! 
You're a kind soul <3
if it's that meaningful to you/him and it's important to get right I'd just get it knitted not sure you'll be able to find an exact copy as a lot of Expos gear from back them is no longer in production. i'd give etsy a shot? also try /r/expos ([looks like you did already](https://www.reddit.com/r/expos/comments/qr8pub/help_looking_for_this_hat_my_fianc%C3%A9_lost_his_and/))
You're right! I'll extend my search to etsy!
Because you're right, it *is* meaningful to*me*because it means so much to HIM!
I'll check out knitting crew of etsy, but if you have a reference I'm down to check out the store!
I really hope I can find this beanie!
Looks like someone in your r/expos thread found a really close version of it
given that it seems to be a cheap promo item from Petro-Canada (a gas station) maybe try them too
edit: in fact, more results for "petro-canada expos" ([close but no dice](https://www.ebay.com/itm/154367958912?hash=item23f10c1f80:g:A2sAAOSw6yBgSnxv)]. try "toque" or "tuque" terms too along with "beanie"
If it'd the link I'm thinking of, I bought it lol
I'll go check again to make sure. Thank you! :)
All the help is truly appreciated
Il pourra demander pardon
En prison
[Here's a video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vAZoB1VAoLo&) if you want to skip the blogspam.
J'ai une amie qui est décédée de la même façon il y a quelques années : camion qui tourne à droite. Perso, depuis, quand j'arrive à une lumière rouge et qu'un camion est en position pour tourner à droite, je me place à sa gauche pour être sûr de ne pas subir le même sort.
Truck drivers have extremely hard angles to keep track of. If you're a cyclist you need to be aware of this and assume they do not see you.
Une de mes amies les plus proches au primaire a perdu sa grande soeur dans un accident extrêmement similaire. Tragique.
I live in that area and the trucks regularly act like no one lives around there, that it's just an industrial zone where you can go as fast as you like. It's terrifying as a parent because I have a teen who is going to be using that street to get to school.
If you are driving a multi-tonne vehicle that can trap and murder pedestrians, cyclists etc, YOU are responsible. You have to drive slowly, you have to check your blind spots. You can't just turn corners without making sure the way is clear.
And there aren't many other options for safe routes around there (despite someone asking why the cyclist was on St Laurent). Parc Ex and Villeray are TERRIBLY connected, and many people take Liege because it's a relatively quiet, low traffic and residential area. But because of its proximity to Hydro Quebec and the 40, we often see massive trucks treating it like it's a free for all.
Câlisse, j'habite tout près et je roule tous les jours en vélos. Ça glace le sang. Pauvre monsieur.  
Dire que y'a quelques jours à peine, un certain candidat à la mairie disait grosso modo que les pistes cyclables sont dangereuses   
On voit bien que quand y'en a pas, ce genre de chose là peuvent arriver facilement...
RIP
J'espère pour le conducteur du camion qu'il avait vraiment à faire dans ce coin-là parce que de Liège est interdite aux camions sauf pour livraisons locales. 
https://www.google.ca/maps/@45.54063,-73.6375062,3a,68.1y,188.93h,89.86t/data=!3m6!1e1!3m4!1sqYGRNhFgh5iDNZeipDpQHw!2e0!7i16384!8i8192
Je suis camionneur long distance. A (edit:) droite, à côté de la  porte on est quasiment aveugle à 100%, sauf si tu as le miroir sur le nez. Même dans ce cas là, c'est seulement dans le petit miroir au bout du nez du truck qu'on te vois. C'est la pire place à être.
La meilleur chose à faire. Regarde le chauffeur dans les yeux directement quand tu es arrêté. Place toi ou tu peux le faire, quand tu fais contacte avec c'est yeux, tu viens d'être enregistrer dans les obstacle autour de lui dans sa tête, il vas faire sur de t'éviter..
Edit: a la droite. (I speak english most days, I make mistake sometimes lol)
Keep a distance of 3 meters with all trucks at all time when you are cycling! This needs to be taught to every childs and adults getting on a bike.
So why is it that we don’t require side guards on large trucks again?
With so little detail, it's impossible to know who is at fault here. The truck could have abruptly turned right with zero signalling, or the cyclist may have been in the truck driver's blind spot for blocks. Or it could be the "hole in the swiss cheese" scenario where the dangerous aspect of cycling meets the dangerous aspect of trucking at once. What's very real is that it is a tragedy and must be examined further.
Happens way too often
These kind of accidents always devolve into a finger pointing game of who is at fault. Some saying cyclists or drivers ought to be more aware, more careful, change their driving etc.
The truth is the more cyclists share the road with motor vehicles, the higher the likelihood accidents such as this happen. Accidents can happen anywhere and to anyone, but if the infrastructure is made in a way that prevents trucks and cyclists to even be in proximity to each other, it won't be an issue. The real solution is developing infrastructure that separates cyclists from motor vehicles as much as possible.
I, unfortunately, commute through Westmount, where I work, to the Plateau, where I live. The bike lanes in Westmount along Westmount Ave  are full of leaves, huge piles of them, and about every 5 yards or so, a heavy vehicle parked in the bike lane. These are mainly the gardeners and various other trades people of the wealthy. As far as I can tell and experience on a daily basis, the folks in Westmount have zero respect for the bike lanes, forcing me to compete with the traffic. Don’t get me started on the humongous vehicles driven in order to deliver a school child, usually one, to one of the many private schools along the way.
En 2008, une fillette s'est fait écrasée à quelques mètres de la aussi par un camion. Ce ne sont pas les mêmes circonstances, mais le même bout de rue.
https://ici.radio-canada.ca/nouvelle/409056/fillette-velo
[deleted]
As long as big trucks with huge blind spots are allowed in the city, there will be pedestrian and cyclist deaths. 
It’s not the cyclist’s fault for not “looking the driver in the eye” or for “pulling up beside the truck and not behind”, nor is it the fault of “a truck driver who needs more training”. These deaths are ALWAYS the fault of the city that continues to allow big trucks into city streets, where they are allowed to share space with people walking and biking. The amount of people/bikes covered in these blind spots is insane (think 20 people or bikes, not one or two), basically the whole right side. Dump trucks (up so high) are the worst, since the whole front is a blind spot, too. It infuriates me that there are no special regulations/prohibitions for dump trucks, seeing as they’re basically blind, speeding, deadly, heavy people-crushing tanks. 
If you’ve ever lived in a neighborhood under construction (Griffintown, I’m looking at you), you know how the constant parade of dump trucks, cement mixers, and semis invade - creating a deadly caravan of blind people crushers.   I myself was hit by a medium delivery truck as a pedestrian crossing the street about 10 years ago. The driver was turning left from a one-way street to a two-way street and both of our lights (my pedestrian and his street light) were green. He couldn’t see me under the engine block. I lived, but only because I ran backwards and jumped up, waving my arms so the driver saw my arms over the engine block. 
London had a lorry control scheme before the pandemic that made large trucks apply for permits to enter the city, and only at night, I believe. I wonder if it’s still in place. 
The city of Montreal needs to stop having pedestrians, bikers, and turning traffic share the same green lights! The only time I’ve ever felt safe in this damn city are the few street corners that allow all four corners of pedestrians a dedicated crossing light, with all traffic stopped completely on red lights. But the city doesn’t do it because traffic moving fast is a higher priority than a handful of people being crushed to death. If you have kids, it’s best to just teach them to stay the hell away from any corner or crossing with a large truck, and to wait until there are only cars. At least if they get hit by one of those, they stand a chance.
Those trucks are just way too big for cities
Poor visibility on all sides
Cars take up too much of what should be a shared space for all citizens. And they stink! I will never give up the dream of a car-less city. Cars and trucks need to go!
Faut dire aussi que les camions poubelle roulent souvent comme des malades en ville, bien souvent largement au dessus de la vitesse limite. Ce genre de drame ne m’étonne malheureusement pas.
So sad
Shit ca doit être le dude qui demandait ou trouver la mafia l’autre jour
Ah, good. À cinq minutes de marche d'ici. Et on nous demande pourquoi on veut quitter la ville.
Weird that the gazette is calling him a mob boss
Mais ils étaient pas supposé de sauver la ville des gangs de rue?
"Pour sa part, Oliverio n’a aucun casier judiciaire.": Hahaha, c'est quand même fucked up ça, alors que tout son historique de criminalité est listé dans l'article
LaPresse also!
I guess they can't agree on who's going to do it
No shit, c'était écrit dans le ciel
Sans blagues, Desjardins se forçait pour une bonne campagne dans SON parti et il aurait pu prendre mon vote ainsi que plusieurs milliers d'autres qui s'en allaient vers Plante
"Il ajoute que M. Desjardins n’était qu’un candidat parmi d’autres, et qu’à ce titre, il n’avait aucun pouvoir décisionnel au sein du parti. «Il peut proposer ce qu’il veut, mais c’est moi qui ai la décision finale», a prononcé M. Holness"
Ah mon dieu, tout ce qui faut pas entendre
Holness en avait rien à chier de la mairie de Montréal. Ce qu’il voulait c’était se faire connaître, comme l’a fait Mélanie Joly avant lui.
Desjardins était vraiment naïf sur celle là, mais ça confirme tout de même mon impression de Balarama Holness comme étant un typique "angryphone" du West Island doublé d'un imbécile qui se pense plus "smatte" qu'il l'est en réalité.
Holness est un tdc, mais Desjardins a été naif sans bon sang.
I guess you could say that...  he got sacked! 
(•\_•)    
( •\_•)>⌐■-■  
(⌐■\_■)
YEEEEAAAHHH
Quoi?! Le gars qui est allé brailler dans les médias parce que Projet Montréal n'a pas voulu gaspiller des centaines de milliers de dollars sur son élection partielle à Montréal-Nord perdue d'avance et qui a fait une campagne à la mairie cinq ans plus tard dans le seul but de nuire à Projet pour se venger... est égocentrique? NAAAOOON! *cris de Criquette Rockwell*
sad pikachu face.
T'avais juste à pas t'affilier avec un francophobe.
Vraiment dupe.
"Ah je suis le parti représentant la francophonie je vais m'allier avec le parti représentant le fédéralisme multiculturel infonctionnel qui reni le peuple que je représente"
Très bonne idée monsieur.
Qui s'attendait à autre chose de Dollarama?
Why can’t the anglophones/francophones just be a big happy family together 😢
Un brin trou de cul Holness.
"L'auteur de SES lignes"...
Calisse, TVA.
Imagine getting politically outmanuvered by *Holness*.
> Il a ensuite rappelé plus tardivement pour revenir en détail sur son idée de référendum, qui avait pour but de débattre d’un statut bilingue pour Montréal.
> 
> «C’était une façon légitime de demander si Montréal peut être l’auteure de son destin», a résumé M. Holness, qui estime que la démarche était un outil démocratique légitime. Néanmoins, les réactions viscérales à sa proposition montrent selon lui qu’on ne devrait pas en faire.
> 
> «On a montré à quel point les gens ne veulent pas d’un référendum. Je crois que nous avons montré publiquement que cette idée d’avoir un référendum, pour quelconque raison, devrait être éliminée», a-t-il expliqué.
Content d'apprendre que cette idée est morte et enterrée. Montréal est francophone, point.
cheap comme le Dollarama lmaoo
Les élections municipales de Montréal restent le meilleur télé réalité saison après saison.
Quelqu'un peut-il expliquer ce qui s'est passé ? Je n'ai pas suivi cette histoire particulière et je suis maintenant curieux.
M-Antoine Desjardins est un très bel homme 🤩
C'est dommage que cet attitude ce fait récompenser.
goddamn fucking nimbys god forbid they build some TEMPORARY poles so that people have a place to live.
Oh no! My view of a pristine historical industrial canal, filled with factory sludge, has been ruined by something that has never, ever been part of the landscape in this manufacturing neighborhood - electricity poles!
Geez the little bourgeoisie can't cope with a few temporary poles... talk about first world problems.
They are right, stupid electricity. I say we bring back coal powered ships and have them go up and down the canal, as it was meant to be, distributing lumps of coal for the fancy condos to heat themselves with.
Always blaming the Poles..
Just remember this is what your tax dollars pay for at the cbc
bcp bcp d'humour dans ce thread.. jadore ! :)
Let's take a step back here, I'm pretty sure the people complaining were never told it was going to be temporary. They saw the poles and called the press. The press then inquired and learned it was temporary.
This is a non story and let's stop bashing random people on the internet.
I think the condos are disruptive go fuck yourselves
> "We were really in shock," she said. "We didn't know what to do, and we didn't know whom to talk to tell 'it's unacceptable.'"
Imagine being outraged because you genuinely can't fathom not having veto power over public works.
How self-important do you have to be to even want your portrait to be taken for such a ludicrous NIMBY issue.
This is why i posted this as i don't understand people sometime.
As someone who has lived through the transformation of the canal, the gentrification and condos are amazing. The canal is now the crown jewel of Montreal after the mountain, it’s a beautiful spot.
[deleted]
Hey, I like to have a clear view of derelict factories!
> Boshouwers said setting up poles does little to conserve the site.
I wonder how she feels about her participation in gentrifying the site, and how much people like her have already altered the landscape well beyond its historical parameters. Those 4 new poles occupy about 28 square feet of land in total. How big is her condo?
the canal would look beautiful with a bunch of fires alongside it
[deleted]
Exactly.
[deleted]
I'm terribly sorry for your loss. 
I'm not personally familiar with any in-person groups in Montreal, but I did frequent a private Facebook group called Grief Beyond Belief (which is strictly secular, hence the name) and found a lot of solace through it for many years after my father passed. Maybe that could help in the meantime as you search for one that meets in person in the city. 
I will keep thinking and get back to you if I remember other good resources.
Sorry for the loss of your husband.
There is the help line: 1 888 LE DEUIL (1 888 533 3845)
They also have some resources listed on their web site:
 * https://www.maisonmonbourquette.com/deuil-ressources-montreal
 * https://www.maisonmonbourquette.com/deuil-ressources-anglais
So sorry for the loss of your husband...
You should try calling Info-Santé: 8-1-1. At some point in the phone menu there's an option for "Info-Social", press that option and you may ask them for resources in your area. That number is free, 24/7.
So sorry for your loss. During the pandemic, everything mental health is overwhelmed but here's hoping this helps
Might sound weird, but if you are even slightly religious, I know that almost every type of church and religion offer grief counseling. 
I also know the CLSC have support groups, but you might need to call a few times before you actually get referred.
Finally, Google "thérapeute en acceptation du deuil" if you have the means to afford it. These people are often retired nurses or social workers who give there services, almost like a psychologist.
I wish you good luck. In my experience, the first year is the worst. Best advice I got from a therapist is that your goal for right now should be to survive the next 365 days only, not a lifetime alone. Pay your bills, stay alive, function and survive and get stuff taken car of. The rest will be waiting when you are ready. Good luck
❤️
My previous girlfriend also passed away tragically this year. One of the best things I ever did for myself was find a grief counselor (through the funeral home, thankfully enough). A group is great but a counselor helped me much more. Much love and courage to you.
Sorry for your loss.
Voluntas ( a funeral home in the west island ) has a list of resources https://voluntas.ca/resources/bereavement
Deuil Jeunesse saved my life when my mother passed away. I don't think there is any other organization that is as knowledgeable as they are in Quebec for grief counseling. If they call you back, give them a chance, they are very worth it. I am very sorry for your loss.
I just want to offer you my condolences. I'm very sorry for your loss and wish you the best. I hope you find a support group soon. You've had some good suggestions here, but should you need more help, 811 Info-Santé can also put you in touch with people or groups who deal with grief.
My sincere condolences. On top of the suggestions already provided, know that [L'ordre des psychologues du Québec](https://www.ordrepsy.qc.ca/) have a directory of paychologists, psychiatrists and psychotherapists that specialise in grief counselling. You can filter by your language of preference and postal code too.
I'm very sorry for your loss. I wish that you find the help you seek.
Yooooo here’s a hug 🤗
I'm so sorry for your loss :( 
I'm from the West Island too. Went through the same thing a few years ago. 
Below are some resources I used or heard about! 
Please send me an email and we can get in touch :) It's been over 6 years for me, but I'm sure there's a way I can help out. We could go for a walk. 
Marina@nossovitch.com
RESOURCES
___________________________________________________
Myra’s Kids is a weekend long summer camp in MTL area for kids who have lost someone important (usually a parent or sibling). My kids attended this summer and it was amazing. They have great resources.
https://myraskids.ca/
WAY Widow Group
Corrie Sirota (she is one of the people from Myra’s Kids) also hosts a monthly widow group. You can e-mail her at corrie@myraskids.ca and she will send you the zoom link for the next meeting. 
NOVA West Island
They also offer some bereavement groups you might be interested in. I think there are some for kids and adults too. 
https://www.novawi.org/copie-de-soutien-au-deuil-adultes
The Dinner Party
This one is a hit or miss - they don’t always have in-person events in the Montreal area, but I know they have some virtual events!
https://www.thedinnerparty.org/
I used to host widow groups before, but most of my attendees are taking a break from the support groups now that it's been some time. I can let you know when I start another.
Sorry for your loss.
Call 811 and choose Option 2-Info Social. They’ll be able to direct you to the appropriate resources whether it be a MH practitioner at your local CLSC, phone counselling, group therapy or volunteer services. They’re also there if you just want to talk. 
You could also check if your employer has an EAP that offers free psychological help, or look at your insurance coverage. 
Hang in there (ungendered) sis. It’s the worst now, but every day will be slightly better than the previous.
I’m very sorry for the loss of your husband, I too know loss and benefit greatly from talking through it I use the homewood health line, they put you in touch with support quickly and you can call anytime you need them I hope it helps and I wish you the best in your time of grief
I looked up the group and it's actually helpful. Both me and my husband weren't religious at all. Can't thank you enough for the recommendation
Thank you
Thank you
Ceterum censeo Carthaginem esse delendam
This event is brought to you by SPQR
Une aurore Montréal.
Pris Mercredi dernier du côté du pont de l'île aux tourtes. Ce n'était pas les lumières de la tour Desjardins pour une fois !
C'est subtil. Était-ce plus visible en personne?
At this time of year, at this time of day, in this part of the country, localized entirely within your kitchen?
I just pretend that the green lights beaming into the clouds from DT are the auroras.
Whaat. Moi aussi je veux en voir une! Je dois aller me poster ou pour ca?
woowwwww! c'est tres rare!
[deleted]
Wow. Was it by chance or did you plan it? And if so, how?
It's very subtle because most of the aurora got stuck in traffic coming into Montreal.
J'en ai déjà vu une superbe sur la 15 à la hauteur de Blainville, c'était un dimanche soir en hiver. 
La 2e plus belle chose que j'ai vu dans ma vie, j'ai du arrêter sur le bord de l'autoroute tellement la beauté m'avait rentré dedans.
Wow, do you think there'll be more activity soon? Was it visible by the naked eye?
There have been quite a few reports of solar flares lately, wonder if that's why we'd see these so far south from the poles :O
/EDIT: Seems like it! https://www.cp24.com/news/northern-lights-may-be-visible-in-much-of-the-country-this-weekend-after-solar-storm-1.5645463
Il va en avoir de plus en plus :). A va etre magiquement beau
ah oui, la belle aurore desjardins
ho wow c'etait quand ?
T'es chanceux. j'ai toujours voulu le voir.
I hope this isnt bad news
Nah c'est Desjardins
Aliens
Ok, cette prof est une câlisse de folle et doit être congédiée sur le champ.
Le fait qu'elle ait porté plainte contre la *mauvaise* étudiante noire aurait clairement dû mettre la puce à l'oreille de l'administration dans le contexte. Absolument dégoûtant.
C'est surréel cette situation. Il semble y avoir des comportements très discutables des deux côtés mais la prof semble avoir délibérément choisi la provocation. Mais quand-même pourquoi on parle jamais du contexte dans lequel le mot est utilisé...
Traiter quelqu'un de N c'est très très très mal. On s'entend. Mais de là à dire que uniquement entendre le mot c'est traumatique, selon moi c'est essayer d'instrumentaliser le "mot" son propre bénéfice et l'utiliser pour établir un rapport de force/pouvoir envers quelqu'un d'autre.
Je pense à ce qui s'est passé à Ottawa mais aussi à l'histoire que j'ai lu d'un rappeur noir lors d'un spectacle a invité une spectatrice enthousiaste (blanche) à chanter avec lui une de ses chansons sur scène. IL y avait le mot N dans la chanson et quand elle l'a prononcé il a arrêté le show et l'a rabrouée publiquement devant tous.
En tant que francophone le mot "frog" a été utilisé comme insulte contre moi et mes ancêtres pendant des générations. Est-ce qu'on fait des crises chaque fois que le mot est employé?
La situation a toujours l'air horrible quand elle est présentée, mais on a seulement un côté de l'histoire alors ça ne vaut pas grand chose. L'article fait des généralisations vagues à la fin et des non-sequitur... pas trop sûr ce qu'ils essaient de dire.
Ce qui est tout aussi triste, c'est que l'auteur(e?) de l'article est absolument incapable d'écrire le mot "nègre" alors qu'il s'agit d'une citation.
Écrire un mot dans un contexte de citation ou pour rapporter des faits, ce n'est pas le glorifier.   
Sachons faire la différence!
Pour la situation en question, on peut comprendre que des personnes se sentent blessées par l'utilisation d'un mot. Cependant, on n'a ici que la version de l'étudiante, pas celle de sa professeure ni même des autres étudiants qui sont eux resté en cours.   
Sans cela, cet article n'a que bien peu de valeur et n'est pas suffisant pour se faire une idée claire de ce qu'il s'est réellement passé.
Yark.   C'est pas compliquer de dire n word au lieu de dire le vrai mots.  Check tes privileges et la balance de pouvoir dans cette situation.  C'est juste vouloir brasser de la marde et se poser en victime rendu la. Le livre est dépassé anyway.
> En tant que francophone le mot "frog" a été utilisé comme insulte contre moi et mes ancêtres pendant des générations. Est-ce qu'on fait des crises chaque fois que le mot est employé?
C'est véritablement loin d'être la même chose...
Bah dans ce cas, le contexte c'est que la prof voulait inutilement provoquer ses étudiants pis elle a capoter quand ils ont dit "arrête stp".
C'est peut-être aussi les enseignants qui sont, à la longue, écoeurés d'enseigner à des étudiants qui sont toujours offusqués par tout et par rien pis qui imposent leur propre façon de dire les choses aux autres au nom d'une supposée supériorité morale.
>Check tes privileges
Je me suis fait une entorse en roulant les yeux. Je pensais qu'on avait abandonné cette phrase creuse il y a 10 ans.
C'est quoi le n word?
Je sais pas pourquoi tu es downvoté, c'est clairement pas autant chargé frog que le n-word (même si Frog c'est en effet chargé).
Pourquoi? Tu t'es jamais fait traiter de "fucking frog"?
Est-ce qu'on s'est déjà plaints que ça nous déclenchait le mot *frog* quand c'est utilisé hors de son contexte d'insulte...
Pas mal sur que le N word est universellement offensif et indefendable. Surtout devant une personne noir, qui sont le sujet direct de la persecussion du mot.
Hopefully la prof perd son emploi sans que ca aille en cour. Ya litetalement genre 3 mots offensif que tu peux pas dire. Si c'est le titre du livre, tu le dis une fois fine. Otherwise you're being a deliberate asshole and racist.
Eille, check les pas d'abord et utilises le.mot en n tant que tu veux, tu as le droit, ya même des tatas qui vont venir te défendrent au nom de la liberté d'expression.  Une adultes salariée, syndiqué qui a tout le système scolaire de son bord vs des jeunes qui veulent juste pas entendre le.mot parce que ca les blesse.   C'est ton choix d'être une marde rendu la.
Hahaha! On veut faire bannir des users de Reddit? 😁
Le mot en haine lol
>Est-ce qu'on s'est déjà plaints que ça nous déclenchait
Et bien non, justement. C'est pas un mot autant chargé, alors que le n-word oui. De toutes façons, c'est pas la place des personnes non noires de décider que le mot n'est plus offusquant.
>Pas mal sur que le N word est **universellement** offensif et indefendable
Non, y en a qui peuvent le dire pis d'autres non, selon un concensus social. Pis le fait que tu souhaites que la prof perde son emploi (sans avoir de détails vu que l'article en fournit pas), ça me dit pas mal quelle genre de personne que tu sembles être.
Pis y a genre 3 mots qu'on peut pas dire? Je te cite une liste qui en compte 21, mais au total y en a comme une cinquantaine, c'est rendu f\*cking ridicule (dont **papa et maman**, comme si personne naissait d'entre les jambes de sa **mère**):
[https://www.throughlinegroup.com/2021/03/02/21-offensive-words-you-should-avoid/](https://www.throughlinegroup.com/2021/03/02/21-offensive-words-you-should-avoid/)
Contrôler ce que les gens devrait dire, c'est aussi contrôler leur façon de penser.
> Pas mal sur que le N word est universellement offensif et indefendable.
Il y a des auteurs célèbres noirs qui ont publié des livres avec ce mot en français. C'est de l'impérialisme américain d'imposer l'interprétation américaine du mot dans la francophonie. Pourquoi ça serait au anglophone de dicter à nous francophone le sens des mots? Pourquoi pas l'inverse?
>Pas mal sur que le N word est universellement offensif et indefendable
C'est difficile en titi a éviter en espanol. *Mira el gato gris oscuro!*
pas dure a manquer avec son gigantesque Toyata Tundra :|
Live long and prosper
Meilleure attitude que Holness ça!
Now imagine this same sky, but instead of hundreds of ugly grey concrete buildings you have mountains, trees and a lake or river at the bottom.
But then how would OP have this heightened point of view?
“Now imagine this same sky, but Montreal doesn’t exist and this sub doesn’t exist and nobody lives here and Quebec’s largest metropolis is gone”
There's a mini mountain in the center of the city...
J'étais là aujourd'hui aussi. Notre classe a été évacuée par une équipe de choc (des hommes en noir avec des fusils, comme dans les films).
Le cégep dit que c'est le retour à la normale depuis 4pm. Je n'ai aucune idée ce qui se passe.
Couple tweets just to add to the conversation :   
[https://twitter.com/serenavarro\_\_/status/1458226840078888964](https://twitter.com/serenavarro__/status/1458226840078888964)  
[https://twitter.com/montreal\_meme/status/1458228000219148291](https://twitter.com/montreal_meme/status/1458228000219148291)
C'était une fausse alarme.
Wtf I study there and didn't even get notified in any way.
Does anyone know what happened?
Edit: spelling
Je me demande d'où vient l'information que c'est lié au tournage?
Comment sais-tu que c'est une fausse alarme? Le collège a donnée 0 informations au sujet.
When I was a teenager I rented an STM bus to bring me and my friends to prom. It came with a driver, and he let us drink and party inside while he drove us around. Different era maybe.
Does it come with an angry driver?
Uber XXL
http://coolopolis.blogspot.com/2015/07/montreals-bus-to-nowhere.html
I think this needs to start up again.
Gotta cover the deficit, kinda cool
So basically I can start my own tourist bus tour business at any point?
I'd do it as long as the driver is the guy who sings a song for each stop
(champs gauche)   
Aussi, dans le même genre d'idée, si t'as ton propre [wagon](https://francais.amtrak.com/privately-owned-rail-cars) de train, tu peux l'attacher à un train Amtrak aux USA.
Can you just use it to do whatever you want with?
Nice!
r/montreal pub crawl 2022. Transport en STM, on arrête à la banquise pour de la bouffe et le bain colonial est naturellement le dernier arrêt.
GTA mode : throw the driver off and drive yourself around with a huge bus!! Nobody can stop you!
That's pretty cool.
When my wife and I got married in Hong Kong a decade ago, we rented a double decker city bus to take us all from the ceremony location to the reception dinner for about the same price.
Considering the fairly limiting restrictions, I can't imagine many situations where renting an STM bus is your best choice of transportation.
Why does that sound too cheap to be real?
Ils faisaient ça parfois à mon école primaire quand on avait des sorties
It's a Booze Bus!not a new idea but def cool if the vibe is right...
Pis un autobus d'école serait combien?
What if you rent an entire day?
I actually did this for prom. Cost me $700 in 2013. With 30 or so people on it, we saved a hell of a lot compared to the limo kids.
They actually gave us literally a brand new bus at the time and the bus driver was super nice and was happy to let us play music and looked the other way from certain activities. Needless to say, we looked way cooler showing up at prom.
It was also super easy then too. They let you pick a route, weren't too picky to deviate, just needed to go to the Frontenac garage and sign some papers and give a deposit.
C'est chiant, mais ça pas l'air impossible, juste plus chiant.  
pour ceux que ça intéresse c'est derrière les arbres : https://goo.gl/maps/EZGKe1ZT1siZWKiy5  
"Dans un document transmis à la rédaction, la DAUSE reconnaît que devant les risques pour le public, **la démolition de la maison est nécessaire**.  
Le nouveau projet **devra toutefois être amélioré** afin de rappeler la période historique de la maison originale."
Il y a cette photo qui montre la maison. 
[https://www.google.com/maps/@45.587224,-73.5888166,3a,76.3y,301.88h,97.6t/data=!3m6!1e1!3m4!1sAF1QipMl0rc5UR21UFpStEFfhGmczchg6oXd4T8G9Csv!2e10!7i8000!8i4000](https://www.google.com/maps/@45.587224,-73.5888166,3a,76.3y,301.88h,97.6t/data=!3m6!1e1!3m4!1sAF1QipMl0rc5UR21UFpStEFfhGmczchg6oXd4T8G9Csv!2e10!7i8000!8i4000)
Un problème que personne ne sait mais c'est qu'il y a plusieurs de ces maisons patrimoniale sur Jarry qui ont  été détruite quand elle aurait dù être préservé.
Là il n'en reste plus et on veut absolument pas en perdre une de plus mais il est trop tard dans son état actuel.
36% participation...is pathetic 😑
Tout ce qui est en gris sont des arrondissements défusionnés par le gouvernent libéral de Jean Charest, principalement Anglo/libéral.
La défusion des arrondissements a directement mené à un parti comme Projet Montréal de prendre du galon face au type de gouvernance à la Gérald Tremblay et Denis Coderre de ce monde.
Donc pour une rare fois, merci Jean Charest
CDN-NDG a désormais une mairesse de Projet Montréal.
Dehors Perez!
Why does Saint-Laurent vote so overwhelmingly for Denis Coderre? Like what's the appeal for this borough? I live there and do not get it but I only moved there a few years ago so maybe someone with more MTL-knowledge can explain it to me?
Pas mal déçue par mon hood, RDP-PAT.  I mean come on.   Depuis que Plante est là, on voit certaines améliorations au niveau des transports en commun pis de la sécurité des grandes rues, quelque chose qui aurait probablement été renversé avec Coderre.   (Je parle surtout de RDP, je ne visite pas souvent PAT)
Here’s a interactive map from CTV Montreal if like to look at more details
https://montreal.ctvnews.ca/mobile/interactive-map-montreal-municipal-election-results-2021-1.5650527
WTF Montreal-Nord? Vous pensiez vraiment que l’autre allait avoir la moindre pensée pour vous?
Île Biz went fully Coderre. This graphic is wrong.
I know someone who lives on the West Island. “I don’t like Plante.  She took away all the parking and now there are bikes everywhere. Not safe!”
Too bad your city de-merged or you could have been a part of the process to chose Montréal’s mayor. ;)
I’d be curious to see this map with the % of vote that went to the candidate, like that purple map of the USA; no state was 100% red or blue.
L’échelle (20km) sert à quoi, exactement?
I see the heartland/hinterland rule is at play here.
Pas une fois j'ai entendu qqun même mentionner la date pour voter
Pas du tout surpris par RDP-PAT pis leur petite bulle de banlieusards isolés de marde. Ils ont dû être les premiers à chialer à dire que "y'a pu de places de stationnement à cause de toutes les osti d'piss cyclabes!"
Qu'ils restent donc dans leurs maudits nuages de fumée de raffineries... Pendant ce temps, le reste de la ville va continuer à se promener en becik pour aller tavailler et faire des commissions.
EDIT: Ah ben je ravale mes paroles. On dirait que Projet Montréal a été élu finalement. Je suis bien content.
Certains analystes ont mentionné que le taux de participation est généralement plus bas quand une élection survient juste après une autre.
Dans ce cas ci, les gens sont déjà brûlé à cause de l'élection fédérale.
37% 😸, 42% last time
Ça me tentait vraiment pas, mais j'ai fait un effort pour aider qu'on se débarrasse de Coderre encore.
As someone who worked at the elections this weekend. I didnt complain about the participation as I got to do all my school work for the week + watch the whole F1 Grand Prix with the amount of free time we had lol. To be fair though, the process to register to vote, especially if you have recently moved or have any different circumstance is an extreme pain in the ass. I dont understand why they make you jump through so many hoops just to do your civil duty, as theyre basically convincing people that dont have unlimited free time not to come.
Ben honnêtement une grande parti de l'électorat est juste peu représenté dans les 3 partis qui étaient en lice.
Te rappels tu quand Ralliement pour Montréal (la 4ième option) s'est fusionné à Mouvement Montréal pour au final juste disparaître parce qu'au lieux de devenir un parti unificateur, Mouvement Montréal c'est devenu un parti qui prônait la secession avec les racines françaises de la ville. Et depuis ce moment là le parti a stagné dans les sondages parce que lol Montréal c'est pas Toronto.
Quel gros fail.
Et puis après tu as Frédéric Bastien qui s'est ouvertement mis a supporter Denis Coderre vu qu'il s'est mis d'avant comme étant le seul a mentionné le fait français...
Quel désastre.
Le choix entre le ROC, le libéral fédéral réusiné ou QS au municipale ça attire pas l'électorat.
Reste qui?
Gilbert Thibodeau ou rester chez vous.
lol
64% veut rien savoir.
Including me.. 36.1%
I felt no agony by Montréal not making the playoffs. 
Ultimately it's better for the recovery of the team, and we still have the Voyageurs Cup ahead of us, which I personally put more weight on than making the playoffs. 
That loss was win win
Would’ve been nice to make the playoffs though, but yeah, nothing beats winning a trophy
I think had they won, the organization overall would get to unjustly save too much face after what's one of the worst years of their existence outside of the years the team shut down operations for various reasons. 
And really only the Voyageurs Cup matters to me, so that's all that counts
I really wish they’d go back to being the Impact. Fingers crossed whoever is the new president comes to their senses
Unfortunately in Saputo mind, Montreal FC is important but he has his head toward Bologna were the backlash of failure is bigger than here.
D’abord la défaite de Coderre et maintenant Perez ?! 
PARTY !!! 🎈🥳🎉🙌🥂*
*tout en respect des règles sanitaires qui ne semblent pas s’appliquer à ce bon vieux Lionel).
ELLE A GAGNNEE FK YES FK YOU LIONEL PEREZ HAHAHAHHAHA
Je connais Lionel Perez pour être quelqu'un qui avait ignoré les règles sanitaires de la Covid lorsqu'elles étaient particulièrement critiques, donc c'est excellent que cet égoïste ne soit pas appuyé par les Montréalais.
Ce que je remarque surtout c'est que Sue Montgomery, qui s'est entêté à s'accrocher au pouvoir, et à coûté, à date!, 600 000$ aux contribuables en frais d'avocat, a même pas eu 10% de vote.  Good fucking débaras.
Super close too! Probably have a recount
No fucking way lmao
sooooo proud to be one of those votes!! hopefully it sticks after any recounts are done
As a resident of the borough, IDK what to think...
Perez is a smart guy with his head on his shoulders, not sure losing someone like that is a good thing considering Katahwa is an unknown.
On the other hand... The less Coderre the better. 
Time will tell.
Ouiiiiiiiiii esti quelle belle nouvelle
Daaaamn
The real good news is goodbye Sue Montgomery.
Perez le fuck face #1. Fuck oui
Est-ce que quelqu'un a une carte qui démontre qui a gagné quelle région de la ville ? Je suis curieux de voir à quoi ça ressemble.
Yes sir!
génial!
C’était aussi près que ça.J’ai complètement oublié de voter. Heureusement, qu’elle a gagné
Chuis tellement contente hahahaha suck it équipe Coderre, gang de gros crosseurs
It's official, she is the borough mayor of CDN-NDG
This was a terrible night for Coderre and Ensemble Montreal, first, Lionel Perez, the opposition chef, loses his territory, his bread and butter, Karine Boivin Roy and Guillaume Lavoie, important figures in Ensemble Montreal, and Lavoie was even considered as Coderre's right hand man, lose their boroughs, and Nadine Gelly, who was supposed to be the president of the executive commitee, lost her district. A terrible night for Ensemble Montreal.
I know her personally, SO happy for her, she’ll do a great job!!
100% there will be a recount.
Parizeau est à l'image de celui qu'il critique au final. Il a essayé d'être opportuniste, pensant avoir plus de succès et plus de pouvoirs en retournant auprès de Coderre (même si Plante lui avait fait une belle place au conseil exécutif). Et maintenant qu'il a perdu, il passe à l'attaque au lieu d'être solidaire.
Bye bye.
Ça y est, c’est encore la faute aux votes ethniques. 😂
Je peux te rassurer Parizeau, ce n'est pas le changement de son opinion face à la loi 96 qui l'a couté 🤣
Au moins il n'a pas critiqué l'argent et les étnies LOL
Cest un des gars les plus manipulateurs et oportuniste que jai eu le "plaisir" de rencontrer dans ma vie. Ca me degoute et ne me surprend aucunement de lire quil convoite les elections provinciales. Il va surfer sur le nom de son grand-père pour se tailler une place au PQ. Jespere juste que les gens vont se rendre compte que derrière le sourire et les belles paroles, il n'y a aucun principe, juste de l'ambition.
Merci les libéraux d'avoir defusionner Montreal. Sinon on aurait été pogné 4 ans avec Coderre.
Ouais.. la vérité fait souvent peur (Parizeau avait 100% raisons, les *faits* le démontraient).
Bah, pas loin de ça haha
J'étais dans son district avant et il était bien fier de de pavaner sur le REV sur les réseaux sociaux... jusqu'à ce qu'il retourne avec Coderre et qu'il trouve soudainement ça vraiment dangeureux.
Aucune vision, juste un opportuniste crasse. Bon débarras.
Si il va avec le PQ, le problème va se régler par lui-même.
Ça implique quand même que leurs votes devraient compter moins que d'autres.
Il est encore jeune LOL LOL
So a regular politician then
C'est votre interprétation, cil disait que le vote ethnique votait contre le projet de l'indépendance (surtout que Parizeau était chaudasse, il avait moins de filtres, mais il était très direct, sans ambiguïté). 😄
They shouldn't have been there to begin with
A regular politician will toe the party line (which is generally expected), but it takes another level of politician to do a 180 on issues when switching to another party. You can have a change of opinion, sure, but sometimes it's also blatantly self-serving like in this case.
No you
Valérie Plante Coderre 2: le Replantage
(commentaire que j'ai vue sur un autre tread)
Je me demande a quel point cette dernière semaine lui a fait mal avec sa transparence légendaire.  Plus capable
As a wise man once said :
izi pizi
Denis c'est comme une grosse coquerelle. Pourrait y avoir une 3e guerre mondiale avec Montréal totalement détruite et irradiée, qu'il reviendrait quand même essayer de nous crosser avec ses belles palettes blanches en disant: "Vous allez être pogné avec moi!"
Quand est-ce qu'il annonce qu'il quitte la politique maintenant?
Denis retourne dans ton trou!!
Bon y va nous laisser tranquille Coderre là j'espère.
Quel soulagement!
Ça me rappelle les mandats de Ferrandez dans le Plateau. À chaque élection, la même gang de bros vieux jeu annonçait qu'on allait enfin se débarasser du maire tant détesté, mais au final il accroissait son avance.
Turns out les gens du plateau aimaient ça des rues piétonnières et une baisse de la circulation sur les petites rues.
Mon gut feeling est que la même gang de douche bros ont pris cette élection pour acquis, pour les mêmes raisons.
Surtout heureux de voir un rejet aussi ressenti de la vision "hussle city" vieillot de Coderre.
M'en fous d'avoir plus de festivals, plus de corporate, plus de ci ou de ça qui ne fera rien dans ma vie de tout les jours. Je veux juste un milieu de vie montréalais vivable. Mon vote allais donc à Plante, par défaut.
Quant à Bala-blabla j'me souviens jamais de son nom... sa performance électorale correspond pas mal à mon estime de lui. Clown total.
It's a great night for women mayors in quebec in general!
Get fukt mayor Quimby
Denis 2.0 était pareil comme avant, et donc le résultat est le même.
J'sais pas ce qui me fait le plus plaisir : La victoire et Plante ou la défaite de Coderre.
On est rendu à presque 14% d'écart.
Il doit pas être content le bonhomme.
Well at least they'll be quiet about the return of the expos boondoggle for another few years.
Bye Bye Coderre, bon débarras.
I got legit scared during this election but I'm gonna sleep well tonight.
Et plus forte que la dernière fois. Du moins à 22h21.
L'équipe Coderre m'a appelé pour une sondage la semaine passée et je leur au répondu que je ne voulais pas voter pour Plante, mais là j'avais pas le choix, parce que je n'étais pas pour peut être faire réentrer la corruption a l'hôtel de ville.
Bye Denis! Reste chez vous la prochaine fois!
QUEL PLAISIR.
Meilleur moment de la soirée : les plans du party de Coderre vide a 20h.
Tant qu'ils améliorent la diversité d'offre en transport, j'serai satisfait
Les choses que je veux voir en priorité.  
* Logement sociaux, avoir un plan sur quelques années avec des livrables réalistes.
* Caméras pour les policiers, ça va (peut-être) régler beaucoup de petits irritants de tous les cotés.
* Avoir des patrouilles policières avec plus d'intervenants sociaux/communautaires.
* Amélioration et optimization des travaux d'infrastructures. (genre ils ont fait l'asphalte avant de refaire le trottoir en face de chez nous)
   * Avoir des livrables réalistes.
More bike paths
that pink line would make the east orange line that much less hellish to use
Elle va pas réparer les conditions déplorables de routes?
Oubliez ça les caméras sur les policiers de la façon que notre système de justice est fait, faudrait une esti de grosse équipe qui ferait du montage video toute la journée pour faire de la preuve acceptable (flouter toute les faces qui ont pas rapport, mute des conversations) et ensuite pour les jury, faudrait qu'ils se tapent des heures de videos pendant le procès, parce que tu peux pas être sélectif sur ce que tu veux écouter; tu veux réentendre ce que le dude a dit au policier ? Tu dois réecouter le video de 2 heures en entier chaque fois.
J'pense ce serait de la job en sale et d'incroyables dépenses mais sur le fond je suis pas contre, c'est juste intense.
Ah ben, le fait que c'est le moins subventionné par capita, étant le plus grand, ça te dérange pas? Coudonc
Le trottoir c'est certains qu'il y a une raison et c'est surement une plainte, j'en ai vu des histoires comme ça au point même que des priopriétaires d'une maison on menacé la compagnie et la ville de ne pas recommencé les trottoirs neuf qui avait craqué l'année d'après car il ne voulait pas avoir encore des problèmes avec le pavé-uni de leur entrée.
Au final les trottoirs sont resté craqué et chaque anné la craque s'agrandit.
Yay!!
They put a bike path on our residential street and it made it so much uglier and it's barely used too. There's 50 signs and metal posts in the middle, when it used to be just beautiful nature / two rows of big beautiful trees. I want to make the city more cyclist friendly too, but urban planners need to consult with architects and space designers sometimes for the visual appeal lol.
According to the city's own data, only 0.5% of ppl who commute for work, school or whatever during the week , use bikes in winter.  Bikes are fun, but man it's all smoke for the masses. It's never gonna cover Montréal's needs. City is big, the province is bigger and the numbers don't lie, ppl are fucking off the island at a massive rate. Making it even worse while commuting from the suburbs
La ligne rose est prioritaire?
Ah bon. Faudrait le dire à la mairie. Et aux statistiques.
People still believe in the pink line? Cute lol.
Pour ça, il faudrait:
A) restreindre les gros camions à Montréal
B) investir massivement (mais vraiment massivement) pour refaire le réseau au complet (pas juste en surface)
C) Endurer beaucoup ++ de travaux de voiries
Donc, non.
If the rumors about organized crime are true, she will never be able to significantly disrupt their business. Not without mounting a massive offensive. So, if organized crime has anything to do with road conditions, no, she won't. 
Although she will probably do more work on road infrastructure, particularly expanding infrastructure for bicycles and pedestrians and stuff like that.
> Elle va pas réparer les conditions déplorables de routes?
Seulement lorsque les banlieusards vont arrêter de nous rendre la vie désagréable en nous polluant avec leurs autos.
Oui pour les velos
Elles les a empirie, qu'est-ce tu crois lol.
Les caméras n'enregistrent pas 7/24.
Les compagnies qui offrent les bodycam comme Axon offrent aussi en SaaS les solutions pour gérer les preuves et les partager.
Ça manque d'effets un ti peu
J'aime bien malgré la sursaturation.
as tu l'original?
Pourquoi la photo est si mauvaise? On dirait que c'est sursaturé et que les ombres sont trop sombres?
On dirait que tout est en feu. Est-ce que quelqu'un peut photoshopper le chien avec sa tasse de café qui dit "This is fine" dans la photo?
J'adore.:-D
Oui, c'est sursaturé mais on dirait un tableau impressioniste. C'est beau l'automne à Montréal.
Ma mère habitait sur cette rue plus jeune
C'est beau
Wow absolutely beautiful!
Fantastic to see this. My grandparents lived on Rielle and I have only wonderful memories of this street.
I hope you don't mind but this is now my new phone wallpaper. ❤🧡💛
Love it
Woooww c'est beau!
Beautiful. Simply beautiful. Merci.
Surtout de jaune je trouve.
Lmao
Oui, t'as raison. Je viens de juste commencer la pratique.
[Demander et vous receverez](https://imgur.com/a/J54hzvM)
Not at all! Flattering to hear!
L'original ressemble à quoi?
https://lesserpuariens.com/
Insertech would probably take it. https://www.insertech.ca/services/recuperation-ordinateurs/
If you're willing to drive to Rosemont, there's Insertech Angus. They recycle computers and reinsert/give jobs people who have been down on their luck. They're on Molson st, just south of St-Joseph.
In most cases like this there are three capacitors on the power supply (inside of the monitor) that go bad. 
Open up the monitor and then pull out the power supply (board) and you can replace the capacitors for around $10.00 (if you are ok with soldering). 
The capacitors are usualy 1000uf but range from 16V to 35V 
This youtube video covers how to do it - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=umsr1suOZ28
There's this group of local folks who like to fix things. Can't vouch for them as I have no personal experience, but I like their idea of fixing stuff instead of throwing it out.
https://www.facebook.com/RepaircafeMTL/
Last time happened, I advertised it for free online. You'd be surprised at the number of people willing to pick it up for parts or trying to fix it.
Any Best Buy or Staples.
I take all my old/broken electronics to one of city's ecocenters for recycling.  (the one on St-Patrick in ville Lasalle.)
If you still have the monitor I'd love to try to fix it . I am in NDG also.Let me know how to reach you and I will pick it up. Thanks.
Aha, postal code lookup, perfect! Looks great, thanks.
Hmmm! I took note. I may contact you in the next couple days. Thanks!
It is a shame, because as much as it's a cliché, municipal elections really are the ones where your vote is most likely to matter and where the outcome is something you'll feel every day on the street or the bus or at the park. 
I think the big drop in participation is probably a one-time thing, unique to this election. I don't totally blame voters for being less interested and engaged, because it felt like a rerun of 2017, like the only thing at stake was "Coderre wants his old job back; should he get it?" I'm hopeful that future elections with new candidates and new ideas on the ballot will bring a return to higher participation.
À l'élection fédérale (qui a été déclenchée sur un coup de tête out of nowhere), j'ai fait mon changement d'adresse en ligne, j'ai reçu mon bulletin de vote par la poste moins de deux semaines plus tard et je pouvais le poster quand je voulais.
À l'élection municipale (qui est à date fixe, donnant littéralement tout le temps du monde à Élection Montréal d'organiser quelque chose qui a de l'allure), j'ai dû faire un détour de deux heures après la job pour aller montrer une facture d'Hydro à quatre retraités pour faire mon changement d'adresse, et le vote postal était réservé aux unijambistes roux qui portent des lunettes en forme de Mickey Mouse.
Je me demande bien pourquoi la majorité didn't bother.
c'est triste.
je sais pas comment renverser la vapeur.
Dommage, la seul raison que je n'ai pas voté c'est que j'étais sur que Plante allait être réélu (et j'étais correct avec ca), mais j'avais pas vraiment plus le gout de voter pour elle -\_-
More people voted last week than this weekend lol.
So no one really cared about Coderre’s tax return, it didn’t make much of a difference
For me there were too many barriers.. was told I couldn't vote because I missed the strict registration deadline for my new apartment.  I didn't realise I was still registered at my old apartment.
We should be able to register up to the last minute of voting so we can participate in the ridings we live in.  Feel like I was stripped of my democratic rights ☹
Normal.    
Nobody gives a flying ...thought about the same old greedy politicians.     
Besides they all do the same stuff: overpay the mafia for services, charge more in taxes and block even more traffic (has anyone EVER removed a stop sign or increased a speed limit or allowed more street parking or removed rush hour restrictions from rich 'hoods ?)
Ca doit être à cause du covid. /s
>I don't totally blame voters for being less interested and engaged, because it felt like a rerun of 2017
Y'a aussi une fatigue liée à l'élection fédérale. (c'est con parce que c'est pas SI épuisant que ça d'aller voter 2x en 2 mois, mais bon).
Yes of course, all the candidates for entire canada doesn't deserve a vote.
Commencer par présenter des candidats plus intéressants que kid kodak  et hi hi hi non cédé.
>More people voted last week than this weekend lol.
Not true. About 12% last weekend and 24% this weekend. So no.
Ouais! C'est ça! Autrement tout le monde aime les politiciens.
Et tout le monde aime payer des taxes à la mafia (avec un extra step de passer par la mairie) et de se faire couper le trafic et le stationnement de plus en plus, par tous les f0u7u$ de politiciens.
The fatigue isn't exclusively to the act of heading to the polls but of actually informing yourself and caring about the choices you have.
Ça a pris peut-être trois minutes pour voter....
Les deux sont dans le non cédé. C'est d'ailleurs la dernière phrase de Coderre dans son discours de défaite de 2017.
>Parmi les électeurs s’étant exprimés au courant de ces élections municipales, 21,8 % ont voté par anticipation.
I dunno, am I reading this wrong? 21.8% on 30/31st vs 35% total, which means only 13% on the 6th and 7th.
I know, but this still makes no sense for me.
But some people just dont really care about politics.
Sorry, we are both kinda right. 21.8% is for all of Quebec (where 40-ich % of people voted).
For Montreal-only, it was 12 % last week and 22 ich this week.
You’re reading it wrong - they’re saying that of the total amount of people who voted (i.e., the 36% of Montrealers that voted), 21.8% voted by anticipation. That’s 21.8% OF the total 36% - in other words, about one fifth of the amount of people that voted did so by anticipation.
GO PLANTE GO
thats a beautiful picture
Thanks everyone. No filter added to the picture btw
That's a generic comment.
Thats a useless comment. Are you for real? If i liked the picture i liked the picture go mind your own gd business
You must be new around here
That's an angry reply.
Il est pourtant arrivé en campagne avec le vent dans les voiles, mais n'a rien proposé d'intéressant, n'a pas "filtré" ses candidats et a caché ses derniers emplois.
... et il vient pleurnicher que la campagne était "sale". Je pense qu'il est temps qu'il accroche son complet de politicien pour de bon.
Fucking lol.
On lui a demandé de rendre des comptes et de faire preuve de transparence. Il prend ça pour des attaques personnelles.
Il se plaint que l'élection est un référendum sur sa personnalité, mais c'est à peine s'il avait une plateforme électorale à défendre.
Pathétique. Bon débarras.
il a pas aimé être questionné sur ses affaires louches..
Qu'il fait de la projection cet estie de loser corrompu.
Avec tout les medias bourgeois qu'il lui ont donner un avantage enorme, il n'a pas ete capab d'eviter d'etre un gros pourri condescendant de marde pendant les dernieres semaines. Sucks to suck
C’est sur que c’est sale de se faire caller out pour des candidats problématiques. J’imagine qu’il aurait juste fallu rien dire.
Et il en est la raison, sa campagne peut se résumer en ceci : « Plante est horrible, chuis meilleur, votez pour moi ». S'il n'a pas passé toute sa campagne à critiquer constamment Plante, peut-être qu'il aurait des meilleures résultats.
C'est lui qui est crotté, les journalistes et Plante ont juste mis ça de l'avant.
On se rappelle que lui a commencé sa campagne en disant que Plante = Trump (à cause des non-votes postaux décidé par le greffier), ou encore qu'elle est l'ami des gangs (à cause de Prosper).
Bref, fuck you denis retourne chez vous pis reste y
Ça fait un peu mauvais perdant
Denis this morning: “Vous allez être pogner avec moi”
I guess it’s nice, Coderre is consistently inconsistent. Wonder if he’ll finally retire..
C'est vrai que je le trouve pas propre.
Bon, il va tu faire son Dictateur Orange et brailler que l’élection lui a été volée?
J’ai trouvé ridicule son « vaut mieux avoir des regrets que des remords. J’ai ni regret ni remord ». Ça veut rien dire, mon lapin. Même dans la défaite, il est arrogant.
Retourne dans le privé faire 400k par année pis arrêtes de chialer. 
Quand même incroyable à quel point certains sont avares de pouvoir
Demi Coderre est condescendant à mort et n'a jamais accepté sa défaite aux mains de Plante la première fois. 
Il méritait sa volée.
Les électeurs ont dit : "On aime pas le vieux Coderre pis on aime pas le nouveau Coderre".
Il disait hier que ce fut une campagne magnifique alors qu'il mange de la marde.
Soy uno perdidor...
J'pense que c'est lui qui est sale. J'irais même jusqu'à dire que ctun osti de gros crotté corrompu.
Mon cher Denis, si tu lis ça passe au bureau chercher tes effets personnels. Ciao.
Fuck toi Denis
J’adore le style, ça me donne envie de prendre une marche le matin!
Magnifique!
This is amazing!
Beautiful photo ✨👌
That's most definitely not a photo though. (But yes, it's beautifully done)
C'est effectivement un dessin sur tablette!
Ouais je pense qu'il a dit ça comme un compliment
Cela dit, c'est magnifique op
À titre informatif, au centre de la photo au dessus des deux tours, on voit la lune et Vénus.
La ville, de nuit, de loin, est plus belle que n'importe quelle déco de Noël
Great pic! 👍👍👍
Nice.
Patow 👌
Definitely not a title from someone driving there.
Valérie plante Coderre
31.7% of people voted, that's just sad.
J'ai voté en 2017 pour Plante afin de sortir Coderre. Cette année je ne veux pas qu'il revienne, et j'ai voté en conséquence.
Plante ahead by 7pp and no votes counted in the Plateau yet. It's very early but I wouldn't want to be at Coderre's party right now
Avec Montréal, Longueuil et Québec ça semble une belle soirée pour les mairesses
Get bent, Coderre!
10 points de différences. Finalement Holness n'aura pas fait pencher la balance d'un bord ou l'autre. Une chance.
Projet Montréal semble aussi avoir la majorité au conseil de ville. Il faut 33 des 65 sièges et ils en sont présentement à 35.
Valérie Plante réélue, et Projet Montréal majoritaire. 
[Excellent!](https://i.imgur.com/RRYrMv8.gif)
Holness qui gravite autours de 7%. Mais elle est où cette vague que le monde préconisait? ;)
TAKE MY ENERGY 🪴
🚲🚲🚲🚲🚲🚲🚲
Radio-Canada just called it for Valerie Plante (and Quebec also has a new lady mayor!)
[Radio-Canada annonce la réélection de Plante à 21h04](https://imgur.com/a/jYiC7vX)
RC affirme que Plante est réélue mairesse!
Ouf!!!
Le résultat le plus important de la soirée : Enfin on entendera plus parler de politique pendant un crisse de boutte. L'élection fédérale suivi de l'élection municipale, chu tanné en tabarnak, calissez moi la paix.
On revient aux bons vieux posts : C'est quoi votre parc préféré de Montréal?
Radio-Canada vient de déclarer Valérie Plante élue.
Lol the bitching on Facebook is great.
Félicitations aux mairesses nouvellement élues
CBC has it [here](https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/montreal/montreal-quebec-live-election-results-1.6235709)
Na na Na Na, na na na na, hey hey hey, good bye!
Perez peut me gruger le boute. Bien gate de le rencontrer dans la rue.
The Samuel-De is hiding The Champlain.
Wow, beautiful shot!
That looks better than the led strip behind my tv! C’est beau!
Mario Kart bridge
Great photo :)
Wander how long it will take to fix that broken section with no lights.
Thank you for the gold!!!
New Champlain iz best Champlain!
Thank you! I was surprised that my cellphone was able to take such a nice shot. I tried one of downtown too, from the same place, but unfortunately that one came out very washed out and blurry as the phone's camera was struggling to get enough light.
On Sunday nights they have the rainbow bridge lights moving just like in Mario Kart
j'aime ça.
et Montréal a besoin d'encore plus d'art publique.
À ma connaissance le terrain est au CP et non à la ville.
J'ai trouvé [un article de 2017 qui parle de la situation à ce moment](https://journalmetro.com/actualites/montreal/1190822/rosemont-demande-a-la-ville-dacheter-au-cp-la-piste-cyclable-des-carrieres/). Je sais pas comment ça a évolué.
>L’arrondissement de Rosemont-La-Petite-Patrie étudiera vendredi une motion demandant à la Ville de Montréal d’acquérir la piste multifonctionnelle qui longe la rue des Carrières.
>La piste cyclable, propriété de la compagnie ferroviaire Canadian Pacific (CP) été louée pour environ 300 000$ par an à la Ville de Montréal.
>«Le bail est échu depuis deux ans et les conditions fixées par le CP font en sorte qu’il n’y a pas d’entente actuellement», souligne François Croteau, maire de l’arrondissement.
>Selon les informations obtenues par le maire Croteau, le CP demanderait désormais des frais de location de 1M$ par an, et imposerait à la Ville de réparer les trous dans le grillage, taillés par des citoyens voulant traverser la voie ferrée, et la fermeture de la piste de 3,4Km l’hiver.
Vaudrait mieux pas.  Un chemin de gravelle demande si peu d'entretien.  Un pavage (tel qu'on les bâtit ici, le plus *cheap* possible) va se fissurer de partout au bout de cinq ans et devenir dangereux pour les cyclistes.
Comme d’autres l’ont mentionné, ce n’est pas(uniquement) une piste cyclable, et c’est bien pour les coureurs d’avoir un sentier de gravier.
Demande à tes élus municipaux qui seront élu ce soir?
Question plus importante:
Pourquoi la paver? À part le cyclisme d'hiver, j'vois aucune raison
Ils préfèrent ne pas la paver parce qu'ils redoutent que les cyclistes aillent trop vite si c'est pavé et ça nuirait à la cohabitation des différents types d'usager. Du moins c'est ce que j'ai lu il y a 3-4 ans.
Pas de plans à ma connaissance, mais à noter que ce n'est pas simplement une piste cyclable, c'est une piste multi-fonctionnelle:
http://ville.montreal.qc.ca/portal/page?_pageid=7357,142967534&_dad=portal&_schema=PORTAL
Je te garantis que les centaines de coureurs qui utilisent cette piste en gravelle sont ben contents également pour leurs genoux.
Ou alors - je jette une idée en l'air, comme ça - on pourrait se retenir de tout cimenter pour favoriser l’infiltration et le ruissellement, limiter l'augmentation des îlots de chaleur, préserver une piste de jogging qui ne défonce pas la colonne vertébrale et les genoux en offrant un meilleur amortissement, et entre autres ménager le budget municipal en évitant d'avoir à refaire le béton tous les 3 ans.
En même temps, je sais que c'est déchirant, c'est une opportunité manquée pour l'industrie *familiale* montréalaise du ciment cheap. C'est déchirant.
J'espère pas!  La piste des Carrières est bien comme elle est
Cette piste est ben correcte. Le vrai problème ce sont les aménagements pour traverser la voie ferrée. Le Z sur St-Urbain/Clarck donne l'impression qu'on se fout de ta gueule, celui sur Du Parc donne l'impression que quelqu'un a envie de te tuer, pis j'aurais probablement des choses à dire si Rockland, Papineau et Lorimier étaient sur mon chemin quotidien.
Ils devraient plutôt l’éclairer adéquatement la nuit surtout pour la section entre l’incinérateur et Papineau.
C’est bien qu’on laisse des endroits dans les villes avec peu d’aménagement, plutôt que de tout bétonner. Cette voie est aussi beaucoup utilisée (voir même en majorité) par des coureurs et piétons.
Autant j’aime le gravier, j’aime moins les innombrables trous remplis d’eau après une averse et certains endroits sont aussi très glissants à cause de la terre trempée. Je pense qu’on peut trouver un compromis entre chemin non entretenu et un pavage. Au passage l’éclairage laisse aussi à désirer. Bref cette voie très utile manque un peu d’amour.
Personellement je concède que ça a des inconvénients rouler dans la garnotte, mais maudit que j'aime pas l'asphalte...
Pourquoi exactement ?
Elle est très bien comme ça.
Le sentier (jamais été en mesure de la considérer piste cyclable) est dans un état lamentable depuis que je suis petit /aussi loin que je me rappelle. Après plus de trente ans, J'aurais pas espoir honnêtement.
Pour aggraver le ruissellement des eaux de pluie ou pour étendre l'îlot de chaleur sur quelques kilomètres?
Faudrait pas. C'est ma piste cyclable favorite.
Pourquoi?
Abonné! J'aime toute discussion au sujet de l'infrastructue du vélo.
our former mayor did the math already:
pragmatic: 98% cars
dogmatic: 95% cars
I am so weirded out by "plateau-ization" being used to express a fear when it comes to transit. I understand there may exist a link between being more bike friendly and gentrification, however that is more correlation than causation. And for sure, bike infrastructure should be a staple \*not\* a luxury, just like tree cover: poor people are entitled to these things just as much!
À qui la rue? À nous la rue!
2.5% is not 1/25th! It's 1/40th. (2'00" - 2'15")
Tu vas adorer Not Just Bikes si tu connais pas déjà. 
https://youtu.be/aESqrP3hfi8
This channel is honestly great. They're not exclusively Montreal focused, but they often use it as an example and have lots of great footage.
That part says that 2.5% is 1/25th of 63%.
Hah, je connais bien la châine. Je suis un accro pour ces choses. Maintenant j'ai une châine pour une de mes villes préférées.
Thanks for sharing the channel. I don't know how it happened, but over the course of the pandemic, I've been watching almost exclusively urban planning infrastructure youtube channels.
Then thank you for the correction and apologies for the complaint.
Not Just Bikes is so good.
J’étais tellement content que le reportage montre le coin de rue St-Hubert/St-Antoine. J’habite juste à côté et ça m’a vraiment pris du temps à comprendre que même s’il y a un feu piéton, il n’allume jamais! Ça fait que tu peux attendre ton tour comme une dinde avant de réaliser que la ville s’en crisse que tu sois à pied.
De manière générale ce coin-là, St-Antoine et Viger en face, c’est hyper dangereux. Les gens sont toujours au-dessus de la limite de vitesse parce qu’ils vont prendre la 720 ou ils en arrivent, et ils sont en criss de réaliser qu’il y a des lumières et des piétons. J’ai tellement souvent failli me faire tuer par des automobilistes qui passent proche de brûler leurs lumières. Ça prendrait vraiment des speed bumps pour faire comprendre que l’autoroute commence plus loin.
Aussi, si t'es pris dans le traffic en autobus, c'est qu'il y a un problème.
heille, j'espère que vous êtes allé voter !
"C'est super la gang" 🤣
That last line got me.
eric bousquet était trop occupé à trouver quelles nouvelles négatives/sur des crimes à poster dans les deux sub la semaine prochaine.
Je vois que vous êtes allé voter 😌
> «Ça a été une magnifique campagne, on a eu énormément de temps pour faire passer nos messages. Hier encore, j’ai vu sept arrondissements», affirme le politicien. 
Meme quand il s'auto-complimente il est pas credible. Magnifique campagne? Oh Denis si tu savais
Oui, on va être pogner pour le revoir en 2025.
Tellement arrogant...
Aged like milk.
Il a vraiment pas l’air confiant. Il connait bien comment se Foutre des journalistes par contre
Bye bitch!
Who is this guy?
Well, that didn't age well!
Criiiiiinggggeeeee
Criss, j'envie les élections de Québec.  Plusieurs parties et ça va être serré .
Ici,à Montréal, ça va être laid d'une façon où d'un autre :/
Tu penses que son ego survivrait  une deuxième défaite? Ça serait surement un fruit assez facile a récolter mais boy que ce serait étrange de le voir s'essayer encore.
Ou pousser le SPVM à les espionner et les intimider quand ils enquêtent sur lui.
https://www.journaldemontreal.com/2016/11/07/denis-coderre-possiblement-implique-dans-laffaire-lagace
Ça Serai malaisant en sacrament
**C'est le fun**, 
Mon condo en 2005 et la maison de mes parents en 1919.
Mon premier appart en 1943, et mon autre appart n'a pas de donné, genre 1930-ish à voir les autres bâtiments autour
Voici la version française (qui est malheureusement plus difficile à lire) : https://ici.radio-canada.ca/info/2017/03/age-batiments-fondation-ville-montreal-375e/
En quoi elle est plus difficile à lire?
L'angle est selon moi vraiment weird et rend l'orientation difficile. 
Mais c'est une question de personnalité, je suppose 🤔
Je crois que c'était juste pas très claire que c'était à propos de la carte interactive et non le texte. :)
Great shot, I have never seen Beaver lake from this perspective.
[deleted]
Folle photo
Great perspective!
 But there are no beavers and it's not a lake. Discuss.
vu du Belverdère Kondiaronk.
Great shot. Unusual angle of Montreal as well.
Beautiful! Beaver Lake was always my favourite place to see the colours in the fall.
Amazing, where was this taken from?
WOW! Merci pour cette photo vraiment une belle perspective de cet endroit
Spent most of my early childhood around that lake.
There are no beavers at that Lake🥲
How far from downtown Montreal?
Thank you! :)
With the Saint Joseph's Oratory!
And Mount Royal is hardly a mountain.
There used to be beavers!
Thank you! 
I took this with a drone (DJI Mini 2) about 120m up from the park.
And hardly royal
Volcanic intrusion actually, like the other 6 in the area like Mont St Bruno,etc
Your shot got me hyped to have a drone, ~~do you need any drone pilot license~~ to fly the mini or the weight make it all good?  
edit: Nevermind i found the info, you don't .
Tu viens tu de me faire donner un clique à Richard Martineau toi là?
Faut vraiment arrêter ce genre d'analyse.
Denis a fait (comme d'habitude) une mauvaise campagne MAIS Plante a aussi beaucoup de mérites.
&#x200B;
C'est sûr qu'un gars comme Martineau est incapable de dire ça, mais c'est ça la réalité.
Faut croire qu'on est pas 'encore pogné avec'.
Bien d'accord. J'ai presque l'impression que Coderre n'a pas fait campagne sinon que pour se mettre les pieds dans la bouche :/
Mais "LES" Élections étaient à Québec hier!!! 
Sérieusement les élections municipales de cette année étaient vraiment intéressantes. 
J'ai hâte de voir le taux de participation ??!!
Ouache, Richard Martineau.
Je vais vous sauver un clic, c'est un article de Martineau.
Wow Richard Martineau a une opinion de marde? Who knew.
I really wish he would get deplatformed, he really useless at least and damaging at most.
> On en avait ras le bol de ses pistes cyclables et de ses rues piétonnières...
I CAN'T ANYMORE with these... stfu. You're noise Richard, that's all you are.
Apart du premier débat sur TVA où Plante était beaucoup trop agressive, à chaque fois que ces deux là étaient sur le même plateau, Coderre n’était pas de taille.
On peut-tu avoir un flair richard martineau/sophie pour éviter de leur donner des clicks? Merci.
> Il y avait si peu de gens au bureau de scrutin de mon secteur que j’avais l’impression de participer à une élection scolaire !
good one
Qu'importe qui a gagné ou qui a perdu, on l'a échappé belle et c'est un maudit bon criss de débarras!
In Montréal?!
Or overall??
I didn't know the numbers were out yet.!
I will Google it;))
Je vais te sauver un click, il reecrit le sujet de facons differentes pendant 3 paragraphes
Et tu viens de prévenir un clique de ma part. Merci à toi!
Turn out rate was like 36%, so less than 2017 and probably the lowest in history.
Même une montre brisée...
Les pistes cyclables et les rues piétonnières were exactly why Plante got re-elected. It’s why PM enjoys such a large majority in the boroughs that are directly affected by bike paths and pedestrian streets. The idea that a majority of Montrealers hate them is a myth cooked up by right-wing media trolls like Martineau and that idiot who runs The Suburban. 
Maybe a majority of *suburbanites* hate the bike paths and pedestrian streets but they don’t live here so who cares. (Actually, maybe that’s a myth too because Longueuil and Laval both elected new mayors that have more in common with Plante than Coderre.)
Nah, he's right on this one, Coderre lost.
De trois façons différentes, il parle du même sujet dans le même nombre de paragraphes. Ça te sauvera un click.
/jk
I have no problem with the facts, it's his opinion I hate.
Léché Dessert, la Beignerie, Trou de Beigne, Lucky’s Donut (au 49th parallèle dans le vieux mtl)
Beignes Colonial. Alot of creamy filling.
Krispy Kreme 👀
Wawel Bakery. Corner Sherbrooke and Girouard. Amazing polish donuts.
Léché Desserts
Wawel
Crémy en a qui sont pas à manquer, mais aussi quelques qui devraient être évitées. 
Les bonnes: Homer, citron, érable, et Boston. 
Les mauvaises: créme brulée, "cheesecake", et gâteau aux carottes.
Je m’ennui des petits beignets de Boris sur Parc..
Léché Desserts, malgré leur service à la clientèle qui laisse parfois à désirer :/
Panda Donuts in Sainte-Anne-de-Bellevue.
Bernie sont les meilleurs! Sérieusement, cherche pas ailleurs et retourne chez Bernie. Sinon tu va être déçu.
Un difficile choix entre Trou de Beigne et Doughnuts pour moi. Quand j'achète une douzaine ou deux chez Doughnats pour mon equipe au travail ca fait toujours fureur.
Sad mais Bernie Beignes est le best haha!! J’en ai essayé une couple mais Bernie est dur à battre!
Les meilleurs beignes montréalais sont ceux qui ont voté pour Coderre 😁
Bernie beigne est allé à l'encontre la vague de beignerie à 5$ et ont plutôt opté pour un beigne populaire. Toujours une file, toujours chaud, toujours le prix juste et toujours bon.
McKiernan luncheonette on St-Patrick
Bomboloni Boss
Krispy Kreme (Hot Now Original Glaze) á Rive-Sud
La beignerie! follow sur insta ils disent quand ils sont en rupture de stock, ça arrive souvent la fin de semaine
Si t'es proche de Verdun, Choco Locco, c'est pas des beignes, c'est des gaufres, mais c'est malade. Gaufre fraîche faite avec fruits, chocolat, biscuits, crème glacée... Pis le propriétaire est bien minutieux, tu vois qu'il veut donner de la qualité aux clients.
Pour ou contre faire voter les résidents permanents pour les élections municipales? 
7ans que je vis ici et les délais sont longs et cela en est frustrant de ne pas pouvoir encore choisir son maire ou sa mairesse.
FYI: La carte de rappel est facultative. Je ne l'ai pas reçu (ou jeté par accident I guess) et j'ai pu voter quand même. Tant que vous êtes inscrits ca devrait aller!
>Voter est IMPORTANT. C'est ça qui permet de ramasser les vidanges, boucher les trous dans les rues et de tracer des pistes cyclables.
Est-ce que voter Dénis Coderre va permettre de tracer des pistes cyclables?
J'vais avoir de la misère a pas percer le papier d'enthousiasme en votant Plante. See you never Coderre !
Je travaille comme secrétaire aux élections dans Rosemont, venez vous en donc
J'ai voté (p'tit)!
browse all the municipal election posts [here](https://www.reddit.com/r/montreal/?f=flair_name%3A%22%C3%89lections%202021%22) (along with some federal elections, we apologize)
comment savoir si je suis inscrit, je n'ai pas reçu de ti-papier?
\*les ptits vieux **qui n'ont pas appliqué correctement leur colle à dentiers ÉVIDENT.**
Évident, c'est d'la colle à dentiers. Oh! tu t'mets ça dans' bouche pis ton dentier décolle p'us, non non !
"VOUS POUVEZ VOTER TOUTE LA FIN DE SEMAINE": Sauf si comme moi vous avez testé positif à la Covid après le 27 octobre, date limite pour voter par mail. Vraiment pas fort de ne pas avoir pensé à ce cas de figure, Election Montreal....
(Et oui, je suis vacciné à 2 doses)
Pourquoi on peut voter pendant deux jours mais au fédéral pendant une journée seulement? Je viens de réaliser ça et je comprends pas pourquoi c’est pas l’inverse.
I didn't realize you are asked to bring your own pen/pencil! Thanks for the heads up.
I voted for Valerie Plante, Sue Montgomery and Speed McQueen.
Like I get it that Reddit skews young and Plante skews younger than Coderre considerably, but the sheer hate for Coderre in this sub is quite entertaining. I'm far from being a big fan of the guy, and have zero qualm with Plante getting re-elected, but reading posts here you'd think Coderre is basically Trump in Canada lol.
Donc si je me suis pas inscris la semaine passé je peux pas voté ?
I bet there will be less than 40% turnout.
so will it be a turd or a shit sandwich?
Let’s go Dennis Coderre !!!
Personellement je suis pour le droit de vote de tout résident de la ville, peu importe le statut et la citoyenneté en ce qui concerne les élections municipales. Tu travail et vis ici? Tu peux voter.
Et contre le droit de vote pour les personnes qui ne résident pas dans la ville mais qui y ont de la propriété, en particulier les propriétaires de logement.
je suis dans la même situation. Oui les délais sont long, mais au bout de 7 ans, si tu fais tout vraiment rapidement des que tu en as le droit, tu es citoyen :) C'est un peu nous qui sommes lents...Normalement je l'obtiens l'année prochaine \*doigts croisés\*
[Camellia Sinensis](https://camellia-sinensis.com/) is the local go-to for all fine teas.
Ming Tao Xuan on St Sulpice next to the Notre Dame Basilica.
Cha Noir, on Wellington/1ère, in Verdun
Guru teas on Beaubien, awesome selection
Camélia sinensis on Emery street, pricy but ´fresh’ teas near Beri metro. Their cool salon is closed due to COVID  ;(
SpecialTea in Chinatown
www.specialtea.ca
(514) 879 1472
1127 rue Clark
Montréal, QC
H2Z 1K3
https://stickyrice-magazine.com/Chinatown-Tea-Leaves
Chat Noir
My Cup of Tea in Chinatown
Celui du marché jean-talon est très bon : https://goo.gl/maps/RkXGSqgNP8dNKNFC9
Sinon Ming Wah Hong au chinatown : https://goo.gl/maps/5GzNWvC9fUMXduJXA
Aussi Shun Lee :
https://goo.gl/maps/RbzeCoPLnhEoTty28
Tong seng inside complexe guy favreau is where i get my pu erh brick tea! Small family owned business that ive been going to for over 2 decades!
Amourdesthes.com
Maison de the cha noir in Verdun has a wide variety of teas and has been open for 20 years.
Asiatica on Parc/Sherbrooke intersection! They are a small family-owned business.
Also, myamoto ( Victoria st , Westmount) has Japanese tea 
And all of the other answers
Many places in Chinatown have actual Chinese teas (camelia sinensis = black/green/white tea as well as herbals).     
Ask around there or ask any Chinese friend or coworker.
I would not recommand paying top dollars for top quality tea, unless you know they have a good rolling and you are not paying for something that is on the shelves for months: this is not like coffee where you can trace the origins of your product and get a roasting date, so even if it might be better than "regular tea", you are still paying top dollars for a not so top quality, which IMO is not the best thing. 
But some places will give you nice information regarding the origin and traceability on top products. Just look for teas with high rolling and go for them. 
Camellia Sinensys might be the only place you are looking for.
China Town
Seconding Camellia Sinensis. Great teas they buy from small producers, and they know what they're selling as well. They have teapots and gaiwans, which are nice and expensive. If you're looking for serviceable and cheap, head to Chinatown.
The owner came to do a presentation in one of my classes in uni many years ago, spoke about his procurement process. I was sold then and there, had never even tried his tea before. They go (or used to, don't know if they still do) on site in China to check the tea producers themselves. Worth the steep price.
Thanks! Will check it out!
>Néanmoins, des experts ont affirmé au Washington Post que les négociations des sommets des Nations unies sur le climat avaient un impact réel sur les prévisions climatiques. Lors de l’accord de Paris, signé en 2015, les Nations unies prévoyaient que la température sur Terre se réchaufferait de 4 °C d’ici 2100. Aujourd’hui, ces prévisions sont de 2,7 °C, un chiffre toujours catastrophique et très éloigné de la cible de 1,5 °C énoncée dans l’accord de Paris.
Oh wow yeah in that case, these summits are super helpful! Thanks for setting me straight, experts!
Stop eating meat people.
J'arrive pas à comprendre pourquoi on était si peu nombreux.
Directement sur le territoire non cédé de  Valérie Plante!
no.
Il n’y a pas eu beaucoup de publicité pour la marche, peu de monde savait qu’il y en avait une
Car on a d’autres choses à faire un samedi après midi..
je n'en avais pas entendu parler avant ce fil
+1 je n'avais absolument pas connaissance de ce rassemblement, je serais bien venu sinon.
Moi aussi j'ai beaucoup d'autres choses que je pourrais faire, mais je pense pas qu'il y en ait beaucoup de plus importantes.
It seems like Homard Plus closed in 2011 and was replaced by a place called Masaya, a Lebanese and Mediterranean restaurant that was very poorly reviewed and closed in 2016. It was seemingly replaced by a seafood restaurant called La Table du Pêcheur, which closed in 2018. It appears to be empty now.
So, either it was there before the Homard Plus or it's the wrong address.
I've lived near Little Italy since before 2011 and there are a lot of places where you can get spaghetti vongole currently and in the past. 
10500 Gouin Ouest is a one-storey, isolated building surrounded by parking. Is that what he remembers? If so, could he be confusing it with another similar building?
Does he remember anything else? 
PS Je suis désolée de ne pas avoir répondu en français mais il se fait tard et écrire en français sans faire des tonnes de fautes me coûte beaucoup plus d'effort mental.
Tu peux t’essayer avec l’historique de street view Google maps
Peut-être aller voir du côté du registre foncier?
C'est un libanais qui a remplacer le homard plus, pas un italien.
Quelle année environ?
Je crois que tu pourrais faire une recherche ici [register foncier](https://www.registrefoncier.gouv.qc.ca/Sirf/)
He needs to get some!!
So you want shitty sea food?
Oh, some of my sources:
[http://en.quebeccompanies.com/?s=10500+boul.+Gouin+O&t=a](http://en.quebeccompanies.com/?s=10500+boul.+Gouin+O&t=a)
[https://www.google.com/maps/place/10500+Boul+Gouin+O,+Pierrefonds,+QC+H8Y+1X3/@45.5107393,-73.8108079,3a,75y,212.36h,96.58t/data=!3m6!1e1!3m4!1sO50gaOVq0FjOVEpq9fcrKw!2e0!7i13312!8i6656!4m5!3m4!1s0x4cc93cab0551e15b:0xea52e366bd61e43c!8m2!3d45.5105767!4d-73.8110146](https://www.google.com/maps/place/10500+Boul+Gouin+O,+Pierrefonds,+QC+H8Y+1X3/@45.5107393,-73.8108079,3a,75y,212.36h,96.58t/data=!3m6!1e1!3m4!1sO50gaOVq0FjOVEpq9fcrKw!2e0!7i13312!8i6656!4m5!3m4!1s0x4cc93cab0551e15b:0xea52e366bd61e43c!8m2!3d45.5105767!4d-73.8110146)
[https://www.facebook.com/tabledupecheur/](https://www.facebook.com/tabledupecheur/)
[https://www.facebook.com/Masaya-Restaurant-Montreal-142494025917263/](https://www.facebook.com/Masaya-Restaurant-Montreal-142494025917263/)
You can see that the Google street view photos go back to 2011, when the sign was covered up, but if you look at the second sign (on the large display, not on the building itself) you can see that it's the Homard Plus logo that is covered up. In the next Google photo, it's Masaya and then, eventually, La Table du Pêcheur. And, in 2021, the building is unoccupied.
Il y avait une Table du Pêcheur aussi dans la petite Italie, au coin St-Laurent / St-Zotique. C'est fermé depuis une couple d'années et c'est maintenant un St-Houblon. C'est peut-être ça.
Le terrain a été vendu a un développeur en 2019, une pancarte d'avis de changement de zonage annonçant des condos a passée un bon bout en 2019-2020 devant la bâtisse. Selon le role d'évaluation de la ville ca appartiens a "Les Immeubles MQP", une compagnie a numéro à Laval. 
PS: Au début des années 80,  c'était un "La Crèpe Bretonne".  Il me semble qu'il y a eu un resto Grec un moment donné? 
Voici 2 photos du Homard Plus fin des années 80, début 90 (le centre d'achats en arrière était encore la!). 
[https://i.imgur.com/yTQoBZ3.jpg](https://i.imgur.com/yTQoBZ3.jpg)
[https://i.imgur.com/72yafeM.jpg](https://i.imgur.com/72yafeM.jpg)
Je me disais justement ça me prendrait un moyen de remonter dans le temps hahaha
Je m'essaie, merci!
Dans les dernières 5 ans mettons?
Pourquoi t'es aussi salty dans la vie? Qui t'as fait mal?
Not sure I'm following, we're looking for the Italian restaurant that took the place after Homard-Plus
AHA!
C'est vrai! J'avais oublié.
Tu peux remonter dans le temps dans street view. Dans l’encadré en haut à gauche tu peux choisir une date. Je vois qu’à cette adresse en 2014 il y avait un resto Masaya
Bienvenue! C'est une question qui m'a interpellée pcq j'habite un secteur où les commerces se succèdent aux mêmes adresses à un rythme assez décoiffant et je me suis déjà demandé s'il y avait une sorte de banque de données qui permet de garder le fil. Aussi j'ai cherché l'adresse que tu donnes dans Google Earth pour voir s'il y aurait des images qui datent un peu et non, rien avant le 20 août 2019...
Beautiful hotel, piece of shit video cobbled together from a dozen other (probably better) videos
The beef Wellington at bar George is so good.
I happened to be strolling past the hotel during their grand opening in 2017, so I crashed the party. Never in my life have I eaten so many gigantic shrimps. I never did get to the gym that night.
I'm suprised to see some cities manage to beat Chicago.
La Canada en général est simplement incomparable en terme de sécurité comparativement aux É-U.
Explain why Canadian gun laws make sense in one image
Also why KC? Is it the BBQ making people so angry?
I get comparing homicide rate between cities, but why compare the ones with soccer teams? What does the Major League Soccer has to do with it?
Ça va pas ben a Kansas city!
Déjà qu'on trouve ça lourd ici ces derniers temps ici, imaginez 30 fois plus.
a record is a record. Congrats to Montreal!
Allons-y !
r/oddlyspecific
*\* cries in* u/eric_bousquet *\**
dat NYC/Newark ratio
Chuis pas mal ignorant dans les initiales,  c'est quoi MLS?
Wonder where Montreal ranked when we lost the expos?
Some people have to much time on their hands.
Pour l'instant!
Chicago! Come for the Willis tower, stay because you got murdered!
Chicago is actually not in the top 20 cities in the US for per-capita murder . It's just the largest city with a high rate.
Chicago n'est pas en fait l'une des 20 villes americaines avec les plus hauts taux de meurtre par habitant. C'est juste la plus grande ville qui a un haut taux.
Beaucoup moins de gens.
I would be mad tho paying a frog half a billion
Canadian gun laws aren't that great , registering guns is absolutely stupid and there should be more check ups on people before allowing them to buy and use guns. As a hunter since i was a kid , i am well educated about guns and think that if more people were , the fear of guns would be much lesser. A sharp knife is as dangerous as a gun , sorry not sorry
this chart was created for /r/Mls for fun.
It was shared elsewhere after.
It's a completely arbitrary selection, and it happens to be one that excludes the five worst cities in the US.
In a couple of years, St Louis will be added to that list, and their #1 rate of 66/100k would be quite an outlier.
Of course these rates aren't really comparable anyway, since they're using municipal boundaries where some cities include huge suburban sprawl and others are limited to the city core.
Le deuxième sondage où Plante dépasse Coderre, mais CECI N’EST PAS UNE INVITATION DE RESTER CHEZ SOI. 
VOTEZ CETTE FIN DE SEMAINE
Plante plante Coderre 2 : le replantage
Ne laissez pas les boomers réélire Coderre
I hope Plante wins and we never hear from Coderre again
Lol, la marge d'erreur de ce sondage auprès de 515 répondants est de 4,3% 19 fois sur 20, alors que l'écart entre les deux partis serait de 5%...
Cette élection est déjà assez bouetteuse sans être obligé d'en rajouter les mottons du JDM !
C'est quand même intéressant quand tu compare les sondages sur qc125 [https://qc125.com/mtl/](https://qc125.com/mtl/) c'est presque le même scénario qu'en 2017.
Coderre can’t run a campaign worth shit.
Gazette is reporting as of 4pm turnout is 31.7% lol
On verra dans... [checks watch] 20 minutes!!
C'est triste qu'une mairesse si inepte gagne parce qu'elle se trouve à être la moins corrompue des deux candidats...
Si tu regardes les sondages, c'est pas mal plus une question anglo/franco que Boomer/ X.
Pcq tu penses vraiment que le sort des élections est entre les mains des boomers seulement ?? 😂😂😂
Les aondages internet ne sont pas probabilistes, donc il est impossible de calculer la marge d'erreur. Ai tu veux faire ce genre d'analyse-là, il fait utiliser le sondage Mainstreet qui est sorti il y a deux jours, qui donnait une avance de 6 points à Plante avec une marge d'erreur de 3 points (et il fait savoir qu'un résultat est statistiquement significatif quand les barres d'erreur de deux résultats se chevauchent par moin de 25 pourcent).
Ce qui est le plus intéressant, c'est la tendance, la tendance est clairement sur Valérie Plante, quand vous avez deux sondages déclarant Plante le gagnant probable à l'approche de la fin de semaine des élections, c'est généralement un bon signe pour Projet Montréal.
Qu'est-ce qu'ils aiment de Coderre, les anglo? Je catch pas.
Je suis sur que la vraie division, c’est le rapport à l’utilisation de la voiture (utile vs dépendance)
Il n'y a pas assez d'anglos pour élire le maire.
Tu veux dire allophones aussi?
I can’t speak for others, but as an Anglo, I cannot stand coderre and want nothing more than for him to just disappear
Anglo here, dont like that guy at all.
Le baseball pis éclairer les ponts?
Ça met Montréal su'a map!
(Argument de mon ex pro-coderre)
J'espère que l'entrepreneur a de bonnes assurance!
Dans l'édifice qui a été démolie il y avait un casse-croute  LA TRAITE que j'aimais vraiment  très biens.
c'est les mêmes que celles du super sexe
Québécor était propriétaire de l'immeuble?
Non je crois que ca appartien a la famille Chagnon, fondateur  de videotron
selon le role d'eval de la ville le proprio du 682 - 696 Rue Sainte-Catherine Ouest est 9189-9294 QUEBEC INC.
pis ca leurs coûtait 720,000$ en taxes annuellement!
A l interieur il y a une plaque avec le nom de André Changnon pis sa femme..je regarderai de plus près le prochain coup que je passerai devant mais je crois que c est une fondation pour les arts ou qqchose du genre
Pis c est sur Bleury pas Ste Cat... toi tu parle du Super Sex Club
ouais je sais, mais les problèmes du théatre ont ete causé par des travaux d'excavation sur le lot voisin. D'ou mon commentaire sur les assurances
Municipal elections in MTL are really interesting. In most parts of the city, you have a vote for mayor, for borough mayor, and for councillor. Some places also have separate borough councillors and Ville Marie's borough mayor is also the city's overall mayor.
The Mayor of Montreal is elected through popular vote. This means that if Valarie Plante gets the most votes across the city, she is reelected as mayor. There isn't an electoral college or a "parliament" system where Projet needs to win a majority of seats. A mayor can technically be elected by popular vote while their party can lose every other seat they run for. That's unlikely, but it can happen.
But even if a mayoral candidate loses, they might still serve on council. Each of the big mayoral candidates (Plante, Coderre, Holness) have "co-candidates". This means that if they do not get elected mayor but their co-candidate wins the race they're running in, they can still serve on city council. Coderre's co-candidate is running for council in Montreal-Nord, Holness' is running for councillor in Peter-McGill, and Plante's is running in Sainte-Marie. 
Borough mayors lead their borough council, which deals with specific issues for each community. The mayor of CDN-NDG for example will oversee the council that manages snow removal and garbage collection and infrastructure upgrades in their neighbourhood. They also serve on Montreal's overall city council. City councillors do the same, serving on both their borough council and the city's overall council. Borough councillors (like the three that are elected in the Plateau or the four elected in Outremont) only serve on the borough council. That's why there are 103 offices being elected, but only 65 of them will serve on Montreal City Council.
Honestly, as an Ontarian who spent 4 years in MTL, I like that system a lot better than our sad, dysfunctional city councils.
Did you vote? If you did you should have seen that you vote for 3 separate persons: borough mayor, city mayor and city councillor.
The only exception would be in Ville-Marie, where the city mayor is the borough mayor.
Trial by combat
If you want to know more about the election and how Montréal politics work (in both French and English) : https://www.ecologieurbaine.net/fr/detail-projet/elections-montreal
A certain few make a ring of salt and candles and we chant "who's the new mayor" as we bleed a goat hanging in the center of the ring. When the goat stops moving we pour bleach into the blood and then take a negative photo of the stain.
We then cover the walls with the negative photos in a room full of monkeys and leave them for 48 hours while the "counts" happen and hang photos of the candidates hanging in the middle of the room strung by Virgin girls braids. When we arrive later, the picture with the most poop thrown at it wins and we build a great shrine to the winner in the "tunnnels" going into the river valley and we live there in complete darkness untill the next election.
The mayor is the rare option where it is directly by popular vote. 
You could theoretically have a mayor with councillors not in the same party.
Depending on the borough you have between 2 and 5 seats to fill , so 2 to 5 votes
5 votes for me here in Verdun:
https://elections.montreal.ca/fr/district/verdun/
By not voting for Denis Coderre.
There’s a conclave
Voting Coderre wastes your vote.
FPTP .. premier depassé le poteau
Impressive knowledge for a fairly recent transplant. I think most Montrealers don’t even know their municipal political system as well !
That's a great answer, thanks for thr knowledge!
Thank you! What a great answer!
Haven't yet, going in an hour, hence why I asked.....
Cheers
On vote 4 fois dans certains quartiers: maire de la ville, maire de l'arrondissement, conseiller de ville, conseiller d'arrondissement!
People in Ville Marie get shafted so bad, a vote is basically meaningless and has no influence.
🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣
You are amazing 👏 😍
Only one of them is for mayor right?
[removed]
Un enfoiré qui va coûter cher à la ville
Il est content, car tu lui fais de la pub..
Un vandale en quête d'attention...
Un graffeur qui tag son nom de graffeur parmi tant d'autres. Habituellement ils essaient de garder leur identité secrète, car ça demeure une activité illégale.
Moi j'pogné avec "Gwap" qui a vraiment pas lésiné pendant les lockdown
How do you do, fellow kids?
Attend de commencer à remarquer Zonek
Il semble y en avoir partout. Il y a hashtag instagram si vous voulez voir.
Dans le temp c’était ´Cast’ qu’on voyait partout.
La face visible des gangs de rue.
[removed]
Bha tsé ya pire que ça. Anyway ça coûte rien s'ils sont jamais enlevés.
Lol cry me a river
VOSTFR aussi!
Prolifère le Zonek!
https://www.instagram.com/cast.one/
Calme toé man
[removed]
Y’a pire que pire que ça imagine toi donc!
merci pour se fun fact d'un évènement de l'histoire de Montréal probablement oublié par 99% des gens!
Merci du partage!
Plaza St-Hubert
Boutique 1861
Espace blanc de blanc
Rent a renaissance dress from a good costume shop. Less $$$ and you can dress like a Victorian queen in velour.
Boutique Lustre!!
Go to St-Hubert street
I have gone through all the wedding dress stores here but they all seem to only have white dresses unfortunately.
They make them in whatever color you pay for.
Incroyable que les candidat on promis plus de policier plutôt que plus de travailleur sociaux/travailleur de rue
The police brotherhood will tell its members to vote one way of the other. Social workers don't have an apparatus like the police brotherhood to support their interests so politicians can ignore them more easily.
Facebook fait un travail de lutte contre la désinformation plutôt moyen en anglais et c'est pire dans les autres langues.
John Oliver a fait un vidéo qui aborde le sujet (et la désinformation dans les diasporas aux États-Unis) il y a trois semaines: https://youtu.be/l5jtFqWq5iU
Selon La Presse, c'est un meurtre suivi d'un suicide.
C'est horrible !!
Pourquoi la mentions quune des victimes est le fils du propriétaire de Fairmount bagel..?? Ça semble être un détail tout à fait déplacé..
It was only presumed that it was a murder suicide at first glance. 
He was not married or in a relationship. 
News media should never publish assumptions without making it very clear that that’s all they are. 
Maybe they were killed by someone else?
Maybe a robbery gone wrong? Etc....
All my sympathies to the families and loved ones of both victims.
If St. Viateur bagels weren’t already better…
Damn, c'est donc bien trash ça! Horrible!
All the articles I've found said the woman is unidentified and that he wasn't married or in a couple and that both bodies had several wounds. Why is everyone jumping to femicide/suicide?
Very sad news whether it was murder or murder-suicide
Sincere condolences to Irwin and his family, they must be heartbroken
Condolences seems like such an empty word to use in this situation....
Another lovely marital murder suicide.
And people wonder why I'm forever single. Fuck that!
There is a Bagel mafia too?
Radio-Canada vient de dire que l'homme retrouvé mort est le fils du proprio de Fairmount Bagels. Aucune idée de la pertinence de préciser ça aux nouvelles.
[deleted]
[deleted]
Oui. Le journal ce matin meurtre suivi par suicides. Horrible et pas vraiment plus d’informations que ça ? Qui étais la femme victime ? On n’en parle pas. Pourtant c’est encore de la violence femmicide. Étrange
On ne connait pas toute l'histoire encore.
Edit: ok ça semble être un meutre/suicide. C'est effectivement horrible.
Ton commentaire tiendrait peut-être si on vivait dans un monde où les réseaux d'informations visaient à informer et non générer des clics. La triste vérité est qu'ils ont inclus cette information dans le titre parce que bcp de monde connaîssent Fairmont Bagels, donc plus de gens voudront lire l'article et donc plus de Ad revenu $$$ pour TVA.
Je veux dire, check de quoi [les "infos" ont l'air de nos jours](https://www.reddit.com/r/CasualUK/comments/qm3obi/i_started_collecting_slow_news_day_headlines_a/)... comparé à ça, l'article de TVA est vrmt pas si pire en termes de pertinence.
La semaine passé un gars a tué sa copine sur la rue Milton ........4 hres apres nous avions le noms des 2 personnes...ici sa fait 5 jours et le nom de la fille de 25 est tjrs inconnue
Some people just don't have a sense of humour.
Yes ......but They’re not so .....
[La Presse](https://www.lapresse.ca/actualites/justice-et-faits-divers/2021-11-05/cadavres-trouves-dans-le-mile-end/il-s-agirait-d-un-meurtre-suivi-d-un-suicide.php) is reporting it as a murder-suicide.
Oups... Hâte de voir quelle **menterie** que Denis va nous faire gobber pour se sortir de celle-là!
Fuck Coderre. Il y a sûrement d’autre choix que Miranda.
C'est plutôt Miranda, Miranda était anti-Coderre aux dernières élections c'est lui qui s'est rangé cette fois-ci derrière Coderre suite aux problèmes avec Projet Montréal pour le déneigement ou même du parc nature et du terrain de golf Métropolitain.
Fait amusant : Cette station est faite comme ça parce que c'était la rampe d'accès pour les véhicules lors de la construction du réseau de métro original.
Oui
Very cool. You really caught the optical illusion.
Like the amber lights reflecting.👍
Tu descendais.
Très très belle photo!!! Wow!
Great photo OP, looks just like I remember it 30 years ago.
down looking up
look at the angle of the lightbulbs
I suspect that the crowd of people on the right indicate a train that has just discharged a group. Also the angle of the person closest to us would be very strange if we were looking up. Therefore I think we are looking down. But it's really hard to tell and I am less than certain.
Stairs?
Trick question, those stairs are straight.
Very nice reflections on that pic 
Love it
Ça aurait ça place sur le /r/itookapicture !
Down.
those skate/slide stoppers are mean and uneccesary  
let us glide
Cool picture, my guess is up since it looks like a ceiling and not a floor at the end
Take some stimulant substance of hallucinogen variety and watch this, [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TzK72CcT3vU](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TzK72CcT3vU)
Criss a chaque fois que je pense trouver un indice ya un autre truc qui vient le contredire. Well done
looking level to me
Dupstairs
looking at the end of the tunnel you can see floor, so i believe its down
Dans Villeray il y a une jolie petite maison avec étage listée sur Du Proprio a ... 1.5M. Ça fait 2 mois qu'elle est listée et qu'elle part pas, c'est mon petit plaisir perso a chaque fois que je vais au marché.
[deleted]
There is a condo near me that was for sale with ReMax and just wouldn't sell. Now it is dupropiro. Looked it up. This is a 20+ year old conduction, 1 bedroom, they want 530k. People are funny.
Personnellement, tout le monde parlent de bulle, mais j'ai l'impression que c'est plus un kyste. Ça continue de gonfler si tu fais rien et ça va pas péter de soi-même, ça va prendre une intervention chirurgicale.
Ce qui devrait inquiéter les gens plus que les prix des maisons, c'est ca:
[https://www.statista.com/statistics/594293/gross-domestic-product-of-canada-by-industry-monthly/](https://www.statista.com/statistics/594293/gross-domestic-product-of-canada-by-industry-monthly/)
L'immobilier est rendu le secteur économique **#1** au Canada. Par une énorme marge! Et ca, ca fait peur. Le jour ou la bulle pête, le Canada est dans la merde et pas a peu près. Le ratio de la dette au GDP va exploser et le Canada imploser.
Mais tant que la bulle ne pête pas, ca va devenir de plus en plus impossible de se loger.
D'après le devoir il y a juste 3 mois d'inventaire sur le marché, c'est vraiment vraiment peu.
[https://www.ledevoir.com/economie/642315/l-autre-penurie](https://www.ledevoir.com/economie/642315/l-autre-penurie)
That's a really weird headline. "Sales are down" (because supply is low and prices keep going up)
nice, hopefully prices actually go down. 
im in the market for multi family and small apartment buildings and the list prices are just ridiculous. ex asking 1m for 30k revenue what do i do with this pay the tenants to live there?
single family price inflation is just ridiculous, i wont touch that market.
No kidding!
[deleted]
Me semble qu'elle est sur le marché depuis plus longtemps que ça. Après, 1.5M, style un peu boomer, pas de sous-sol et une sdb au goût douteux, ça reste un peu cher. Cela dit, ils pourraient juste être patients et attendre qu'elle parte à 1.5M.
Pour info, une construction neuve sur Berri est partie à 1.78M il y a quelques mois si je ne dis pas de bêtise, sur une parcelle de terrain grande comme une baignoire et avec un vis-à-vis de l'enfer. Plaque ontarienne stationnée devant. Maison apparemment plus ou moins vide.
L'immobilier montréalais a de beaux jours devant lui.
Sur Henri-Julien!
En passant devant, j'ai demandé à mon amie de deviner le prix de vente. Elle ne me croyait pas quand je lui ai dit à combien elle était affichée.
Same dans Côte Saint-Paul - duplexe à 1.75M$, flippé en 6 mois, prix d’achat 700k$…
Pcq les agents vont pas aller la montrer pcq ils ne feront pas leur cut. Alors sa réduit le pool de clients.
There is a thing about DuProprio: you pay a flat fee for listing for a certain amount of time.  The most expensive option is no time limit - you stay on the market until it is sold.  But what happens if you list, and then things change and you don't want to sell anymore.  But you already paid and you might want to sell at some point in the future.  If you take if off the market, you just lose whatever you paid.  So not all the prices you see at DuProprio are the prices people expect.  Some just expect to sell sometime in the distant future and not be bothered with calls in the meanwhile.
So satisfying!
Exactement. Ces headlines sont complètement non interprétables si on ne dit pas la cause de la diminution. Il y a rien sur le marché présentement.
Pourquoi y'a fallu que tu mette c't'image là dans ma tête, c'est dégueu
On a deux choix pour que ça pète.
Soit qu'on arrête avec l'étalement urbain et donc moins de construction donc plus de pression de prix et à un moment donné les gens pourront plus acheter donc pow
Soit ralentir extrêmement bcp l'immigration qui ferait qu'il va y avoir tranquillement plus de disponibilité dans les maisons avec la population vieillissante
Food for thought
Non. Au contraire. La diminution du nombre de ventes est parce qu'il y a moins de propriétés a vendre; ce n'est pas un signe que les prix vont baisser.
> Plus du tiers des revenus engrangés par la formation, soit 135 millions, proviennent en effet d’un « Plan de redressement des finances de la Ville ». Le groupe chiffre aussi à sept millions les revenus potentiels liés à un « plan de réduction de la paperasse ». Ce cadre financier n’explique toutefois jamais comment le parti compenserait les 289 millions de revenus tirés de la taxe de bienvenue, que M. Coderre envisage d’abolir.
Maudit que j'ai hâte que ça finisse, on dirait une parodie.
>  « On ne va pas taxer juste pour taxer, mais bien pour changer les comportements. Si vous avez des îlots de chaleur dans des centres d’achat, ça nous servira à les verdir », dit M. DeSousa.
Mais qu'est-ce qu'on s'en branle qu'il fasse chaud dans le parking des galleries d'Anjou... C'est dans les secteurs denses *où le monde vivent* qu'il faut travailler.
Doesn't matter unless you release your tax returns and all your possible conflicts of interest.  Otherwise how do voters tell if you will personally benefit from the policies.
>Ce cadre financier n’explique toutefois jamais comment le parti compenserait les 289 millions de revenus tirés de la taxe de bienvenue, que M. Coderre envisage d’abolir.
Combien la ligne rose était supposé coûter?
>Mais qu'est-ce qu'on s'en branle qu'il fasse chaud dans le parking des galleries d'Anjou... C'est dans les secteurs denses *où le monde vivent* qu'il faut travailler.
Tellement d'accord. Habitant dans l'est je vais souvent aux galeries d'Anjou, et bien que c'est mon "coin" je préférerais nettement qu'on améliore autre chose que ce gros parking là. Ca va en prendre beaucoup pour transformer ce genre de place là en autre chose qu'un développement qui suit le vieux modèle des banlieues, autant mettre nos efforts ailleurs là où ca aura plus d'impact.
[deleted]
News flash: he won’t abolish it
Bwoah tsé, on est capables de mâcher de la gomme, marcher, pis trouver 289 millions en même temps.
Je pense qu'elle a toujours su que c'était 100% de la marde la ligne rose.
Elle savait qu'elle pourrait pointer le doigt au provincial et les blâmer que ça se fasse pas quand en réalité elle sait parfaitement que c'était un projet farfelu et pitché à la va-vite dans la plus pure tradition de projet montréal.
Rien pentoute: le provincial l'avait déjà traitée de cristie d'folle, et s'était désengagé de tout à l'annonce de cette promesse électorale avant même qu'elle ne soit élue.
Pamal la même chose durant la première vague de la pandémie, quand elle a développé ses pistes cyclables à grands coups de millions, avant de se r'virer d'bord et demander du financement au provincial afin de soutenir ses entreprises en difficulté à même les impôts des québécois. 
Plusieurs épais se demandent encore pourquoi Legault se calisse de Montréal...
Non il a juste dit combien il a gagné en "revenus".
J'avais toujours l'impression que la ligne rose etait "symbolic" pour souligner: regarde, ont a besoin un solution diagonale (Lachine a RDP). Ca serait un metro, REM ou tramway? Qui sait?
C'est comme ça que je l'avais vu perso.
La ligne rose aurait été géniale, mais en 2017 (et en 2021), j'ai surtout voté pour la candidate qui met le transport en commun à l'avant plan
Non c’était pas symbolique du tout.
On parlait très clairement d’un métro, du moins pour la majorité et on parlait d’un espèce de tunnelier à deux niveaux, c’était très certainement du souterrain. Sans aucun doute.
Il faut dire qu'elle a proposé ça avant l'élection de 2018 qui a mis au pouvoir une CAQ qui se contrecrisse de Montreal.
Heureusement la COVID nous a remis sur la map ! Yeah!
Une autre belle démonstration que notre système judiciaire fonctionne...
HOLY SHIT I KNEW HIM
Pauvre fille, il va tu falloir qu'elle change de province/pays pour qu'elle soit en sécurité?
Ça dit pas que y'a pogné son ex en train de le tromper avec son meilleur ami/parrain de sa fille par exemple.  
Ça excuse en rien ce qu'il a fait, mais quand y'a pogné sonnex elle l'a menacé d'appeler la police et dire qu'il vend de la drogue...  
La violence psychologique est pas mieux, bref.
Add our mental health system to your comment. Seems like this dude needs mental health treatment and soon. Brava to his ex-girlfriend. Sending her good vibes and positive thoughts
Ça existe des cas plus lourds que d'autres, peu importe qui va les prendre en charge.
I can understand why you stopped knowing him!
Hey, I knew him too!
Menacer de dénoncer un crime à la police est loin d'être de la violence psychologique. 
Se faire arrêter pour un crime, c'est la conséquence logique du crime. Le dénonciateur fait rien de mal 🤷
Edit pour ajouter : il a pogné son EX en train de le "tromper"? Si c'était son ex, ce n'était donc pas "Tromper"... La relation était terminée, elle lui devait rien surtout considérant qu'elle s'était terminé dans la violence.
jveux une pics de la chix dans lmirroir
Yeah. He was a friend of a friend like 10 years ago. He was a loser like smoking weed all day, tagging, drugs, pretty sure he was dealing. But holy shit I’m like kind of shocked, I never expected to know an (attempted) murderer. I think he has a kid too, the fucking asshole. I guess he seemed harmless because he’s like 5'4 and probably 120 lbs.
Sa blonde dans le temps.  
Quand tu pognes quelqu'un dans le tort et que plutôt que de prendre le blâme tu retournes ça contre lui, oui, c'est de la violence psychologique. Downvote all you want
Bro, we might actually know each other. 
But yeah, he does have a kid, used to be a shitty tagger as well.
5p4 lolwtf
Everyone in jail is 5'4".
There's a guy who was nicknamed "Andre" ( for André the giant.)
He's 5'9"
Edit: oompa loompa deepeedeedoo
Oh yeah , she picked a winner.....
Sorry mais un gars qui tue son ex pcq elle l’a trompé, c’est pathétique as fuck. Pti gars sait pas gérer ses émotions ? Awh 
Après on dit que les femmes sont trop émotionnelles lol
[deleted]
We might!! This actually kind of has me fucked up a little lol. I’ve sat with him so many times getting drunk back then, it’s such a bizarre feeling.
No way ! His son as well !
Holland Leasing was the target, shady.
hmmm
https://www.theglobeandmail.com/news/national/key-members-of-montreal-mafia-plead-guilty-in-drugs-extortion-case/article23003935/
https://www.lapresse.ca/affaires/entreprises/2020-07-11/gad-bitton-acquiert-un-deuxieme-hotel-en-deux-mois.php
Bienvenue en 1972!
Beau cadrage qui évite la sempiternelle barrière au bout! Je pense que ça doit faire 20 ans qu'elle est là.
J'aime!
Ça pourrait même aller sur r/liminalspaces
"Merci beaucoup, pour manger, AMEEEEEEEEN"
Super cadrage! Par curiosité c'est pris avec quel appareil?
r/AccidentalKubrick
my old stop, haven't lived in MTL for 5 or so years now
Le métro de Montréal fait l'objet d'un culte sur r/brutalism .
superbe!
Shout out Méli Mélo
Ohhhh Montreal me manque 😭😭😭
J’espère y revenir un jour…
Nice!
Beaudry is very particular. Walking escalator and very deep.
[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TzK72CcT3vU](https://youtu.be/aTYhmK7Rnnk)
Combien d'employés de la STM ça prend pour remplacer une lumière?
Sans blagues, on comprend que les lumières sont hautes et difficile d'accès mais ça serait bien de remplacer celles qui sont pétées une fois de temps en temps.
Trop belle photo
Wait- has that station always looked like that? I can't tell since it's been years since I when to that station.
Meh. C’était beau 50 ans passés
On la voit quand même mais elle se fond dans la composition!
Avec un iPhone et sont ultra grand angle
Totally agreed 😍👌
Si elle est victorieuse j'espère que Coderre va disparaître de l'espace public pour de bon.
Yes miss, let's go Valérie!
Juste un petit reminder, durant les 4 dernières années il n'y a pas eu de scandale de corruption au sein du parti de Projet Montréal. Contrairement à Coderre, depuis le début de la campagne, on apprend beaucoup sur ses candidats sans scrupules de même que les revenus douteux de Denis.
Let that sink in.
C'est tout de même à prendre avec un grain de sel...
Allez voter SVP! Rien est joué, loin de là.
LETS GO VAL LETS GO
Alors Balarama Holness n’est pas tant un joueur que ça dans cette élection selon ce sondage, pusisqu’il a ete fait du 2 au 4 novembre j’imagine que c’est le scandale des taxes qui a pénalisé Coderre
Je n'aime pas Plante, mais entre les candidats que nous avons elle est le choix le plus logique.
ça nous fera le plus grand bien de conserver Valérie pour mairesse!
I hope PM makes inroads in the west as well. 
I'd like to live closer to my family, but I've gotten accustomed to living without my car and it would be great if they could use a little magic around the REM stations (Specifically Sunnybrooke and P-R) and make cycling easier.
Peu importe l'issue final, on peut dire que Plante est extrêmement combative en campagne (2x fois qu'elle remonte un très gros retard) et/ou que Coderre est vraiment un mauvais politicien.
Regardless this has been an insanely fought campaign and isn’t over yet
Plante est en tête parce qu’on a Coderre dans le cul.
Ne sous-estimez pas Gilbert Thibodeau, ses sondages internes doivent bien être rendus a 50% aujourd’hui!
https://twitter.com/gthibodeau_mtl/status/1451282600526548994?s=21
Valérie Plante en 6
j'espère que ça va pas dire aux gens de ne pas aller voter.
Peut-être ben, mais c'est pas gangé encore. If you care about Mtl, go vote.
Ca pourrait être bien pire
Denis **y arrête pas de dire des menteries!** Wake up, les pro-Coderre, cibole!!!
Comment ça se fait que coderre soit si populaire chez les non francophones?
Les Médias Montréalais on accéléré leur campagne "réélisons Soeur Sourire" depuis une semaine.
I seriously hope both her and Coderre lose, but doubtful. God they're both awful.
We should just change the name of this sub to Projet Montreal. This sub has clearly been high jacked by the PM minions
It's Diwali, all Indians are doing fireworks, also why they have Christmas lights on
It’s Diwali. People are celebrating and setting off fireworks
Oh thank god. I’m in LaSalle about to go to work in the NDG area and I keep hearing popping. So I thought it was either fire works or gun shots.
It's /u/eric_bousquet shooting his guns so he can post guns related articles the next morning
I heard it too, actually.
But there was a shooting on Demaisonneuve and Walkley last night. Someone who lives around there told me she was woken up in the wee hours by cops asking if she'd heard or seen anything.
tuhanu Diwali diyan bohat both vadhaiyan!!!!
It’s fireworks. Actually some just went off again ffs
Yeah fireworks, they've been going off in little Italy as well
It's [Diwali](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diwali), so fireworks are expected. Last night around 9, I was taking a walk and I saw a group of people put fireworks in the middle of the street and run. Most went up, but a couple fell on their side and shot horizontally, exploding in a gas station. Not CNSST approved.
Yeah I keep hearing it too. Like a bunch of firecrackers or something
The Elmhurst block back to business lmao
I hear the same thing in Villeray. At least tonight and yesterday.
two shootings in two days
https://www.lapresse.ca/actualites/justice-et-faits-divers/2021-11-05/deuxieme-fusillade-en-autant-de-jours-dans-cote-des-neiges.php
It's Run NDG practicing their freestyles.
Did you just hear them now? I’m in NDG and I’m pretty sure it’s coming from the train
Probably one of them rich Hampstead kids with their backfiring burble tunes on their cars
Lol omg I just posted something about this just now. I guess we just heard the same noise just 30 minutes ago! There actually was a shooting last night so...
It's both. Here in montreal nord, if it's 8pm-11pm, it's probably fireworks. 
Althought I did once hear a gunshot and someone screaming in pain, then I saw 15 police cars block the street near my house and a tva news camera crew appear, but that was the only gunshot I really heard in this time period in montreal. (It was an attempted murder, the guy survived).
Usually the gunshots happen at 2-3am because some wannabe idiot gangster kid is shooting his gun.
Now as for your concerns, If you cannot make out if it's a gunshot sound or not, that most likley means you're hundreds of meters away, you should not have to worry about it, because if it was a gunshot sound, people living close to that sound would have dialed 911 already.
And I have heard real guns like ak-47, pistols and other types of guns in other countries and they are super loud if you are near them.
I saw fireworks in the Verdun area around 10:30, could probably be heard in NDG.
Oh actually reading now that there was gunfire last night in CDN-NDG.
I’m on the plateau and I often hear the same noises that you described
Ouf, c'est une petite bombe ça. Le gars est hyper présent sur les RS à pousser les projets du parti, il a vraiment beaucoup de visibilité.
Sup /u/CraigSauve
/u/CraigSauve !!!
5$ he was told to leave
Hhmmm his reasoning is that he quit so that he wouldn’t become a distraction to projet montreal so close to election night and he still maintains his innocence but do you think that that will have the opposite effect?
I knew Mr. Sauvé a long time ago and I do not believe this for a minute. If I still lived in Sud Ouest I'd vote for him anyway!
La politique peut parfois être répugnante. Ça sent le sabotage de l'équipe de Coderre à plein nez. Y'a rien de pire que des affaires de même pour rendre les gens cyniques.
Le gars poste des articles super biaisé sur le sub...C'est un fucking élu...
J'peux même pas croire que ce soit tolérer par les mods.
Mais en même temps, à voir la façon dont le sub est géré, j'suis pas surpris
oooh no bueno
Timing horrible pour cette nouvelle, mais c'est la bonne chose à faire.
Bonnnn génial esti, ça vous tente pas de garder votre calisse de graine dans les pants?
edit: je suis conscient que c'est réactionnaire de ma part mais come on...
C'était un des piliers de Projet Montréal, en effet.
Another nail in the coffin for Val! 😍😍😍
we're never getting that AMA now
Yeah this is weird. I'm thinking that Valerie probably asked him to. But in any case this just makes it seems like a bigger deal than it was.
Probablement pour pas que Coderre puisse s'accorcher sur ça dans les médias.
I’m still voting for him. My reasoning is that this current accusation is alleged, and whereas I generally support the #believewomen movement as a survivor myself, I’ve also had at least two close males in my life who were falsely accused, so I know firsthand how it can happen. Either way, I am also voting for someone with a proven track record of caring about local politics and community members, and I can’t let alleged accusations impose on that until something has been proven. The timing is also highly sus. I’m not sure what I believe, but with the information I currently have, I still think voting for him is the right decision.
Cest pas Coderre qui a ces accusation la sur le dos...
J'pas sûre de comprendre ton point? Peux-tu élaborer?
Comment ça?
Yes long wait times have been an issue for decades especially in QC. This isn’t a new discussion.
No it won’t effect you at your most vulnerable.
The triage system assigns codes to determine how urgent it is for a patient to be seen. Somebody coming in with a heart attack or a seizure is going to be seen right away.
Somebody with a split knee is not going to be a priority if there are more urgent cases ahead of them.
Édit: Im not saying that this is a good thing and that they should wait that long.  I’m just providing an explanation as to how it works and that somebody in a life or death situation wouldn’t have that experience as OP was suggesting.
A split knee is not an emergency as it is not life threatening so that explains why it takes so long. Real life threatening cases get treated first and anything else gets to wait.
Is nothing new btw, that's why some people drive to an Ontario hospital, even with the drive you'll get home sooner.
Its triage. The reality is that the kids stitches are simply not a priority of the ER. Anyone with an actual emergency will be seen before them, as they should be. The fact that you've been there a long time does not change that.
The lesson here is to think about what constitutes an appropriate use of the ER. We in Canada have a very entitled notion that the ER is the appropriate place to go for any scratch, scrape or minor injury, and we get indignant and take to reddit when we are not immediately accommodated. Stitches to the knee does not constitute an emergency, sorry. A family doc or walk in clinic could easily have stitched the kid up in the morning. 
If you treat the ER like your personal walk in, you are contributing to the problem.
We have serious issues with health  care in this country. We had to have longer lockdowns cause our health care system had shit capacity as well.
However the debate in healthcare in this country is 'we are better then america stfu"
and nothing else. Many EU countries have much better systems.
It's definitely a problem. We've had a few 
ER visits this past year and in my experience, triage works well in that if you have a true emergency they see you right away. But one thing I think Quebec needs to add are "urgent care" clinics. These exist in the US and are designed to address minor emergencies. So things that can't wait till the next business day, but that are not an immediate, needs to be addressed asap emergency. So for example, if you break your arm, or need stitches. Or for kids, if your baby has a high fever, youd go to urgent care and if they thought it was a true emergency, they might transfer you to the ER but otherwise just see you there. The challenge here is that clinics are closed on the weekends and after hours, or if you can't get an appointment at a clinic, you are default forced to go to the ER, which isn't a good option. There needs to be something in between that fills the gap between regular clinic appointment and ER.
Always take non-emergency stuff to a clinic instead.
Triage.
I broke my tibia once at Mont-Tremblant. They had a clinic down there and they were checking on all the injuries there.
First, they made me wait in the clinic after asking me basic questions such as: level of pain, how do you feel, etc. which I answered honestly: not too much pain, but I cant really walk, and of course, next,  they make me take a walk & on the first step, I hear cracks and the nurse gets scared lol. Later, they would finally take an X-Ray where they see the extent of the injury (it was bad, spiral fracture) . Quickly, they apply a full leg plaster and tell me to call a certain number to "take a appointement for a doctor check - @ a hospital".
I call that number and they tell me that the next appointment is in a month, but that they would call me back if anything opens and there's nothing else that I should do.
Distressed because obviously it was a bad injury that could require surgery, two days later, I go to the ER on my own. There I wait for about 10 hours for a doctor. They finally take me in and they decide that I would have to go into surgery the next day. The next day, I wait again in ER, they take me in the surgery room and I end up with 11 screws in my tibia.
I guess this is how it is here.
We're still in a pandemic. 
Of course it's not normal, but healthcare isn't back to normal in any form yet. Many of us are moving past what we went through, and it seems like life is very nearly back to normal, but they're still in it. 
Not saying it doesn't suck for the kid and their parents, and I'm sure a really unpleasant night, but this was not a life-threatening issue either. 
Plenty of people will face grave and significant beyond their time consequences for the fact that healthcare isn't able to be normal yet. Surgeries, diagnoses, treatment delayed. They recently didn't have enough donated blood to do relatively routine surgeries.
People here shitting on you for trying to get a child taken care of. Ffs this system is slow, badly managed, and, as opposed to what people seem to imply, not free; we're all paying high taxes for it. The "oh you're the idiot since you didn't go to a clinic" sounds a lot like pushing the blame on to the individual. I think we should have higher standards than "At least I won't go broke." and that will only happen through acknowledgment of public discontent.
Je suis allé à l'urgence pour la première fois de ma vie y'a environ 6 mois (pas pire, à 32 ans). Évidemment, je m'attendais à ce que soit long, comme tout le monde dit. Mais naïvement, je me disais que "long" c'était peut-être 4-5 heures... J'avais rien apporté avec moi, pas d'eau, de nourriture ou de divertissement, juste un téléphone avec 50% de batterie. Finalement, j'ai été là 26 heures et c'était vraiment pas agréable. Mais bon... Je voyais bien que tous les employés faisaient leur gros possible et qu'il n'y avait absolument rien de plus qu'ils auraient pu faire pour que ça se passe plus rapidement, alors j'ai composé avec!
Yes it’s always been this way. My friend recently waited 16 hours for his very painful broken arm. 
15 years ago I had to wait 9 hours even though they knew I had been instructed to not eat or drink before my scan.
if you go to the er without an emergency, you're not going to be a priority.
[deleted]
Not a new issue. https://montrealgazette.com/news/quebec/quebec-has-worst-emergency-room-wait-times-health-and-welfare-commissioner-says/wcm/be9d506b-28a7-4f72-9f43-10eee815d01c/amp/
People defending the system needs to wake up. You spend so much so much again so much on taxes to have a proper system. Regardless if you are aa top priority or not.  A 7 yo that requires stitches should not be in pain for 12 hours until someone sees him. When people are spending this much in taxes at least a proper Healthcare and proper roads...
For people saying this is normal, the average waiting time for non urgent cases in Melbourne is under 1 hour. They have triage as well. They have public healthcare as well.
https://vahi.vic.gov.au/visualisation/8526/1b9d4dba-13d5-432c-8d7d-912bfccdc297
https://vahi.vic.gov.au/emergency-department-non-urgent-wait-time
I spent over 8 hours in the ER with a pinched nerve. My leg felt like cement. To make matters even worse, there was a crazy lady harassing everyone in the waiting room all night. She didn't get to see the doctor either. In fact, the only person that night that did make it into ER was some guy that arrived drunk and bloody on a stretcher. I eventually just went home, tried to sleep, went to a different ER. They saw me within an hour.
Another time I waited with a dislocated shoulder for 3 hours. When I did eventually see the doctor, he fixed my shoulder in a couple minutes and said he didn't understand why I had been made to wait so long. Was a quick, easy fix to a painful problem.
However, I've also had a couple times (I've dislocated my shoulder a bunch) when I pretty much went straight from triage to the doctor.
Most ERs don't have extra people on standby all night. During the day, things move fast. At night, most non-urgent care waits until morning. 
The real problem is the lack of communication about this. If when this person walked in, they were told "we won't stitch it up until the morning, just put a bandage and get the kid to bed. Here's an appointment for 8am", then it wouldn't be such a horrible experience. But somehow healthcare systems aren't designed to handle that.
Priorities. This is not a serious injury.
Of course, the waiting time is challenging and stressful for a young kid and their parents, but it remains a non medical priority.
I experienced the most amazing display of cognitive skill last weekend.
Upon entering a restaurant downtown, we were asked for our vaccination proofs. We happily displayed them on our phones, and the host verified them and seated us. This part is normal.
The absolutely amazing part is that the host was able to verify our QR codes with nothing more than his own eyes and mind! No verification app, not even a digital scan of any sort! I mean, I know how QR codes work and all, but these ones are big—they contain lots of data—and they're signed with a verifiable public/private key. I was so impressed by this restaurant worker's *raw* skill! Amazing!
Le vendredi, c'est ravioli.
Shoutout à /u/AestyX pour m'avoir recommendé 5/3/1 for beginners y'a deux semaines, mon bench et deadlift ont explosés. Je comprends maintenant que stronglifts c'est un programme super poche. Je passe moins de temps à glander au gym, je lift vraiment plus de poids total, et mes sessions sont plus courtes. Win win win en esti. La prochaine affaire là c'est m'attaquer à mon gras accumulé de quarantaine. J'ai réussi à garder exactement le même poids depuis 2 mois que je vais au gym, donc j'ai effectivement perdu du gras pour faire place à du muscle, sauf que c'est looooong à ce rythme là. Il est temps de montrer ces muscles là que j'développe au lieu de les garder enrobés!
Chronique d'un enseignant au secondaire: j'ai donné un travail à faire à mes secondaire 5 à remettre cette semaine. Je me rends compte que niveau méthodologie et présentation de travail, ils sont assez limités et ça m'inquiète pour ceux qui s'en vont au CEGEP. Je ne les vois pas très souvent alors j'ai peu de temps pour leur donner un cours de métho. Selon moi, c'est quelque chose qui devrait être fait dès secondaire 1 ou 2 et on en rajoute au fil du temps. Quelque chose d'aussi simple que la présentation de texte: police, justifié, etc. n'est même pas acquis...
Sur une note positive, j'ai vraiment du fun avec mon compte de prof instagram, c'est un magnifique outil de communication!
Grand moment: enfin à l'âge de 30 ans, j'essaie un Joyeux Festin! Mon chum était tellement choqué quand je lui ai dit que j'en avais jamais eu, on est allé au drive-through le lendemain XD Et mon jouet était...un livre. Boooouuhh.. Mais la je me suis fait prendre dans la folie Monopoly, c'est tellement satisfaisant de déchirer les ti-papiers..
[deleted]
Ma soeur et ma nièce (de Paris) étaient en visite à Montréal cette semaine.   
Elle a trouvé que tout coûte plus cher ici qu'à Paris (bouffe, vêtements logements, ... )  
Étrange.
Je me suis fait installer un implant dentaire cette semaine. Je pensais que ce serait aussi pire que la greffe osseuse mais, à date, c'est significativement moins douloureux et enflé.
Faut dire que j'ai pas lésiné sur la codéine cette fois :P.
J'en ai pour une semaine, au moins, à  avoir ces fils de suture gossants. 
It sucks having bad teeth.
Je pense prendre ma retraite bientôt. Je me demande bien si je reste ou si je vend et sacre mon camp en dehors de Mtl. J'aime la ville et j'aime la campagne... Dilemme...
Super grosse semaine côté boulot.
J'arrive just pas à reprendre le beat de mes grosses semaines.
Vous avez des trucs?
Cette fin de semaine c'est la fondue suisse avec Fast 9 sur le télé parce qu'on est *classy* ici 👌
Podcast du moment: [The Happiness Lab with Dr. Laurie Santos](https://www.happinesslab.fm/) [EN]
Les mois des septembre et octobre étaient difficiles et stressants en particulier pour moi. La réorganisation structurelle, le drame entre collègues, la vie personnelle déprimante... Ce podcast m'a aidé de sortir des fois de ma bulle. Peut-être ça peut vous aider aussi ou au moins vous montrer un autre façon de regarder le bonheur. Les sujets sont présentés simplement avec non seulement la recherche scientifique, mais les liens sociologiques et historiques. Souvent, les invités sur le podcast arrivent avec des expériences originales à partager.
J'ai découvert un "nouveau" podcast récemment, "Behind the bastards". Je viens *juste* de finir le double épisode sur Alfred Hitchcock, et ouache. Je suis une grande fan de Hitch, et je savais qu'il était tordu, mais pas à ce point-là. Pauvre Tippi Hedren!
Très très intéressant par contre, je recommande fortement (le double épisode sur Josh Duggar de 19 and Counting" n'était pas piqué des vers non plus.
J'ai aussi commencé (et bientôt fini) le dernier Senécal, "Flots". Ayoye tabarnak, elle est quelque chose, Flo. Je pensais le finir hier soir mais j'avais vraiment besoin d'un break. Excellent, mais aussi extrêmement tordu. Bye. (Comme dirait Flo).
gens près du centre-ville / plateau, où allez-vous au gym et combien payez-vous par mois? ce que je cherche, c'est un gym pas trop achalandé avec machines et poids libres et le moins de frais additionnels (pas un fan de yoga de groupe, danse, aérobie etc.)
I'll top you. 
A couple of weeks ago I asked a server if we needed to show our passports after we sat down.
She said she'd go ask the owner in the kitchen.
From the kitchen, no less, he was able to see that we were all good with our vaccine passports!
People are amazing!
You're joking but this might be possible in a decade or so with some special contact lenses
Yeah!! 💪🏼
J'ai remarqué ça aussi depuis plusieurs années. À mesure que les logiciels deviennent de plus en plus "user-friendly", les utilisateurs deviennent de moins en moins habiles. Les élèves ne comprennent pas comment sauvegarder un document, le sauvegarder sur une clé USB, ou l'envoyer par courriel. Ils vivent la technologie à travers leurs téléphones et des applis qui sauvegardent automatiquement en cloud. Donc, devant un ordinateur, ils sont pris au dépourvu. Ça fait drôle, parce que quand on était au secondaire, on était meilleurs en informatique que nos profs, et là c'est l'inverse!
Y'a plus de cours de métho en Sec 5?
Mes kids en ont eu un. C'était en effet pas de trop.
Dans mon jeune temps on avait un cours de métho en secondaire 1. Ça couvrait pas mal de trucs, par ex. la mise en page, se servir d'un agenda, etc.
Prof de cégep ici. Effectivement, même avant la pandémie, on constate que les étudiants savent de moins en moins utiliser un ordinateur.
Genre ne pas savoir l’allumer, ne pas comprendre la navigation dans des dossiers, utiliser caplock en double au lieu de shift. 
J’enseigne aux étudiants de sciences de la nature, alors disons que c’est comme un mini choc “culturel “ de voir des gens aller en sciences mais qui s’obstinent pour remettre des travaux écrit à la main parce que “ gosser dans Word c’est long” 
On les aime pareil
https://www.reddit.com/r/montreal/comments/qft51y/la_presse_fermeture_des_urgences_le_soir_et_la
[deleted]
I guess its a step into the right direction .packaging will be another thing to work on
With the plastic baggies and containers they have the ingredients in, I agree but those boxes containing everything that are lined to keep it cool are pretty good. If you get them regularly, they take the empty boxes out when they deliver their new stuff.
Why not just go to the emergency? At most you'll have a 18-24 hour wait but once they do testing and confirm you have a gastro problem they will have one come in to see you.
Looks like you're getting downvoted for questioning the superiority of the shit healthcare system we have.
Ask again to be referred to a specific (different) gastroenterologist and skip the CRDS thing.
So I had GI issues after moving to Quebec from Ontario and for a while I didn’t have a ramq card but I also no longer had an ohip. I know you can technically pay up front and then claim it later but for fucks sake when you’re sick how do you even start looking into that?
Anyway eventually after being misdiagnosed and poorly served by the clinic at the Queen Elizabeth (let’s check for parasites even though you haven’t travelled pay for them privately!) I eventually went and parked my butt in the ER at the Vic (Glen) and didn’t move until I got to see a gastroenterologist. 
They sent an intern the intern and eventually the attending and then the next day he did an endoscopy at both ends and determined I had a severe case of crohns. From everything i have googled since presentation was preeeetty classic and the clinic should have caught it. I saw a specialist who got me a prescription for prednisone not long after that. 
So when in doubt the ER isn’t just for head wounds. They have a lot of good doctors there.
I'm a little unsure of what happened when you said you were "paired with a local clinic who sent in a consultation".
Did you physically (or virtually) see a GP who did an initial assessment and wrote a referral ? Or did they send your request straight to CRDS without even an initial assessment?
Emergency is an option, but don't be in any kind of hurry, especially these days. Other than that, yeah, I guess is go to private or try to ask again for a consult on public sector... Maybe they'll let it go through this time
Pharmacist are easily accessible and fairly knowledgeable… maybe they could help?
As someone with stomach issues in the meantime go to a pharmacy and ask for Nexium. You can get 30 days without a prescription. If it helps (as in fixes all your problems as it did mine) you can go to a walk on clinic for a script. If it doesn't help, go to emergency they next time you have the pain becasue if nexium doesn't help you've got a serious issue.
And to add, the emergency is how to see a doctor within 24 hours when you're in pain. It's a shitty workaround that eats your time but it is foolproof if needed.
The CRDS is how you ask for a referral if you don't have a family doctor.
Thanks for sharing your experience.
I am a little uncomfortable going to ER because I already had an endoscopy in Alberta and they found nothing. So I essentially have a fully psychosomatic illness. The doctor on the help line said that I should get checked a second time just in case, but as far as I know there are no tests that can eeval what is going on with me.
That's why I was really excited to see a specialist, because maybe they will know why I have this pain.
Hey -- I'm going to PM you
Hi, 
I only spoke to the physician over the phone. This was after I called a health line but i don't remember which one. I'm pretty sure I spoke to a nurse, explained what was going on, then I was transferred to the doctor, i explained everything, and they then sent in the referral. 
I got an email from their clinic confirming that I was referred to a gastroenterologist.
The pharmacist can’t “help”. They could only suggest something over the counter to OP. If OP’s clinic said they needed to see a gastroenterologist, there is no way a pharmacist is going to be able to do shit.
Nexium doesn't work for me but ranitidine does. Unfortunately I'm at the maximum dose so if it gets worse I can't increase the dose.
You don't need a family doctor to get a referral. Simply go to a walk-in  clinic and ask the doctor you see to get one.
What about famotidine (pepcid ac)? My doctor said I could mix it with ranitidine. I have the chewable pepcid ac which is like a rolaids famotidine and I take them as an extra.
Im sorry if this is all redundant, I hope something gets better for you.
Ok thanks for the information. I always just assumed walk in clinics were unreliable.
You are right I can mix for example dexillant or any PPI with ranitidine. 
I'm just not sure if it will do anything because the ranitidine is much much more effective than the PPI.
No worries! I appreciate anyone who is nice enough to try to help :)
That's where most family doctors work, so....
Where I'm from most people have their own family doctor. I've never been to a walk in but when I researched it many people said that walk in clinics often don't even have anyone in staff with any medical licence at all and they will just lie to you toget your money.
C'est cute de s'inquiéter du profilage racial quand tu interprètes des stats à partir de ton condo luxueux dans un quartier blanc embourgeoisé, mais c'est pas mal moins l'fun pour ceux qui habitent dans les quartiers chauds et qui entendent trop souvent des coups de feu, qui s'inquiètent pour leurs enfants et qui n'ont pas grand choix d'endroits où déménager. Les citoyens des quartiers concernés sont souvent des minorités. Est-ce qu'on peut penser à eux un peu ?
C'est vraiment n'importe quoi comme article. Ils contredisent eux-mêmes leurs statistiques.
>En ce qui concerne les crimes contre la personne lors desquels une arme à feu était présente (utilisée ou non), le portrait demeure ambivalent. De 2019 à 2020, on note certes une augmentation des tentatives de meurtre (de 33 à 57) et des voies de fait (de 144 à 197) en présence d’une arme à feu. Mais, pour les mêmes années, on note une diminution des homicides (de 10 à 5) et des vols qualifiés (de 157 à 139) en présence d’une arme.
Tout ça pour amener à la conclusion suivante:
>Selon le professeur Rutland, la police cherche à regagner la légitimité qu’elle a perdue avec le mouvement Black Lives Matter et les révélations sur la gravité du profilage racial à Montréal.  
>  
>Pour Ted Rutland, « la police ne peut tout simplement pas prévenir la violence par armes à feu. Elle peut seulement intervenir après les faits » en arrêtant des gens ou en confisquant des armes déjà en circulation. « Ce que la police peut faire, c’est surveiller, harceler et arrêter les gens qu’elle voit comme des criminels », c’est-à-dire surtout les jeunes racisés, expose le professeur.
Donc selon sui, la police ne DOIT PAS enquêter sur la violence par armes à feu parce qu'elle va surtout impliquer des personnes racisées. Wow.
Ajout: Ted Rutland est la même personne à l'origine de cet article de 2020. 
[https://www.lapresse.ca/actualites/grand-montreal/2020-10-15/escouade-quietude-du-spvm/c-est-une-escouade-anti-noirs.php](https://www.lapresse.ca/actualites/grand-montreal/2020-10-15/escouade-quietude-du-spvm/c-est-une-escouade-anti-noirs.php)
>En février dernier, inquiet de la création de cette nouvelle escouade qui compte une vingtaine d’enquêteurs, Ted Rutland a demandé à la Commission de la sécurité publique d’exiger un bilan du SPVM, qui aurait montré l’origine raciale des personnes arrêtées par la nouvelle escouade. Sa demande s’est soldée par un refus.  
>Il a alors demandé, par l’entremise de la Loi sur l’accès à l’information, d’obtenir les numéros de dossiers des 31 personnes arrêtées par l’escouade entre décembre 2019 et avril 2020. Par divers moyens, il a ensuite déterminé l’origine raciale de l’ensemble de ces prévenus. Résultat : 74 % d’entre eux sont noirs, 19,4 % sont blancs et 6,5 % sont des personnes racisées, mais non noires.  
>« Les Noirs sont 42 fois plus susceptibles d’être arrêtés et accusés par l’escouade anti-armes à feu que les Blancs », en conclut M. Rutland. La majorité des cibles de l’escouade anti-armes à feu sont situées dans le nord-est de la ville, notamment à Montréal-Nord. 
J'ai de la grosse difficulté à comprendre où est le problème exactement. Trop de personnes noires sont arrêtées pour des infractions liées aux armes à feu donc c'est pas juste?
>le nombre d’infractions impliquant une arme à feu (excluant les crimes contre la personne)
lol wut? Les crimes avec arme a feu contre les buildings sont en baisse, donc on est en sécurité? (Je rigole bien entendu. En fait cette statistique montre probablement que malgré la hausse des crimes contre la personne avec armes a feu, il y a moins de criminels qui se font pincer a en transporter une illégalement. Rien de quoi se réjouir).
>une augmentation des tentatives de meurtre (de 33 à 57) et des voies de fait (de 144 à 197) en présence d’une arme à feu. Mais, pour les mêmes années, on note une diminution des homicides (de 10 à 5) et des vols qualifiés (de 157 à 139) en présence d’une arme.
Donc y a eu beaucoup **plus** de crimes violents avec arme a feu mais il faut pas s'inquiéter parce que ils ont eu **moins** de succès? C'est une bonne nouvelle que plus de criminels tirent moins bien?
L'auteur est étudiant en études littéraire a l'UQAM. Je pense qu'il devrait laisser la criminologie a d'autres...
> Celui qui s’est penché sur les données du SPVM souligne que le service de police **n’a jamais comptabilisé les coups de feu avant cette année.** « Il faut se méfier quand la police invente de nouvelles catégories [d’événements] pour nous montrer que nous ne sommes pas en sécurité. »
Je trouve le reste des stats un peu iffy, mais ça c'est probablement le meilleur argument. Ça me dit qu'on a pas grand chose de *solide* pour justifier l'augmentation de la présence policière. On se fie juste au jugement général du corps policier et de l'opinion publique, and it is what it is.
paging /u/eric_bousquet
Ca ne m’étonne pas.
C'est plutôt le type de violence engendrée qui change (parce que la réalité ça change, tsé veux dire...)
La tendance globale est très bonne, c'est vrai. Mais, à court terme, on a une guerre de gang de rue. La dernière fois qu'on a eu ce genre de problème, c'est [il y a 20 ans avec la guerre de motards](https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Guerre_des_motards_au_Qu%C3%A9bec). Il faut pas attendre après un deuxième [Daniel Desrochers](https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Daniel_Desrochers) pour réagir. Il faut absolument écraser les groupes criminalisés qui causent des problèmes.
J'ai hâte a lundi...
Les politibots ne se cachent même pu. C'est vraiment lourd.
Theft exploded 2months into covid
Encore une preuve que les faits ne servent à rien en sciences humaines.
> Donc y a eu beaucoup plus de crimes violents avec arme a feu mais il faut pas s'inquiéter parce que ils ont eu moins de succès?
En plus que le succès d'une tentative de meurtre est fortement influencé par la qualité de la médecine.
[Morts/Blessés totaux des soldats américains](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_military_casualties_of_war) et regardez les taux au Vietnam vs l'Iraq ou l'Afghanistan.
Je viens de voir qu'un des comptes Twitter anonymes les plus actifs créés dans le sillage de l'arrivée de Coderre qui faisait la promotion d'Ensemble Montréal (et surtout du salissage de Projet Montréal en fait) vient d'être supprimé. Genre juste là, vendredi à 5h avant l'élection.
Quand tu tentes de parler épistémologie mais que tu comprends même pas le sens du mot preuve dans ce contexte.
on compare 2019 a 2020 la, je ne pense pas que nos chirurgiens soient devenus 2x meilleurs en 1 an.
La bataille des réseaux sociaux lol
Je comprends que ce soit une façon plus directe de parler mais c'est rendu un peu ridicule.
Mais ça compare souvent avec les années 70 par exemple.
[deleted]
Rain?
This looks to me like a *precipitation shaft*.
no rotation, looks like a rain funnel, they call it a stinger.
C'est le shadow government du deep state qui est en train d'ouvrir un wormhole vers la dimension X.
T'as déjà vu le film Donnie Darko?
Wowww a brand new meterological phenomenon to discover and learn about!  Thanks so much this is great
Je pense de la neige roulée qui s'est sublimée avant d'atteindre le sol
Miss Villeray, célèbre repère montréalais de l'extrême droite /s
Ça me surprendrait que le Miss ait un recours contre les créateurs du film qui ont usé de sa célèbre image.
Par contre, la personne qui détient le droit d'auteur sur l'enseigne pourrait peut-être poursuivre. Ce serait funné.
Probably animators from Montreal based studio that did the art work thought it would be funny to put it in.
can i buy a print
C'est quoi Miss Villeray?
Fort probable que ce soit le Miss qui détienne les droits en fait. Tu les achètes en quelque sorte quand tu fais faire une telle œuvre pour tes fins et que tu paies pour. Mais bon, pas comme s'il y avait un gros recours à faire avec ça, car peu de dommages ou d'enrichissement s'il y en a.
Yes, give me $300 and print it yourself
Work for hire, en effet.  
J'me perds dans mes critères d'oeuvre faite par l'employé, parfois.
Ah, a NFT entrepreneur!
you've really streamlined the process
wow what a stupid play
Y va aussi y avoir dans le futur tous les Montréalais si Coderre est élu maire 😅
Explique toi... je comprend pas le lien que tu fait?
Extorsion : victimes recherchées : tous les Montréalais si Coderre est élu maire
Mais là Denis s'est fait remettre à sa place.
>En réalité, les marges de profit en gastronomie sont d’à peu près 2 % — et ce petit bénéfice est grugé d’avance par les dépenses pour réparer les fours, remplacer le mobilier, renouveler la décoration, etc.   
Pour un propriétaire de restaurant, il n'a pas l'air de comprendre le concept de "marge de profit"
J'ai grandi avec mes parents qui dirigeaient un restaurant et même si j'aimais la culture des restaurants, je ne voulais rien avoir à faire avec le fait d'en posséder un.  C'est une vie dure et encore plus difficile quand on essaie de la faire au niveau du Mousso.  Pour tous ceux qui le critiquent pour ses prix, la quantité de formation et de travail plus le coût de ses ingrédients en réalité vaut encore probablement plus de 400 $ par personne.  Il y a une raison pour laquelle il y a un nombre limité de sièges, ce n'est pas Baton Rouge ou Mikes.  Il est l'un des meilleurs chefs au Canada et il y a beaucoup de gens qui sont capables et disposés à payer cela pour faire l'expérience de manger dans son restaurant bien que la plupart des gens (moi y compris) qui ne peuvent pas se le permettre ou qui peuvent peut-être se le permettre mais ne sont pas intéressés  suffisant pour justifier le coût.  certaines personnes aiment les voitures ou les motos de luxe, certaines personnes aiment les vêtements de marque ou veulent un chalet au bord d'un lac, certaines personnes veulent voyager et certaines personnes aiment les restaurants chics.  bonne chance à lui car même si je n'y mange pas, son restaurant contribue à faire un nom pour la culture de Montréal au-delà de notre île.
Dire que son souper vaut autant aue d'aller voir Madonna lipsyncer au Centre Bell, c'est vraiment absurde comme comparaison et relève presque du sophisme à mon avis.
Il amène beaucoup de bons points, mais sa plume fait que ça sonne comme du chialage.
Même après avoir tout lu ça, je ne comprends pas pourquoi il est cassé. Il est populaire, il charge plus cher que les restos bas de gamme mais il paie aussi mal ses employés qu’eux.
Expliquez-moi le boute que je ne pige pas.
Je comprends pas. Il semble revendiquer des subventions?!! Pour un restaurant? Lol c'est une joke son affaire. 
Ferme ton restau pis move on. Tu ne rend pas service a personne. Les contribuables ne te doivent rien. De toute façon a chialé de meme tu ne donne pas envie a personne de dépenser dans ton restau.
Je suis ambivalente... en même temps je comprends que de gérer un restaurant c’est une job de fou, avec de gros horaires et des conditions de vie pas faciles. En même temps, je trouve que la décision est extrême.
Ça pourrait maintenant coûter 400$/personne pour aller à son resto, donc proche de 1000$ pour deux personnes. Sérieux...à part ceux pour qui le cash tombe du ciel sur leur genou, qui va aller là ? 
Si 35% de ta clientèle vient de l’étranger, le 65% qui restent tu penses vraiment qu’ils vont pas considérer aller ailleurs? Même dans le même genre de table (haut gastronomie) il va y avoir un tas d’options moins chères. Genre 250$ par personne. 
Augmenter un peu les prix, diminuer les heures d’ouverture... ok. Mais de là à faire un service par soir et augmenter les coûts autant...c’est vraiment un bold move.
A few things are conflated. 
He's not wrong in that 2-5% is a restaurant that's doing very well... And isn't the majority, and requires the majority to drastically underpay their staff while providing very few benefits or salary protections. All this compounded by availability of good staff bc so many left the industry during the pandemic. 
Where it's slightly askew is that he's one of very, very few fine dining establishments in Montreal. The peers he compares himself to are great but they aren't prix fixe and even though average bills maybe be similar, they are a lot more accessible. They also likely require less expensive ingredients, less labor costs, and so on. Fine dining takes more work bc the food is more elaborate, technical and so on. That's not a value judgment it's just a fact. That's a lot of why it is more expensive. 
And he's not wrong that people all over the world pay and travel for fine dining experiences and build a trip around food first. Montreal is absolutely a foodie destination. If we didn't have the better restaurants, few are coming just for bagels, smoked meat and poutine. 
But I do wonder what the right solution is. I mean, I don't think my neighborhood pub which has great food needs a grant related to touristic contribution. Or a poutine place that's always busy. So which restaurants would get it? 
Maybe it's more like a grant on any food products purchased for the restaurant that are 100% local producers of Quebec and a lesser one for Canada, and 0 for imported. 
Honestly I feel bad for him bc he is incredibly talented if you've had his food, it really is something special. And I do think independent restaurants should have a way forward. 
The older ones that are still around have come at a price. So many great chefs of MTL restaurants we know and love paid a pretty steep price, personally. And many now are likely as profitable as they are bc they're selling branded food products and merchandise. I mean, that's fantastic for them but should every restaurant need to do that to survive?
Coudonc, si c'est si toff que ça la restauration (pis l'immobilier selon plein de proprio) pis que personne fait pas une cenne avec ça, pourquoi y a autant de monde qui le font? Ça chiale, ça chiale....
Il utilise le reste de sa marge pour payer ses employés.
C'est son arrogance que coupe mon apetit. Comme si un restaurant devrait être subventionné. Et s'il pouvait vraiment charger $400/service et en faire un profit il ne devrais pas écrire un article de 3 page sur comment tout est difficile. Tous ce qu'il fait c'est chialer et prendre la position de la victime. Honnêtement get over it. Le simple fait qu'il pense que son petit restau fait de lntreal un destination touristique montre à quel point il est arrogant. Oui 35% de ça clientèle sont des étrangers, combien d'entre eux on décidé de venir a Montréal payer la chambre d'hôtel, allez voir les baleines a cause de son restaurant? J'assume pas beaucoup.
Aussi il faut pas être naïfs, son souper vaut ben ce que les gens sont prêts à payer pour. Il n’y a pas de grand arbitre de la valeur objective.
Si les gens veulent du poulet bbq pis de la pizz’ en take out, c’est ben de valeur mais…
Parcqu'à Montréal, exploiter un seul resto et faire un profit soutenu relève de l'exploit.
Rajoute COVID et la hausse généralisée des prix de la bouffe et du reste et t'as ton explication.
La cerise sur le sundae: la plupart des chefs qui partent des restos ne sont pas de bons gestionnaires.
Si il est autant (ou plus profitable) en chargeant 250$ au lieu de 150$, pourquoi pas? C'est tout simplement la notion de l'offre et la demande qui s'applique, ici.
Par contre, je trouve que l'article c'est beaucoup de chialage, sur tout ce qui bouge (les gouvernements, l'industrie elle-même, les consommateurs, tout le monde y passe!) sans vraiment cerner un problème spécifique - je sais pas trop quoi penser à la suite de ça, sauf du fait que ce gars-là me fait penser pas mal à tout le monde que je connais qui a fait un burn-out.
C'est son restaurant il a le droit de prendre les risques qu'il veut. Les restaurants ultra-ultra haute-gastronomie/ 3 étoiles Michelin de ce monde, les french laundry/Osteria Francescana, on pas de misère remplir leur salle. Reste à voir si il est a ce niveau.
I agree on all your points. 
Ferrer gambled on that and put too much energy in branching out. Juste pour Rire fiasco happened and then the pandemic. Since he was too invested outside of Europea, the menu stalled and the restaurant lost its momentum.
As for Mousso, I agree with his point of view. I mean everyone deserves a decent salary and quality of life. That being said I think Mousso made the jump too quickly by cutting one service AND upping its price. Surely there would have been an inbetween where it would have been possible to up the price by 40-50$, offering 9 plates instead of 12, moving the first service 30 min or one hour early, etc. 
Anyway, I can afford Mousso, I had planned to go there first thing when it would reopen, but with the new pricing, I prefer trying out 2-3 new high quality restaurants for the same final price.
Bah non. Si le personnel est aussi mal payé qu'un resto qui charge 10% et que les portions sont minuscules si l'explication n'est pas un budget de poudre, je ne sais pas c'est quoi.
Il charge 400 au lieu de 200. Rajoute le tip et la taxe. Yikes. 
J’attendais sa réouverture pour réserver pour fêter un événement important, mais là...j’ai choisi un autre resto parce que j’ai pas 1000$ à mettre sur un repas pour deux. Peu importe comment c’est bon, ça coûte moins de la moitié de ça chez Toqué...
Il faudrait que t'ailles visiter la cuisine du Rousso (ou tout autre grand resto) vs celle d'une cantine.
Tu comprendrais alors la quantité de main-d'oeuvre que ça prend pour sortir ce type de plats.
Je dis pas que c'est abordable, je fais seulement dire que si de son côté, il peut s'en tirer avec ce prix-là, pourquoi est-ce qu'il chargerait moins?
Clairement, y'a des gens qui ne suivront pas. Mais y'a beaucoup plus de gens qu'on pense, qui, à Montréal, peuvent se permettre de mettre autant d'argent que ça sur un repas de façon régulière.
Avec le vin, ça peut monter jusqu’à, tes pas obligé de claquer autant.
Lmao, as someone who works in the federal government I can assure you that Francophones are not second class citizens. All of my directors have been Francophone and most of their subordinates aren't...
Thank God. The article says 80% of their calls are in English, so it makes sense. As someone trying to legally immigrate to Canada, it seems like Quebec is intentionally making things difficult for the majority of its immigrants. (I am trying to learn French, and I have no problem with doing that, but this is big legal stuff, it would be great if I could understand what was going on.)
I've worked at the IRCC call center.
I can say about 1-2 calls on 10 were from francophones.
There are some days I did not even receive one. Although, that was not very common.
The IRCC call center has a lot of issues. The fact that we are the only one in Canada is ridiculous as well.
There used to be two or three, but Harper closed those and kept the one in Montrea.
Ideally, there should be a call center out west and the one here.
Perso quand j'appelle une ligne de support technique je choisi anglais car le temps d'attente est moins long.
Why do they get so many calls in English, though?
"*Compte tenu du fait que plus de 80 % des appels reçus au \[Centre de soutien à la clientèle\] sont en anglais, le CSC va de l’avant avec la création de postes d’agents unilingues anglais.*"
This same article is being bashed on r/quebec.
Every chance they get....
Given that it’s a call centre, why not just hire more for centres outside of Quebec? Reduce the number of staff or just a hiring freeze for the centre in Quebec and increase the number of positions in the centres outside of Quebec? Assuming that Immigration Canada has a call centre outside of Quebec. Then there would be nothing to complain about? If 80% of the calls are in English and Quebec doesn’t want English only positions then 80% of call centre agents should be located outside of Quebec. Why should taxpayers pay a bilingual salary premium to so many agents when it isn’t necessary? I know the premium isn’t much for each individual employee but combined that premium is a lot of money.
How do I apply?
Extremely funny. Given that you have to prove that you speak French to immigrate in Quebec (Quebec is the most complicated region in Canada to
Immigrate for qualified educated immigrants). I am myself a French citizen who grew up
In France and with master degree in engineering and 3 yoe in Montréal and I had to prove that I speak French by giving all my original certified school results from 11 years old until 18 years old). Also I have to wait for 3 years to obtain my permanent residency. Same process for the same profile in Ontario? 6 months.
Good to know the head of Air Canada will have a fall-back job if he’s let go.
La véritable question est combien de poste unilingues, sachant qu'il y avait déjà des exception unilingues anglophone accepté(mais pas le cas pour le français)?
Et quel est le ratio unilingue / bilingue visé?
Cela dit, si ça peut faciliter le processus pour les français d'accéder à l'immigration, je peux comprendre l'idée, néanmoins selon la volonté politique du moment, cela peut aussi avoir l'effet contraire.
I hope PSAC fights this tooth and nail. There are very few positions designated French Unilingual in QC as most require minimum BBB on the SLE, so creating English Essential positions is a slap in the face to Québec.
Mon ami au fédéral dit qu'il existe deux langues officielles au gouvernement du Canada: l'Anglais et ses traductions.
Beaucoup des immigrants au Québec parlent déjà français. Les Français (duh!), les Haïtiens, les Mahgrébins, Africains occidentaux et centraux… En fait, ça ne m’étonnerait pas que ce soit une majorité.
Its funny to think that a french speaker has to be bilingual to work there, but not anglos. Its also funny that that would make francophones more qualified for the job, but will receive the same salary at their monolingual anglos counterpart ¯\\\_(ツ)\_/¯
C’est drôle, les anglos sur /r/Canada disent choisir le français. Comme ça ils tombent sur un bilingue de Montréal au lieu d’un gars en Inde à l’accent incompréhensible.
S'il y avait plus d'employés francophones, ça serait peut-être pas aussi long... 
C'est un cercle vicieux ça.
ben non c'est l'inverse, les anglos le français pour éviter de parler à un employé du centre d'appel en Inde.
Because immigrants come from everywhere, and English is the world's most common second language.
English is ironically the *lingua franca* of the world so its common amongst people looking to immigrate to a new place.
Le choix des Montréalais c'est entre Plante, Coderre et Holness. 
lol vous êtes chanceux.
Ils ont parlé d'un problème de sécurité au village discuté ce matin, quelqu'un aurait un lien? Je trouve rien sur le sujet...
Peut-être, au fil du temps, il pourrait atteindre un niveau de français égale de celle des PDG des grandes groupes Français comme [Ben Smith chez Air France](https://www.francetvinfo.fr/replay-radio/chronique-du-ciel/chroniques-du-ciel-ben-smith-directeur-general-d-air-france-klm-notre-principal-atout-pour-sortir-de-la-crise-c-est-notre-reseau-mondial_4031405.html) ou [Tom Enders anciennement chez Airbus](https://www.capital.fr/entreprises-marches/les-petits-secrets-du-patron-d-airbus-tom-enders-581911).
Avant de l’améliorer faudrait qu’il l’apprenne!
juste après avoir méprisé le français
oh brother, les médias francophones ADORENT jouer les victimes. pauvres bébés
Des escuse pas sincère car dans un interview après il dit que le français n'a jamais été un enjeu.
All this crying about what language I decide to speak makes me not care about French.
aux mods. Ceci n'est pas un post sur le fait que le pdg de Air Canada est un gros racistes qui veut pas parler français et se faut des francophones, mais sur le fait qu'il s'excuse de ses propos racistes et qu'il va apprendre le français.
Le comble? Ben Smith était #2 chez Air Canada avant (derrière Calin Rovinescu) et menait déjà des présentations en français à l'époque...
Michael Rousseau aurait pu se sauver bien du trouble avec un simple  « je veux apprendre le français dans le cadre de mon nouveau rôle  » ou quelque chose du style.
Eh bin 🤦
Sooo true 🤣🤣🤣
you need to call everyday, also call your arrondissement.
Once they redid the asphalt on the street in front of my building in the middle of the night. The whole building was shaking, not sure exactly what they were doing...
Called non emergency and 311, the answer was "well we have to do the work some times."...
Nevermind that it was in the middle of the night, in the middle of the week...
Ugh that's horrible. Which part of town?
They were ripping up the streets in NDG for fuck knows how long...the next street was torn apart and I felt SO fucking bad for the residents. They replaced the water mains and had to dig into their driveways. We had the same done on my street but it wasn't quite as extensive but it took the better part of a month. I think I was lucky because my bedroom is at the rear of the house, but I felt the vibrations.
I lived on St Denis a few years back while they were building the French hospital... Non stop 24h construction. It was considered essential so they were aloud. It was to the point we went to the regis to ask to break our lease and it was denied. We couldn't sleep, we couldn't study during the day. It was terrible.
If anything I would call 311 but I don't think it will really resolve anything. I certainly don't see it as a police issue.
Ultimately the short term inconvenience for a few will dramatically expediate the resolution of the long term inconvenience to the many dealing with the closed streets.
Go listen to the latest episode of La Facture on tou.tv they cover a case of smell caused by the city contractor underground work, similar to your current problem as it is a constant nuisance.
If you have public security in your area, call them.
are they actively doing construction in the middle of the night? regardless a bit of white noise should actually be helpful to sleep.
There's ongoing roadwork right in front of my building and a generator running day and night nevertheless I don't hear a thing inside my apartment. Outside is quite loud though.
I would recommend you to move somewhere else.
I remember that. Trying to sleep with that noise was frustrating. I remember calling 311 and they told me they can't do much since it was part of the city's work
well yeah, they really can't do anything. It has to be done...
Le qUÉEBC SURTAXÉ? dEPUIS QUAND?
Too bad we can't provide list answers or ranges like the candidates could, to actually compare properly. 
Also, loved this great politician answer about the hockey coach name:
>Balarama Holness : c’est un homme persévérant qui a eu la COVID durant les séries (mauvaise réponse, 0 point)
65... Plus d'efforts sont attendus au 3eme trimestre...
j'ai eu 75% sans étudier pour l'examen  (famous last word).
Mme Plante scorera 110% si elle a accepté. Son prestige l’empechait
> Valérie Plante a décliné notre invitation.
On se demande pourquoi ! 😂
Et c'est les Montréalais qui ont financé ça, pas Evenko.
Et le pire c'est que c'est ça qui faisait la beauté du site. Beaucoup d'ombre pour regarder les shows en été. Maintenant c'est du.... bétooooon!
Quand je suis né  
Derrière chez moi y'avait un pré  
Maintenant c'est du  
**Béton**
Toutes les collines  
Où je jouait avec ma copine  
Maintenant c'est du
**Béton**
Ce p'tit sentier  
Qui sentait bon les églantiers  
C'est du  
**Béton**
Jadis de verdure tapisée  
Maintenant c'est du
# Béton
J'aimerais ça qu'un journaliste demande à Coderre combien d'après-midi il est allé *chiller* sur l'Espace 67 depuis son dernier mandat.
Je l'imagine bien se tirer une p'tite couverte et s'asseoir sous un soleil de plomb pour regarder son beau ciment à perte de vue en se disant:
>  Ouah, in autre projet porteur ça, Denis! Criss qu'on est bon.
Ce matin je m'obstinais avec un de mes chum après lui avoir envoyé le lien de la presse qui parle de Coderre et de l'entrepreneur en construction. Je me souvenais de ce post sur reddit qui montrait la destruction du parc jean-drapeau et j'ai réussi à le retrouver avec la recherche reddit (un miracle!) alors je me disais que c'était le bon moment pour ressortir cette image sur le sub :) Le post original était gracieuseté de notre /u/Matt_MG ici : https://old.reddit.com/r/montreal/comments/mrfne8/superficie_darbres_et_de_milieux_humides_d%C3%A9truits/
Ils ont pavé le ruisseau?! 
Tabarnak…. Quelle honte.
I took a pic of this monstrosity on the ground a while ago. In hindsight, I remember hearing vague rumblings about this but I didn't realize how bad it was.  
https://www.reddit.com/r/montreal/comments/pf5c7m/havent\_been\_to\_jeandrapeau\_in\_years\_what\_is\_this/
Large concrete spaces with no shade are notoriously good for heat buildup. Good stuff.
Yea and because of it they moved all events to the racetrack which meant you couldn’t cycle on it and most of the time couldn’t even cut through. That summer or two was was annoying
I'm not a huge fan of what they did, but it also seems as if most people who complain about this had never been to Jean Drapeau prior to the changes. 
It wasn't as if they removed lush and dense old growth forests to make this concert venue.... they mostly just paved over what was for 6/12 months of the year a giant mud pit because of the events that were already there annually. 
Could it have been done better... yes. Did they massacre a huge beautiful forest to make a flat amptheatre no. 
iirc it was about 1000 trees they removed for the whole project. Out of just under 20,000 trees on the Island. So somewhere around 5% of the total population not including Ile notre dame.
https://www.parcjeandrapeau.com/en/master-forestry-plan-parc-jean-drapeau/
Je me suis demandé à quoi ressemblait l'île avant l'expo 67. Voici : [https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/9/98/Ile\_Sainte-Helene\_Montreal\_1947\_-\_A.jpg](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/9/98/Ile_Sainte-Helene_Montreal_1947_-_A.jpg)
On remarque que l'île s'arrêtait environ à la piscine (le bâtiment était déjà là). L'entièreté de la place Avenko était dans l'eau.
Je n'essaie pas de démontrer quoi que ce soit avec ça, j'ai seulement pensé que vous trouveriez ça intéressant.
1) Ruin Parc Jean-Drapeau
2) Blame your successors
3) Get re-elected
4) ???? (Probably shady backroom deals)
5) Profit!
for people that regularly attend festivals on the island, the change was needed.  Prior to this you would come home and essentially have dust buggers for days.  For the people complaining, do you even visit this space?  Probably not.  The open space can be used for biking/rollerblading and any other activity on wheels away from traffic.  As a regular runner, I've seen parents teaching their small children to bike on this space during the summer.  A few years back they setup a Japanese light show a la botanical gardens.  If they are smart, they can even setup some rinks for the winter.  Yes some trees were taken down but there are still plenty of sections with greenery to hang out in.
Fuck you Coderre.
Plante aussi vend des terre humide dans le techno parc
Juste pour clarifier, les milieux humides dont on parle c’est bien la bouette après Osheaga ? 🙄
"Pour mettre Montréal sua map!"
Peut-etre, mais il a aussi fait refermer une partie de l'autoroute 720 au centre-ville pour en faire le parc des Montréalaise qui n'existait pas avant
Shit. Ça faisait un bout j'ai pas été voir de show là bas. Triste que c'est rendu du béton....
Fuck Coderre et ses promoteurs... tanné des politiciens qui scrapent tout pour s'assurer des faveurs et des bonnes jobs par la suite. Ça devrait être éliminé d'office de la scène politique. Perso je retournerai pas voir de festival là-bas, ça va avoir perdu tout son charme et va faire beaucoup trop chaud.
Coudonc ils ont tu juste gardé ceux qui ont cochés "oui" à "Antécédants Judiciaire" ? La discrimination positive version Coderre.
I can’t believe this has been a couple of weeks only and we already have a laundry list of controversies with Coderre. Imagine 4 years. 
Le plus drole c’est ses partisans qui pensent que Projet Montreal est en arrière de ça. Cous pensez réellement qu’un parti politique environnementaliste a autant de pouvoir que ca. Non non, c’est coderre lui meme qui est son ennemi et cette fois ci cest son filtre inexistant
Conquêtes ?! On dit vraiment ça encore en 2021 ?
>« Compte tenu de ma longue et réussie carrière en basketball, je crois être doté à la fois de l’expertise et de la passion pour mener n’importe quel [sic] projet, défi ou entreprise dont je fais partie », écrit-il notamment sur Facebook.
You can be an influencer or a motivational speaker and that's about it.
Oh god, Juan Mendez
😅😅
I only realized he was running a few days ago and he's already fucked up so much harder than I expected. 
He had an ironic cult following amongst the dozen Montréal Jazz fans, hilarious to see what he's been doing since to the point that playing for a team that won 2 games in a season is actually a massive step down for him...
I wanna say tough break but it really isn't. That's a dumb story in general, let alone for someone thinking he should put public spotlight on himself via an election.
ChiapadorO
Le "filtre Coderre" en action j'imagine.
Ouais, quand une femme utilise l'argent d'son chum, comment oser demander à la copine de rembourser!? Elle lui a donné sa précieuse présence après tout.
Mais quand un gars fait la même chose, oh my God, c'pas correct ça, pauve fille...
Journal de Montréal
Dis moi que t'es woke sans dire que t'es woke.
Quelqu’un a prit la pilule rouge ici.
I'd think that when the roles are reversed, the money isn't loaned but outright given.
Personne n'aime les Québécois qui parlent comme des Républicains.
Je ne suis pas parfait et je n’insulte pas ceux qui me reprennent.
c'juste un fact, call ça comme tu vx
Personne n'aime ceux qui reprennent les autres pour se penser moralement supérieur alors qu'il sont exactement pareil que les autres.
Bravo, t'as fait fondre mon flocon de neige maintenant. :(
[https://www.cbc.ca/news/health/halloween-candy-tampering-urban-legend-truth-1.5341734](https://www.cbc.ca/news/health/halloween-candy-tampering-urban-legend-truth-1.5341734) 
Je veux pas dire que ce n'est pas vrai... mais la vaste majorité du temps c'est les parents qui veulent de l'attention.
Moi qui venait à peine de me faire à l'idée que ce n'était que des légendes urbaines!
Quelle horreur!
Expos? Nobody was going to see the games. Why the hell would you bring them back?
Oh and by the way, remember that fiasco in Quebec city with the Nordiques. They built the arena. But, where's the Nordiques?
Charlatans...
Saying literally what everyone else is saying and passing it off as his own, original thoughts. Holness is a scam.
Fuck le baseball.
I'm an Expos fan and this city is filled with us, dans les deux langues. I also agree that public money should not go to the rotten corrupt scumbags who run MLB.  
That said, i couldn't care less what Holness thinks, and i voted last weekend.
Montreal had great attendance when they were competitive, I remember in the mid to late 70’s they set the attendance record for a three game series.
You put a stadium downtown near restaurants and night life they’ll draw good crowds with a decent product on the field. 
Denver / San Diego/ San Francisco are prime examples
Honestly, an NBA team would probably do better and if the Habs and a prospective NBA team could figure out scheduling, using the Bell Centre would cost a hell of a lot less.
Blue Jays has one good season, and every wanna be influencer wants to have a baseball team so they can take selfies with a Montreal based team /s
Could not agree more.   
I was voting for him because of his Montreal should be bilingual position (and the fact that Coderre was incompetent during his term)  but this is good as well.
I dont think this guy will win, not because of his policies, but because he looks like a Bond villain. All he needs is an eyepatch
Only candidate actually speaking sensibly.
I want all my tax money to go the Expos. Fuck anyone that doesn’t want to spend tax money to bring a major league team back to the city. Closed-minded morons
PKP and his secret dealings with the PQ. They even have a secret agreement that bans the public from seeing the full extent of the deal and the tax payers paid 200+ million for his vanity project that now sits empty most of the time.
Sans vouloir d'investissement public dans le stade, le fait d'avoir un vrai stade de baseball, ce qu'on n'avait pas et mieux situé changerait solidement la game. 
Exemple : les gens ne vont pas voir les Rays de Tampa Bay car le stade est horrible et situé de l'autre bord du pont. Pendant ce temps les gens vont voir le Lightning car l'aréna est bien situé. Les deux clubs performent très bien juste pour dire.
sounds more like an opinion than a fact to me buddy
It's almost as if electoral campaigns are a popularity contest
He's definitely a scammer, but I agree with him on this one.
If he agrees with everyone else on this point, does that make it bad for him to say so? The detail where he's claiming his party is different is wanting the Peel Basin reserved to social, affordable, and family housing, not anything else about the Expos question.
Valérie and Denis are all for bringing the Expos back. It’s original if you ask me.
The city is definitely not filled with us, there's still the same low amount of people who actually regularly attended games, there's just more nostalgists of late. 
People still don't really know anything about the team or its history, in my experience. 
Loved the expos, never want a MLB team again. Especially with any funding, and especially for some AL team...
Baseball will be dead within 4-5 seasons here maybe sooner once the novelty wears off. Who has 4 hours to spend watching paint dry? I’m not a huge hockey fan but at least the show is great
C’est pour ça que je compte voter pour Holness. Il faut faire Montréal une cité-état. C’est clair que le gouv. Du Québec s’en fout de Montréal.
🌈🌈🌈🦄🦄🦄
Je soutiens le vote pour Holness, ça enlève des votes à Coderre et la dernière chose dont nous avons besoin dans le moment, c'est bien Coderre.
Bet you most of them would just become traffic cops anyways lol
In 2019, Montreal had the second most police officers per 100,000 citizens among cities in Canada. [[source](https://www.statista.com/statistics/530275/rate-of-police-officers-in-canada-by-municipality/)]
Police presence is not necessarily a bad thing.  It’s the type of police presence that’s the problem.  Once serious reforms are made in re: training and culture, it would be important to have as many new officers out there as possible in order to mend relations.  But if we’re talking about the same kind of assholes forget it
good, we need more of those with all the horrible drivers in montreal.
and i cant be the only that feels police presence has increased since covid. by a lot.
once i was at jeanne mance at 10 pm, and there was 2 police trucks (armored trucks) and a dozens of cars just waiting there, with lights on, waiting for the park to close to kick out people from the park.
once i talked to a policeman that was there to shutdown an event an he told me
"well we're just gonna wait here for the DJs to get their stuff out and people to disperse. you cant have a stereo here, no stereo. technically you cant use a bluetooth soeaker in public, just your phone. 
but thats some big stereo speakers, you can hear it almost through all the park. no stereo. and thats like 100 people. you can't be more than 5 really. anyway. covid. we re just gonna wait here. we re not gonna get out the car, we re just gonna wait for people to disperse. just waiting. anyways"
he also admitted to me he was fucking tired of dealing with shit bcz of covid rules.
Montreal is also the second most populated city in Canada, it should be compared with similar city. \[[source](https://www.statista.com/statistics/443749/canada-population-by-metropolitan-area/)\]  
Montreal has 212 police officers/100 000 citizens, Vancouver 196 and Toronto 162.
Montreal and Vancouver should be safer than Toronto, with that much more police.
The homicide rate in Toronto is 2.03/100 000 citizens, 1.05 in Montreal and 1.52 in Vancouver.  \[[source](https://www.statista.com/statistics/530275/rate-of-police-officers-in-canada-by-municipality/)\]  
So, Toronto has less police officers, but more homicide. Hiring more could help? I don't know.
Are you talking about hypothetical changes in training and culture or are there actually changes currently taking place on that front?
It's needed for sure
sure, i agree 100%, but my main point was that it wouldn't curb violence in the city.
I don't really get the downvotes to your comment. The drivers here are horrendous.
>So, Toronto has less police officers, but more homicide. Hiring more could help? I don't know.
Vancouver has almost 50% more murders per 100,000 compared to Montreal (1.52 vs 1.05), in spite of the fact that they hire only 16 cops less per 100,000 citizens (196 vs 212), 8% less than Montreal.
Police might solve murders, however, they clearly don't prevent them.
Donc ça marche?
Yea.  You can say that.  I’m sure there are some efforts being made but I’m not aware of anything concrete/specific.  I also wouldn’t hold my breath.  I guess my point was that less police is not really a solution. Just like more police isn’t either.  It’s about better police.  I’m about 40.  When I was young they had flimsy ass linen and the amount of confrontation matched that.  Suddenly we decided to deck them out like GiJoe and they turned mean.  Why bother learning how to talk to me if you can just scare the fuck out of me.
Traffic cops don't do much of anything about that, though
On voit qu'il n'y a pas vraiment de corrélation entre le ratio de policiers et le taux d'homicide, pour les grandes villes qu'il y a déjà beaucoup de policiers. 
Faut voir c'est quoi l'objectif. 
Là, Coderre dit que ce serait nécessaire pour diminuer les fusillades. 
Il y a clairement beaucoup d'armes qui entrent à Montréal, mais ça passe par les réserves et par la frontière US, donc Montréal a peu de pouvoir pour ça. 
Ça mène aux conflits entre gangs. Cet été, il y a eu des tirs à quelques 100m de chez moi où je vais régulièrement et que je vois par ma fenêtre. 
Ils ont une forte présence sur les médias sociaux et ils n'ont pas peur de la police. 
Il faut évidement plus d'intervention communautaire et moins de pauvreté, pour diminuer la criminalité, mais on a aussi besoin d'une bonne présence policière pour réagir. 
Ce n'est pas à la mafia de gérer ça. 
Donc, plus de policiers pourrait aider je crois.
C’est clair que je suis d’accord avec l’embauche de policiers communautaires, mais on se leurrera pas, c’est une job encore plus ingrate que regular cop. Tsé les policiers qui vont se spécialiser en intervention communautaire (certificats et formations) se font quand même pitcher dans le tas « ACAB » ce qui est odieux.
Oui, le ACAB vise tous les policiers, peu importe ses responsabilités.   
Ça date de novembre 2020, mais quand même:  
[https://www.ledevoir.com/politique/montreal/590022/le-spvm-compte-developper-une-nouvelle-approche-d-intervention-communautaire](https://www.ledevoir.com/politique/montreal/590022/le-spvm-compte-developper-une-nouvelle-approche-d-intervention-communautaire)  
"M. Dorais a évoqué le travail effectué par l’Équipe mobile de référence et d’intervention en itinérance (EMRII) et par l’Équipe de soutien aux urgences psychosociales (ESUP), formée d’un duo (policier et travailleur social). L’administration souhaite accroître les ressources de ces équipes."
Ça peut être difficile pour un duo de policiers de faire de l'intervention parce que la personne a une aversion envers la police ou juste ne se sent pas à l'aise, même quand les policiers seraient capables d'aider, mais ça peut aussi être difficile pour un duo d'intervenants communautaires pour d'autres raisons, donc un duo policier et travailleur social, ça a un bon potentiel. 
Avec le temps, la réputation du SPVM va peut-être s'améliorer, mais c'est une tâche difficile. 
Ceux qui sont satisfaits du travail de la police n'en parlent pas partout, mais quand il y a des problèmes, on en entend beaucoup parler dans les médias et sur les réseaux sociaux.
Et voilà! Ce que tout le monde soupçonnait était vrai. Merci au patron de Cogir pour son honnêteté!
Mon passage favori: « Le PDG de Cogir assure par ailleurs qu’il n’a fait signer aucune entente de confidentialité à M. Coderre. »
Surprised_pikachu
2017: Denis ment au sujet de la formule E.
2021: Denis ment au sujet des ses revenus.
Denis 2.0 n'a jamais existé et il risque de perdre encore une fois et il n'aura que lui même à blâmer.
Baon, tu dois te sentir plus leger la mon jambon de Coderre. 
Comment tu peux te lancer en campagne pour la mairie et croire que ce genre de détail t'exploseras pas dans face ? Ehh boy...
He makes all the mess around him, he talks so much about himself. He enjoys talking about the good money he did in the private, and how happy he was making that money. His pubs have the huge face of him calling him passionate, competent and so on. Then he complains that people are too focused on him and not on his plans about the city. When asked about such plans, he brings nothing. Go figure.
Bon enfin le chat est sorti du sac. Coderre et ses petites cachoteries, comme les billets de la formule E... mais est ce que ça sera suffisant pour faire couler Coderre lors de la journée du vote? Il sait très bien que le logement est un enjeu et qu'une bonne partie des électeurs ne voit pas d'un bon oeil ces méga corpos gestionnaires de parc à logements...pour certains c'est comme travailler "avec l'ennemi"...
Ça sent la charogne.
Il aurait pu le dire dès le début et aurait eu l'air moins débile.
Ciboire de tabarnak guys, **allez voter!**
Chassez le Denis, il revient au galop
Merci pour l'information, je saurai mieux pour qui voter.
Une autre menterie de Coderre, y avait pas signé d'entente de confidentialité avec Cogir. WAKE UP, les pro-Coderre, t\*brn\*k!
Hope this guy does not win. He is the very face of corruption in Montreal. We do not need a mayor who is bought and paid for by developer scumbags
Ce qu'on ne dit pas assez c'est qu'il ne parle jamais d'un retour probable des expos et surtout d'un stade au centre-ville ish. Mais si il est élu, cela deviendra son 3e lien à lui. Il en fera son fer de lance. Tout comme la formule E.   
Dire que j'ai voté pour lui en 2014. Je m'en veux tellement.
"L’ex-maire a dit avoir gagné annuellement « au moins deux fois plus » que le salaire du maire de Montréal (qui était d’environ 198 000 $ en 2020). « J’ai fait pas mal d’argent. J’étais content », a dit Denis Coderre. « Donc, je vous confirme que je ne reviens pas [en politique] pour une question d’argent, je reviens parce que j’aime Montréal. » "
Non mon Denis, c'est le pouvoir que tu aimes.
Pft, ça sonne vraiment plus comme Coderre qui a essayé de faire leaker ça par le pdg. Je veux dire les 2 seules quotes du mec dans l'article c'est du love d'expectation de retour d'ascenseur pour Dénis.
I'm a supporter of Projet Montréal, and not surprised at all about this news. What I find odd is why this CEO would share this information, wouldn't he want Coderre to win? Doesn't he know this will probably help Plante? Seems to me, he probably wants Plante to win. So maybe Coderre isn't the only one making deals with his company?
"Dans les six derniers mois de 2020 seulement, elle a lancé sept chantiers d’une valeur totale d’un demi-milliard de dollars, rapportait La Presse à ce moment."
He probably thinks PM will win and wanted them to be nice to him.
La question se pose donc: avec quelles autres compagnies n'a-t-il pas signé d'ententes de confidentialité finalement? Cogir ne sont sûrement pas les seuls! Soit Coderre va devoir les nommer, ou eux-mêmes risquent de le faire d'ici la fin de semaine
Who do you think his hidden "consulting clients" are?  Why do they deserve so much privacy?  It's so that we don't see -  he got rich by showing contractors how to get $$ from The City of Montreal...that's what he's been up to.  Now he wants to slide back in as Mayor. Awkward....
La grande classe de Denis Coderre, mesdames et messieurs.
La plainte s'est avérée non-fondée, la police a tenu une enquête et a clos le dossier sans jamais même avoir pensé recommander le dépôt d'accusations, mais le gars est un "présumé agresseur"... Faut bien croire que les sondages internes sont pas trop encourageants en ce moment chez Ensemble Montréal.
Denis grasping at straws.
He's having negative publicity lately (and rightly so) so he figured he might as well do some dirty politics!
Lol c pas mes candidats qui sont dla marde c les tiens!
[deleted]
Mais Denis **arrête pas de conter des menteries**!.... Donc c'est-tu vrai c't'histoire-là??
Ceci dit, c'est vraiment pas idéal pour Plante trois jours avant le scrutin (surtout avec des titres trompeur comme ça qui donne l'impression que la plainte est toute neuve).
Et ça m'est un petit astérisque sur la candidature de Sauvé.
Mais bon, Coderre en a un gigantesque à côté de lui donc bon.
Qc125 a sorti aujourd’hui que VP est en avance sur DC (46% - 40%, 3% marge d’erreur). C’est ça qui est ça… vivement l’élection, ça commence à vraiment faire le chalut sur de la scrap.
« L'enquêteur au dossier confirme que le dossier est clos mais ajoute qu'il n'a pas été capable de disculper Sauvé »
C'est le conseiller lui meme qui dit que c'est non-fondee, pas la police. La police qui ferme un dossier ne veut pas dire innocent, ca peut etre pour plusieurs raisons. C'est dur a croire que s'il n'avait pas rien la, pourquoi aller en mediation?
Mais la question est immaterielle. Le point est que Plante nie avoir connaissance, quand plusieurs documents dit qu'elle etait au courant.
Ça sent le vécu, pauvre toi si c'est le cas.
Et comment est-ce que Sauvé est supposé prouver que quelque chose ne s'est pas produit au juste? C'est pour ça qu'on a la présomption d'innicence en société.
Pourquoi aller en médiation? Parce qu'il y a pu y avoir eu un incident, même si aucun geste criminel ou immoral a été posé. Si on m'accusait d'avoir agressé quelqu'un alors que j'étais convaincu que j'avais agi de manière irreprochable, tsé moi aussi j'irais en médiation. Des malentendus, ça arrive.
Et non, la question n'est pas immatérielle. Il n'y a jamais eu de plainte formelle, et l'accusatrice a cessé tout contact après la recontre de médiation. Tu peux pas avoir plus clos et classé que ça comme dossier. Plante a répondu qu'elle n'était as au courrant d'allégations actives, parce que c'était tellement clair cette histoire contre Sauvé allait nulle part.
Weak sauce.
Truly sad state of affairs when you have to choose between having workers that can possibly transmit a deadly virus to people with debilitated conditions and closing services due to the already shortstaffing of health facilities.
Unvaccinated health workers are such an oxymoron it's unbelievable.
> Unvaccinated staff will be obliged to get tested for COVID three times a week, and those who don’t comply will be suspended without pay.
Wonder what happens administratively if you do catch it
Get the fucking shots, nurses. Wtf.
Les estie d’pâte molles.
Should all healthcare workers be vaccinated? Of course. But could someone please explain to me how the lesser harm here is closing 600 hospital beds and 35 operating rooms (Dube's numbers from October 15th), vs requiring the unvaccinated to get tested at their own expense? Especially if we also require that any new hires be vaccinated, so this will sort itself out relatively quickly?
ciboire
If you don't believe in vaccines you have no business being a healthcare worker. I know we can't afford to let them go at the moment, but I'm also afraid of the harm these idiots will do in the long run... These people don't care about the safety of others (ironic given the field of work they've chosen) but we should care about their job security?
I guess I am ok with that.  That much testing seems like a waste, but there is a reasonable chance this will prevent people from spreading the disease.  I do think that patients should be informed if they have an unvaccinated medical worker, and be allowed to request someone vaccinated.
I mean they were in the heat of it for the passed 18 months and completely over worked, energy drained bodies sre easy to get sick and they didnt. Not to mention they worked when there was no protection since the beginning. Not to mention also they may have immunity already if they caught it, and can also have been asymptomatic.
If they tested for immunity looking at antibodies instead of saying only the vax works, this would be such an easier situation for the world.
We need an immunity pass and not a vax pass to get the economy moving.
CAQ government bunch of pussies
Is it possible to buy rapid testing kits in Montreal  as of right now?
dIcTaTuRe!!!!!
Imagine, overruling ton gouvernement. #badass
I hope these dumb healthcare workers get punished once this pandemic ends or when we figure out a way to function within our healthcare system without making it a burden on us. These healthcare workers are basically blackmailing the rest of us knowing that we need them, and we actually do and appreciate their work. But once we can afford to, punishments should be applied.
I'm so surprised of the comments here. Imagine being a nurse, having real and valid concerns of getting the vaccine, needing to feed your kids and the government lies to you by saying if you don't get vaccinated you're not getting paid. 
So with kids needing to be fed you go and get vaccinated against your will only to have the government say to you, ya no you don't need to actually and we never had the intent of implementation it from the get go it was just a way to force nurses to get vaccinated. 
How disgusting of our government to actually lie like that to our nurses. The disrespect for human Rights is out of this world. I would be livid. How about you try to educate people and not force them or actually respect our nurses. 
This is insane, another lie of many from this administration over the last couple of years.
Edit : the reason people are downvoting me is that they agree with wanting to get people vaccinated. But if it was something they didn't agree like for example everyone on the pill until 18 and the government forcing them to do that. They would agree with this exact post. It's not about the end goal or the motives, it's about lying, forcing people to do things against their will. Government should not have this much power. Just think if it was an issue you disagreed with. I don't think you'd appreciate the government forcing you to do something against your will.
But vaccinated staff can still transmit the virus so I’ve never seen the reason behind forcing healthcare workers to get vaccinated. They’re better off testing staff a few time a week, which sounds like the route they will take.
You get time off work, same as anyone else who gets covid (hopefully). The alternative is to directly incentivise people who are sick to come to work anyhow because they need to money, thereby spreading their germs.  
Edit: This was a big driver of Covid in Ontario; there employees dont have a legal entitlement to sick days, so the most vulnerable financially would show up for work anyways and infect all their coworkers.
Because it affects us on every level and will have a direct impact in our quality of life. You and your relatives will have delays in their testing appointments, eye surgeries, trauma incidents, heart transplants, or whatever medical issue high or low, covid-related or not without the staffing of the health care system. It takes people to run these operations and procedures. The network also extends to social services which includes but is not limited to child protection services, old people's homes, dependency, and mental health.
People aren't getting vaccinated for whatever reasons they have, we are at 97% vaccinated yet the issue here is removing the 3% unvaccinated will still deeply impact the system, which demonstrates the criticality to not mandate such a measure at this time.
Vaccinated people can transmit the virus just the same as unvaccinated people so I don’t see your reasoning. Testing staff is the way to go.
Apparemment à voir la performance de Air Canada le service aérien be l’est pas non plus
Évidemment lui il est anglophone, donc il est au-dessus de ces petites tracasseries insignifiantes. C'est juste nous autres petis francophones qui ont le temps d'apprendre une deuxième langue. Le monsieur est *occupé*, vous comprenez.
next time they ask for a bailout, respond in french.
also sure hope that kills any future Transat merger
Il a toujours vécu à Montréal sans avoir à parler français, pourquoi devrait-il le faire ? Un vrai de vrai !
Ca vole pas haut comme attitude.
J’avais droit d’annuler pour des vols à venir avec Air Canada; je viens de le faire et de passer à Air France, qui de toute façon offrent un bien meilleur service.
Pendant qu’on s’arrache la chemise avec le fait que le PDG d’AirCanada ne parle pas français, la compagnie vient d’annoncer qu’elle va annuler certaines commandes d’A220 au profit du 737MAX. Hint: le A220 est fait à Montréal.
Arrêtez de chialer et prenez un vol d'une autre compagnie lorsque c'est possible.
 Envoyez une copie de votre billet à Monsieur Chose. 
L'argent parle.
Lol. Thinking about Legault as Air Transat CEO.
Signez ma pétition demandant sa démission :)
https://www.change.org/p/air-canada-cong%C3%A9diment-de-michael-rousseau-pdg-d-air-canada-face-%C3%A0-ses-commentaires-sur-le-fran%C3%A7ais?recruiter=1232550174&utm_source=share_petition&utm_campaign=share_for_starters_page&utm_medium=whatsapp&utm_content=washarecopy_31270153_fr-FR%3A3&recruited_by_id=7706bcc0-3de8-11ec-ba91-1394cfb45ee0
[deleted]
Just move all offices to Toronto like what the trend is among corporations nowadays and its not gonna matter if he speaks chinese.
Who gives a shit what language a leader speaks of a company? If your going to be so up tight about it, stop using english branded things also. Stop using facebook, Twitter, instagram youtube its all run by english speakers. He’s there to serve share holders and managers not the public directly.
Do you guys think a ceo has time to learn French? Nope
Cela change quoi sérieux... c'est tout de même pas un médecin ou un politicien..
Qu'il fasse sa job c'est tout !
So should all public companies require their executives to speak French? Or maybe the ones with headquarters here?
[deleted]
The amount of energy some Francophones in Montreal spend on policing language while getting ravaged by taxes, poor social services and a terrible local economy that is all run by Francophones is pretty hilarious
Bail out given by federal govt.
Nobody wants Air Transat
Comment in the linked thread
Ajoutez vos commentaires dans le lien de ce fil
C'est donc ben drôle comment tout d'un coup ses NDA étaient pu si importants!
Crosseur un jour, crosseur toujours.
Sauf *un*... héhéhéhé. Lâche pas, Denis.
>Toutefois, « il y en a un \[contrat\] pour lequel on n’a pas réussi à lever la clause \[de confidentialité\] ». 
Bien oui, on est des caves... Imaginez "qui" ne veut pas lever la clause de confidentialité et "pourquoi"...
Pas difficile d'imaginer que le "qui" c'est un autre développeur immobilier et le "pourquoi" c'est qu'il veut de l'argent des payeurs de taxes.
Je ne suis pas 100% pour Plante mais ce manque de jugement complet de Coderre a fait pencher la balance pour moi
Elle aura mon vote
C’est la deuxième fois en 24hrs que je fais ce commentaire, encore plus approprié aujourd’hui: “ Tellement d’efforts pour ne pas répondre franchement.”
Trop tard mon Denis, c'était la semaine dernière qu'il fallait faire ça.
&#x200B;
byebye
Incroyable.
Trop peu trop tard, le mal est fait pour Denis. Il nous a clairement démontré qu'il est le même menteur autoritaire qu'avant.
Too little too late Denis.
yen fais plus que jpensais... pas mal plus.
Well you can't be mayor if you can't divulge all you potential conflicts of interest.  Also you can ask the company that has your confidentiality agreement to release the information.  But I assume that is something he does not want.
I hope someone asks the question 'Would you select a person for your administration that has potential conflict of interests?'.
Trop tard. On sais déja qu'il seras pourris au bout
Ayoye. Plutôt qu'avouer qu'il a mal géré cette crise il dit que c'est l'autre parti qui a voulu le salir. Non monsieur Coderre c'est l'ensemble des électeurs qui veulent savoir ce qui en est et ca vous a pris la menace de perdre les élections pour que vous agissiez. Imaginez ce qu'il va faire quand il n'y aura plus la menace de perdre des élections...
Nous prenez vous pour des épais qui se feraient manipuler aussi ridiculement par Valérie plante?
Quel deux de pique qui est même pas capable de prendre le ownership sur ses erreurs. Mon vote est maintenant décidé.
nice.
Bronfman
C'est tellement satisfaisant voir cet espèce de demagogue se planter depuis des jours juste avant l'élection.
Il pari qu'aucun média ne va le trouver en trois jours. Je crois qu'ils vont accepter le défi.
C'était les publisacs finalement. C'est quand même un bon fit, Denis Coderre mascotte des publisacs.
Moi j'ai plutôt l'impression que ça a plutôt rapport avec un certain stade pour une certaine équipe de baseball.
S'il était sorti avec cette excuse à la con d'emblé j'aurais pû, peut-être, me laisser convaincre que c'est pas évident à lever comme entente.
Mais là come on, faut être en état de mort cérébrale pour croire que tout ça est net.
Je vois pas de métro???
Très intéressant, merci du partage!
Cent ans plus tard on démoli pas mal tout ce qui se trouve entre la rue Craig (ajd St-Antoine) et la ligne que forme les rues Dubord, Vitré et Jurors pour y construire une belle autoroute moderne (Ville-Marie).
On peut aussi remarquer qu'il n'y a pas la rue Berri qui se connecte à la rue de la Commune. C'est la construction de la gare Viger qui va créer cette rue.
>[La rue Berri prend sa forme actuelle lorsque, en 1895, on exproprie des terrains pour la construction de la gare Viger. Cette opération permet de prolonger la rue Berri jusqu'à la rue de la Commune en y intégrant la rue Saint-Gilles.](https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rue_Berri)
What a great fucking news !! Now, bring back the old name and old logo !!
I’ll never understand why they didn’t rebrand to Olympique Montréalais. It was so easy… and this decision was made right next to the Olympic stadium.
On s'entend que d'appeler ton équipe de foot Le ClusterFuck de Montréal, c'était pas l'idée du siècle.
Sacre bleu!
Club de foutre Montréal.
Totally out of the loop on this, what the backstory here?
It's been 45 years since the Olympics and the team has no association to them.  I don't think that name would make much sense.
[deleted]
The Montreal Impact are now called FC Montreal and everyone is pissed they killed the well loved name and logo. 
The logo is now literally a snowflake. DAE CANADA COLD !?!
A bunch of sports teams use the Olympique in their name (Marseille, Gatineau, etc) more to symbolise the Olympic spirit and athleticism of the team than relating to the actual Olympics. For us it would just be a 2 for 1.
C’est possible mais je m’en doute pas mal. Dur à croire que la CIO a donné permission à la ville de Gatineau lol
Drives me nuts they aren't even "Club de Football de Montreal" - it's *Club de Foot de Montreal.* DUMB.  
Also, I agree they needed a logo change, but a damn snowflake? SO DUMB.
Ha! Why'd they change? I don't really follow the team, but I've never really liked that old logo honestly. 
I get team loyalty though, especially for people who have been there since the beginning.
You can't even start a new Pizza Shop called after the Olympics since Canada hosted its last Olympiads. It would have been a lot of work. The name Olympique has probably more a negative connotation in Montreal than in the rest of Canada because of the costs associated to the 76 games.
I didn't even realize that. Really cements the cheap European wannabe vibe.
>Why'd they change? 
to follow the naming convention of European team and appear more "serious": FC Barcelona, F.C. United, Real Madrid C.F., Paris Saint-Germain F.C., etc.
C’est tu une joke ça? 53% de hausse de vol de voitures et la solution de la SPVM c’est d’aller donner des billets de contravention au monde qui barre pas leurs portes? Ça leur tenterais pas de faire leur job et pogner le monde qui vol les chars à la place?
>Les voleurs réussissent à **pirater le système informatique en captant à distance le signal émetteur de la clé électronique** rangée à l’intérieur de la maison.  
>  
>\[...\]  
>  
>Le SPVM suggère aux automobilistes de stationner leur véhicule dans un endroit bien éclairé, et de **s’assurer que les portières sont bien verrouillées**.
J'ai loupé quelque chose, ou bien ?
Char manuel avec démarreur à clé.
There's your anti-vol calvaire!
Moé j'ai trouvé le truc : depuis que j,ai pogné la covid (à une manif d'Alex-chie Crossette Strudel), j'ai plus d'odorat pantoute. Ça fait que j'ai sacré un gros tas de caca de caniche en avant du banc d'en arrière de mon char neuf de 6 mois. le ti-cass qui va rentrer dans pour le voler, je vous jure qui va crisser mon char là, parce que ma femme me garantit que ça sent la charogne à plein nez dans mon char. Boum!
Que j'en voie un essayer de voler ma Matrix 2008!
"dans un boîtier spécial."
details?
Ah calisse, je barre pas mes portes puisque mon char à un toit décapotable... Je préfère qu'il passe par les portes que par le toit pour voler les 6$ dans la console.
Sérieux, j'ai un volant détachable* JE PARS LITTÉRALEMENT AVEC LE VOLANT. Ma voiture est pas à risque de se faire voler par des ti culs.
Pis en plus j'habite à Verdun, ahahaha thank god que j'ai pas eu de ticket
^*Ma ^voiture ^n'a ^jamais ^eu ^d'airbags, ^donc ^légalement ^je ^peux ^changer ^le ^volant
Il y a tu une place où on peut aller pour se débarrasser de mon citron ?
J'ai de la misère a croire qu'il n'y a pas une solution technologique a ca... il y a surement moyen de batir un recepteur qui peut détecter le signal anormalement fort des répéteurs? Suffirait alors aux policier de se prometer en civil avec dans les coins chauds. Ou mieux, que la clé détecte quand son signal est répété?
Why is all the crime going up? What is going on? We need a solution
J'ai reçu une contravention parce que le garage de mon voisin du dessous avait un graffiti, rien ne m'étonne plus... 
La tactique c'est peut-être de punir les gens pour les convaincre de se faire justice eux-même, à la Death Wish?
Je me suis deja fait voler un véhicule et le policier m'a dit que le volume est tellement haut qu'ils peuvent pas faire grand chose.
Oh my god tellement. !!!!
Des billets de courtoisies*   
Y’a rien de mal à faire de la prévention
Le mieux c'est d'acheter un vieille minoune avec rien d'électronique, finalement.
Ma vielle crisse de Corolla 2004 poquee est safe ? Yeeeeeeee
[Encore mieux](https://encrypted-tbn0.gstatic.com/images?q=tbn:ANd9GcT9vGj_xErLRH5xmSbP75f4x3vVKae3DiNGAg&usqp=CAU)
Pontiac Vibe 2009! Matrix wannabe. Je crois qu’on est bon.
Ou ma Matrix XR 2010!
Dans une cage de Faradey. Un contenant métallique entièrement fermé, ex: boite de biscuits. Ça a la propriété que les ondes radio ne passent pas à travers.
L'attaque contre les systèmes de déverouillage sans clés est connue depuis presque 10 ans mais personne ne semble intéresse d'en parler. 
Je m'approche de mon véhicule avec ma clé sur moi je tire la poignée de la porte pour ouvrir. L'auto envoye un signal radio à la clé, et la clé répond avec un code pour dire au véhicule que c'est la bonne clé, donc ok pour déverouiller les portes. La clé a une petite batterie, donc le signal n'est pas très fort, donc la clé doit être proche de l'auto pour que l'auto reçoive la réponse de la clé. 
L'attaque consiste à se procurer une petite valise contenant une batterie et une radio d'un type particulier, mais que n'importe qui peut acheter. Ça prend deux personnes pour ouvrir l'auto. Le premier, avec la valise, se place le plus près des clès, ex: à l'extérieur de la porte de la résidence, ou assis à une table à côté de la victime au restaurant. Le deuxième va tirer la poignée de porte du véhicule. Alors, le véhicule envoie un signal à la clé. La clé répond avec le bon code, mais le signal n'arrive pas jusqu'à l'auto parce que c'est trop loin. Mais si la valise est assez proche, elle "entend" le signal de la clé et le répète avec un signal plus fort, que le véhicule peut "entendre", et le véhicule débarre les portes. Pas d'alarme, pas de vitres brisées, et si quelqu'un voit ça, ça ressemble à un propriétaire qui ouvre son auto, donc rien d'anormal.
Mais si les clés sont dans un petit contenant métallique fermé, alors pas de signal radio. Pour faire le test, enroulez vos clés dans du papier d'aluminium et aller tirer la poignée de porte de l'auto avec les clés dans vos poches. Les portes restent barrées.
L'article est très intéressant et ça me rappelle aussi de ma propre ville, Washington D.C. Ici il y a plusieurs anciennes usines qui sont converties pour d'autres fonctions, comme des cinémas ou des magasins. À mon avis il vaut mieux converti les intérieurs des usines que les détruire pour construire un nouvel immeuble moderne.
Effectivement! J'ai parlé de Washington dans mon texte sur les quartiers industriels: https://cbernier.wordpress.com/2019/04/17/etonnants-recyclages-de-sites-industriels/
On est pas des villages! Une ville ne devrait pas être diviser en 50 arrondissements indépendants sans relation entre eux.
Ailleurs dans les nouvelles : Volkswagen appelle à acheter des voitures allemandes, et Saint Hubert appelle à manger du poulet préparé au Québec
LOCO!!
Montgomery aimerait bien ca, elle pourrait placer toutes ses interns dans des positions of power
Saint Hubert c'est ontarien
Mais les opérations sont gérées à Laval.
Le titre rend ça bien pire que ça l'est réellement.
"Valérie Plante truthfully claimed to have no knowledge of any credible sexual assault allegations against an elected official", c'est pas aussi vendeur comme titre...
“Police closed their investigation in 2021, six months after the mayor's response to allegations.” So when she said she wasn’t aware of a sexual assault investigation she was lying?
Exact. En lisant le titre ce matin, j'avais l'impression que c'était du même type que les scandales dans l'armée canadienne. Mais pas du tout.
De ce que j'ai compris, les discussions à l'interne avec la plaignante était terminée à ce moment-là, après un processus de médiation notamment. La responsable chez PM aurait dit à l'avocat de la plaignante d'aller porter plainte à la police et n'a plus eu de réponse par la suite pendant 2 ans.  
Mais oui, c'est pas idéal comme situation. Et Projet Montréal aurait pu enlever certaines responsabilités à Craig Sauvé en attendant que la situation se règle. Personnellement, j'aimerais pas être dans son district et avoir à voter pour lui.  
C'est juste que le titre de l'article suggère des trucs bien pire. Genre que Plante a caché une affaire de type "Rozon" dans son équipe.
Eric Strikes again
Est-ce que le même genre de recours pourrait marcher contre les Universités ?
j'ai un enfant au public et un au privé. De loin, le privé était mieux pendant les fermetures de classe tant pour le contenu, l'utilisation de la technologie, la disponibilité des prof. L'école privée a pu réagir beaucoup plus rapidement et avec plus de prévoyance. Elle a dit aux enfants d'amener toutes leurs affaires à la maison la veille de la fermeture des écoles pendant la première vague avant même que ce soit annoncé officiellement, a donné accès à des versions numériques des manuels, trouvé des vidéos d'enseignement etc ... 
Non, ce n'était pas le même niveau de service qu'en temps normal. Mais c'était à des années lumières du public où il n'y avait rien pendant trop longtemps. L'écart était encore plus grand un an après parce que le privé a eu plus de pratique et a appris de la première vague . Aucun regret de ma part en tout cas!
Déjà que ces parents-là jettent leur argent par la fenêtre pour envoyer leur kids au privé, pour suivre le même programme scolaire, pis que dans les professions, être diplômé du privé ou du public ça change rien....
j'ai 1 enfant au public et 1 au privé parce que raisons compliquées et... fuck le public. 5 profs different en 1 an, mon enfant s'ennuie a mourir parce que les cours sont trop faciles pour pas faire échouer des enfants qui ne devraient pas être en classe régulière, beaucoup de violence dans les couloirs et la cours d'école et la direction d'école qui s'en fiche royalement. Ah oui et son tout dernier prof parle avec un accent tellement fort que moi j'ai de la difficulté a la comprendre alors imaginez les enfants qui essaient d'apprendre du vocabulaire.
>  pis que dans les professions, être diplômé du privé ou du public ça change rien
Ça a définitivement un impact pour entrer dans certains programmes contingentés dans certains CEGEP.
C'est pas comme ça dans toutes les écoles publiques, et c'est pas toutes les écoles privées qui sont bonnes (drogues fortes au secondaire, un kid qui a trop de misère ou qui a des problèmes y vont le sacrer dehors, etc).
Je déteste les gens qui dépeignent une image de ce genre de toutes les écoles publiques du Québec. 
>trop faciles pour pas faire échouer des enfants qui ne devraient pas être en classe régulière
De quoi tu parles? Il y a un programme ministériel ainsi qu'un examen uniforme pour plusieurs matières... J'ai des élèves du régulier l'an dernier qui auraient facilement été dans les tops à jean-eudes.
>beaucoup de violence dans les couloirs et la cours d'école
Ahh le mythe du film américain que les élèves ont des Shanks et passent les détecteurs de métal le matin! La plus grosse violence que j'ai vu cette année c'est un élève frustré qui a donné un coup de pied sur une boîte après une intervention.
Je peux te parler du privé aussi: écoles privées qui renvoient des profs pour activités syndicales, qui refusent l'accès aux examens de maths SN à certains élèves pour s'assurer qu'ils ne feront pas baisser la moyenne de l'école, classes de 40 élèves, privilèges aux élèves dont les parents font plus de dons à l'école, etc.
Je parle des médecins, avocats, etc. Parce que les études pour ces domaines-là c'est aux études avancées que ça se joue, donc privé ou public au primaire-secondaire, ça fait pas de différence.
Je me trompe p-e, mais il me semble que t'as pas vraiment de choix pour ton école publique non? C'est ton adresse qui dicte dans quelle école ton enfant va se retrouver. Dans ce context là je comprends 100% vouloir envoyer ton enfant au privé (et je viens du publique).
[https://ici.radio-canada.ca/nouvelle/1832673/agression-cote-des-neiges-ado-arme-blanche](https://ici.radio-canada.ca/nouvelle/1832673/agression-cote-des-neiges-ado-arme-blanche)
C'est peut-être pas le temps de rire des "shanks" a l'école publique...
La qualité de ton éducation au secondaire à un immense impact sur tes chances de succès aux études supérieures.
https://www.bemarianopolis.ca/choose-us/r-score/
Il y’a 4000 étudiants à Marianopolis et 25000 (11000 à Dawson et 7000 chaque à JA et Vanier) dans le public anglophone mais le CEGEP privé a plus de finissants admis en medicine et en droit. 
Et de mon expérience dans un cegep public, la plupart des étudiants viennent soit du privé soit des écoles publiques à examen.
Tu peux aller dans une autre école que celle de ton quartier si tu vas dans un programme particulier (sports études, théâtre, etc.)
Et si tu habites a la limite de deux commission scolaire tu peux pas envoyer ton enfant a l'école a pied parce que t'es pas du bon coté du boulevard, il faut que tu l'envoies a des kilomètres...
Effectivement, je pense que le privé peut devenir une alternative à une école publique qui va pas super bien. Y reste que ma fille se dirige en droit (elle a 19 ans), elle a fait toute son école au public, pis elle pète des scores aux études avancées. Donc.... 😎
>Le jeune homme a été poignardé au haut du corps et s'est ensuite réfugié dans une école
De plus, si on veut jouer à ça : https://www.journaldequebec.com/2018/11/26/partage-de-photos-explicites-deleves-du-seminaire-des-peres-maristes-deux-autres-ados-plaident-coupables
Si l'école publique était une condition suffisante pour échouer dans la vie, le Québec serait pas mal dans la marde... mais ca ne veut pas dire que le privé et le public c'est la meme chose ou que le privé c'est jeter son argent par les fenetres.
Et tu penses que c'est comparable a un meutre?
>ou que le privé c'est jeter son argent par les fenetres
D'accord avec vous! Si c'était un programme différent qui produisait des diplômés supérieurs à ceux du public, là je dirais pas ça. je sais que c'est un choix... mais j'ai jamais vu de réel avantage à long terme d'envoyer son kid au privé (à part peut-être s'il partage les mêmes valeurs de certains parents bourgeois et/ou déconnectés de la réalité).
>le jeune homme a été poignardé au haut du corps et s'est ensuite réfugié dans une école
Pour être sûr qu'on a bien lu l'article.
Va lire un peu sur la gestion de l'école. Ils ont réintégré les élèves au mois d'août. Tu tentes d'éviter de voir les grandes problématiques qu'on retrouve autant si ce n'est pas plus dans les écoles privées. Surtout que tu ne réponds à aucun autre de mes points.
With the holidays coming up, there will be plenty of local Christmas markets.  Maybe look in to getting a table at one or two nearby?
[Evelyne Boutique](https://www.evelyneboutique.com/) on Sherbrooke St in NDG might be a good place to start. Otherwise there will be plenty of Christmas craft fairs and markets where you can rent a table to sell directly to the public.
There's boutique Tah-Dah! near Jean Talon market. There's also another boutique on St. Hubert plaza that sells  locally made stuff.
Looks up Puces Pop; they organise several artisanal events throughout the year. You just missed autumn's but they usually have one around the holidays if sign ups haven't ended.
Consignment shops are probably your best bet. I'd hit up a bunch of boutiques up and down st-laurent and mont royal.
Keep track of inventories, I've had a few places or flake, close down, or not keep accurate inventories/accounting.
Try local cafes! I'm in homa and I know the woman who runs the cafe closest to my house is very open to helping out local artists. Not in your area, but I'm sure other cafes would be amenable to it!
If you want to tap in to the online market you can try the site etsy. It’s great to sell handmade stuff and art.
Oh that’s a great idea. Any particular market name I can Google?
Seconding this. They sell only goods made in Canada and many are local and artisanal.
They're often held in community centers.  I've been to markets in Brossard, Repentigny and Anjou.  Try looking at the websites for nearby community centers or search Google for borough name + christmas market.
I know there's usually one at the church by metro Laurier
Jeune cochon.
Belle photo!
So beautiful! 🤩
What’s the location for this photo?
Prettyyyy
I've seen a lot of pics of Vieux Port on this sub and I must say, I really like this one!
I hear the restaurants are great and guests can open all the windows and it's just like eating on the street in open air like is often popular in Europe.. I bet it improves the scene for downtown tours!
Gilbert Rozon
Merci :)
Under the bridge on the way to the casino (where habitat 67 is)
Dieppe park
Thank youuu :))
Tellement d’efforts pour ne pas répondre franchement.
La pression commence a monter. Ca l’a toutes les allures du saga de la FE
**Tout un bluff... Les avocats sont tenus au secret..**
Donc Coderre pourrait lui dire qu'il travaille pour les Taliban ou pour le Diable en personne et l'avocat ne pourrait pas le dire à personne.
Les agissements de Coderre c'est exactement ce qu'on s'attendrait à voir d'un parrain de la Mafia...
Denis qui voulait quitter la vie politique après sa défaite de 2017. Et voilà qu'il revient, mais pour représenter les intérêts économiques de ceux/celles qui l'ont convaincu de retourner en politique. Get lost Denis.
Esti dtwit
On peut lui épargner ça sans problème.
Il veut surtout pas que le public sache...
Donc y veut pas avant mais y va vouloir après? WTF? B\*LLSHIT!
Il est comme ça. Ça a été la même chose avec l'affaire du cellulaire au volant. Déni, déni, déni.
Bien dit
Ou just un politicien corrumpu. Transparence mon cul.
C'est pas pour rien qu'il s'appelle Dénis Coderre!
>Déni, déni, déni.
Déni Kodak.
I can confirm this was done for me a few years ago. Results are amazing! This dude is the best :)
Its the best Christmas gift you can offer family members, plus everyone gets a copy to bring home! Had it done by another dude a few years back for xmas. Great idea
I had a few mini DV tapes transferred a couple of years ago. Results varied because of the age of the tapes, but everything came out as good as the tapes were. This guy is providing a great service so get it while you can.
Long shot, but can you do U-Matic?
Can you digitize VHS tape?
Très based.
Would definitely recommend /u/PsychYYZ services to anyone looking to get their old tape content into a digital format.  Super quick turnaround (was for me at least) and great results.
I might have a few Mini DVs. I'll DM tonight.
Wait will you digitize super 8?
I believe what I have are compact VHS tapes. I understand that is not what you are offering but what if I still had the original camcorder? Could it be used to play the footage so that it could be digitized?
Sent a DM!
Hey! I want to surprise mom and dad by digitizing their wedding video. Would that be possible?
(sry for bad English, 2nd language) Wow op.... I'm just here to say that that I am absolutely in awe with your idea. I've scrolled through your posts from the previous years and I just love the idea of doing something you are good at for free during the holiday  season. Especially since your actions are related to bringing back memories to life... Inspired by your post, I'm actively trying to find something I could do for free for my neighbours or online... I'm not sure yet. My skillsets are mainly manual labour and computers... Anyone has an idea?
I've got some reels which I think are 8mm, but not entirely sure. I'll DM you as I've been hoping to digitize them for a while
Thanks to freelancers working for peanuts, or free, in your case, most audio-video related business is closed down.... only Lozeau is left in that field.
at least, you're not working from India... I hope.
Thanks.  That's actually how this all started.  A buddy had some tapes, but the camera was long dead.  eBay to the rescue, and for $160, I got an old 8mm video deck from Sony.  After I digitized the dozen videos, I didn't want to toss the deck out, so I put it in storage.  I bust it out and set it up when I have the time, and offer to help rescue family memories from dead formats.  :)
(sry bad English) Can confirm! My father-in-law digitized old tapes from the 1960's starring the family's grandpa combing and puting pomade in his hair before a romantic date. It was *kinda* colorized too.  He screened it as a surprise on Christmas eve 3 or 4 years ago.  Granpa was there.  
The -now- old man looked so handsome in his prime time. Who would have known?   It also showed the streets of Montreal with all those nice cars. He cried and we also all cried a little (even me even if I did not know him very well). We didnt know then, but it was a couple of months before his passing. Thanks to this digitized tape I'll remember him forever as that handsome and hip 19 y/o man.  
 I still consider myself blessed to have witnessed this moment.
OP has no idea how profound memories he's creating with this initiative. (Or may be he does..) THANK YOU. :)
It's actually pretty easy and reliable with DV, since, as the name suggests, it's already digital.
I'll make you the same offer I'd made others who have asked for other formats -- if you can find and buy the device, I'll do the digitizing for you, and I *may* offer to buy the unit from you, or you can resell it.
EDIT:  There's a few for sale, but nothing nearby...  https://www.ebay.ca/sch/i.html?_nkw=Umatic
EDIT2:  https://www.ebay.ca/itm/393632313339?hash=item5ba6506ffb:g:zn0AAOSw~E1has3G
Here's the snag with VHS...  The camcorder formats have things like birthdays, family vacations, and holidays on them -- and most VHS tapes are full of low-quality recordings of 80's TV that you can buy on DVD or stream from YouTube.
So I focus on the formats for which finding players is very difficult.  You can still buy VHS-to-DVD units, so that's probably your best way forward.
Quand même époustouflant la quantité d'attention médiatique que cet homme a reçu durant cette campagne, surtout lorsque la plateforme de son parti se résume à semer la discorde linguistique et vendre de l'huile à serpent néopartitionniste saveur "cité-état" à une base électorale probablement dupe sur ces enjeux.
Si son but est de préparer le terrain pour une carrière politique fédérale, il aura réussi son coup de A à Z. Quelle façon de se faire connaitre, qu'on se le dise.
"Let's start a language war because people in Montreal live together peacefully and it's boring"...
\- Balarama Holness
Il ignore entièrement l'histoire du peuple qui s'est battu justement pour que sa métropole le représente.
J'ai beaucoup niaisé ce gars-là pendant la campagne mais sans joke j'en reviens pas à quel point il est perdu. Il est crissement dans le champ.
Les anglos qui se considèrent une minorité au Canada c'est absolument ridicule.
Rebellion implies we’re suffering grave injustices, which we aren’t.
> » estime qu’il peut être « le chevalier de l’intégration des nouveaux arrivants »,
Son égo est vraiment démesuré. Aussi, y'est dont ben comique lui
Exactly. I’m still unclear what we are supposed to be rebelling against?
-Je suis un fouteur de merde.
He’s so annoying, can’t wait until these elections end
C'est qui lui ?
Mon cerveau a lu "religion" au lieu de rébellion.
Ça a marché pour Mélanie Joly en tout cas.
Exact, faut vraiment être spécial pour être dans un continent 99% anglophone et se prendre pour un rebelle en se battant pour l'anglais dans la seule métropole non anglophone.
Much of what he says is ridiculous, but he gets a lot of attention for acknowledging that anglophone Quebecers are a minority in Quebec distinct from the rest of English Canadians.
Hmmmm
Clearly calling it a "rebellion" is hyperbole but it's about the slow but steady erosion of the rights of anglo and allophone Montrealers.
He's not going to go back to regular, anonymous life after this. 
Get used to a decade or more of him stumbling through politics in the region...
Une caricature d'un étudiant de McGill
Mais le père de Mélanie Joly était l'ancien argentier du Parti Libéral... Vous pouvez dire que je suis un conspirationniste, mais je pense que Mélanie Joly a brigué la mairie plus comme un moyen de pouvoir se distancer de son père (en quelque sorte). Pour le public, elle n'était plus une socialite connectée, mais bien une ancienne candidate à la mairie. En plus, elle avait à gagner peu importe le scénario: soi elle devenait mairesse, soit elle pouvait aller au fédéral en se camouflant derrière sa campagne municipale.
Well yes the most oppressed minority in the world with its own hospitals and universities and it's own neighborhood of castles named Westmount.
In a province where they study on taxpayers funded tuition to leave as soon as they have a diploma, in which they are represented at the house by the oldest and largest political party of the province.
Truly, Balarama is a necessary voice for the unheard.
There is no such thing as an erosion of rights of the anglophones.
Yup, definitely not voting for Denis Coderre.
Le texte de Lagacé , que je n'arrive pas à partager ici:
https://www.lapresse.ca/actualites/chroniques/2021-11-02/l-explication-illogique-du-candidat-coderre.php
Perso, pour qui il a travaillé, ce n'est pas important. Ses impôts non plus. C'est plus sa "transparence" du Coderre 2.0 qui devrait-être mise de l'avant. Il semble encore pire qu'avant.
On repassera pour la transparence mon Denis 2.0
Politics in the last 10 years has gotten really pathetic.  It used to be that when a politician had a conflict of interest they would either (1) remove the conflict of interest through something like a blind trust (2) explain specifically how the conflict is not a conflict and let the voters decide (3) feel some sort of shame and leave the race for 'personal reasons'.
Now they just don't answer the questions and make up excuses, and it seems to be somewhat working.
Wow ! On a pas le droit de publier 2 opinions différentes sur le même sujet sur /r/montreal.
Pourquoi personne ne parle du fait que Balarama Holness a refusé?
Réponse: pas pour les naïfs qui auront voté pour lui.
Calisse, yé readu laite tabarnak
Pour les citoyens voyons... :o  /s
Même si je ne suis pas d'accord avec tout ce que fait Valérie Plante, JAMAIS je ne voterai pour Coderre! Tout est croche avec lui, tout le temps.
Why does this guy keep running for office?
You'd think he'd have gotten the message back in 1990 when Gilles Duceppe clobbered him in a then-Liberal stronghold.
Not poor people
Câline Montréal chiez nous donc pas dans pelle fuck Coderre.
Un gars de Longueuil
[deleted]
Still better than VP.
Oui, je l'Avais posté, mais il semble qu'on ne peut pas avoir 2 posts sur le même sujet sur r/montreal
*Déni 2.0
Fake news, alternative facts, you're asking because you hate me, look over there, building's on fire.
T'as publié [2 opinions pareilles](https://www.lapresse.ca/actualites/chroniques/2021-11-02/l-explication-illogique-du-candidat-coderre.php).
> “Absolutely! We must ensure that all Montrealers feel at home. Let us invest in culture and the Francophonie. Let newcomers, immigrants, people from all walks of life be included in this culture. And so, let the French language belong to everyone, so that no one feels excluded. By creating a mosaic of people who consume culture and the Francophonie, we will protect it.
Aussi Holness: Pas besoin de parler Francais a Montreal.
Hypocrite.
C'est évident, tout le monde sait que le meilleur gardien d'un poulailler c'est un renard... /S
Is this like Texas letting anti-abortion punishment in the hands of citizens?
Donc, on fait comme en 1970?
Awful person
[deleted]
The only people that seem to gatekeep french are the francophones that almost hate that they're quebecers.
you know the ones that will switch to english as soon as someone has a hint of an accent when speaking french. but the former usually speaks worse english than the latter speaks french 😂
>By creating a mosaic of people who consume culture and the Francophonie, we will protect it.
Ha oui, pour protèger la Francophonie ont devrait donner à une des seules capitale de la nation Québécoise avec un rayonnement mondial un statut spécial qui mine ses droit linguistiques acquis.
So French doesn’t belong to everyone, all of the sudden you want to gatekeep French?
Le monde qui change de langue, c'est par gentillesse et pour aider le mieux possible l'autre personne.
C'est ça qui arrive quand t'es minoritaire dans le continent.
I crossread the article too fast. I take back what i said.
Et que ceux qui ne parlent pas ta langue sont tous des gros racistes qui travaille pour Air Cacanada
Arrêtez ça par contre.
Here’s what gets to me, French is a beautiful language, I want it to flourish as a language in Quebec, in Montreal and hopefully in the ROC. But when people start gatekeeping it, and then wonder why no one wants to learn to integrate, maybe we need to take a step back and revaluate our strategy. Whether or not you agree with Balarama his statement does have merit, it belongs to everyone. Even those who reside outside of Montreal. Bonne chance pour nous, nous sommes dans une position avantageuse comparer à Toronto à cause de notre multiculturalisme et les plusieurs langues qu’on parle dans la région métropolitaine.
Personne ne dit vraiment que le français n’appartient pas à tout le monde.
Et je crois que tu as une mauvaise compréhension du multiculturalisme.
Le gars avait delete son commentaire. Et pourquoi pense-tu que ma vision du multiculturalisme est mauvais?
why not add alot more? have every cop carry one!
oufff only in black neighborhoods. how about in old port where there were plenty of shootings as well ?
Any being set up outside SNC lavalin HQ?
lots of serious crime has originated in their area over the years...
Même quand vous ne regardez pas la police, la police vous regarde.
The UK has the most CCTV cameras installed in the world. So by the SPVM's logic, the UK is effectively crime free?
Une caméra en face de Chez Parée pis les 8 autres en-dedans
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f4LTWc3cqWo
Acab.
À part la fête qui a dégénérée en mai/juin, c'est quoi les autres fusillades qu'il y a eu au Vieux?
I'm just asking here, but given that the Old Port belongs to the feds, is it possible that it's already equipped with security cameras provided by the Canadian government?
who say there are no cameras in that area ?
Exactly.  In this whole debate on criminality the big FAT fish are overlooked, while the Mme/Mr Toulemonde are subject to facial recognition, and 'preventive policing'.  Clearly racial and class-bias apply - to the degree that a notoriously prejudiced police force and fat-cat politicians are behind the controls. For example Coderre refuses to show who his "consulting clients" are... Let's be honest, his "consulting" = showing contractors how to grab some of the 7billion$ MTl budget. That won't show up on these street-level security cameras...
[deleted]
*China has entered the chat*
Knife crime is pretty high in UK right now. See David Amess.. not just that but like here the ages of people getting stabbed and doing the stabbing are barely teens
Lâche reddit et écoute ton cours à l'UQAM.
All « group » are « insult » is one the most ridiculous thought
Sick burn! You should publish that and go on a speaking tour.
[deleted]
Not really, people are sensationalizing the shit out of a few violent incidents cause they're bored and want to feel American.
Keep calling the police. Saaq gives no fucks, neither does the city. Eventually the police will start ticketing
call the police every day, eventually they will be tired of you calling and take care of it.
Leave a passive aggressive note on the windshield. " Dear neighbour, I'd like to thank you for your civility and not being a selfish douchbag that keeps their car alarm blaring all day. It's very kind of you to share the wonderful symphony with us all as it helps me relax and not get distracted by my annoying work. I'm pretty certain that some of your neighbours who work nightshift appreciate it more than me but are probably too exhausted to leave a thank you note. I bet you also share your music on the bus and metro too. May the fleas of a thousand camels infest your armpits. Bless."
Burn it
It's so weird that 911 is the way to complain about cars here. Was looking online how to get a car that had parked in front of my driveway towed and it directed me to 911. 
Best of luck with your neighbours junk mobile.
We're probably neighbour. We called the police, they came but the alarm didn't ring at that moment so they left ...   
The car didn't park on our street since then but we had planned to put the following note on it:   
\> Hi  
\> we have two babies that hardly sleep. Our life is already miserable, but your car makes it worse every single night.   
\> We're very patient, but you know ... if we have to choose between passing our nerves on our kids or on your giant can on wheels, we'll choose the right thing to do.  
\> Wanna avoid it?   
\> Disable your alarm  
\> Seriously, it does nothing. It's been ringing for the whole night serveral days in a row: did people came to see if it were to be stolen? NO. NOBODY WILL EVER DO SUCH A THING.   
\> See? It serves no purpose and never will, so disable it.   
\> Love xoxo
Justify the alarm by smashing the windows
Take video evidence add date/time within the video
Just put a note (in French) on the windshield. No need to be nasty. I’m sure the owner of the car is not  setting off their alarm on purpose. They could just need a new battery. I don’t agree with a call to 911 for this. 
I’m not reading much compassion in these suggestions.
Yeah just leave a note on the car saying you can't work because of the alarm
Have it towed
514-280-2222 police line for non-emergency events. 
They should take your complaint and all the info.
Is it a Ford?
Lol what’s the SAAQ going to do
911 is for when someone is about to die, they are not the Cops. Don't abuse it. Just call the Police in your borough. They have a phone number like any other services.
Move to the suburbs and buy a house in the woods.
Drop the mic
Great, thank you!
Good idea!
Hahaha! Fleas of a thousand camels is great XD Writing this down now!
Yo that's my curse. You owe me 2 goats for copyright infringement.
Where's the best location(s) to stay?  
What kind of feel are you going for? Do you want the feel of the big city? Or do you want to go grab a coffee from a local cafe on the streetcorner and eat a croissant while enjoying the neighbourhood life? (Plateau / Mile End)  
How to do public transportation?  
STM pass for the week + busses and metro will get you everywhere you need to go in the city. City has a very good cycling network and it's a great way to get from neighbourhood to neighbourhood. You can cycle from the west island all along the Lachine canal to downtown, and from downtown all the way to the north end of the island. You'll see a lot. Bixi's are available for cycling, and while I've never used one personally as I own a bike, tons of people throughout the city use them constantly.  
Must try restaurants that I should book in advance?  
There are so many BYOBs, and so many good new restaurants popping up you could spend a week researching and still not have decided where to go. Chinatown has some amazing food obviously, Cote des Neiges has some amazing international smaller restaurants, Plateau and Mile end has toooons of restos, all with their own flavour. Downtown you'll get the more run of the mill, vanilla restaurants that cater to everyone, and the old port you'll pay a premium as it's the most touristy area of the city.  
Cafes or places for working/studying in?  
Around the University areas you'll get your regular student cafes (Cotes des Neiges for U de M, downtown around Rue University / Rue Guy / Rue Atwater for McGill and Concordia). The Plateau and Mile end have cafes literally every second street corner, Park Avenue and St. Denis and St. Laurent (the main) are chuck full of cafes and bars and boutiques. Check out Rue Prince Arthur near UQAM for more student friendly life as well. Old Port will have various cafes for working professionals as well, just depends what vibe you're going for. You can always head to the Concordia University libraries (downtown or at the Loyola Campus) and work there, no one will bat an eye so long as you aren't disruptive.  
Recommended attractions and attractions to avoid?  
Again, depends what you're looking for! Old Port is fun, and unique. The views from Mt. Royal are very nice, especially in the fall. If you want kitschy-er stuff there's always the Orange Julep, Big O, Biodome, Planetarium, Science Center, Insectarium. Musée des Beaux Arts is normally good. We've got tons of shows and venues for whatever you might seek. Rue Ste Catherine for shopping. Eaton's center + the underground shopping mall. My favourite thing to do when visiting new cities is to just walk around and get the feel of the city. Try walking St. Denis or St. Laurent, Mont-Royal Avenue, Ste Catherine's for the downtown core. Rue Bernard in Outremont. Then there's the plethora of parks to visit. Jean Drapeau, Mont-Royal, Laurier, Parc Lafontaine, Westmount Park (Rue Sherbrooke in Westmount also has a distinct feel).   
Is it worth visiting other areas via train, like Ottawa or Quebec City?   
As a native Montréaler? No. Lol. But yes they do have distinct feels, which are very much not Montreal. Ottawa is becoming more hip and happening, Quebec City has some charm, but is very much a large village in my opinion. Day trips to either could be fun, but there's nothing in either of those places that I find Montréal doesn't do better... If you really wanna do a day trip, maybe check out the surrounding area. Montréal is so fortunate to have so many different areas just a few hours away for hiking, spas, mountain biking, boating, country drives etc. Magog, Rawdon, Eastern Townships, Lachute. Might be more interesting because it'll be more "different" than simply going to visit Ottawa or Quebec.
Regarding public transit: all STM passes are good for both bus and metro across the entire island of Montreal. The exception is the 747 bus to and from the airport, which requires minimum a one day pass to board.
If you plan to use the public transit system frequently, it may be worth it to buy an OPUS card from any metro station or dépanneur (Convenience store) for $6 and use that to get weekly or unlimited fares. Since you are here between months, I can't recommend a monthly pass unfortunately as those are aligned to the month only.
The train on island and off-island public transit systems are different than the STM and requires different fares. This includes metro stations on the orange and yellow lines that are off-island! Off-island metro stations are where it gets confusing. You can arrive at any metro station any any STM fare, but you can only use a single or 2 pack fare to get back into the metro in Laval and Longueuil. For example, if you bought a 10-pack of tickets and try to board at Longueuil, you'll get an error and have to buy a separate single ticket. Check the STM fare list for which ones are valid, but if you stick to the island of Montreal then you never have to worry.
You don’t need a membership for Crew, there is a normal cafe (that gets super crowded, be forewarned!) and then rooms that you reserve - I’ve never reserved a space, maybe that’s what the membership is for?
I’m from Toronto and I would drive to Montreal to eat the tasting menu at Bouillon Bilk. 8 courses for like $115. Everything is always amazingly delicious. There’s also L’express that you must try.
>Bixi's are available for cycling, and while I've never used one personally as I own a bike, tons of people throughout the city use them constantly.
Bixi season ends on November 15th usually.
Y'a des scandales avec pratiquement tous ceux avec qui il s'est associé. C'est mongol qu'il soit égal à Plante dans les sondages. Y'est pas straight ce gars là.
"Oui mais si je suis élu, je vous montre à  quel point je suis riche!"
Ces dents, pitié! Je ne vois que ça! Idem sur des photos de campagne j'ai l'impression de voir jim Carrey dans the mask
J'haïs tellement ça quand les gens me parlent de l'argent qu'ils font. Je me rétracte toujours sur moi-même.
Pis ça, c'est exactement la raison pour laquelle j'haïs ça. Y'a rien de noble à être plein de cash. C'est souvent fait de façon louche. T'es pas meilleur pcq t'a plein d'argent, en fait, y'a des bonnes chances que tu sois crotté ou que tu fasses qqch de crotté.
J'ai un ami qui me parlait des profits qu'il faisait avec la cryptomonnaie pis criss que ça me déprime que d'encourager une affaire full pas écolo de même soit payant.
Pis si on parle des salaires, c'est souvent complètement aléatoire. Je me tuais corps et âme quand j'enseignais pour aider des immigrants à apprendre le français et à être à l'aise ici. Il y en avait qui restaient après le cours et qui pleuraient en me racontant leur vie. C'était un emploi que je considérais comme important (mais j'ai lâché pcq j'étais toujours en burn out oups). Maintenant, je m'en vais en informatique pis je peux faire plus d'argent à faire un truc bin plus "banal" et en travaillant moins fort. 
En tout cas désolé ce grand discours de justice sociale en ce mardi matin. La justicière en bobettes toé chose.
Il as vraiment des dents a croquer un melon tout rond celui la.
un parfum ki pue
My Pitt hates this smell.
Il  a eu sa chance sérieux.  
Moi je serais pour qu'on interdise le retour d'ancien élu, chacun son tour.
LOL caliss est bonne!
Je lui souhaite plutôt des sources de reparti.
Un meme qui a passé la modération de air Mtl? J'en crois pas mes yeux!
Il nous faut une journée meme sur air montréal !
Wooooow quel beau memes! Tu gagnes l’internet aujourd’hui c’est sûr!!!!
This guy better not win.
For all of Plante's flaws, at least she has a clear plan and actually wants to make Montreal somewhere people want to live in and choose to stay in. Coderre wants to make the city cater to people who commute in for work and leave right after. Guess that shows his supporters do not live in the central boroughs and how out of touch he is with the city he was once mayor of.
He's also mega corrupt and a pathological liar.
C'est correct si il aimes les gars, faut pas juger.
C'est un bon boulechiteur, faut lui donner ça.
Le smog de Montréal affecte la mémoire pis le cerveau, ça a l'air.
Ouain m'essemble que j'arrête pas d'entendre des histoires de coruption et comportement embarassant des personnes avec qui il s'associe, j'ai aucune idée pourquoi qui que ce soit voterait pour lui..
"je vous fais la promesse"
La ligne du milieu de ses dents est pas dans le centre aussi. Du côté contraire a ton Cruise.
not sure why anyone's surprised, if you can't find affordable comfortable housing for a whole family, there's no real reason to stay in montreal.
>Selon des chiffres obtenus par La Presse, ils sont 4500 de moins que l’an dernier dans les écoles de la métropole. Un phénomène imprévu qui détonne avec la situation des banlieues et de certaines régions, dont les Laurentides et Lanaudière, où les élèves sont de plus en plus nombreux.
>Dans les centres de services scolaires où le nombre d’élèves diminue, ilpourrait y avoir un impact financier, confirme la Fédération descentres de services scolaires du Québec. « Pour certaines enveloppesbudgétaires, le financement est accordé par élève »
Ah d'accord. Donc on est en sous-effectif de profs, et s'il y a moins d'élèves ce n'est pas une bonne nouvelle, au contraire, ça impliquera une baisse des budgets. Les protozoaires à la tête de ce système se regardent encore dans le miroir?
Fait à noter: la fermeture des frontières joue là dedans. Moins de nouveaux arrivants, qui s'installent souvent à Montréal.
>Cette hausse des élèves était en très bonne partie due à l’arrivée de nombreux demandeurs d’asile et à l’immigration. Or, le nombre d’élèves dans les classes d’accueil a fondu de moitié depuis l’année scolaire 2018-2019. Seulement au CSSDM, ils sont 700 de moins que l’an dernier.
Regarder bien la pénurie de personnel enseignant se tasser un peu plus vers les banlieues.
D'après la directrice du CPE, c'est la seule et unique raison pour laquelle j'ai réussi a avoir une place avant que le bébé rentre en maternelle. Alors... yé?
L'article accuse le télétravail et la baisse d'immigration, mais on ne doit pas négliger l'aspect sanitaire selon moi. Sans la vie culturelle et festive qu'on connaissait autrefois à Montréal, que reste-t-il pour attirer les jeunes familles? 
Selon moi, un allongement (même justifié) des mesures sanitaires dans le temps va avoir un impact dévastateur sur la démographie des villes. On va perdre des décennies en progrès de revitalisation.
ton fils a plus de chance de devenir un ptit bum poppeux de speed si yest en banlieu.
Also, most enterprises have gotten more comfortable with work from home alternatives. So if you don't have to show up to an office every day, that's one less reason to be staying in Montreal.
It's not entirely a money issue.  I'm looking to live off-island because I've had it with the orange cones, construction and traffic.  My family hates driving into Montreal to visit because it's just so frustrating to drive in.
They have young kids so it's just not practical for a family to move around by metro/bus/bike.
not only that, there's much less stress raising a family on the outskirts of the big city.
If i had a car, id move on the northern crown myself!
You mean the bike lanes aren't reason enough?
Tant mieux. Les groupes-classes vont être moins nombreux sur l'île et c'est parfait comme ça. À l'école primaire les groupes de mes enfants n'ont jamais dépassé 25 élèves alors que les classes de leurs cousins en banlieue frôlaient les 35 et c'était une bénédiction. L'école secondaire de mon plus jeune est faite pour accueillir 1800 élèves et ils ne sont même pas 700. La grosse paix.
À Marieville, l'école secondaire a rajouté des trailers pcq il n'y avait pas assez de place pour autant des étudiants.
Absolument, yé. Pis tiens ton boutte! Ne pas se faire trimballer des heures par jour dans un char est une bénédiction pour les enfants. Aller à l'école à pied, connaître sa ville, pouvoir avoir un job à la fin du secondaire et au cégep sans avoir besoin d'une auto, connaître les quartiers, avoir des repères, développer ses intérêts culturels, sortir avec des amis et prendre ses premières brosses (!) sans aller se tuer en char, etc. Nos gars nous remercient souvent de ne pas être partis en banlieue. Leurs amis du 450 qui viennent les visiter et faire des sorties les envient beaucoup.
Ya l'aspect monétaire aussi. J'étais dans Griffintown, en condo, j'ai un enfant alors on regardait pour avoir autre chose qu'un condo. No way que vais payer 1.1 millions de $ et plus pour une maison de ville dans la Petite Bourgogne.
>Sans la vie culturelle et festive qu'on connaissait autrefois à Montréal, que reste-t-il pour attirer les jeunes familles?
Reste pas grand chose. Je connais beaucoup de gens, moi inclus, qui ont décider de pas rester sur l'ile. Apres avoir été pogner pendant 2 ans avec tout le cout élevé de la ville sans aucun des avantage qui venait avec avant, fuck it.
Quoi?
Just a friendly note to say there are plenty of families who use metro, bus and bike to move around in Montreal! It’s actually very possible especially with Communauto for the odd time when only a car will do the job.
You are right, parents and kids hate bike lanes… they don’t want children to bike safely downtown because all children drive cars anyway
Your username should be SimplyAutobot
Une véritable honte qu'au moment de refaire la Métropolitaine on a choisi de la refaire a l'identique. On est maintenant coincé avec cette plaie jusqu'en 2070 sûrement. La Métropolitaine, Décarie et l'autoroute Ville Marie devraient être transformés en boulevards ou enterrés en tunnels à mon avis.
La fonction avant le look, svp. Le plus frustrant avec la 40 c'est encore de la traverser (a pied ou en auto) sans être pogné dans le traffic qui cherche a embarquer dessus.
Il y a surement quelques mesures d'attenuation à faire qui serviront à améliorer l'expérience des passants (éclairage, décor, signalisation), cependant, les plantes ne sont pas les trolls et ne peuvent survivre en dessous des ponts, en noirceur, bourrés des embruns salins. Je suis toute à fait pour la végégalisation. Plus important sont des conditions propices pour la croissance et de l'entretien svp (souvent deux éléments tristement oubliés dans les projets).
J'adore l'idée! Le skatepark du Mile End qui peut se convertir en lieu de spectacle a beaucoup de succès. Faire quelque chose de semblable à cet endroit épouvantable serait une bénédiction.
C'est vrai que c'est laid en tabarnak, on dirait qui manque un morceau  tout le long
Très bonne idée. Un peu de peinture et d'éclairage ça ferait beaucoup de bien.
j'pas contre.
Et Coderre qui on veut faire une autre cicatrice dans l'Est de Montréal.
Je pense qu'il faut que ça demeure une autoroute. L'enterrer est probablement la meilleure option, bien que ça soit un projet immense. Je doute qu'un gouvernement dans un futur rapproché accepte de financer ce projet...
&#x200B;
EDIT: Il semblerait qu'un tunnel ne soit pas possible, puisqu'il est interdit de transporter des explosif ou des produits sous pression dans un tunnel (c'est compréhensible).
J'espère personnellement surtout qu'ils vont repenser la voie de service. J'habite tout près de l'autoroute et au final, c'est pas la 40 qui me cause le plus de désagrément (oui, y'a un peu de bruit, mais ça va), c'est le boulevard crémazie qui est horriblement mal conçu pour le transit piéton.
https://www.alliium.com/
C'est un groupe qui propose un tel projet! Bien sûr c'est au stade conceptuel et aucune estimation des coûts a été réalisée, mais on peut toujours rêver.
L'article utilise le terme reconstruction ce qui est pas vraiment exact. C'est une réfection majeure, plusieurs éléments vont rester en place, mais d'autres doivent être refaits parce qu'ils sont fortement dégradés.
Non, non, non, non, non!
Il faut dépenser beaucoup d'argent dans le transport sans l'améliorer.
Ça c'est écologique!
Tu parle du viaduc Van Horne a coté du métro Rosemont?
Si oui la metropolitaine a le désaventage d'être entouré par les voies de services. Et  on peut voir ce que ca donne avec le parc qui remplace l'autoroute Bonaventure, a part être beau en photo c'est pas ben agréable se promener là.
C’est pas possible d’enterrer la Décarie et la Métropolitaine. Les camions qui transportent des produits dangereux, surtout explosifs, peuvent pas aller dans les tunnels.
>  Je doute qu'un gouvernement dans un futur rapproché accepte de financer ce projet...
Le problème, c'est surtout que ce genre d'argent serait plus utile ailleurs. Comme nos écoles qui tombent en ruines, le transport en commun, etc...
>le boulevard crémazie qui est horriblement mal conçu pour le transit piéton.
OUI. I live around st Laurent/cremazie and have to cross cremazie every day to get to work. The fact that pietons have to push a button to cross (that doesn't work 50% of the time) sucks. Because even with the signal to walk... Drivers are still given the right to do a right turn at the same time, and they don't give a fuck if they hit you. And then you're stuck under the overpass because the first button doesn't sync with the other side so that you can get get across cremazie in one shot.
Very anxiety inducing.
I also used to live on the corner of St Hubert and Cremazie and the noise made me want to rip my hair out. We had to move.
Oui mille fois. La structure aérienne est laide et bruyante, mais c'est Crémazie qui est vraiment horrible et dangereux pour les piétons et les cyclistes.
On voit que c'est un groupe très sérieux quand leur adresse courriel de contact c'est une adresse Gmail.
info.alliium@gmail.com
Je peux pas parler pour le coin de l'autoroute Bonaventure, mais j'habite proche de la 40 dans Villeray et clairement, même si la circulation va rester lourde sur les voies de service, le tout pourrait être nettement plus agréable pour les piétons notamment (qui sont plus beacuoup nombreux qu'on pensent, notamment à cause de la station Crémazie). Pour l'instant, c'est horriblement difficile de traverser si t'es pas en char, malgré le nombre important de piétons/vélos qui passent là très souvent.
Aussi, les stationnements en dessous de l'autoroute sont sous-utilisés et certains pourraient clairement être convertis en quelque chose de plus convivial (même si c'Est sûr qu'on voudra pas nécessairement chiller là).
Un ami les a vu au jadis Métropolis et m'a confié que bien que la musique demeure intéressante, c'était comme regarder des boomers jouer à démineur sur leur ordinateur.
Covid isn't finished yet I still haven't left my house since March 2020
nice
Oh yeah!
Dommage! Il y a moyen de rendre un show de musique de ce style intéressant pourtant. J'étais allé voir Jean-Michel Jarre et tout ce qui etait drum électronique dans les tounes etait performé live par 2 musiciens sur des "vrai" drum midi au lieu d'une petite boîte. Bref c'était pas mal plus hot qu'un dude devant un keyword.
[Ce sont des robots](https://youtu.be/BcJ1q0c1F4g?t=43)
But I just might get vaccinated and go see Kraftwerk #worthit
Ouff, c'est pas très beau.
Moi je me rappel quant il ne fallait même pas faire le 514 pour faire un appel, les numéros n'était que 7 chiffres.
Aussi, quand appelé d'une rive à l'autre était une longue distance.
514, 450, 438, 263
loving the continuity
On manifeste en grosse gang pour faire changer 263 pour 666?
263-254-6011 now I understand
C'est ce qui arrive lorsqu'on achète un cellulaire à chaque membre de la famille, même le chien et le poisson rouge.
263 555 1212, toé pis moé c’est merveilleux
I love the antiquated phone used as thumbnail, that's how long ago I cared about phone numbers.
Ca veux tu dire que TOUT les  9 999 999numéro possible avec le 514 sont pris? Pourquoi faire ça? Je sais déjà que la réponse a ma question est non
To sex thee
*laughs in 514 number while living in the boonies*
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B1H3U7AeQic
ok.
*"Two sicks. Reeeeeeee!!!"*
Complètement d'accord.
Ouiiiii! Me rappelle aussi qu’en soirée c’était moins cher. 
Cibole qu’on se faisait fourré sans le savoir. Maintenant c’est les forfait cellulaires de données.
Mais est-ce qu'on peut avoir [un numéro d'urgence facile à retenir](https://youtu.be/ab8GtuPdrUQ)?
Si tu comptes le 450, oublies pas le 579 dans ce cas-là!
450 is outside the island
666 est pas assigné, mais il est réservé.
https://www.areacodehelp.com/where/area_code_666.shtml
Faut signaler le 263-937-0707
>are always trying to barge onto the metro before you can even exit
i don't know about the seats thing but this is 100% true. it'd be easier to get on if you let everyone off first
there's even lines painted on the floor clearly indicating, people who want to get on wait to the side and let people exiting out the middle first
and i think there were signs before but now most of the signage is probably about covid
As someone who spent 6 months with crutches and had a pregnant girlfriend I can confirm the seat thing! I don’t recall how many times I heard the bus driver yell « I am not starting the bus until someone leaves him a seat »
Never had that issue. People always gave their seats whenever I’ve been on. (20 years of public transit using mainly blue, green and orange lines)
The one annoying thing is people(on and off the train) who block you while trying to get out of the train. I push them out of the way. Someone’s gotta give.
It wasn't that bad pre COVID. It's like the city forgot how to metro.
When this kind of dumb shit happens, I stop moving and just stand there. I make ABSOLUTELY ZERO effort to move or accommodate the person being ridiculous. It's socially awkward, but that's the point.
Most realize what they're doing and fix their behaviour, but sometimes not. This one time I was exiting, this one girl was trying to maneuver around me to get on the train and let out of a "move!" out of frustration before pushing through. I heard her friends scolding her on my way out.
Fuck these people.
Speaking as a man born and raised in Montreal who lived in every area of the city : Montrealers have no manners.
i don't move out of the way of people when i walk off the metro. if you're in my way as i'm trying to exit, you're going to have to move. 
the background is that montrealers are selfish lol.
I was yelled at by two elderly women (different days) for offering them my seat. I guess I made them feel old? I was just trying to be polite.
The staff are so rude too. I've never encountered so many rude drivers anywhere else. Overall, it's a really good system by North American standards though, so I can't complain too much.
On Saturday, I saw an older woman give two highschool girls heck for not giving up their seats to an elderly man. They were in the priority seating section. I mentally applauded the elderly woman for speaking up.
From the 5-6 transit systems I've experienced myself, I can agree with what you've compared.
whenever i visit toronto and take the ttc i am surprised by how kind everyone is it makes me feel like crying, lol. Well maybe a bit of an overreaction but wow, it really makes a difference in your everyday.
Are you trolling?? Dude, you should try the Paris metro... You're going to LOVE Montreal public transit after that. At least here people don't shit and piss in the trains. Personnally I think we have one of the best subways in the world.
Yes you are 100% correct, those were the biggest reasons I started taking the commuter train instead, and it is SO much better.
Montrealers learn to be oblivious to each other. 
Phones are partly to blame, but my impression is that there is no single Montreal. Everyone is so different that it's hard to establish how you are supposed to behave. Social norms are almost a matter of personal style, so we become blind to them. People assume they can act however they wish. Disapprobation tends to be expressed silently, but since we're all alone in public, the rude go on their own ways.
There are civic rules, but all you need to do is ignore them in order to get away with them.
Never noticed the seat thing but I have to say that the Montreal subway trains and busses are extremely (if not freakishly) clean.  Does Bombardier just give you new ones every year?  I was amazed.
Ummm what?
The Rocket is the specific type of train on Line 1 of the TTC Subway, it is the least dysfunctional part of the system.
The BART is more of an S-Bahn type system with 4 downtown stations and 1/3 the volume despite much more track, making it more comparable with the new REM being built. 
The Underground: what kind of time were you using it where there were seats to give up?
Tokyo: There are entire treatises on subway etiquette.
Montréal is nowhere close to being the worst. In fact I think it has one of the better high-volume, truly rapid transit systems around.
I am currently pregnant. OBVIOUSLY pregnant. Can confirm that people are total assholes and do not offer me their seats on the metro.
It's worse in Paris
Having had a pregnant wife twice, I can attest that transit users are getting worse in this regard.
I get it, we all had a hard day but fuck you, give her your seat.
Even worse, you try to give your seat to an elderly person or pregnant person and some other jackass tries to take it and makes a scene.
It doesn't happen often but it leaves a lasting impression when it does.
Well my one point of comparison is the NYC metro system and Toronto and I think we’re better than that, can’t tell you about Tokyo or something tho cause I’m broke and take the metro for a reason lol
To be fair, I lived three years in Shanghai and Montrealers seem polite in the subway compared to mainland Chinese…
En tant que personne qui a voté Coderre aux deux dernières élections, pis qui était pas trop certain de la candidature de Plante y'a 4 ans (même si j'avais rien a priori contre son programme), ben j'm'en vais voter pour elle cette fois, aucune hésitation.
Pu capable de Coderre. Y'a juste pu rapport, et je sais même plus quoi il est supposé amener. Je pense même pas qu'il le sait lui-même.
Y'a 4 ans Plante avait pas d'expérience, c'est ce qui me faisait douter. Mais là elle en a, et franchement, même si son mandat a pas été parfait, c'était suffisamment bien pour la reconduire.
Honestly, I'm not crazy about a lot of things she's done but she seems to be competent and I also remember how bad it was under Coderre. At least when she spends money, we are getting useful things that improve the city.
*"Because she's not Coderre."*  Saved everyone five minutes.
The author of the article is on point about Plante's accomplishments and the many challenges she was up against. And the fact there wasn't any corruption scandal during her tenure is a big plus.
Definitely, I'm voting for Projet Montreal and Valerie's team.
I hope Denis Coderre stays out of politics for good after his defeat.
Best part:
>While Coderre has always boasted about flashy projects that were supposed to “put Montreal on the map,” Plante, in fact, did just that — but in her own way. Urban landscapers and environmentalists around the world point to our city as an example of so many things being done right. Montreal has never been more of a joy to walk and bike in, to sit in a park, on a terrasse, or by the waterfront. As far as I’m concerned, that matters — not only for ecological reasons but for the sheer joy of urban living.
Quand Denis Coderre est entré en poste, la barre était très très basse. En gros, s'il arrivait à ne pas être corrompue, les gens allaient être content... Mais après 4 ans, je pense que les montréalais se sont rendu compte que ce n'était pas suffisant, surtout après tout les fiascos qu'ils nous a fait endurer (Formule E, VLS électrique, etc).
C'est d'autant plus drôle parce que maintenant, il refuse de publier ses sources de revenue "avant d'être élu". Donc le peu qu'il pouvait offrir (l'éthique), il l'a perdu.
Valérie Plante n'est certainement pas parfaite, mais au moins elle propose une vision progressiste de la ville.
Last year, I almost ran over some cyclists head when he, out of nowhere, swerved and fell face down on the road. Gotta say, almost decapitating someone at 5:45 am kinda messes up your day. Thats why I want more bike lanes, so that they aren't in the way of 1500 lbs+ metal deathmachines.
By pulling a "Trump", Coderre proves why he does not deserve our vote.
**He literally said that he would release his tax returns ONLY if he gets elected...** 
[https://www.ledevoir.com/politique/montreal/644136/valerie-plante-devoile-ses-revenus-denis-coderre-veut-attendre-son-election](https://www.ledevoir.com/politique/montreal/644136/valerie-plante-devoile-ses-revenus-denis-coderre-veut-attendre-son-election)
Coderre is a con man!
Already voted! Stressful time to be a Montrealer
[deleted]
People dunk on Coderre here all the time, but I don't hear about any reasons for disliking Plante. Yes she's better than Coderre, but why do people dislike her?
I appreciate the open conversation taking place here
Coderre is such a sleaze ball. I hope Valerie Plante wins.
This is kind of a no-brainer
My question is more about Sue Montgomery - did Plante completely screw up their relationship or is Montgomery a power hungry maniac? Or both? I basically want Projet to have another term and continue to make Montreal change, but i also want to send the message that Valerie and friends have got to learn politics better and end the public embarrassments and self inflicted wounds. I'm wondering whether to split my vote ie one for Plante and one for Montgomery.
JE NE VOTERAI JAMAIS POUR CETTE FEMME! Parce que j’habite à Québec. J’adooore Montreal et je n’ai aucun plan d’aller y habiter à court terme. Mais mettons… vite de même je voterais certainement contre Denis Coderre.
Anyone but that corrupt gangster Coderre.
I would have probably skipped my vote if Coderre did not show up. She got my vote already nonetheless, because I still recognize the sleazy arrogant Coderre, who’s still the same aside of his lighter weight
2 seules réelles options, 2 candidats poches. On se croirait aux USA.
I suggest everyone to familiarize themselves with the alternative in order to make a fully educated decision.
https://www.mouvementmtl.com/en/platform
Do mafia donations show up on tax forms?
Denis "Trump" Coderre.
“Denis spent a lot of time saying that he had changed, but in fact, we see the same scenario as in 2017. In 2017, Denis Coderre was hiding the number of tickets sold for Formula E and in 2021, Denis Coderre hides his income, ”says the outgoing mayor of Montreal, Valérie Plante.
During the last election, Denis Coderre had lost a lot of points among Montrealers with Formula E because of the many street closures, but also because the real number of tickets had been hidden for a long time. Valérie Plante believes that citizens will think about it on voting day.
"All the candidates do it and it is a matter of transparency," said the mayor.
«Denis a passé beaucoup de temps à dire qu’il avait changé, mais en fait, on voit le même scénario qu’en 2017.En 2017, Denis Coderre cachait le nombre de billets vendus pour la Formule E et en 2021, Denis Coderre cache ses revenus», mentionne la mairesse sortante de Montréal, Valérie Plante. Lors des dernières élections, Denis Coderre avait perdu beaucoup de point au sein des Montréalais avec la Formule E en raison des nombreuses fermetures de rues, mais également parce que le nombre réel de billet avait été caché pendant un bon moment. Valérie Plante croit que les citoyens y penseront le jour du vote.
«Tous les candidats le font et c’est une question de transparence», déclare la mairesse.
[https://www.tvanouvelles.ca/2021/11/01/devoilement-du-rapport-dimpot-cest-un-probleme-majeur-croit-valerie-plante](https://www.tvanouvelles.ca/2021/11/01/devoilement-du-rapport-dimpot-cest-un-probleme-majeur-croit-valerie-plante)
I have a 2016 deja vu.
He probably senses he’s going to lose so why bother?
Ah the spectre of Formula E still hangs over him. The media needs to let it go already
Said Wu Tang in a pouch 😆
Nope. Let the scum be accountable.
never going to let that go. guy had no right running a city
It was just a bad idea but would have worked if not held in that part of town.
Sorry bud but as a tax owner, I'm still paying for it. Not acceptable
And I’m not? I enjoyed the event it was just poorly organised…. That summer was overload with endless events though, with Evenko… worst part is holding it in that area of town. The F1 track could have been made to work with the FE cars of the era or even techno park area. Any populated area was going to be a shitstorm. The fact it was done with zero to minimal consultation goes to show you who Denis really cared about that
Slap a cop that looks in shape then take off. Voila running partner.
Hahah I would be happy to be your running partner, but I'm clearly faaar from your level.
You could check some Montreal running groups on Facebook, they're pretty active.
Do you run early mornings ?
Hey! Feel free to DM me, I don't mind running with someone slower at all! I did post in a few running in montreal groups on FB but didn't get any luck yet.
Yes!
Same here. I prefer early morning runs. Feel free to drop in my DM. I love running le Plateau, le mont-royal and rue des Carrières.
Crosseur gonna crosse
S'il est réélu, ça sera comme ça pendant 4 ans.
Il est incapable d'être intègre.
&#x200B;
Alors qu'on a absolument rien à dire sur ce plan pour Valérie Plante.
C'est débile, il se fait prendre maintenant comme il s'est fait prendre au sujet de la Formule E.
C'est le fun, des fois, la transparence en politique....... hen, Denis?
[Même face, nouvelle gang de crosseurs / Nouvelle face, même gang de crosseurs/ Même face, même gang de crosseurs](https://i.imgur.com/gV5QkdH.jpg)
Denis 2.0, mesdames et messieurs.
Il me semble déjà avoir vu ça qq part récemment qqun qui promet de tout dévoiler si élu, qui nous dit qu'il est très content et fait beaucoup d'argent déjà et qu'un poste publique serait un sacrifice pour lui....
Denis the menace
le Déni Coderre nouveau, mesdames et messieurs.
(In)Compétent
Il ne veut pas être Maire.
>S'il est réélu, ça sera ~~comme ça~~ pire pendant 4 ans.
CÇPT.
Là c'est Denis en mode séduction.
Same as the old Denis with 10% less fat but 10% more corruption...
Donald Coderre?
Tu peux payer une piasse au registre foncier pour savoir comment le proprio a payé. Ensuite multiple ça par le hpi ( house price index de 2021/ celui de l’année de son achat)
Façon rapide de gager si le prix offert est cohérent
Regarde des comparables autour à la fois sur DuProprio et sur Centris.
Mais au final, c’est vraiment à savoir si t’es à l’aise d’offrir ce que tu va offrir, si ta les moyens de le payer et si y’a pas de problèmes cacher ou pas qui vont te mettre dans marde…
Tse même si le vendeur demande 50 000 / 100 000$ +++ que ce que t’on évaluateur évalue, ça va changer quoi ? Tu pourras pas négocier en bas du prix demandé parce que y’a toujours un zozo qui va accepter de payer et même payer beaucoup plus que le prix demandé…
Ce que je peux te conseiller a 200%, c’est en aucun cas de skipper l’inspection, exiger un test de pyrite et ne pas accepter de vente sans garantie légale… C’est un risque qui vaut la peine en aucun cas.
Bon magasinage.
P.S : Un agent sert à rien, y va juste te mettre la pression pour que t’achète, moins y’a à faire de visite pour avoir son nanane plus Ye heureux, y’en a rien à crisser si tu payer 150 000$ de plus, surtout que sur cet over, y s’en met 4000$ dans les poches…
Achète le profil de la propriété sur JLR pour 20$. Tu va avoir accès a plein d'infos sur la propriété (genre tous les propriétaires etc) et tu va avoir un generateur de comparable qui te sort un beau rapport avec les maisons récemment vendu dans un certain rayon autour et leur prix.
C'est pas mal toutes des infos dispo sur le registre foncier pour 1$ la consultation, mais c'est tellement plus simple de tout avoir sur une seule page.
J’ai acheté comme ça en 2018. Après recherche toute les “protections” viennent du notaire et pas du courtier. Avec 1-3 h de recherche sur ce que doit contenir une offre d’achat (et l’obligation légale d’acheter si acceptée) tu en saura bien assez. Pour le prix c’est vrai que le courtier t’aurait donné son appréciation mais une appréciation biaisée par son intérêt $ à réaliser la transaction rapidement et par l’état du marché favorable au vendeur.
Moi j’avais rencontré le notaire avant de faire l’offre d’achat et il a sorti les montants de vente des 3 unités du triplex en copropriété indivis, les hypothèques de chacun et le contrat de copropriété… en me chargeant seulement le tarif de base pour la transaction faite chez lui ensuite.
La valeur foncière apparaît sur la déclaration.
La valeur marchande est celle que quelqu'un est prêt à payer.
Regarde des comparables sur centris et duproprio
One useful barometer is the municipal tax valuation. The sale price for most houses is going to be higher, but the degree to which it is higher depends on the market and the neighborhood.
I just bought my first house and we got it for 40% more than municipal, and there was a bidding war.
i based my own offer on muncipal + x% based on asking prices in the area. It worked.
If you like it and not many for sale in that area just make an offer. Use the municipal evaluation and go from there. It’s not very difficult with dupropio
I don’t blame the owner for not wanting to use an agent, I’d do the same
So you could do whatever people say here or you could do the actual thing you're looking for and just [search for the property's taxes](https://servicesenligne2.ville.montreal.qc.ca/sel/evalweb/index)
Consequently, this is also the very first result for "evaluation fonciere montreal" so maybe think a little more next time you want to ask a question
J'ai fais ça et selon cette méthode le prix est légèrement élevé mais je sais pas comment évaluer qu'ils le vendent sans garantie légale ou les états financiers de la copropriété. En plus le vendeur ne semble pas pressé de vendre, la maison est sur le marché plus d'un mois déjà.
Je préfère d'éviter les courtiers parce qu'ils ont une incentive pervers pour faire payer plus à ses clients acheteurs.
Je ne connaissais pas jlr, je vais essayer ça, merci.
J'ai déjà les infos du registre foncier mais la dernière transaction date du 2017 donc le prix a beaucoup augmenté.
En effet les notaires c'est les vrai professionnels des transactions immobilière.
Un courtier immobilier c'est un vendeur de meuble/char qui a la place vend des maisons.
Il n'y a pas grande chose ces jours donc difficile de comparer.
Your whole comment basically explains how the municipal evaluation is not a useful barometer.
Sauf que these days l’évaluation foncière veux pas dire grand chose, tout se vends pas mal au dessus.
L'évaluation municipale ne vaut rien dans la mesure où si le proprio fait des rénos sans un permis, ça ne paraît aucunement sur l'évaluation. Mon duplex est évalué a un peu moins de 300k et est situé près du centre-ville de Mtl. Je pourrais la vendre facilement 800K. So, l'évaluation est irrelevante. C'est du cas par cas et ça varie d'un quartier a un autre ou d'une ville a une autre. Il faut vraiment voir les comparables des prix des maisons vendue et pas l'évaluation municipale qui ne sert au final qu'à arracher des taxes...
Comme /u/_dismal_scientist la mentionné, il y a un énorme conflit d'intêret dans le système des courtiers. Le fait que le prix que tu paie impacte directement leurs commissions, ils ont aucun intérêt à ce que tu paie moins cher, ni que tu fasse un bon achat.  
Ça devrait être des frais fixe, l'aide d'un courtier devrait coûter X pour la vente, X pour l'achat et c'est tout. Mais ce seras jamais comme ça, donc je t'encourage à continuer à ne jamais faire affaire avec un ou une de ces parasites.
There’s a variety of conflicts of interest inherent with the system of realtors.
12th one was probably the one too many. Got him on their radar.
Georgie,
Gunther,
Gracie,
Ginger, 
Ginny,
Gus,
Graham,
Greg,
Gino,
Genevieve,
Gabriel…
“Grubby” ??? That’s got to be fake.
Anyone here thinks it's crazy that 1. He did this for 11 years and 2. He ONLY got 144k, for 12 kids, for that many years? 
That's a little more than 1000 per kid per year ... Was it really worth it to fake that many kids? Also, are there people who have that many kids who can testify that this is the amount? Seems low
Anyone here that got 10kids?
Official Press Release: https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/news/newsroom/criminal-investigations-actions-charges-convictions/20211029-montreal-resident-sentenced-for-submitting-false-canada-child-benefits-claims-for-phony-children.html
Back in the day, you'd get a free loom after dropping your 12th sprog.
Maybe he just really, really wanted a loom.
How about Greedy
He probably didn't start with 12 kids right away, but added 1 per year. The benefits might get smaller every time?
i have a friend with 8 . real ones too.
I got more, probably lost in the sewers somewhere
Montréal a scanné toute la ville en lidar aérien en 2015. Tu peux extraire les building en nuages de points puis convertir:
https://donnees.montreal.ca/ville-de-montreal/lidar-aerien-2015
You might be able to extract the 3d models from this X-Plane Montreal VFR scenario:
[https://forums.x-plane.org/index.php?/files/file/41785-montreal-vfr/](https://forums.x-plane.org/index.php?/files/file/41785-montreal-vfr/)
Wow c’est tellement cool merci! Avec ça et le lien que l’autre gars a poster je pense que je peu commencer merci pour la response!
cool.  
(mais fuck, mon departement IT m'empêche de télécharger les fichiers LAZ)
Comment extraire en nuages de points?
Awesome thanks!!!!
C'est quand meme du travail, ca vient en tuile de 1km carré et tout ce qui est a l'ombre d'un autre building sera manquant. Mais j'avais fait de beau rendus du stade olympique et quelques autres endroits.
C'est des données lidar...
[https://www.usna.edu/Users/oceano/pguth/md\_help/html/las\_format.htm](https://www.usna.edu/Users/oceano/pguth/md_help/html/las_format.htm)
edit: Pardon, j'ai mal compris la question je crois. Il existe peut-être des outils, je le ferais programatiquement.
ouais, devrait avoir un gros zip avec tout ça.
Ouais c'est ça, je ne sais pas quel logiciel utiliser pour ouvrir ce type de fichier.
Tout comme comment convertir ces fichiers de la ville en .obj ou autre type de modèle 3d plus couramment utilisé : https://donnees.montreal.ca/ville-de-montreal/batiment-3d-2016-maquette-citygml-lod2-avec-textures2
Je doute qu'il existe une solutions toutes faites. Mais c'est un beau projet pour un étudiant en informatique! 
[https://github.com/LAStools/LAStools](https://github.com/LAStools/LAStools) est un point de départ.
RemindMe! One Year
Piece of shit.
C'est l'fun.
Other than playoffs; Leafs/Habs in Montreal on a Saturday night is what hockey’s all about.
I think that the name Club de foot Montreal looses something in translation.
Sounds like a podiatrist club.
Les Expos sont morts, mais la meilleur rivalité a toujours été avec Québec.
The rivalry between MTL FC and Toronto is synthetic. Actually pretty Vanilla…. It’s just done for usual Montreal Toronto tiff but in reality the two clubs are far from being rivals.
Expos and BlueJays couldn’t be rivals as they didn’t play in the same leagues…
Given that [the team president who oversaw the rebranding was just fired](https://en.cfmontreal.com/news/cf-montreal-announces-the-departure-of-kevin-gilmore), the *foot club™* name will hopefully be short-lived.
What does it loose? Their shoes?
The MLS is as synthetic as the grass they play on. Realistically we cannot have a sports rivalry comparable to hockey or European soccer. 
The idea is that by nature of the relationship with these cities the rivalry will be culturally imposed as it is clear that this is what the marketing teams have strategized; to foster a cultural involvement within the sport to increase engagement with their sports brand.
Which is why I say, it's as synthetic as their grass because most of their grass is actually half synethic and half real grass
> most of their grass is actually half synethic and half real grass
What does this even mean? Are you talking about the 5/27 stadiums with fully artificial fields, or the 2/27 with the same hybrid grass as Anfield, Old Trafford, Wembley, etc.?
MLS is on par with League One on a very good day. I’ve turned down match tickets as I cannot stand Montreal FC, Saputo Montreal FC or whatever they are called. I find there is zero excitement or atmosphere. It feels so fake that I simply can’t get into it. I’ve tried.
But sitting around believing that there is an actual rivalry between the two clubs is laughable. It’s all marketing fluff. Those “Ultras” trying to be a firm is just as laughable
The 100,000 people who attended the Eastern conference final between the Impact and TFC would probably all disagree with you on every point. 
You don't have to like it, but you can't pretend that the rivalry is all fake marketing bluster when there have now been dozens of hard-fought games between the teams over the last decade.
[deleted]
Cool. Enjoy watching soccer on tv then.
>Those “Ultras” trying to be a firm is just as laughable
C'est vrai que pour être pris au sérieux il faut faire des signe nazis ou poignarder des fans des clubs adverses /s
Most people just want to be part of the “experience “
Impact supporters are starting to remind me of Spurs. Haven’t won shit but act as if they’re gods
Like nearly all supporters ? Cool.. I will! And it will be for a club I actually care about
Coderre se rend-tu compte qu'il veut devenir Maire et pas député provincial? Il est-tu vraiment con à ce point là?
Sa campagne c’est dla marde alors il commence à lancer dla marde sur le français comme Holness. Signe d’une campagne perdante
Kid Kodak à la rescousse.
Pour renforcer les droits des anglophones de Montréal.
*Out, Coderre, get the f\*ck out.*
[deleted]
Coderre bof, jmen fou un peu. Holness n’a aucune chance.
Je regarde les commentaires, on se croirait sur air québec. Trop la honte. 
Demandez des dommages moraux pour discrimination, c'est too much? La *Charte québécoise*, c'est pour tout, sauf le racisme? L'argent règle pas les problèmes, donc rien devrait être fait?
Légalement, quand vos droits sont lésés et que vous revendiquez justice, qu'obtenez-vous? Un voyage dans le temps pour rectifier la situation avant qu'elle n'arrive?
EDIT : Ce qui est encore plus choquant, c'est qu'au lieu que les commentaires soient "WHAT!? Des places désignées pour les employés noirs et d'autres pour les employés blancs!? On est plus en 1950, me semble!!", les commentaires sont du type money (l'argent règle rien, qui va recevoir l'argent?, qui va payer?, etc.). C'est complètement sidérant.
[deleted]
Les boomers propriétaires d’entreprise, comme moi, prennent des notes.
C’est quoi des « réparations »? Me semble que le terme est souvent utilisé, mais a peu près jamais défini clairement.
Racisme systémique est un peu exagéré. Si y a racisme, on a des loi et tribunaux qui s'en occupe.
C’est peu concret…… Donnez nous des exemples de ce qui est arrivé concrètement….. mettez le doigt sur un ou des coupables qu’il écopent……
Ou 
DEMANDEZ DU CA$H. Sa va surment aider.
Donc selon eux pour adoucir la situation il suffit de payer tarif-racisme...
>  Les personnes qui ont effectué le racisme n'auront rien à payer. L'argent c'est les taxes de citoyens, alors la seule conséquence vs être la diminution de services dans l'arrondissement déjà sous financé.
C’est aucunement choquant mais triste. Un gros manque d’empathie et c’est souvent lors des sujet comme cela que soudainement tout le monde est monsieur madame detective de vérité. Une chance que IRL les gens ont plus de bon sens que des commentaires ici.
Mon problème c'est que les réparations en question, ça va sortir de mes impôts : ils peuvent demander des millions mais ceux qui sont à l'origine du problème doivent en payer une partie.
Yeah, it makes me wonder why still in the 21st century we're dealing with racists
C'est un terme legal:
> In jurisprudence, reparation is replenishment of a previously inflicted loss by the criminal to the victim. Monetary restitution is a common form of reparation. 
Pas certain c'est quoi l'equivalence verbatim francophone, mais c'est vrai que ca se dit pas super bien vu qu'on utilise le terme pour autre chose - c'est moins frequent en anglais.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reparations_for_slavery
De l’argent
Un gros chèque.
Il fallait cliquer sur le lien dans l'article. Le voici : https://ici.radio-canada.ca/nouvelle/1792631/discrimination-cols-bleus-montreal-nord-ville-syndicat
Voici un extrait pertinent de l'article : 
> En mai dernier, des rapports d'enquête sur le racisme systémique dans l'emploi à l'arrondissement, produits séparément par la Ville et par le Syndicat des Cols bleus regroupés de Montréal, indiquaient que le racisme en milieu de travail était courant à Montréal-Nord.
> 
> Les rapports faisaient état d’une connivence autant chez les représentants syndicaux que les gestionnaires – qui sont majoritairement blancs – pour favoriser certains employés au détriment d’autres de diverses origines ethniques.
Dans l'article original, l'expression "En mai dernier" contient l'hyperlien suivant : https://ici.radio-canada.ca/nouvelle/1792631/discrimination-cols-bleus-montreal-nord-ville-syndicat, dont voici un extrait pertinent : 
> Le document fait également état de propos, d’insultes et de manifestations directes de racisme sur les lieux de travail. On y constate aussi de la discrimination dans l’attribution de tâches, de véhicules sans climatisation et d'équipements.
> 
> Il existe du favoritisme dans l’octroi des heures supplémentaires et dans des pratiques de transfert de certains employés dans des sections sans mises à pied saisonnières, ajoute le rapport.
> 
> La professeure Saba constate aussi la présence de clans ethniques au sein des effectifs et même de places désignées dans une cafétéria pour les travailleurs noirs, et d’autres pour les blancs.
> Un autre rapport commandé au professeur Angelo Soares, de l’UQAM﻿(Nouvelle fenêtre)﻿, par le Syndicat des cols bleus regroupés de Montréal, énonce sensiblement les mêmes problèmes.
Et là encore, "Un autre rapport commandé au professeur Angelo Soares, de l’UQAM﻿(Nouvelle fenêtre)﻿" contient l'hyperlien suivant : https://scfp.qc.ca/wp-content/uploads/2021/05/Rapport-Racisme-Final1470-1.pdf
C'est un beau rapport de 49 pages.
Well they'd take being un-abused first but unless you have a time machine, yeah, compensation will compensate. That's how justice works, you know? What do you think people who get raped get after putting their abusers behind bars? Un-raped? You think motherfuckers get un-murdered? Think a little before you speak
Vous êtes tellement de mauvaise fois 😂😂😂
Si un employé de la ville innonde le sous-sol de dizaines de maisons par négligence grossière, ça me semble logique que la ville paie les réparations.
Si un policier tue quelqu'un par négligence grossière, ça me semble normal que la SPVM paie quelque chose à la famille.
Au-delà de "punir" pour que ça ne se reproduise pas, le premier but est justement de réparer, même si "ça va diminuer les services."
ils paient pas d'impôt? On s'entend que même les Noirs de la société québécoise qui ne sont pas des cols bleus de Montréal Nord vont aussi payer pour ça.
Si payer de l'impôt à cause des racistes pose problème, la solution ne devrait pas être de ne pas poursuivre l'employeur des racistes qui laisse une situation de discrimination aller comme si de rien n'était. La solution est un changement en tant que société qui fait que ces comportements sont immédiatement punis par de l'opprobre. On est punis une fois monétairement et les prochaines fois que ça arrive, on sera plus nombreux à s'écrier "Hé! T'arrêtes ça tout de suite, je paierai pas à nouveau pour ces conneries-là!"
EDIT : De toute façon, les dommages punitifs seront pas particulièrement élevés, ça représentera pas grand-chose hors d'un budget ou hors des poches d'un contribuable. Par exemple, [6 000$ pour avoir tenu des propos racistes envers une personne d'origine haïtienne](https://www.lapresse.ca/actualites/justice-et-faits-divers/2021-07-22/un-homme-devra-payer-6000-pour-avoir-tenu-des-propos-racistes.php).
Plusieurs histoires ont été racontées à ce sujet. On dit généralement que c'est grâce au gel/dégel mais ce n'est pas entièrement vrai. Généralement, elles ne sont pas construites comme elles doivent l'être en partant puisqu'on ne met pas autant de matériel qu'on devrait. Apparemment, si on demande de mettre huit pouces d'épaisseur, on en mettra quatre et ainsi de suite. On dit que c'est souvent contrôlé par la Mafia mais qui sait la vérité?
Cest toujours drôle de voir comment les villes à l'extérieur du Québec avec le même climat finissent par avoir d'aussi belles routes en comparaison.
Mon plus grand rêve serait qu'on fasse venir une équipe d'ailleurs (Vermont, pays scandinave ou autre) pour paver juste une petite route de test, et voir comment cette route vieillit mieux que les autres à côté. On le fait en secret et on l'annonce cinq ans après évidemment, question que personne ne sabote la route entre temps
C O R R U P T I O N .
>La municipalité n’est pas responsable du préjudice causé par la présence d’un objet sur la chaussée ou sur une voie piétonnière ou cyclable.  
>  
>**Elle n’est pas non plus responsable des dommages causés par l’état de la chaussée ou de la voie cyclable aux pneus ou au système de suspension d’un véhicule**
Au Québec, les villes ont une immunité légale.
Roads here are built to the lowest bidder vs best quality. To be fair it’s a combination of admin and builder. It gets blame on the weather all the time but go to Vermont or Maine or Northern NY and they’re flawless.
Est-ce que quelqu'un sait s'ils ont les mêmes problèmes dans les pays nordiques? Est-ce qu'ils fabriquent leurs routes comme on le fait ici ou est-ce qu'on a juste pris des mauvaises habitudes?
Allez aussi au Vermont, le climat ne change pas mais l'etat des routes change dramatiquement
Exact. Nord-est américain, Ontario : même climat (parfois pire selon l’humidité et l’élévation) mais routes meilleures.
Au-delà de la corruption, le reportage suggère surtout que la seule solution, c'est un réinvestissement collosal pour repartir les rues du bon pied + réduire la taille des camions.
Or, pour les camions, y'a surement des possibilités  mais pour les routes, personne va proposer ça. Les citoyens seraient bien en tabarnak des 10000 chantiers de + et des coupures/dettes nécessaires pour payer le tout.
It's not always the lowest bidder though as the city review how feasible he can do it so often it goes to the second one.
The first bidder in this case is the one who settle the price and the other follows.
Another thing it's the city who is the blame mostly as they give contract for redoing only the surface instead of going deeper.
The borough although is the one give's the contract at 90% but they go often with what the needs are compared to the city who don't have have a clue and order a work that is not the correct one for the street. Just like snow removal.
PRR, PCPR, PRCPR are the different type of work the street and listed below.
&#x200B;
PRR: Programme de réfection routière
PCPR: Programme complémentaire de planage-revêtement
PRCPR: Programme de réhabilitation de chaussée par planage-revêtement
Non, c'est assez évident quand tu vas dans nos états et provinces voisins. La température ne change pas drastiquement à la frontière du Québec alors que l'état des routes, oui
i've driven in Scandinavia. and I can say no, they do not have the same problems.
>Il est aussi possible d’appliquer les heures d’ouverture habituelles, mais la vente d’alcool doit cesser à 1 h et la fermeture des établissements est imposée à 2 h.
Faque il n'est pas possible d'appliquer les heures d'ouverture habituelles et fermer à 3h?
Edit: L'article de LaPresse a été mis à jour et ne mentionne plus une fermeture à 2h obligatoire.
No dancing no singing no kareoke. 79.4%, have received the vaccine. When will it end?
Toutes les restrictions levées étaient respectées par aucun restaurant depuis un osti d'bout
Genre sérieux j'ai vu des groupes de 40 à un bar l'autre soir
Pis a part le jeudi vendredi samedi, fermer à 3h c'est rentable pour aucuns bars les autres jours en ce moment.
Those who engage in singing and dancing - unless religious in nature - will be punished. Merci Papa!
Est-ce que les gens vont revenir travailler en restauration ? 
C'est bien beau ouvrir à 100%, mais si t'as pas assez de mon derrière et devant, ça va être le bordel.
J'espère que ça va bien aller.
Clubs????
Quand est-ce qu'on va pouvoir aller jouer au poker!?! :(
Ils ne veulent pas encore de mon argent. Dommage, je donne de très bons « tips. »
D'où tu sors cette quote parce que c'est pas dans l'article
We are even higher than that. 90% of 12yo+ have first does, 87% 2nd dose.
Right before the 2022 elections. Not even a joke at this point.
I have yet to see a bar in Mtl that fits that many people in one group . . . . . . . . .
> mais si t'as pas assez **de mon derrière et devant**, ça va être le bordel.
Coquin.
>Est-ce que les gens vont revenir travailler en restauration ?
Surement pas non
Non
playgrounds been open since august or september lol. no regular 5/10 game though unfortunately.
Mon oncle est croupier dans un casino et la semaine dernière il ma dit que le salon de poker ouvrirait probablement pas avant 2023...
L'article à été mis à jour à 11h23. ;)
Tabarnak.
T'es pas allé dans beaucoup de bars visiblement
The Cultmtl article said more. Essentially this article is a comment on how in every other major canadian city you get to choose between the nutjob "Businessman" who will tear up your bike lane and a centrist who will spend their term creating one bike lane as a pilot project.
Qui l’eut cru, après le Montréal de Gérald Tremblay et de Applebaum…!
Lol. Le gazon est toujours plus vert chez le voisin...
And neither of them will do any meaningful change, because the city is actually run by public servants.
C tizzo
Payer plus les employés? Offrir un horaire 4 jours par semaine? Plus de vacances ou de bénéfices?
Non, les employeurs préfèrent gaspiller leur argent sur des publicités, comme si ça allait changer les priorités des gens.
Nah, only reason I will go back downtown is my work forces me and the moment they try is when I will be starting to search for a new remote job. 
Work from home is the best, and no one is going to change my mind.
Pourquoi il ne metterais pas cet argent à plutôt ré-imaginer les rôles et modèle du centre-ville?
Plutôt qu'être un paquet de bureau et commerces pour servir ces bureaux, pourquoi pas devenir un district commercial, tourisme, et/ou loisir?
Le centre-ville est déjà un lieu d'attraction pour les touristes et le commerce, pourquoi pas revitaliser dans cette direction?
Pourquoi pas transformer certains bureaux en atelier coopératifs d'artistres?
Je suis certain qu'il doit y avoir au moins un centaine de meilleures idées que de juste revenir à ce que c'était Avant. Avant c'est du passé, on pourrait peut-être commencer à planifier pour Maintenent et Après.
Lol no thank you. It's either traffic jam and no parking spot or smelly metro/bus ride filled with sweaty people.. I prefer staying out of Montréal as much as possible.
Go to a stinky disneyland that has been deliberately transformed for the benefit of yuppies and tourists and do it at my own financial and time expenditure?
Lol no thanks.
J'imagine que le slam va convaincre plein de monde.
Ils n'ont pas besoin de faire des artifices. Dans le dernier sondage sur l'état du centre-ville, le télétravail temps plein comme modèle concernait un beau gros 2% des intentions des employeurs pour l'avenir. Aucune obligation: 9%. La grosse majorité des gens vont revenir acheter leur petit sandwich dans le foodcourt sous la tour de temps en temps.
Le monde va revenir quand les restrictions vont lever et que les employeurs vont appliquer leurs choix.
D'ici là, c'est un peu du temps et de l'argent perdu.
Lol fuck that.
Will never go back to that city to work. Traffic, bikes, Montreal is not inviting.
C'est pas les employeurs de bureau qui poussent pour ces publicités. C'est les entreprises immobilières et de services du centre-ville. Les restaurants, les centre d'achat, les propriétaires de tour a bureau...
x2. je m’imagine pu chier dans une toilette publique et me mettre du déodorant le matin.
Sans bureaux t'as pas mal de gestionnaires, gérants et matantes des RHs qui trouveront pu de façons de justifier leur job inutile. Spour ça que ya une poussée anti télétravail.
Pis si t'a le malheur de sortir dehors sur l'heure du midi t'es prix dans un gros nuage de fumée de cigarette et de pot, dans le vacarme de deux chantiers de construction, a te faire harceler pour du change ou des pétitions.
Ce qui est nouveau c'est que les employés ont un choix maintenant. Que ceux qui veuillent y retourner y retourne, mais moi, plus jamais.
Le slam me fait penser a ca...
https://youtu.be/Hqglh7WoBz0?t=54
[https://ici.radio-canada.ca/nouvelle/1801349/futur-teletravail-sondage-ressources-humaines-](https://ici.radio-canada.ca/nouvelle/1801349/futur-teletravail-sondage-ressources-humaines-)
Les employeurs disent 9%, les travailleurs 62%. On va découvrir qui a le gros bout du baton chez les travailleurs de bureau!
But once those employers start losing workers to companies that do offer WFH on one hand and face lease renewals on the other, % of employers willing to offer it will change.
C'est la chambre de commerce.
Hahahahahahahahahah mon système digestif est tellement mieux depuis que j'ai plus à me retenir ☺️
donc les actionnaires devraient être heureux de payer moins de monde?!
Exactement! Il n'y a pas beaucoup de qualités de vie à Montréal pour des gens de l'extérieur. La ville est bien l'fun pour une soirée, mais pour y travailler, il n'y a aucun avantage.
C'est moi ou ça se poursuit souvent dans ce parti là?
Est-ce que parce c'est souvent des extrémistes qui oublient souvent que la politique c'est l'art du compromis?
Tu sais qu'elle a switché vers Coderre pour finalement se faire a nouveau kické out parce quelle est anti-vaxx?
Lire le livre de Daniel Sanger (Sauver la ville) aide vraiment à avoir un peu de perspective sur ce que tu mentionnes.
TLDR y a toujours une tension entre un parti de militants et une fois au pouvoir…. C’est normal
Ça fait quand même elle et Sue qui poursuivent, puis Croteau et Ferrandez qui ont claqué la porte.
Je ne suis pas si vieux mais je trouve ça beaucoup.Ils semblent souvent dire la même chose.  Et  étaient eux-mêmes souvent boqués. 
C'est peut-être une mauvaise impression...
Très intéressant, merci.
[Ferrandez au 98.5 là-dessus](https://www.985fm.ca/audio/426567/coderre-doit-changer-de-strategie-de-campagne-passer-dune-strategie-dattaque-a-une-campagne-positive-peut-il-y-arriver?fbclid=IwAR2xiAT4YRv3q_5E5CzT9qBYMF5MxAx26mjSgarosInGPcNV5UVF3l06yBw)
Ferrandez qui a claqué la porte parce que PM brassait pas ASSEZ les choses à son goût. C'est pas un fort argument pour appuyer ton point.
Provost, c'est une anti-vaxx fachée d'avoir été doublement tassée, Montgomery a été suspendu 120 jours (avec sursis) par la cour supérieur pour ses agissements. Donc ce sont plus elles le problème dans ce cas. On peut toutefois voir que projet Montréal ont un peu choisi les candidatures à la va-vite en 2017 (de leur propre dire), ce qui est différent en 2021.
Pour Croteau, il est parti de lui-même. Dans son cas, de ce que j'ai compris, c'est que les gens de PM lui ont demandé s'il était prêt à faire la campagne, le porte-à-porte, etc. pis ça lui tentait pas tant alors on lui a proposé de céder sa place à quelqu'un de plus motivé (ça faisait quand même un bout qu'il était là).
Ferrandez, comme l'a dit un autre, était dans le position de "l'extrémiste" qui trouve que ça bouge pas assez. Pis dans les médias il demeure clairement pro-Plante.
Si on fait l'historique de tous les maires de Mtl, t'as du monde qui claquent la porte au pouce carré au travers de tous les partis, si tu check encore plus profond vers les partis provinciaux, c'est au cube. Jean Drapeau sacrait le monde dehors assez facilement merci dans son temps.
Le monde part dans des périodes de tension et de changement, une élection en pandémie coche pas mal de coches, et avec le cycle de nouvelles 24/7, c'est multiplié par 1000.
J'te garantis que c'est des impressions, maintenant les raisons pour lesquelles les gens partent sont plus indicatives de problèmes que le fait que les gens partent
Croteau a pas claqué la porte, il voulait plus de temps pour sa famille. Grosse différence!
Que ça semble être un parti plein de gens qui semblent êtres extrémistes et boqués? 
Je ne suis pas dans le parti. Je n'en sais rien. C'est pour ça que je posais la question.
Y'a peut-être trop d'élus?
Il y a le double d'élus pour pas dire le quadruple dans les pays d'Europe du Nord/capita
Pis ça a l'air de ben aller pour eux
Et à Toronto plus de la 1/2 de moins. Pis ça l’air de bien aller aussi.
Difficile a dire sans savoir sur ce quoi ils se basent. Peut-être la capacité moindre des gens d'encaisser une possible hausse de taux? Les taxes généralement plus élevées a Montréal?
Let me tell you my NDG housing/pricing story:
I live in central NDG. It's mostly 1950s construction and not terribly attractive. The prices are around 10-20% lower than the "hot" Monkland village area of NDG.
In 2005, a 4-plex (two duplexes attached together) sold in my area for $600,000. This was an incredible amount of money to me at the time. I couldn't believe that anyone had that type of money and I wondered how the buyer could make a profit on it. At that time you could still buy a duplex in NDG for under $300K. The developer who made the purchase ended up spending around a year and a half fixing up the building. He changed it from oil heating to electricity, put in all new windows, fixed the bricks, new kitchens in each of the four units, a new roof, etc. He must have spent at least $150,000 on the renovations plus he was paying property taxes to the city the whole time. He ended up selling each one of the units for $250,000 - $300,000. I guess he made around $300,000 profit in the end. A couple months ago one of the four units in the building sold for **$725,000!** In other words, each of the four units now has a market value which is above the selling price of the entire building around fifteen years ago. This is insanity and it can't continue.
Bogus. Never going to happen… Mtl always have been undervalued.
Le genre de nouvelle qui crée un bassin de liquidités, et suffisamment d’acheteurs prêts à entrer dans le marché et amortir la correction. 
Bref, sideways, mais pas down.
Even with a correction that would bring it to pre-pandemic levels, those prices were still high. But I suppose it's true that real estate has never depreciated in the long term...
I wish! I'm not paying 1.5 million for a closet in NDG.
Avec des surenchères de +50% vs. le prix affiché et des lineups de 60 visites pour une visite libre le week-end de la mise en vente, big doubt. Maybe pour le marché du chalet si les voyages reprennent de plus en plus.
Remindme! 1year
Not gonna happen
Il y a le rapport: [https://www.moodysanalytics.com/-/media/article/2021/10-canada-housing-market-outlook.pdf](https://www.moodysanalytics.com/-/media/article/2021/10-canada-housing-market-outlook.pdf).
> Sales in Ottawa, Toronto and Montreal have fallen significantly over the past few months amid low inventories and are now closer to pre-COVID-19 levels.
> By September, only Regina fit that category, while year-over-year house price growth has been weaker in Vancouver, Montréal and Hamilton.
> House prices in Montréal have also shown greater sensitivity to overvaluation in the historical data since 2005, so they will likely experience more downward price pressure compared with Toronto or Vancouver.
Donc, ils pensent que le marché de Montreal historiquement est plus vulnérable aux pressions negatives et surévaluation (je pense à cause de constructions plus faciles qui dechargent la surévaluation), et depuis maintenant on aura la pression exactement pour 1-2 années (plupart à 2022). 
Ce n'est pas quelque chose choquant, les marchés peuvent descendre parfois, même avec l'ascension longue temps... Choquant just pour les Canadiens, probablement.
The same guys who graded trash MBSs as AAA?
Moody’s the guys that were caught red handed giving false ratings that contributed to the 2008 crisis. And the execs were never prosecuted?
This same Moody’s?
These guys serve their customers - the banks. Everyone else take their reports with grain of salt (or heaping spoonful).
Dreaming is free
That would still make most people who bought pre pandemic way above what they paid their house for if you consider the 20-25% appreciation in prices since COVID started.
It will only happen if the bank of canada actually raise the rates. It's overdue and we can't continue with 4-5% inflation every month...
No one will sell for a loss, that much is obvious
The same Moody’s that was rating dogshit bundles of subprime CDOs and MBSs as AAA back in 2008? LOL. Fuck off Moody’s. You print ratings and guidance for whoever wants to pay.
I'd put money down that they are wrong.
I think the prices will probably keep rising in the long term as long as the separatists stay out of power. Whenever that or language laws become more prominent more people move away and prices drop. It's one reason why Montreal is so cheap compared to Toronto.
My realtor told me this too.  He said the market is showing signs of cooling and if you want to sell in the next couple of years, it’s best to do it ASAP.  Glad I listened.
Une copropriété est taxée sur l’ensemble et pas juste sur une unité. Aucune chance que le règlement ait du bon sens pour toutes les copropriétés indivisées
Plusieurs personne vont écoper et pas juste les plus riches puisque les valeurs des propriétés ont augmentées significativement dépuis quelques années. 
Qu'est-ce que les personne âgées qui ont acheté leur maison depuis longtemps vont faire eux?
Il faudrait aussi considérer le revenu des propriétaire aussi, pas juste la valeur de la propriété.
J'ai manqué des infos où ça pas beaucoup de sens cette règle?
Cette promesse dépend du gouvernement du Québec. En effet elle ne peut pas modifier les paliers de taxation sans modifier la Loi sur la fiscalité municipale, qui est du registre provincial. C’est drôle qu’elle en fasse une promesse sans spécifier ce détail plutôt important.
Résultat: les propriétés moins cher vont monter de prix plus vite, celle plus cher vont monter un peu moins vite, l'accessibilité a la propriété se déteriore.
>Qu'est-ce que les personne âgées qui ont acheté leur maison depuis longtemps vont faire eux?
Ok, j'entend souvent cet argument, et ca ne tient pas debout. La personne, agée ou non, qui a vu la valeur de sa maison passer de 50K a 800K, capital-tax-free, elle a les moyens de payer une augmentation de taxe foncière jusqu'a a la fin ses jours avec un reverse-mortgage ou un heloc, et il va lui en rester en masse, surtout que la maison continue de prendre de la valeur.
De tous les gens au pays, ceux qui ont acheté il y a longtemps sont dans la meilleure situation. Il n'y a jamais personne qui a perdu sa maison parce qu'elle a prise de la valeur.
J'aimerais comprendre comment t'arrives à ce raisonnement?
Tout dépend vraiment de tes revenus et les gens ne perde pas leur maison, ils finissent par la vendre et acheté plus petit. 
Reverse-morgage c'est la pire affaire que tu peux faire. Ça profite justement des gens personnes àgés qui veulent absolument resté dans leur maison. Rendu à cet étape ils sont mieux de vendre.
Certainement.
Les taxes ont une incidence directe sur les prix d'achat. Pour déterminer leur prix d'achat maximum, les gens regardent combien ils peuvent payer par mois, hypothèque+taxe+assurance+frais de condo+chauffage, etc.
Si un de ces facteur monte, le budget alloué a l'hypothèque baisse et les gens font des offre moins cher. Si un de ces facteur baisse, les gens font des offre plus chère. C'est un effet bien connu, googlez-le.
Baisser les taxe fait monter les prix, monter les taxes fait baisser les prix. Au final ~~tu~~ les nouveaux acheteurs paient la même chose par mois, mais si les taxes sont plus élevées, la mise de fond requise est plus basse.
Pour en revenir a nos moutons, si les maisons "entrée de gamme" et les condos ont une baisse de taxe, leur prix va avoir tendance a monter. Si les maisons "de luxe" ont des taxes plus élevées, leur prix vont baisser. Au final ca aura effet de réduire la fourchette de prix.
C'est un des moyens de profiter du capital dans ta maison sans la vendre. C'est justement pour ca que les pret hypothécaires furent inventés: Pour pouvoir libérer le capital gelé dans les immeubles.
les-personne-âgées-qui-ont-acheté-leur-maison-depuis-longtemp, ils sont riches aujourd'hui, a moins d'avoir tout brulé. Et ils continue de s'enrichir au fur et a mesure que les prix montent.
While that sounds fine, my city has reduced municipal taxes for years.. prices have not ever increased beyond neighbouring cities with flat tax rates. It fact, it lags its closest neighbouring suburb..
A drop in supply (new builds) and a rise in interest rates is what will move the needle on real estate prices. This imposes real material financial limits for buyers.
The items you mentioned won’t have much of an impact at all. Follow literally any city that lowers (or increases) its municipal tax rate and look at historical sales. 
I don’t think you will find any data that correlates..
Les prêts hypothécaires inversés sont des prêts exorbitants. Vous paierez divers frais et frais de clôture qui totaliseront des milliers de dollars en plus de payez une  prime d'assurance prêt hypothécaire.  
Un reverse mortgage est presque jamais une bonne idée. Une distinction importante entre un prêt hypothécaire ordinaire et un prêt hypothécaire inversé : lorsque vous effectuez des versements sur un prêt hypothécaire ordinaire chaque mois, vous remboursez les intérêts et le capital, ce qui réduit le montant que vous devez. Parce que vous ne remboursez jamais votre prêt hypothécaire inversé, le chiffre s'accumule mois après mois.  
Une hypothèque ordinaire se compose d'un montant inférieur chaque mois. Une hypothèque inversée se compose d'un nombre plus élevé.  
Si vous décédez, votre succession rembourse le prêt avec le produit de la vente de votre maison. Si l'un de vos héritiers veut vivre dans la maison (même s'il le fait déjà), il devra trouver l'argent pour rembourser le prêt hypothécaire inversé ; sinon, ils doivent vendre la maison.  
L'autre déclencheur pour le remboursement est que vous quittez la maison. Une fois que vous le faites, vous avez un an pour fermer le prêt.  
Si vous déménagez dans une maison de retraite et/ou vous avez besoin des soins particulier vous aurez probablement besoin de la valeur nette de votre maison pour payer ces coûts. Si vous devez à un prêteur une part substantielle de la valeur nette de votre maison, il ne restera plus grand-chose pour la maison de soins infirmiers.   
Bref, si vous êtes rendu à cette étape vaux mieux vendre votre maison et se trouver une résidence moins chère.
Comme j'ai dit tout dépend vraiment du revenu de la personne ou du ménage rendu à la retraite. Chaque cas est particulier et ce n'est pas tout le monde qui ont des bons fonds de pensions ou qui ont bien géré leur argent pour leur retraite. Pour certain leur épargne c'est juste leur maison. Il n'y a pas longtemps au Québec ont a été la province dont les ménages avaient le plus de dette (je ne sais pas si c'est toujours le cas par contre).
>This imposes real material financial limits for buyers.
Une hausse de taxe d'un demi-point a le même impact sur le budget de l'acheteur que la même hausse de taux d'intéret, si l'évaluation correspond au prix d'achat. Plus même, vu la mise de fond.
C’est quand la dernière fois qu’une évaluation municipal = le prix d’achat?
It may depend on the city but municipal taxes aren’t based on the full municipal evaluation either (for my city).
My annual mortgage payments are about 7x higher than my municipal taxes. I assure you the increase in interest rate will hurt prospective buyers far more.
C'est pour ca que pour fin de comparaison on parle du taux *effectif* de taxe foncière, et non du taux appliqué a l'évaluation.
>My annual mortgage payments are about 7x higher than my municipal taxes.
Commencons par le fait que vos paiments incluent le remboursement du capital...
[deleted]
Cool beans, how about your plans to restore tourism
Thanks! I've been photographing street art for a little over a decade now, but only started to create a serious collection four years ago (1200+ photos at the time of writing). I'm out walking and on my bike a lot and so I tend to take quite a few photos every month and its always an adventure finding new art!
Nikon D5600, 18mm Nikkor, 1/40s, f/20. Did you know that if you stop down your apeture to a tiny hole, all light sources appear as a starburst pattern? And the amount of "rays" that you see is proportional to the amount of blades that are there in your lens!
I've got a few more photos from around Mt. Royal here:
https://www.instagram.com/kale.manas/
Thanks you!  its really appreciate during those rainy days!!
Beautiful.
Great shot!
Wow!!!
Beautiful with all the colors!
Yeah, I was thinking back to this day today when I saw darkness @ 7AM today!
I'm sure it looked this way today(1 Nov) as well!
Oh yeah, seeing golden leaves illuminated during the golden hour is something else :)
Coderre is never going to do this because we would be able to see **who** has been supporting him financially those past few years and we all know, **his supporters are rich assholes who only want Coderre back so they can resume the grift on the back of the taxpayers.**
J'aime pas particulièrement Plante mais faut admettre que c'est quand même un Slam dunk sur Denis ça hahaha
Coderre said if he's elected, he will reveal his earnings/taxes. Hmm, where have I heard this before? And why does it feel like we'll regret voting for Denis no matter what he says or does?
Faits intéressants. Elle avait un revenu de location de 31 020$ en 2016 et de 28 740$ en 2020. Donc le loyer du logement qu’elle a supprimé pour convertir son 5plex en quadruplex n’était pas très cher. 🧐
Coderre a dit à tlmep qu'il ne le révélait pas à cause de NDA/confidentialité et tout de suite après il dit qu'on va le savoir après sa "victoire". Tout d'un coup il y aura plus de NDA? Man, fuck that guy.
C’est des points facile et je suis content qu’elle les gagnent.
Check
hahaha
I'm very disappointed that ballarama doesn't want to be transparent: basic condition for me to vote in someone with such an important public responsibility. Coderre was never an option. So, Plante got my vote.
Je respecte cela en criss
I voted for Plante and all my friends are raging at me
Viv le qebec lib tabarnak
C'est click bait comme titre parce qu'il y a aucun chiffre dans l'article.
I’m sure to get downvoted for this but, I just don’t think elected officials should have to release their tax forms unless it’s a specific rule (and I don’t think we should have a rule about it). People who are only *running* for office and are not yet elected and so do not owe us their private business like how much they earn from where and how much of it goes to taxes. There’s an argument to be made that people who are already elected are public servants and they work for us etc, but that could very easily lead to candidates having to release their forms so I think this just shouldn’t be something we expect of candidates or of incumbent elected officials.
Le problème est que Valérie Plante semble plus "clean" que Coderre côté revenu et financement. Elle a cependant beaucoup de problème avec ses promesses de piste cyclable ou de deneigement un peu louche alors que d'autre dossiers plus importants sont en jeu.
Coderre semble avoir une meilleure vision des problèmes à régler, mais est tout croche comme individu :/.
En même temps, c'est rare qu'en politique tu trouves un bon joueur puisqu'ils donnent toujours trop de promesses et tu je sais jamais lesquelles vont lâcher. 
Par exemple, au fédéral tu votes Libéral puisqu'ils veulent planter 1 milliard d'arbre pour te rendre compte qu'après 4 ans il n'y en a pas toujours 1.
195 000$ pr pas faire grand chose c qd mm beaucoup trop... entk
[removed]
even worse, he says "you'll know once I'm elected" which.. wtf dude I think he said the quiet part out loud
Exactly.
Pareil. Je préfère quelques pistes cyclables aux pires places imaginables que vendre des bijoux de la ville à Evenko.
RIP best sign ever
I want that to be the name of the condo that takes it's place.
When my daughter was 5, she thought it was a Barbie store and wanted to go in.
Va falloir aller au club Ordinaire Sexe maintenant.
I gonna bet this was arson by one of our lovely montreal mafia members.
Someone wanted to claim insurance?
Was leaving Scotia Bank cinema while it was happening, the quantity of smoke was insane, was hard to breath even outside and down the street.  Was surprised to see it was just 2 three story buildings.  And agree, was the best neon sign in the city even if I am not a fan of strip clubs, should be replaced!
My first strip club experience was there when I was 18. It was magical. RIP.
How horny were the men in there, exactly?
Honest question but what was the super sexe when it was opened? Was it a strip club, a sex shop or something like cinema L'Amour?
There is a surprise.
No f*ckin way!!!!
Hope that the employees find decent work out there
Aw man. Club Super Sexe. The only time I went there, I only had 10 minutes, and I think I made a mistake; I picked the soup!
Montreal should commission a larger replacement more garish than the original.  They could put it anywhere.  They could move it around.
RIP to a Montréal landmark
Saw my first lesbian show there.
With two other dudes.
3:2 is an uncomfortable ratio.
😔
Meeeeerde!
RIP the roast beef buffet lunch 🤣
Ça existe depuis longtemps ça, on appelle ça un "parc"
Tout sauf du béton
"Ainsi, sur des lieux tels comme le terrain du Centre de services scolaire de Montréal, on pourrait retrouver des logements sociaux, des jardins communautaires, un centre de la petite enfance, des parcs et espaces de loisirs ou encore des commerces administrés sous forme de coopératives."
Donc des coop de condos et de services en mode coop plus que des parcs. De la gestion commune mais locale.
Comment dire que tu n'as pas lu l'article sans dire que tu ne l'as pas lu
Welp, pour une fois, je suis d'accord avec la critique d'Ensemble Montréal
>« Ce que la mairesse omet de dire concernant une éventuelle promenade riveraine sur les berges du fleuve Saint-Laurent, c’est que ce projet demeure de compétence fédérale. Voilà maintenant près de 10 ans que ce projet est dans l’air. La Ville peut être un partenaire, mais c’est la société des ponts qui a le dernier mot. Il s’agit d’un autre coup de marketing de Projet Montréal qui lance de fausses promesses à tout vent », a réagi l’attachée de presse de Denis Coderre, Elizabeth Lemay.
C'est tout à fait vrai. [Je suis déjà tombé sur un article en 2019 parlant du réaménagement.](https://www.lapresse.ca/actualites/grand-montreal/2019-07-01/apres-champlain-la-reconquete-des-berges) C'est quelque chose qui était déjà prévu. Que Projet Montéal soit élu ou non, ça va se faire.
La question serait de savoir comment ça pourra être intégré à la trame urbaine actuelle, et comment on pourrait mettre le site en valeur pour le transport actif.
Ensemble Montréal pourrait promettre la même chose, c'est pas le terrain de la ville de toute façon. Je vais voter pour Projet Montréal quand même mais c'est effectivement une annonce un peu opportuniste.
Ce terrain demeura difficile d'accès malheureusement avec les nombreuses voies ferrées et la cour de triage dans le coin.
Tout le monde promet bin des affaires...!
Merci pour l'info!
>Que Projet Montéal soit élu ou non, ça va se faire.
Oui... et non.
En fait, oui le projet principal part de la société des ponts, mais c'est quand même pertinent que les partis politiques municipaux se prononcent sur comment le tout sera "encerclé" par les aménagements de la ville.
&#x200B;
Mais oui, y'a un peu de marketing politique là-dedans. Je pense ceci dit que Coderre est surtout agacé de pas y avoir pensé avant.
Il est accessible par les deux extrémités. Il y a déjà des pistes cyclables sur la rue Riverside/Pierre-Dupuy puis à l'autre extrémité c'est la piste cyclable qui se rend à côté de l'école Monseigneur-Richard à Verdun. À partir de là on peut se rendre au canal Lachine ou continuer jusqu'à Lasalle (et Lachine) en suivant la piste qui longe  déjà le fleuve, et qui est fort jolie.
Ça donne une façon de contourner la piste du canal Lachine pour se rendre au pont Champlain à partir du vieux port/vice-versa.
EDIT: Il y a même déjà une "bretelle"/jonction de piste cyclable qui est en train d'être aménagée à partir de celle qui passe entre le pont de l'Île-des-Soeurs et l'école secondaire Monseigneur-Richard. J'imagine que c'est ce qui permettrait l'accès à partir de Verdun et du pont Champlain. Ça ferait une "autoroute" à vélo qui longe Bonaventure. Ça offre effectivement rien de grande valeur entre les deux, mais ça permet une alternative au réseau cyclable déjà existant. Si c'est déneigé en hiver en plus... mmmm.
EDIT2: [Si vous voulez plus d'infos sur le projet.](https://numerique.banq.qc.ca/patrimoine/details/52327/60818?docref=1M99A9dVIK5wfx5691AquQ)
Exactement. L'idée est super, mais si la promenade n'est pas facilement accessible sans voiture, bof.
Si je suis élu, je promet de nommer des étoiles après chaque individu qui vote pour moi!
Aussi, je promet un hyper loop de Montréal à Vancouver.
Pourquoi vouloir s'y rendre un voiture? En plus on peut facilement stationner une voiture près de l'entrée du pont Champlain pour accéder à la future promenade. Sinon c'est possible de se stationner dans le vieux et de louer des vélos ou d'aller y marcher, comme c'est un peu le but de la chose.
Quelle idée saugrenue de vouloir un corridor de nature et tasser une autoroute mais l'aimer seulement si on peut s'y rendre en voiture.
[Quelle belle nature!](https://i.redd.it/9kxd5prggwu71.jpg)
C'est exactement ce que je dis
Oh en effet toutes mes excuses, j'ai lu trop rapidement.
Bref, regardes les plans proposés, quelques rues seront déplacées et ca va possiblement rendre le secteur *un peu* plus accessible. Mais déjà l'idée d'un lien cyclable et pédestre entre le pont Champlain/Verdun et le vieux est intéressante même s'il y a pas grand chose entre les deux. Puis la distance entre les deux est pas très grande, à peine quelques km.
C'est à refaire de toute manière alors tant mieux si on peut quand redonner accès à rive sur quelques km même si c'est accessible seulement par les extrémités.
La Petite Voie du Fleuve est accessible seulement par Ste-Catherine, l'estacade et le parc Jean-Drapeau et pourtant ça fait un endroit agréable à parcourir et visiter. C'est pas *si* difficile d'accès malgré tout.
EDIT: J'ai justement essayé de comprendre un peu le plan.
On propose une nouvelle rue qui traverse le chemin de fer à Pointe-St-Charles et irait rejoindre le nouvel aménagement.
>Une nouvelle voie (rue A) est également proposée  afin de relier la rue Carrie-Derick au site des anciens ateliers du Canadien National (CN) permettant ainsi un accès direct à ce secteur sans utiliser le réseau local. Ce lien devient le principal accès routier au Centre de foires, advenant son implantation dans les anciens ateliers du CN, et permettra aux résidants de Pointe-Saint-Charles d’accéder au futur réseau vert destiné à remplacer l’autoroute Bonaventure le long des berges.
Voir [cette image.](https://i.imgur.com/giubTB3.png)
I barely made it on time to shoot this image after being bamboozled by the Montreal busses on 4 separate occasions (never using google maps for busses in Montreal ever again).
Gear and details:
Sony a6400
Tamron 28-200 at 140mm f5
1/800s
ISO 800
I have an alternate version of this image in infrared on my instagram:
https://www.instagram.com/big_potate/
Full resolution images and prints:
https://www.picfair.com/users/big_potate/albums
OP try the transit app,, it's really accurate
So beautiful. One thing that is cool about montreal is how old buildings such as churches can add a lot to an otherwise relatively single height area of town.
Awesome picture. That's my Montreal.
I believe that's tier clock tower on Laurier in Outremont at the bottom too right?
Beautiful
My ❤️
I can see my flat from there, such a nice picture. Walking on Saint-Viateur when the sun sets is amazing.
[deleted]
I just moved into this neighborhood yesterday!  Thanks for the beautiful picture!
Where did you shoot this from?
Had a friend recommend it to me after, installed it but haven't used it yet since I only use the metro for my commute
Recommended!
Yep it is
Church of St Michael and Anthony on the left (google maps just calls it "Polish Church" lol) and Saint Édouard church on the right.
From the North-eastern lookout on Mont Royal
It has subway time prediction too
Thanks - Nice shot.
Finalement, Crescent absent de douchebags
Remarquez l'absence de la couleur orange. C'est apaisant.
Where is this?
Such a stark contrast of old and new, great perspective
Jolie avec les tours derrière
une des plus belle photos ici!
Nice picture!
Amanazing picture. Thank you for sharing 😀
Leonard!
Mais complètement vide. C'était à quelle heure?
omg what's that mural?? who is it???? it's beautiful!
This is actually a great photo, not just for what it shows, but also for what it doesn’t; if you were to take the photo from literally 15 seconds away, on the corner of de Maisonneuve and Crescent, it’s not at ALL this nice. 
Lately, it’s been a cesspool. 
The angle of this picture is clever because it hides that ugliness behind natural obstacles. Very nice!
Its very strange to see Crescent this empty. I left Montreal last year so I only saw a bit of the pandemic there, but I would have thought it'd be bustling again now with everything open.
Ça aura pris une pandémie.
Downtown near Concordia
2 p.m!
That’s Montreal’s own, Leonard Cohen! 😊
Et pourquoi il y a une murale de Spock?
Fuck,
 Je suis un vieux boomer et j'ai travaillé au centre-ville toute ma vie. Ça m'attriste profondément que le centre-ville de Montréal soit en train de crever. 
J'ai toujours pensé que c'était le coeur de Montréal. La COVID et la destruction de Sainte-Catherine vont l'achever.
Hein?? Une murale là?? Je l'ai jamais vu, de quoi tu parles?
Il en a eu 45 en 2019 et 42 en 2020.
est ce que ca compte les feminicide qu'il y a eu? encore un autre il y a pas longtemps?
Ok?
[deleted]
On fera pas les playoffs a ce rythme là!
id imagine that murders of women would be counted in the murder statistic.
Ok
Les deux sont correctes. Tes nombres sont de la ville de Montréal, puis les nombres d'OP sont du CMM.
Sur statcan, mais c'est pour la grande region de Montreal et non seulement l'ile. [Source](https://www150.statcan.gc.ca/t1/tbl1/en/tv.action?pid=3510007101)
Intéressant. Considérant qu'au total la CMM est plus du double de la population de l'ile, ça veut dire que les banlieus de Montréal ont pas mal le même taux de criminalité que l'ile.
great shot!  looks like a hollywood still from The Faculty ❤️
très cool ! c'est ou exactement ?
Cool to see the paint wearing so well. I suppose a new condo building will be covering it up again soon?
et galerie qui n'a plus de mur....
Pointe st Charles rue Charlevoix
Oh! Mon premier apart était dans ce bloc. 
Je crois qu'il y avait eu un meurtre à ce garage?
Charlevoix coin Reading
So what exactly has Coderre been doing for the last 4 years?? It says ALOT about the guy where after losing in 2017 he went off into the shadows to lick his wounds and did not involve himself in municipal politics at all (correct me if I'm wrong on that one) and suddenly sees an opportunity and voila! Heeerrrrre's Coderre!
My point here is that Coderre is in it for himself and only him. As we've seen he'll say WHATEVER to get votes. To compete with Plante and Project Montreal he's suddenly very green, throwing out green projects that he knows are complete bullshit coming from him. I will vote on Valerie Plante and PM ANY DAY over Coderre's corrupt style of politics.
La lumiere qui ressemble a un halo au dessus de sa tete est magnifique dans le context.
Pourtant il ne devrait pas avoir honte. Être la petite bitch d'Evenko, des Molson et de la pègre est aussi un vrai métier.
Les pots de vin ça parait mal sur un rapport d'impôt... /s
en v'là un un red-flag
" ...Denis Coderre also founded his company in April 2018, a numbered company which, according to the register of companies, is a management and consulting company"
That tells you everything you need to know. First, it's a "numbered company". That means that instead of being called "Coderre Inc." or whatever, it's official name is something like "911095-2893 Inc". You use that method when you don't want to be easily found or noticed.
Second, it's a management and consulting company. Consulting is politician talk for "I scratched your back by passing legislation beneficial to your company. Now you scratch my back by paying me for "consultation"".
Crapule
>Balarama Holness a refusé de dévoiler ses actifs. J’étais étudiant et sans emploi [avec] un revenu très faible, nous a-t-il déclaré.
A l'entree de l'epicerie tantot, il y avait un travailleur pour Balarama Holness qui donnait des cartes postales 4 couleurs disant de voter pour Holness et son equippe.  C'est inusite, pour en dire le moins, pour un candidat a la mairie de depenser des sommes d'argent semblables dans mon petit coin de Montreal.
Alors, ma petite question: D'ou vient cet argent?  Le seul qui gagne si Holness remporte 10 ou 15% des votes: Denis Coderre.  Les votes pour Coderre sont coules dans le beton, ils ne changeront pas.  Mais les votes pour Valerie Plante sont changeables.
Probablement Guy A Lepage qui lui a dit de faire ça
Pourquoi le public voudrait savoir les revenus de Coderre? C'est son revenu personnel ca ne vous regarde pas
À ce que je vois, Radio-Canada est dans le dernier droit de sa campagne pour faire réélire soeur sourire.
He was working at Stingray. Source: coworker
I wish i lived in mtl just to vote against that POS.
I liked Coderre a few years ago. Actually at the beginning of his mayor tenure. However the Formula E fiasco, and the stupid cell phone while driving thing among other, just proved to me that this guy will never admit any responsability for anything. We know other people like that in the public space, and it never ends well...
Thanks! I’m really having a hard time deciding who I dislike more VP or DC. You summed it up nicely…
coderre was councillor for two years for the FIA, a lobbying group for the automobile industry run by the former CEO of ferrari.
Le maire de Montréal, et être là petite bitch de Molson. Name a more historic duo!
L'impôt s'en fou, tant que tu les déclares pour qu'ils puissent avoir leur cut.
Loin de moi l'idée de défendre Coderre, mais le fait qu'une société choisisse de  conserver sa dénomination à numéro n'a rien à voir avec le fait de vouloir rester anonyme. La dénomination à numéro est même l'option  "par défaut" quand tu incorpore une société. 
Les informations sur l'actionnariat d'une société à numéro sont quand même publiques. Il y a mille et une façons totalement légales pour que ton nom n'apparaisse pas  au registre (utilisation de fiducies, regrouper l'actionnariat dans une société étrangère qui n'a pas à apparaître au registre, etc.) mais le fait d'utiliser une société a numéro n'est pas un indicateur de fraude ou de vouloir se cacher. Coderre a inscrit son propre nom en tant  qu'actionnaire alors qu'il aurait été facile et légal pour lui que ce ne soit pas le cas.
It just means he had to put his money somewhere. You notice Denis Coderre because it’s Denis Coderre. He doesn’t need the marketing of giving his company a name.
merci pour le partage!
Excellent video comme d'hab!
J'ai bien hate de voir les autres puisque l'UQAM est la seule uni ou j'avais deja mis les pied.
With the exception of wearing masks, the remaining restrictions in places where the vaccine passport is required are arbitrary and capricious. 
If masked, fully vaccinated people cannot gather to dance today, what is going to change between now and when they can, and when do we anticipate this medical miracle?
Experts who say "we need to wait and watch" at this point should be aggressively pushed back on. "We need to wait until when? We need to watch for what?"
Israel a tout ses clubs de nuit ouverts et sans masques.. 
À pleine capacité à voir leur vidéos.. 
Pourquoi cette interdiction au Québec? Le risque est le même
So you never danced while pressing your body against your partner?....
Do you plan to never press your body against anyone else for the next 5 years?
Why can I press my body against random strangers on public transportation, in the bell center or other indoor stadiums, at the Tam Tam festival, in a gym, at the hockey rink, but not at a dance floor? 
This feels almost like something out of a religion, we can't allow xyz reasonable-sounding thing because from there it's just a hop, skip and a jump to adultery
>This feels almost like something out of a religion
Nope, pressing your body against someone els is an expression you should learn. Cheers!
"Bon deal!" *Fondation cracks* "je veux que le gouvernement paie pour les réparations". 
As a tax payer I am absolutely against using public funds to pay for this type of shit.
Ben oui.... à cause des changements climatiques!! N'importe quoi!!! Les nids de poules aussi, tant qu'à y être?!?
Make sure you have some Halloween lighting outdoors to attract the beasts. It's easier for kids to see that you're ready to give out candy. Normally when you're out of candy you turn off those lights as a sign that you're all out.
Let them ring the door and give it to them yourself by putting it in their personal loot containers.
It's perfectly fine to interact with the kids, ask them what their costume is if you don't know, compliment them if you find it particularly well made/funny/scary. 
You're evening will start around 17:00 with the very young children and go to around 21:00.
Start slow, norm is 2 pieces of candy per child. Increase the amount you give over time if you think you have enough, usually around 20:00.
If you have any left at the end, around that 21:00 time and you don't want to keep it for yourself, it's very important that you leave all of it out in a bowl. It's glorious for kids to find that bowl on their own.
And have fun!
Here's what not to do: no handful of shelled peanuts, no pennies, no molasses candy, no apples, no toothbrushes, no raisins. When I trick or treated in the 80s, these weren't rare.
My rule when I was a kid and passed on to my daughter: house with no jack-o-lantern 🎃, means a house with no candy.
I also do 2 pieces per kid.  At the beginning you’re dropping candy into empty bags. Don’t feel bad or compelled to give more. By 7pm you’ll have kids struggling to lift the bags because they’re so full. Maybe drop down to 1 per kid if you’re running low
I always put out a sign so I don’t get visitors at 10 ~ 11pm (yes, some older kids are in it for the long haul)
Quantity of candy to give: if you're one of those rich people that gives out full sized candy then one is enough. 
If you're handing out small format chocolates or candy bags then 2-3 per children.
If it's the individually wrapped candy then a small handful. 
You can leave a bowl out with candy if you don't want to answer the door for each kid, just don't leave it completely full (refill it every so often) because some dick will inevitably grab the whole thing for themselves.
we lived in a non-halloween celebrating country before we moved here also!  
i take our kids out (they were SHOCKED at the prospect of people giving them candy the first year we went). my husband refuses to participate and so he hides in the basement with all the lights off and watches sports :D  as a result, our house doesn't give out candy, so i make up little baggies for the neighbour kids (there's only, maybe 8 of them) and i've delivered them already.   
in general, depending on where you live, there will either be a TON of kids or very few. you can tell what kind of neighbourhood you have by how many houses near you are decorated.  a lot of parents take their children to certain neighbourhoods BECAUSE those neighbourhoods go all out for halloween.  
in any case, as others have said; if you want trick-or-treat kids leave your lights on and some sort of decoration to indicate you are "open"   
they will ring or knock and you can drop some candy in their bag.  the whole reason i take my kids out, is that it's a good way to meet people who live near me.
Halloween is my favourite “holiday” I love giving back all the candy I took when I was a kid
There is 1 simple rule when you give in MTL, since it'll be dark very soon in the afternoon :  
&#x200B;
Outside lights on = you are a candy giver.  
Outside lights off = you are not giving candy
Anyone else used to have a couple houses in the neighbourhood that would hand out a can of pop?
My experience is that kids LOVE the mini bags of chips or cheezies!
Edit:  Waiting until the last minute to buy halloween treats might see a reduction in variety available, but retailers have usually reduced the prices.
Take the time to hand them out or just dont give them. Bowls end up stoled in the first hour so. 1 to 2 candy is fine, a lot of people give more, but as a kid I would always end up with more than what was reasonable. Don’t hide needless or free drugs and you should be fine.
Keep a bowl by the front door. As for quantity, I suppose it depends on how busy it is. I  don't like running out. That being said, it usually turns into huge fistfuls by the end of the night because I've rationed too tightly lol.
My husband chases kids who ring our door with an ax and then they get a fun size snickers. Its a good time. 
I usually have treats ready and pre portioned for quick distribution because having strange kids at my door makes me anxious.
Yes, bowl near front door at the ready - maybe have some small change also for anyone collecting for charity
I usually give 2 mini chocolates per kid however I give 5-6 when inspired by the kids/costumes
Interacting is at a minimum other than a quick happy halloween wishes or cool costume
As to the candy itself, individually wrapped is necessary.  Most parents will sort though the candy and throw out anything that is not wrapped.  Also best to avoid anything with peanuts.
Decorations to let people know your your participating.  It certainly doesn’t need to be fancy
The candy is up to you, but 2-3 pieces a kid is plenty.
I’d suggest keeping a bowl by the door just to make things easier.
You can also just leave a bowl of candy out, and generally people aren’t greedy, only take a few pieces
It depends where you live, if you live in an extremly populated area then give 1 or 2 at max pieces to each kid, if it's in a farm town give a small handful. Also keep your lights on, that's a sign that your giving out candy and stuff, when lights go off you either arent participating or your asleep (some religions dont participate some people just dont like to participate) people mainly put a bowl out when they're not home. Enjoy
some people give one or two, some give a handful, some give little baggies and some will give nuts or grapes
Lot of newcomers don't realize how pervasive the tricks can be.  If you're giving out bad candy the kids will trick you.  
You may find flaming bags of dog poo on your porch, don't step on the fire you're going to get poo on your shoes.
Instead use the flames from the flaming bag of dog poop... To keep the little beasts at Bay.  I suggest using a stick to pick up the bag of poo and using it as a torch.
I highly recommend getting a lacrosse stick, this will be used to catch eggs that are being thrown at your house... With proper training maybe in a couple years of Halloween you'll be able to catch the egg without having it break into your face... This is peak candy giving mastery, catch the egg in the lacrosse basket and simply hurl it back at the nearest child.
Make sure in the morning to check your engine under the hood, be sure that your brake line is not been clipped... 
The only way to ensure the children aren't going to play tricks on you during Halloween is to give away good candy... We're talking full chocolate bars, toblerones, gumdrops, it's almost assuredly guaranteed that if you give away Tootsie pops you're going to get tricked... Nobody likes Tootsie pops.  
You might think it's a good idea to give Reese's peanut butter cups away but every once in awhile you'll have one of these Neanderthal children that's allergic to peanuts and they're going to play a Dandy trick on you.  We're talking catfishing in your wife, stealing your identity, bank fraud... Stay away from peanut butter candies.
You might see one of these little rascals with a UNICEF box very important to give them full $100 bills or the tricks are coming.
^ this guy knows.
Exactly that
Also thanks for giving candies. I feel like Halloween has been less and less popular in the last few years (even pre-pandemic)
Apportez votre stylo noir ou bleu, ou crayon à mine!
taux de participation : 38% ?
Il pleut, y'avait personne ce dimanche le 31 vers 13h. Je recommande.
[deleted]
[deleted]
Question peut-être naïve, mais pourquoi?
I say 30-35%
Let me be downvoted along with you: Don't worry about him, there are plenty of car lovers in this city. They're just stuck in traffic instead of redditing.
Coderre will make sure your kids can't afford a home here in 20 years. You can't make the argument that they are both meh with a straight face, it's not true. They have very different platforms and one of them is much better than the other.
> she is also hard on the eyes and is a woke social justice warrior that is useless
Per usual, right-wing conservatism and misogyny going hand to hand.
Hard on the eyes? That’s really one of your criticisms? Looks like we spotted the incel
À cause des mesures Covid, les crayons à mine fournis sont à usage unique et sont jetés ensuite. Pour éviter le gaspillage, il est bien d'apporter le sien! Aussi, le choix de stylo se limite à bleu ou noir, car toute autre couleur peut être un signe distinctif permettant d'identifier l'électeur.
Coderre is openly corrupt and has a punchable jambon face.
Or at least less bad
Valérie plante won’t make housing more affordable. Maybe if only by curbing the appeal of the city and making it an undesirable place to live in. 
Coderre is also very capable of doing that all by himself too.
[deleted]
With a side order of antivax to complete the combo
[deleted]
>punchable jambon face.
Haaahahahahah! C'est tellement le bon terme!
I think macroeconomics are above what she can control (the costs are exploding in every city in the world at the moment, read more newspapers).
But she is proposing a plan which I believe has a much better chance for success than "let the free market regulate itself", which is what Coderre is basically saying. Like, there's no debate, his catering to developers is dog shit for the city.
I'm so impatient to try the Adirondack!
If I went to New York, the train would be a no brainer if you factor in all costs, but the fact it takes 10 hours is ridiculous.
I know this is Amtrak and we have no control, but cut out most small towns on the route (I bet most riders are between MTL and NY anyway) and finish off whatever needs to be done for preclearance (which is both sides' problem).
My girlfriend visits family in Boston fairly often and the 5-6h drive is usually 8h because of the border. If we want to make these modes more attractive than the car, we need to get these done!
Ton vote à l'élection provinciale sera beaucoup plus cruciale pour le français à Montréal que n'importe quoi qui se passe en politique municipale.
> Est-ce qu'il y a une différence entre Coderre et Plante sur leurs discours et actions sur la défense du français? Est-ce qu'un autre candidat se démarque à ce niveau?
Les enjeux linguistiques vont surtout se gérer à Québec, et non à la mairie de Montréal. Pas vraiment de marge de maneuvre sur lesquels Plante et Coderre peuvent agir, en ce qui concerne la langue. Probablement pour ça qu'ils ne se sont jamais vraiment mouillés sur ce sujet lors de la campagne.
Quant à Holness, il rêve en 14 dimensions technicouleurs s'il pense qu'il a une chance de convaincre le gouvernement du Québec de changer le statut de la Ville à quoi que ce soit d'autre que ce qu'il est en ce moment. Il vend de l'huile à serpent, en est très probablement parfaitement conscient et est bien là-dedans. Exploiter le vote des néopartitionnistes montréalocentrique pour avancer ses prospects de carrière en politique - mettons qu'il y a pire façon de procéder.
En ce qui me concerne, la politique municipale n'est pas mal qu'un cirque.
On doit à Plante et Cathy Wong le premier plan en matière de valorisation du français à Montréal.
Sur le plan du Français, Plante et Coderre sont pas hyper différents.
Y'avait desjardins, mais Holness l'a dévoré tout rond donc voilà.
Plante est la seule candidate avec des mesures pour la protection du Français dans sa plateforme. Pour cette raison, elle a mon vote.
Montreal is a bilingual or even trilingual city no matter how hard politicians try to say otherwise
Plante a mis en place un plan de valorisation du français à Montréal.
Coderre va rester assis sur son steak et rien faire pour défendre le français.
Il y a une grosse différence entre dire que les gens parlent plusieurs langues à Montréal et vouloir dire qu'elle est bilingue pour permettre à des gens de renier le fait français de Montréal.
Et c'est grâce à la loi 101. Sans ça, Montréal deviendrait une autre copie de métropole anglophone nord-américaine. Tout se rapporterait à l'anglais et la ville perdrait ce qui la rends unique au monde, le fait qu'elle soit la plus grande métropole française hors-France. 
Je comprends pas l'entêtement de certains montréalais à vouloir angliciser la ville, comme si le fait que Montréal soit unique au monde était une tare.
Toutes les villes sont multilingues.
Ça ne change pas que Montréal est une ville dont la langue officielle reste le français.
Et ce, même si ce simple fait anodin déclenche les élans francophobes.
Montréal est une ville multilingue dont la langue commune est le français.
What is the third language? Is the third Italian, Arabic, Spanish, Creole, Chinese, Greek or an Indigenous language?  Something else?
Celui qui va dépenser le plus au sujet de quelconque langue perd mon vote carrément.
Agreed. Et j’aime Montréal comme ça.
Je suis pro-Plante, je pense effectivement qu'elle fera une meilleure job.
Mais ce n'est pas sur ce plan que Coderre est particulièrement à chier. Il a H. Parizeau dans son équipe qui veut travailler là-dessus beaucoup.
All
Of the above. I’d say Arabic and Spanish has a higher speaking population over Italian and Greek these days. Not many young Italians speak it or their parents anymore. Same with Greek..
Donc Holness n’est pas une option pour toi
Plante a Louise Harel dans son équipe.
L'équipe pour défendre le français à Montréal, c'est Projet Montréal.
Desjardins était le vrai champion, mais il ne se présente même plus.
So…. Montréal isn’t trilingual?
Sûrement mais il ne l'était pas de toute manière.
>Je suis pro-Plante, je pense effectivement qu'elle fera une meilleure job.
Je suis littéralement d'accord avec toi. Je nuance seulement en disant que ce n'est pas LE point faible de Coderre.
Plante me fait pas particulièrement trippé mais ce gros jambon la me tappe tellement sur les nerfs.
Il y a quelques semaines ils ont eu un cours débat sur les ondes du 98,5 et il essayait juste de dénigrer l'équipe de Plante et de lui faire la moral alors que lui même manquait énomément de respect.. 
C'est un menteur, un hypocrite et un imbécile qui a autant d'ambition pour le bien des citoyens que la marde que j'ai chié ce matin.
GOSSANT
One thing that's terribly inefficient is your ad blocker.
Toutes ces publicités de Coderre partout font que je me questionne réellement sur le financement de son parti. En effet, avant le début de la campagne, il y avait des articles de journaux qui faisaient état des centaines de milliers de dollars de dette que traîne Ensemble Montréal comparativement au trésor de guerre de près d’un demi-million de PM. Pourtant on voit des pubs de Coderre dans tous les journaux, les réseaux sociaux et autres supports. D’où vient tout l’argent pour mener une campagne de publicité de ce genre qui coûte très cher. Deux choses l’une, soit PM utilise vraiment mal chaque dollar ou bien Coderre a une source intarissable d’argent. Pourtant les dons sont plafonnés à 200$ par personne en année électorale… 
Ajout: article sur le financement des partis: Je vous recommande cet article de La Presse : Dette de 424 000 $ pour Ensemble Montréal https://lp.ca/d0eEPb?sharing=true
venant du gars qui chiale qu'on s'attarde trop à sa personnalité iiih boy
Le smog affecte la mémoire des Montréalais, ça a l'air... revoter pour Coderre.... ciboire.......
J'ai donné un surnom à Denis Coderre: "Business"
Parce que c'est la seule chose qu'il a en tête: faire des affaires avec des entrepreneurs multimillionnaires pour faire fleurir leur business dans Montréal, au détriment des résident, de leur qualité de vie, de l'image et du patrimoine de la ville.
Il s'en fout que le Mont-Royal soit caché par des grandes tours de condo de luxe au centre-ville. Il s'en fout que lesdites grandes tours ne vont aucunement contribuer à la densification de la ville puisqu'elles seront majoritairement des tours d'habitation de luxe à usage presque unique d'investissements et ne seront pas habités. Et il se fout que tout ce que ça va faire est contribuer à l'augmentation du prix de l'immobilier. Car, c'est bon pour la "business".
Il se fout aussi qu'un terrain à proximité de résidences, qui aurait pu avoir une vocation de parc naturel dans un quartier populaire, soit transformé en grande cour à container avec des gros camions qui vont y circuler jour et nuit et qui vont empester le quartier, faire de la poussière et une tonne de bruit pour tous les résidents autours, car c'est bon pour la "business".
Il s'en fout qu'un stade de sport au complet soit construit aux frais des contribuables au profit d'un riche promoteur d'équipe sportive, qui aurait pu se le payer lui-même, car c'est bon pour la "business".
Il veut encourager la venue d'encore plus de gros évènements organisés, encore par de riches promoteurs et entreprises, au détriment d'activités de quartiers qui peuvent stimuler l'économie chez des petits commerçants, parce qu'il veut mettre Montréal "sua map", car c'est bon pour la "business."
Il s'en contre-calice de la densification des quartiers comme Rosemont, Mercier-Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, Verdun, La Petite Bourgogne, Saint-Henri, Pointe-Saint-Charles, le village, le Plateau Mont-Royal où il y a plein de vieux immeubles en décrépitudes qui pourraient être transformés en blocs d'habitation modernisés de 4 à 6 étages et qui pourraient aider à densifier la ville pour de vrai. Ou que de très grands espaces pourraient être convertis en parc pour donner la chance aux habitants de la pleb d'aller se reposer un peu et faire des activités de plein-air. Parce qu'en vérité il n'en a rien à fouttre.
I hated him before, but now that he's trying to look like austin powers I hate him derisively.
COMPÉTENT
yo c’est agressif
Gettin some weird [Mussolini vibes](https://4.bp.blogspot.com/-Bi15CzneDxI/V2R6d9gdpHI/AAAAAAAAKYk/zNUX_bX0GHIzuAnLWaE2HztCAw-l6AisgCLcB/s1600/The%2Bheadquarters%2Bof%2BMussolini%2527s%2BItalian%2BFascist%2BParty%252C%2B1934.jpg) from this.
lol, that's terrifying. 
It might be actually be a mistake, but "page takeover" ads are actually a thing. They're meant to do exactly what they did in this instance, make you notice the ad because it stands out so much.
Trying to convince people of what he's not.
Ya un faux sourire de face de bouette
So tired of seeing his smarmy face everywhere
Pour moi ce sont ces pubs a la radio où il se montre comme le messiah de Montreal par rapport a la securite pis ces nouvelles pancartes qui misent sur le sentiment dinsecurite des gens en associant coderre avec securitaire. Gros trump vibe
Sibole y'auraient pu au moins diversifier leurs créatifs. Je travaille en pub et je pense sincèrement pas qu'on approuverait un habillage épouvantable de même
Every ad from Coderre makes me more and more likely to vote for Holness
My gawd🤣🤣
his high school councillor makeover cringes me out
Come on, stop it with the stabbings!
Is it just me or have things become really tense? It feels like everyone is looking for a reason to fight. Even I've been feeling more on edge, especially driving, it's like a free for all.
Seriously. I saw 2 guys yesterday on Milton, throwing bikes at each other. At 4pm. I don't know, breathe deeply, go take a walk, ejaculate, do something for fuck's sake.
Is it me, or things are getting crazier out there ?
[deleted]
개병신들 많네
Time to ban all the knives! If it looks sharp and pointy ban the knife!
[removed]
Thanks to you the problem is now fixed.
[deleted]
People have always gotten into fights, at the close of bars, over drug deals, domestic disputes etc. The difference is that people carry and use knives now. 
The media wouldn't report on fist fights so that's why the jump is so significant.
Yea I noticed this too
>go take a walk, ejaculate, do something for fuck's sake.
Done. What now?
Crazier than when? It was a hell of a lot crazier than this in the 70's.
I live in this area and have been for the past decade.  Perfect description of that building.  Since it's a women's shelter, there have been no issues.  Back when it was a crack house filled with the area's first nations, it was hell to live around here.
Just have one question.  What do you mean by Nazareth house rents the basement apartments.  I think they only rent to women with backgrounds similar to what the shelter caters to.  
I've been a little freaked out since the stabbing in the St-Marc tunnel, but now, I dunno.
What a hero
Finally!
https://starecat.com/content/wp-content/uploads/isis-stop-it-like-for-real-stop-she-did-it-she-ended-terrorism.jpg
I completely believe you...
Knives are a new hip weapon that people are starting to carry and use nowadays.
>Tous les candidats s’accordent sur un fait: la pandémie n’a pas arrangé la situation dans l’arrondissement de Montréal-Nord.
>
No shit, qui s'attendait qu'une pandémie règle quoi que ce soit.. gardé les gens confiné, la perte d'emploi vu la situation, etc... ça n'allait sûrement pas amélioré la situation.
Faque combien de millions on devrait ajouter aux 680 que le SPVM reçoit déjà pour améliorer la situation exactement?
Will Prosper, hahahaha
Si crédible.
Un coup de téléphone au gang de rue dont il a lui-même fondé fera l'affaire pour abaisser la violence.
Coderre est pas content que ses mauvaises actions du passé ont été rappelées à la mémoire de la population avant le vote...
-Se plaint d'une campagne «sale»
-Continue sa bullshit misogyne de "lunettes roses" qu'il répète depuis 2017
Ok, Denis.
Je vais aller voter aujourd'hui finalement, je pense. C'est le temps de le remettre aux vidanges.
Mon vote par anticipation pour Plante aujourd’hui. You go girl
C'est pas la campagne qui est sale, c'est Coderre qui est un gros dégeulasse.
Venant du gars qui arrête pas de dire que la nouvelle administration sait pas gérer un budget a cause du déficit alors que lui était bon pour gérer ça alors que l'administration présente a eu a gérer le covid, c'est pas trop crédible.
"Pig covered in shit complains about mud slinging"
Awaille à maison pour de bon les barniques.
Toute son équile de EM à Lachine est assez pathétique, ce fut 2 mois de salissage complet et non-discret, il n'a que lui a blâmer.  C'est un peu débile la haine de propagée, tout ça pour des ti-bateaux a la base...
Coderre est vraiment passif agressif et désagréable au niveau personnel, cette année.
J'aime pas Coderre, mais je ne comprends pas le lien entre "lunettes roses" et misogynie...
Ça dépend comment tu vois la gestion du budget, incluant les mesures covid. C'est correct les déficits et il va toujours y en avoir, reste que certains ont le droit de trouver la gestion actuelle ou passée discutable, covid ou pas. 
En ce qui me concerne, en plus de payer des taxes, je suis aussi un payeur d'impôt. Quand je vois le municipal investir des millions dans des pistes cyclables pendant la première vague d'une pandémie en justifiant que c'est pour aider à la distanciation, avant de se retourner et d'aller demander au provincial de l'aide pour financer ses programmes d'aide aux entreprises qui souffrent, j'ai le droit de trouver la gestion des priorités douteuse. C'est mon exemple à moi, sain, de justifier que mes priorités n'ont pas été les mêmes que l'administration en place pendant la covid. 
Des situations douteuses en rapport au budget, il y en a et il va toujours y en avoir, et les priorités ne seront jamais les mêmes pour personne. Cependant, l'attitude en ce qui à trait à l'analyse de cet aspect (fiscal) est bien souvent sale, il faut en convenir. C'est trop façile de justifier le trou du budget par la pelle de la covid, et c'est ce genre d'attitude qui est malsaine selon moi.
Il ne faut pas oublier non plus que nous sommes en campagne électorale et que tout est malsain en partant, à commencer par la partisanerie qui s'empare de cette élection municipale à Montréal, ce qui est normal, mais qui tombe aussi trop souvent dans le salissage de part et d'autre par sa présence médiatique accrue, et ça aussi je trouve ça malsain.
Conservative attacks are always projection.
Bien clairement il y a une tendance mysogine quand il prétend que la vision de la mairesse c'est une vision licorne et rose. Je peux bien croire que des gens croit que PM c'est des pelleteux de nuages mais de marteler que Plante voit tout en rose c'est clairement une tentative mysogine pour faire croire que seul un HOMME comme lui peut gérer la ville. Alors qu'elle la surement mieux fait que lui quand il en a eu la chance. Il n'appuie pas son argumentaire sur ses compétence mais sur le fait qu'il est un homme.
C'était son dogwhistle préféré en 2017 pour ridiculiser les positions de Plante et le concept même d'une mairesse de Montréal
Je suis tout a fait d'accord de questionner l'administration du budget de la ville et en toute franchise je ne sais toujours pas pour uqi je vais voter. Ce que je déplore c'est que Coderre a employé des phrases un peu vide juste pour critiquer vision Montreal et là il se plaint que la campagne était sale. 
Cette attitude est décevante spécialement parce que ca me rappelle l'ancien Coderre qui écoutait pas et faisait juste ostraciser ceux qui étaient pas des yes men. 
Sinon je suis absolument avec les points que tu apportes et en effet on veut pas que le Covid ait le dos trop large pour la fiscalité de la ville.
Je le vois plutôt comme une façon d'attaquer quelqu'un qui a une idéologie plus à gauche. QS se fait qualifier ainsi, incluant Nadeau-Dubois... Je ne pense pas que ça soit misogyne.
En 2017, Plante parlait de la ligne rose comme si c’était d’autres choses que de porter des lunettes roses. Il y avait matière à l’accuser de pas avoir les pieds sur terre.
Que ça soit son attaque préférée, ok, je comprends (et ça c'est faible comme attaque). Mais est-ce qu'il a vraiment fait un lien entre "mairesse" (le poste) et "lunettes roses" ? Ça m'étonnerait.
La majorité des arguments contre Plante sont du sexisme caché. Elle sourit trop, elle voit la vie en rose, elle est hystérique, elle sait pas gérer un budget... Ça sonne comme quoi à ton avis si tu prends du recul?
Pas mal sûr que GDN se fait pas mal moins associé aux lunettes roses que Manon Massé et les autres femmes de QS.
Ça veut pas dire que Coderre est volontairement sexiste, mais il est vraiment rapide lorsque vient le temps d'associer Plante a des caractéristiques associées aux femmes et négativement connotées. Du genre les lunettes roses (trop rêveuse pas assez sérieuse) ou encore le fait que Plante est pas sérieuse parce quelle rit (wtf) ou qu'elle est pas assez solide pour se faire écouter (c'est sûr qu'avec tous les coderres de ce monde, ça aide pas).
Y'a beaucoup plus de sexismes qu'on pense en politique.
Hello once again, as a gesture of thanks I wanted to post the finished product of my work since some of the folks on here were interested in it. I want to thank those whom directed me to the much needed source materials, they really helped be grasp the mental gymnastics that was this pavilion. In addition, I learned about a fascinating event in Montreal's history and got inspiration for future projects from expo 67. For some context I had only about a week to finish the project from start to finish and such the recreation isn't perfect as a result. Though I am happy about how it turned out. The objective of the assignment was to recreate the wooden truss structure of the pavilion and do structural analysis on it. About 99% of the project is chipboard and bass wood (the only materials I was allowed to use) and lasercut to get the geometry correct. This project was a challenge but a fun one. 
The past post: [https://www.reddit.com/r/montreal/comments/qcflcb/need\_help\_finding\_this\_pavilion\_in\_montreal/?utm\_source=share&utm\_medium=web2x&context=3](https://www.reddit.com/r/montreal/comments/qcflcb/need_help_finding_this_pavilion_in_montreal/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x&context=3)
Great follow up OP that's a cool maquette
Thanks for coming back, impressive model !
Montreal has a long and rich architectural history that pre dates and continues well past expo 67. From the many basilicas &churches to Saint Joseph's Oratory , Roger Taillibert(Olympic Stadium), Ludwig Mies van der Rohe's Westmount Square . Bank of Montreal's main Montreal branch at Place d'Armes(John Wells 1847),UDM Roger Gaudry Building by Ernest Cormier to name just a few and if you want to include landscaping you count Mount Royal Park designed originally byFrederick Olmsted who is best known for central park !
The McGill School of Architecture is over [125 years old](https://web.archive.org/web/20200115133125/https://www.mcgill.ca/architecture/school/history) making it  of the oldest architecture schools in North America and the training ground of a fair number of [well known architects](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/McGill_School_of_Architecture#Notable_alumni_and_faculty)
&#x200B;
tl;drGreat work, come for a visit …pack a camera and sketch book (tablet?)
There will always be a welcome mat laid out for you when you are ready to come to Montreal for a nice visit.
Thank you! I’m glad you posted your finished project, looks pretty cool.
cool.
Tanks for taking the time to share the finished product!
Je vois le panneau à partir de chez moi, c'est déjà pu là.
lol
lol
Let's fucking go guys
Bonne initiative.
Désinvestir c'est du théatre - ca change rien a la demande pour le pétrole. On en brule pas plus ou moins selon la valeur bousiere des producteurs.
Pics or GTFO :)
Sa change leur capacité de développer d'avantage. Les industries pétrolière dépend fortement aux investissements de tel sorte...
Mettons que la RBC se déinvesti. Le prix baisse, le rendement du dividente augmente, qqun d'autre va acheter. De toute facon, avec les taux d'intérets présents, aucune pétrolière ne va vendre des actions pour se financer, suffit d'emprunter, c'est pratiquement donné.
Même dans un monde imaginaire ou les pétrolière canadiennes disparaitraient, d'autres pays combleraient l'écart. On ne peut pas régler le problème en blocant la production, faut le régler au niveau de la consommation.
Sauf que ce même investissement peut se faire dans les énergies renouvelables.
Je croix que tu comprends pas le point. Les ecolo ne disent pas de fermer les porte au pétrolière, on dit d'arrêter des financiers. Ils peuvent continuer sur leurs propres profit. Aussi faut réaliser que la seule raison pourquoi que les industries pétrolière au Canada on même une chance de vendre le pétrole le plus dispendieux à extracter sur toute la planète, c'est parcequ'on leurs finance. Si on leurs finance pas, cette matière devient trop chère pour extracter et la compétition vas aller a l'arabie saoudite (ce qui c'est passer deja au court des dernière 20 ans). C'est pas pour fermer les porte qu'on dit de arrêter des financiers, mais pour donner cet argent qui vas au pétrole à des industrie durable (comme mentionné par l'autre commentateur, peux tu expliquer pourquoi tu pense que les énergies renouvelables devrais pas être les receveurs de cette argent?). Fermer les portes causerait une énorme crise économique et sa ralentissait notre capacité d'approcher ce problème.
De ta logic, le changement climatique ne sera jamais résolu. La majorité des consommateurs ne peuvent pas acheter de chars electric et ou prendre des décision qui vas aider la planète parceque c'est absolument pas affordable et/ou l'information nécessaire pour prendre c'est décisions est complètement cacher. En plus avec le constant greenwashing (avec des impacte non seulement neutre mais négative) c'est extrêmement difficile pour un consommateurs de prendre ces décision. De mettre le pris sur les consommateurs c'est non seulement de forcer des gent à payer pour ce qu'ils ne peuvent pas payer, mais sa l'excuse les actions des industries pétrolières qui nous on mis dans une situation où des milliards de vie (si tu est capitaliste, des centaines de milliards de dollars) sont en danger. 
Faut aussi reconnaître que les industries on pris la décision dans les années 70 de tué la société en but de faire du profit pour le temps qui reste. Literallement, ils on angager des groupe scientifiques pour déterminer le danger, et quand ils on eu leurs réponses (qui a pas changer depuis) ils on pris la décision de cacher la réalité et de compétitioner contre eux-mêmes. Si on peux charger les compangies de tabac pour avoir fait exactement cela, il est certain qu'on peut au moins arrêter de donner de l'argent pour gratuit aux énergies fossiles. 
Je ne dit pas que les consommateurs devraient rien faire, mais qu'au moins si la société serais capable de fournir des option rejoignable pour tout le monde sa cerais possible. Ce qui nous arrête est plus de 100 ans de mensonges (chars electric pas performant, énergie renouvelable non performant, la  religiosité fondamental des suporteur de capital) qui a forcé la société, par la monopoli, à avoir seulement des choix qui enflembe le problème.
no entendi perdon no le se, me enseñan?
On déborde de capital, c'est une bien mauvaise excuse je trouve.
Au siècle dernier on pouvait peut-être mettre la faute sur le manque d'information, mais je pense que ca fait 20 ans au moins que ce n'est plus le cas.
>peux tu expliquer pourquoi tu pense que les énergies renouvelables devrais pas être les receveurs de cette argent?
Fausse dychotomie, ce n'est pas parce qu'un fond d'investissement n'investit pas dans le pétrole qu'il va investir dans l'énergie verte. Comme je j'ai déja écrit, on déborde de capital. Si ailleurs on ne construit pas assez de solaire/éolien/nucléaire/hydro c'est beaucoup plus par NIMBYism que par manque de capital. Bien entendu, au Québec, la question ne se pose même pas, on est pratiquement 99% électricité verte, reste a convertir le parc automobile, mais on a un bon taux d'adoption.
Podría enseñarte pero tengo que cobrar
Dude, je sais pas si tu a vue, mais en 2021, la fausse information (du côté corperatif autant qu'individuel) est plus que jamais en hausse. Tu va pas gagnier celle lâ, je te garanti.
 Sais vrais qu'on est bien placé au quebec, avec un taux d'énergie renouvelable incroyable! Par contre la crise climatique vas continuer. Et le Québec (Montréal, Québec, Trois-Rivières) sont en énorme danger économique causer par la monter du niveaux marin par exemple. "Mitigation Mode" est la manière qu'une nation bien placer comme le Québec devrait agir pour assuré sa durabilité dans le ciecle qui vient. Voudrais tu donner plus d'argent pour préparer notre futur à la voix des fait (problème économique, écologique, et sociale), ou donner la même argent à des personnes qui vont vouloir fair plus de dommages pour leurs propre bien?
Est tu capitaliste? Voudrais tu continuer à fair du capitalisme? Qu'est-ce que tu dirais si tu réalise que le capitalisme est en péril parcequ'on peut pas faire de capitalisme sans un environnement qui produit les biens? Investir dans le changement climatique devient la seule action nécessaire pour assurer la continuité de ce système intrinsèquement exploitatif mon chum!
Duuuude pourquoi tu penses que si quelqu'un veut des moyens efficaces, c'est qu'il est contre une cause? Cette attitude est malheureusement tellement répandu chez les écologistes, pas étonnant qu'on fasse si peu de progrès.
quand ai-je déjà dit ça? En fait, mon argument suporte l'idée que les individus, comme non responsables, ne devrais pas être forcer à avoir seulement des choix inefficaces pour leurs vie quotidienne en vue de résoudre le problème climatique. Toi tu dit que les consommateurs sont responsables à prendre des bon choix. Donc tu est essentiellement entrain de dire que si quelqu'un prend des décisions plus efficaces, à les frais du climats, qu'ils sont entrain de pas prendre leurs responsabilités...
Very iconic indeed
Choc post traumatique
YES, I LOVE IT! I want to open a store similar to the ampelmännchen store in berlin, but instead of the little guy in the pedestrian signals, its a store with different object in the shape of orange cones
Please tell my you have a hat!
Whoever wears that, can I ask you to stand somewhere for a while?
Ponto would wear that for sure!
Bonus: ça peut aussi servir de costume de "sashimi de saumon le plus fucking fat de l'atlantique"  :D
C'est vraiment bien réussi.
Took me a second... but what you did there...I see it.
Lmfao nice one :p
whoever wears this and gets his ass ran over is for sure not getting a dime from the insurance. :P
Belle idée, mais ça ressemble plus à du saumon vue de très près.
I didn't realize this was r/montreal so I was zooming in to see if there was a city skyline or something to figure out this "landmark" 🤦‍♀️
A lot of people are correctly pointing out that it looks like salmon sashimi. Any advice on making it look more like the cones?
Si Montréal avait une équipe sportive, ce design devrait être celui de leur uniforme.
VLC
I love it! How did you tie it for the pattern? I'd like to make one too.
Great for saving a parking spot for a friend, just wear and stand.
Camouflage
Bravo!
The one thing I always found weird about this site was the pavement in front and the parked cars.  They should have some nice landscaping instead and park the cars a bit away from the center.
Beautiful shot.
Awesome shot but what's that big ass hole they digging up in front for?
Magnifique.  Merci du partage
It looks like shit, too bad they tore it all up looking for bodies smh
It was an expansion/renovation. There were indigenous remains on the site, they needed to be evaluated and removed. Then covid hit, there were zero tourists for 2 years. Construction company had already been paid, however cost over runs, and they have no money left over to finish the renovations. I'm sure they are focusing on the new observatory up top first, which brings the tourists, which brings the money.
This abomination really needs to be converted to the T of a giant MTL.
Jesus’s cross wasn’t iced out like that in my elementary school catholic classes…
Nouveau Riche
OP!
Care to share your camera & it's settings when you took the pic?
The lights make it look all showbiz close up like this. Great pic!
I’m an atheist, born and raised in Montreal. Leave the fucking thing alone! It’s a historical marker. It’s cool.
[Daytime](https://flic.kr/p/5KtB3) photo 😉
Omg what a brilliant idea! Add M & L
Certainly 😁 to be fair, I used a cheap portable mini-tripod https://i.imgur.com/tFrU8C6.jpg
Showbiz Jesus! Let it shine!
It's an ancient Roman public execution device. It's macabre.
As someone who is colorblind, this color scheme is rough
Coderre *barf*
I expect pierrefonds to be solid red this time around and a large part of Rosemont
Any projections based on current polling?
“Plante-Green”
I see why you did there…
this is incorrect, as Lasalle went with independent party (equipe lasalle)
Right along class lines... funny how that works
Ça m'étonne toujours à quel point ça fait aucun calice de sense comment la ville a des troues.
Les gens qui vivent sur l'île et utilisent l'infra de la ville devraient en faire parti.
L'argent et le vote ethnique?
Pourquoi il y a des zones blanches ?
I'm amazed at how territorial this is.  So few battleground areas.
Je me questionne sur la raison pourquoi le parc Jean-Drapeau aurait droit de vote, pareil pour le quartier industriel à l'Est du stade. Est-ce que les parcs et entreprises ont droit de vote au municipal? Ou est-ce qu'une circonscription inclue ces zones? Merci
So Montréal North voted Coderre? Interesting, as part of the debate related to Montreal North specifically.
I expect Plante to win as Holness takes votes from Coderre. I imagine in the more anglo/allo -phone areas of this map, you'll see where Holness bites into Coderre's base.
Les grands carrés sont des zones aves presque autant d'habitants que les petits (zones industriels) faut pas se faire avoir par les cartes comme ca ! Une plus grandes superficie d'une couleur est souvent trompeur (meme chose au n8veau qc ou can)
I see, downtown is telling the rest how to behave.
Is it not odd that 3 of Montreals richest neighbourhoods don’t get to vote? What’s the story there?
It's just B L O C M A J O R I T A I R E everywhere.
What is your opinion on the Coderre vs Plante? Why are you voting Plante?
Plante disgusts me.
Woke, anti-francais, anti-laicité.. Un petit 2$ que Holness va se présenter au PLQ pour les prochaines élections.
Holness took that cleanly. It's ridiculous that anyone would vote for the other two after their terrible terms as mayor.
Bon plan pour achevé le PLQ. 
C'est triste qu'on va se ramasser avec la CAQ au centre, QS a gauche et le PCQ à droite. Le débat médiatique va être concentré sur les propositions irraisonnable du PCQ ou de QS, au lieu de débattre d'idées plus centriste. La CAQ va avoir le beau jeu à dire qu'ils sont le seul choix raisonnable.
Espérons que PSPP fasse un miracle pour avoir un parti de centre gauche fort.
L’ironie c'est que de dire qu'il y a de l'anti-français et de l'anti-laïcité là où il n'y en a pas, c’est woke!
Holness is a joke that couldn’t keep his own charity from falling apart
J'ai des doutes. Ces politiques sont populaires chez les anglophones et une partie des allophones. Je vois mal le PLQ disparaitre de Montréal. Mais je le vois difficilement revenir au pouvoir maintenant que les élections ne sont plus "référendaires".
J'viens d'accepter une offre pour une nouvelle job! P'tite augmentation de salaire mais je passe de temps plein à 4jours/sem! Tabarnak ça va faire du bien pour le mental ça de moins travailler
Chronique d'un enseignant au secondaire : bon la fameuse journée de l'halloween à l'école... Le moment où je passe pour un pas fin car je donne des cours/évaluations au lieu de faire comme plusieurs de mes collègues qui profitent de la journée pour passer des films aux élèves. Sans blague ça avait de l'air d'un cinéma dans l'école en après-midi.
Je me suis déguisé, j'ai acheté des bonbons à donner aux élèves mais crime on perd tellement de journée dans l'année (sans compter qu'on se remet difficilement des deux dernières années) que je ne peux pas décaler le tout encore d'une journée. Est-ce que c'est moi qui est trop old school?
Have you ever woken up to a nightmare?
(Gather round boys and girls. It's story time)
Woke up this morning and headed for the bathroom.  On my way, I walk face-first into a cobweb thread dangling from the ceiling. 
Gross!
As I'm washing my hands I feel my shoulder itching. I look at my reflection in the mirror and see a couple of small red bumps on my shoulder and another couple of the top of my arm. WTF is that?
I take a closer look and the bumps are about the size of a pinhead.
My head is also itchy. I find a bump there and another one in the back of my neck.
I have no idea what those bumps are but they itch like mad.
I go back to my bedroom and open the blind. There is a baby spider on the window sill. I open the window and fling it outside. 
As I turn around I can now see dozens of these little cobweb threads dangling from the ceiling.
I can make out a concentration pattern towards my closet.  I walk to my closet, with my hands in front of my face, this time, so I don't eat the cobwebs.
I open the closet door, turn on the light and look around. Sure enough, there is an open spider nest in the ceiling corner of the closet with 6-7 baby spiders walking about.
Not looking forward to giving all of these little creepy crawlies a one way trip to Dyson world tonight. Will have to empty the closet, move all the furniture and vacuum floor and ceiling.
I'm pretty sure I'll be having nightmares for the next few nights and be itchy all over.
I wish you guys a happy Halloween weekend.
Hoping we have a ton of kids at the door this year.
J'arrive de mon shift de surveillante à l'école. Je me suis déguisée en Axl Rose. Deux petites filles sont venues me demander en quoi j'étais costumée (normal, leurs parents devaient être ados quand Guns était le plus gros band au monde) mais le kicker, c'est le kid qui est venu me demander pourquoi j'étais pas déguisée!!😂 Non, je m'habille pas en cuir des pieds à la tête avec deux kilos de bracelets en temps normal!)
Pis j'ai appris à un mini Michael Jackson à faire le moonwalk!
To the guy in the Mr. Incredible costume biking on St-Denis this morning as I left the gym, I hope you have a fantastic day.
[deleted]
Le vendredi, c'est ravioli.
Cette semaine, j'ai confectionné un costume de fantome pour mon kid de 3ans. Oh boy... never again.
Are there ANY McDonalds on this island where I can get a McCrêpe?? The bagels have come back but still no McCrepes at any of the ones I've checked. I'll take a communauto to Laval or Blainville if I have to - this is getting desperate!
edit: closest one I've found so far is in Ottawa.
Vaccin contre la grippe, c'est fait, ça fait moins mal que celui contre la covid  
Un peu surpris d'avoir eu un rendez vous cette semaine. (clic santé dans une pharmacie au coin de la rue).  
J'pense que je suis bon pour un bout d'avoir à me faire piquer.
Ma mi-session est terminée et la faut que je me concentre juste assez pour pas prendre de retard. Ma job va fermer pour le mois, vrm content, car j’ai vrm besoin de cette pause pour me reposer et relaxer. Sinon, la routine quoi
where are the pet halloween photos!?
Does anyone know if the big skating rink will be set up in parc maisonneuve this year or was that just a covid thing? I really hope so, it was so nice! I can't find any info online, just last years dates. I got my skates sharpened and am so ready for winter!!
[deleted]
Je suis dans la même situation. Quand j’ai dit à mes élèves qu’on fait du travail ils étaient déçu. J’ai même des élèves qui mon dit qu’ils vont pas venir lundi pcq ils ont des party dimanche soir…L’Halloween est le fun mais c’est pas une journée de vacance. Je suis prof de science sec 4 et on tellement de chose à couvrir et à rattrapé à cause des deux dernières années, j’ai pas beaucoup de temps à perdre malheureusement.
😱
Ahhh this is a literal nightmare!
> . Ya passé l'été à chier des tacs quand il entendait des grillons.
Ça fait 5 min. que je ris.  Merci
physical fitness
Solidarité!
>j’ai même des élèves qui mon dit qu’ils vont pas venir lundi pcq ils ont des party dimanche soir…
Faut vraiment que ces jeunes là revoient leurs priorités. Sans compter les parents qui vont probablement motiver leur absence...
C'est définitivement la responsabilité des parents. Dommage de constater de telles situations.
[deleted]
En fait il va être fermé chaque fin de semaine dans une direction ou l'autre jusqu'en décembre pour les travaux préparatoires.
Pour le reste on ne sait pas encore.
Je peux vous promis qu'il va avoir un méchant bon bloc de choses quand ç"arrive en plein forme avec tous la masse du couer.
Absolutely. If anything now is the time for massive investment
The public transit is one of the things that I love about the city to the point where we just moved next to the metro so that I could sell our car.  I was hoping they would talking about investing more into the transit instead of less.
On a related note if you want to see a real good series on how to make effective city planning I really suggest the [Not Just Bikes](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0intLFzLaudFG-xAvUEO-A) youtube series.  It really got me thinking of a few places that could really be improved in the city.
Well, it's not good news but it's not bad news. It's just what the provincial government should do anyway. Good on them.
What scared me however is that I clicked the video linked in the article, with Coderre saying we need to rethink the STM. He says the STM was wasteful by maintaining full services during a pandemic. So I'm sure all essential workers had cars and subsidies to call Uber and taxis in order to avoid spending money on public transit to move the citizens still essential for society to function. If the STM would have done like private coach companies, they would have reduced services, packing the remaining departures with even more people, and making social distancing impossible, until it's just not profitable enough and simply cut all the services on the line altogether.
I know because I needed to get to Drummondville a few times last year and fucking Orléans Express simply cancelled **all** their stops there. There's no profit in it so fuck the people that didn't have any other options anyway.
The STM and the ARTM have maintained services and it allowed people that still needed to use public transit to move around and practise social distancing. Reducing services would have crammed more people into remaining buses and trains and be more dangerous during a pandemic.
Coderre's next sentences trying to whine on the STM were not even coherent, just dropping buzzwords like "pink line", "electric buses: bad", "we pay for nothing". It's so bad, I can't stand hearing him talk. 
And I'm afraid that if Coderre is re-elected, he will continue to criticize and privatize the STM to give priority to the REM and private entities.
i feel like the word deficit is very misleading when you consider the money the government saves from less cars on the roads and the money they make from helping businesses around the metros themselves
When it comes to something like mass transit, the question must be, is it worth a deficit to provide this service?  I think the answer is yes while agreeing that they should try to minimize that deficit
However, if the alternative is charging the user more or having less service, I'd rather live with the deficit because it is a service that is both essential and should be universal to people of all incomes.
agreed im mad when the bus is early or late, but im happy their is a bus though.
>The public transit is one of the things that I love about the city to the point where we just moved next to the metro so that I could sell our car.
Lots of people share this opinion. It's in fact why housing is getting so expensive. There are relatively few transit-oriented areas so people need to compete to live there. We need to keep investing to preserve this quality of life.
The pandemic has really shown how irresponsible neoliberals are, eh?
Ça me fait chier parce qu'on paie des milliards pour subventionner l'automobile, mais c'est considéré comme une "perte" si le transport PUBLIC n'est pas rentable? À quoi servent nos impôts si ce n'est pas pour payer pour des services publics?
To be fair Stm, Cit, Rtl did reduce service during the pandemic and again in 2021. They didnt stop completely but some bus stops were removed temporarily, less frquent busses, less frequent subways.
Not sure about Stl and other networks since i dont use them often.
>Coderre saying we need to rethink the STM. He says the STM was wasteful by maintaining full services during a pandemic.
I haven't taken the STM since March 2020, but did they really maintain full service on all the busiest lines too? I assumed that there'd be a bunch of empty 105s and 165s and that they could scale them back during rush hour at least without any noticeable impact on service. In the old days there'd be 105s back to back to back and they'd all be full.  
I do agree cutting on lines that are already infrequent would be awful. You don't gain much taking a line from every 20 minutes to every 30 minutes but it completely screws over everyone who relies on it.
We had pretty good passenger train service until all the highways were built. When my family came here in the post war years they would take the train often then got forced into buying a car… one of 6 on the block.
Careful, the media isn't designed to show its readers that there's such a thing as nuance or complex situations! You'll break their brains!
Yes, but have you ever seen a business paying STM because their store is near a metro station?
Oh Coderre has been showing his irresponsibility and incompetence well before the pandemic.
Payer les bonus chez Bombardier
The STM at first drastically reduced service, and the result of that was insanely crowded buses for the people who still had to go out during the first lockdown.
no they didn't maintain full service. 
I have two friends working for the STM (one metro operator and the other bus driver). They stopped hiring new drivers/operators. They didn't replace those leaving. They kept the holidays/weekend schedule pretty much all the time when everything was in lock down. 
I applied to work at the STM as a bus driver in 2018. I started the process in 2019. It stopped in 2020. No news since then.
thats not how it works, the metro stop helps businesses make money, businesses making money helps the economy, the economy pays for the metro
He is quite competent at promoting the interests of his constituents. You are a business or corporate entity right?
Attack of the trees
There was a pretty violent wind storm a couple days back.  Some older trees will have cracked.
Person six feet under: "Tree's blocking my view of CDN"
ah bin calisse.
Il va pleuvoir: les arbres volent bas.
Vous avez jamais vu des arbres tombés? Lol
Il y a présentement un absolument inexplicable nombre des arbres tombés autour de Lille de Montréal. Personne peux l'expliquer. C'est un mystère confondant.
Les arbres sont assez vieux. Comme on ne les remplace pas, ils finissent par tomber d'eux-même.
Thank you for explaining why this is happening.
Il aurait du appeler ça le "Club de Basket Montréal" avec un logo de flocon de neige /s
I just want to make sure that this is the league which broadcasts it's matches on CBC sports? If so, sign me up. If much rather watch homegrown talent than waste my time with the NBA.
https://www.cbc.ca/mediacentre/press-release/cebl-cbc-sports-announce-2021-broadcast-schedule-on-air-talent 
Should be on CBC next year I imagine
On pourrait juste construire un immense condo pour engloutir l'île au complet et sauver du temps.
[Just a reminder, this is currently considered "regular/light traffic" on Decarie, they are not addressing the crazy influx of traffic this project will create in the area](https://www.google.com/maps/@45.5011132,-73.663297,3a,60y,161.18h,71.46t/data=!3m6!1e1!3m4!1sAffJXcYFtqmTwf7jnymTSQ!2e0!7i16384!8i8192)
[deleted]
(sérieux)  
Qui voudrait aller vivre là.
~~Centre-ville~~ Griffintown-nord
~~Westmount~~ Griffinmont
~~Hochelaga-Maisonneuve~~ Nouvelle Griffintown
~~Pointe-St-Charles~~ Griffin-sur-le-canal
*Judge Dread enters the chat*
C'est comme ça que je pensais éliminer l'itinérance à Montréal !
Mais ils s'en foutent. Je ne comprends toujours pas pourquoi le gouvnerment du Québec n'est pas intervenu dans ce dossier.
IMO it’s about time that Cavendish gets extended, it’s the most feasible traffic mitigation measure and Royalmount & Blue Bonnets are going to make the area hell without it.
(Yes I know it’s been spoken about for 50+ years, but with these two massive developments going up we need some type of mitigation)
The traffic there will always be ridiculous. At a certain point, adding more will just encourage more people not to drive and to take public transit instead (see [https://www.wired.com/2014/06/wuwt-traffic-induced-demand/](https://www.wired.com/2014/06/wuwt-traffic-induced-demand/)).
To be honest, I don't see why TMR should be prevented from making a new development at Royalmount when no one cares about all the traffic Blue Bonnets or all the developments out west or on the north shore will generate. No one is screaming at Vaudreuil to pay towards expanding the 40 each time they authorize a new residential development.
Si on pouvait $#@ rejoindre Cavendish. La moitié du traffic embarque sur ce troncon pour prendre la 1ere sortie, des épais dépassent par la file ce qui bouche 2 voies.
The whole area is gridlocked almost 24/7. Until they extend ~~Decarie~~ Cavendish (which still probably won't be enough) they shouldn't develop a damn thing.
Even if you're not pro car, it's such a choke point for people going from so many places to so many others that it needs to be resolved just for the sake of all the wasted hours of human life.
thats been ongoing there even before the construction project. I drive it everyday and I have not noticed a marked increase late 2019 and now.
That area is <<NEXT TO>> a public transit dead-zone lol. I used to work around there on the north west side of the 40. It's either bike or car, forget about buses. 
Edit: thought the condos were farther, my mistake! See corrections below
[deleted]
Cet secteur là est bouillant de potentiel existant et proposé.  Il y a 650 condos + townhouses a CitéMidtown, en plus de Quinze40, Sax condos, Kubil TMR, SmartUrbain, etc...   Sans oublier le potentiel de Blue Bonnets, de tout plein de condos sur St-Louis dans Ville St-Laurent et du triangle de CdN.
Pour beaucoup de gens, habiter proche des axes de transport autoroutier majeurs est un atout dans leurs déplacements.  Ce n'est pas tout le monde qui doit se diriger vers le Centre-Ville quotidiennement.
Il y a une station de métro à coté (De la Savane). Le plan est de faire un mix de commercial et résidentiel qui va permettre au gens de vivre sans voiture. C'est un très bon projet comme il en faut autour des stations de métro qui sont sous-exploité.
Speculators, out of towners moving with their cars, older suburbanites?
My guess.
Hochelaga-Maisonneuve c'est déja rendu "vieux Rosemont".
Encore mieux, chaque "quartier" de ce condo géant qui couvre l'ile auraient des petits noms insignifiant de projet immobilier.
*I* am willing to play squash against you.
C'est Holness qui va décider de la mairie, c'est pas croyable...  c'est le Mélanie Joly de 2021!
&#x200B;
Continue de voler des votes a Coderre, MERCI BIG!
La différence c’est que les électeurs de Plante sont beaucoup plus motivés pour aller voter. Je prédis que beaucoup de pro Coderre resteront à la maison.
1 allophone sur 5 qui vote pour Holness...
je me sent comme les americains qui devaient choisir entre trump ou hillary
pas grand choix su'l menu
Coderre se plaint souvent que Plante et Projet Montréal n'ont pas autorisé le vote postal pour les 70+ et qu'ils font juste ça pour enlever des votes à Coderre. Ce sondage suggère pourtant que Plante et Coderre sont à égalité chez les aînés et que cette excuse là est donc bidon.
Bref, ta yeule Denis. À la limite, il aurait fallu offrir le vote postal à tous les groupes d'âge. Mais bon les jeunes votent moins pour toi alors faudrait pas les aider à voter...
Holness reste un non-candidat. Ce fameux "momentum" que ses supporteurs cherchent à prouver tarde à se matérialiser à une semaine du vote. C'est une bonne chose.
MOUHAHAHA!!! Les Montréalais vont tellement réélire Coderre!!! Le smog affecte la mémoire, ça a l'air!!!!
God...more than anything, I want this election to be as close and as controversial as possible.
...peut pas croire que des gens voteront encore pour Plante - bâtard. Elle va juste continuer de ruiner et détruire la ville.  Maudite limite a élargir les trottoirs, réduire les routes, éliminer les stationnements et des travaux perpétuels sans fins.  
On est pas dans un village - Montréal est une ville internationale - wake up !!!
BYE BYE PLANTE! 🪴👋
Honnêtement, il vole aussi des votes à Plante (chez les anglos/allos pro définancement de la police par exemple).
J'ai hâte de voir si Thibodeau va percer. Pas de médias, il est pas approuvé par "le club", mais son électorat "grassroots" est très motivé.
mais les voteurs de Coderre sont plus agés et eux votent beaucoup plus que les jeunes où Plante recoit 42% des intentions de votes
Est-ce que y'a des infos sur les élécteurs certains de voter dans ce sondage?
Edit: oui, avec un léger avantage pour Coderre sur ce point. Plante et PM vont devoir travailler fort pour faire sortir leur vote.
et j'espere qu'il y en a plus...
Hillary's way worse than Plante.
Voyons donc. Plante et Coderre sont bien mieux Trump ou Clinton.
Freedom of choice but nothing to choose from
That's democracy!
Sauf que clairement j'aimerai mieux Coderre que Trump ou Hilary 😅
Giant Turd vs. Shit Sandwich
vive south park!
Spooky!
Mes amis de la rive sud se sont achetés quelques disques avant la pandémie, on a joué quelques fois et honnêtement c'est vraiment cool! À St-Jean-sur-Richelieu la municipalité a transformé un parc semi- forestier adjacent à une résidence pour personnes âgées en parcour de disc-golf, 7 "trous" (but-filet) il me semble, après les pressions d'un groupe de citoyens (des joueurs). C'est nice de voir des passionnés pouvoir réaliser des projets.
Mais pour répondre à ta question, ils ont acheté leur stock sur la rive-sud, pas Montréal. Je vois pas de boutiques spécialisées dans la grande ville sur les internets.
Ouin, idem pour moi. Je connais une boutique a Boucherville qui est dans le centre de loisirs, mais c'est plus des produits pour la natation et leur inventaire n'est pas ce je qualifierais de "sélection" 
J'essaie d'éviter de faire Montreal-Sherbrooke-retour pour une plus grande sélection de disques mais ça a l'air comme ça.
Is Holness and Coderre working together? Because they keep tag teaming against Plante.
I open it up to Coderre calling himself the candidate for change. 
Even after closing the debate immediately, I've still wasted my time watching it!
Holness clearly took that. Insane that anyone would even consider voting for the other two clowns after seeing their terms as mayor.
[https://youtu.be/aDHnKmTf108?t=2900](https://youtu.be/aDHnKmTf108?t=2900) , trying to understand why Plante is so agressive toward Holness gesture.
Talking about ice removal also, sorry but nothing got really done, it's mostly the same and snow removal sectors were merged mostly meaning companies got  bigger routes with the same amount of equipment. GPS or not to track which routes were done won't change nothing if the people at the city who make the sectors don't know well the boroughs.
I won't even mention how the corruption got worse because of that.
It’s a slow motion track wreck
Not a fan of any of them, won't vote.
Un débat en anglais dans une ville de langue française.
I can't stand Coderre, but it seems natural that opposing candidates would target the incumbent most.
Wait so Montreal's economy is bad, and Coderre will fix it. But then when Plante says that Montreal has the best "relance economique" in the country, the mayor is not responsible for the economy. Wait, which is it?
Have you ever seen a federal debate?  Trudeau is basically the anti Christ and everyone must vanquish him.  Was the same for Harper, Chretien etc.  The incumbent always takes a beating at the debates.
Unpopularity opinion here. But she’s trying to play the victim again. Anyone else notice how she was constantly pointing her finger at Coderre at the tva debate.
Im shock that snow removal corruption and productivity is not even talked about, i guess we can't expect much of a change in the years to come from the city itself until the borough start to eliminate snow contracts bidding.
Anglophones exist and vote.
Le drapeau de Montréal a des symboles pour les autochtones, français, anglais, irlandais, et écossais.
Of course one of you had to come out of the woodwork.
À quand un débat en espagnol?
Yes, but for Holness, it would have been better to try to take the "challenger" spot from Coderre than to simply attack Plante.
But at the same time they are ideologically the opposite so I would assume that he would attack coderre more but oh well, i guess they are closer than i thought
Plante a raison là dessus.
Pretty much. AFAIK, snow removal became a bigger mess under the current administration. In the district where I live, Benoît Dorais - the turncoat prick made sure things got worse when we needed snow to be removed in the last 4 winters. And now that we have that stupid cycling track undercutting the number of available driving lanes right on St. Jacques street, it WILL get even worse during the upcoming winter.
Seriously, fuck Projet Montréal regardless.
L'escalier va sûrement être fermé 2 ans pour réparer le bout de rampe tordu.
Maudit castor de montagne.
L'escalier devient inaccessible parce qu'il n'est plus sécuritaire
Retirer l'arbre tombé : 17 millions
Réparer la ferblanterie : 28 millions
Réparation estimé Août 2026
Réparation effectuée Juin 2032
Remise en fonction Août 2032 après l'approbation de la CNESSTQCMTLVMR avec l'accord de la Ville de Longueuil et du département de pompier du plateau mont-royal.
Makeshift limbo bar
Ah bin calisse.
il vente en sale.
C'est un signe du nouvel ordre mondialiste
Y'a missé une marche...
r/bigfoot
Du extra challenge pour les gens qui s'exercent sur le mont royal.
Boum Poteau!
Ça fait partie de la piste d'hébertisme, beau, bon, pas chère, de la ville. Le parcours se poursuit dans les rues. Cherchez les marqueurs oranges.
Quick harvest it and make a coffee table out of it.
Le projet sera donné à SNC Lavalin et sera *probablement* completé ici 4 ans. Merci de votre patience
Moi qui pensais qu'il y avait vraiment des castors au Lac des Castors... /s
C'est l'histoire du Petit Castor
T'as mon vote. Digne d'un maire
tous les travaux sont arrêtés, saint-lambert se plaignent du bruit des scies.
Budget 2 millions & Mt. Royal fermé d'ici a 2023...
20 ans*
Je comprends pas comment en 2021 le dompage d’eaux usées non traitées est toléré.
Il reste pas d'argent pour régler le problème une fois que la mairesse et son DG se versent leur salaire.
Les stéroïdes et les produits coiffants doivent être néfaste pour les poissons.
Il y a 2 aspects.
Le premier est que les municipalités du Qc avait jusqu'en 2014 pour installer des facilités de traitement des eaux usées. Un paquet (43 je crois) ne l'ont pas encore fait et le gouvernement ne leur iimpose aucune pénalités
Deuxièmement, les règles en vigueur sont que les municipalités ont droit à des déversements d'urgence. Les règles pour ce qui constitue une urgence ne sont pas claires et le gouv. n'est pas très sévère à cet endroit.
Enfin, possiblement aussi important, mais on ne le sait pas, nombreuses municipalités n'ont pas de système de capture de données sur le déversement des eaux usées.
[L'article dans le Devoir](https://www.ledevoir.com/societe/environnement/643095/plus-de-52-000-deversements-d-eaux-usees-au-quebec-en-2020) d'aujourd'hui est très bien rédigé.
C'est principalement lors d'orages que les stations de pompages ne fournissent pas à cause des infiltrations d'eau de pluie. 
Doubler ou tripler la capacité des stations pour traiter toutes l'eau usée, même celle diluée par la pluie, coûterait énormément cher et personne ne veut subir d'augmentation de taxes.
J'ajouterais que ces préoccupations sont toutes récentes. Bcp ne réalisent pas que ces usines ont pour la plupart été construites fin 80/début 90.
Pensez y, il y a à peine 30 ans, toutes les villes du Québec jetaient leur eaux usées dans les cours d'eau sans aucun traitement. On a fait beaucoup de chemin en environnement pareil.
Oui et non. À Montréal, des énormes bassins de rétention sont présentement en construction ou ont été construits récemment exactement pour cette raison. L'eau des orages est accumulée là puis déversée progressivement après la fin de l'averse. Le plus gros est le bassin Lavigne qui n'est pas encore en service. Il y a aussi par exemple le bassin William et le ~~bassin Rosemont~~ qui a été retapé de fond en comble il y 2 ans. En faisant ça, pas besoin de tripler le volume de l'ensemble du réseau.  
EDITH : Je me suis trompé le bassin Rosemont est en fait un réservoir d'eau potable. Il y a toutefois plusieurs autres bassins, dont un gros à Pointe-Aux-Tremble, un à Lasalle près du fleuve et sûrement beaucoup d'autres.
Il existe plein de solutions autres que l'augmentation de capacité (donc moins coûteuses) pour, surtout, empêcher les déchets solides, de déborder.
Solution très facile. On remplace le réseau unitaire (eaux usées et eaux de pluie) par 2 reseaux distincts lors des rénovations. Pas obliger de surdimensionner et les eaux vont ou elles doivent aller, c'est a dire la rivière pour les eaux de pluie et la station de traitement pour les eaux usées et industrielles.
le st-laurent devait ressembler au Lac Springfield: ton linge se dissout quand tu rentre en contact avec l’eau et produit des ecureils a 48 yeux.
Des aménagements pour retenir et ralentir la charge d'eau sont d'excellentes manières assez peu couteuses, mais ça prend du temps avant de voir des impacts réels et en attendant, Longueuil continuera d'avoir des surverses à chaque grosse pluie.
Désolé mais où est l'emplacement du bassin de rétention Rosemont ?
En passant il y a ce bassin de rétention qui a aidé grandement les gens du secteur proche du parc Garibaldi à Saint-Léonard.
[https://journalmetro.com/local/saint-leonard/598058/une-infrastructure-pour-reduire-les-risques-dinondations/](https://journalmetro.com/local/saint-leonard/598058/une-infrastructure-pour-reduire-les-risques-dinondations/)
Colmater les brèches serait l'idéal mais ca serait encore plus cher.
Les bassins de rétention peuvent faire une partie du travail mais c'est pas donné non plus et quasiment impossible à faire sans coûts astronomiques dans les endroits déjà développés.
On peut prévoir les bassins dans les nouveaux développements et essayer de diminuer l'asphalte mais je ne vois pas trop comment corriger les erreurs sans devoir payer le gros prix.
(Gros prix qui implique des travaux d'asphaltes, de tuyau et de terrassement, donc beaucoup de pollution)
Je ne suis pas contre tout ça, un fleuve baignable, c'est le rêve, mais est-ce que les gens sont prêts à payer ?
Je pense qu'il se mélange avec le réservoir Rosemont, qui est un réservoir d'eau potable, donc pas pantoute la même fonction.
Je me suis trompé, le réservoir Rosemont est effectivement pour l'eau potable. Je vais corriger.
C'est ce que je pensais.
pas contre.  
Ça prend des centre de transfert de gros camions vers des plus petits pour la majorité des livraisons.  
Aussi, faut quand même en permettre pour les grosses livraisons, ajuster les heures pour que ça soit moins encombrant possible.  
Sauf que tout ça, ça ajoute à la facture, ça prend des gens pour transferrer le contenu dans des plus petits camion, ça prend des chauffeurs.
Projet Montréal avait proposé le projet de l'îlot voyageur comme centre de décharge pour les gros camions. Je n'ai jamais entendu la suite de ce projet pilote...
Voir cet article de 2019: https://ici.radio-canada.ca/nouvelle/1173936/montreal-poids-lourds-projet-pilote-circulation-pietons-cyclistes
Purolator était impliqué aussi: https://ici.radio-canada.ca/nouvelle/1298237/projet-pilote-colibri-ville-marie
Check ben, si Denis gagne les élections il viendra dire que c'est lui qui a eu l'idée...
EDIT: ça a l'air que le projet est en marche. Totalement expulser les poids lourd ce serait pas con non plus. https://ville.montreal.qc.ca/portal/page?_pageid=7317,97041588&_dad=portal&_schema=PORTAL
If you bought it, a truck brought it.
No shit. Most of us have been saying this for years. It’s just not pedestrian safety but also emissions
One class 3 reefer truck or 8 mini vans. chose your poison.
Restaurants need supply's as do grocery stores.
Un effet de la densité qu'on omet souvent de prendre en compte. Densité de population + commerces locaux implique qu'il doit y avoir beaucoup de traffic local de livraison.
Trop de Coderre dans les rues de Montréal, disent les gros camions.
I wonder if a time restriction on trucks would be feasible. Essentially no large trucks during morning/evening rush hour
Premier truc sensé que ce bouffon a dit depuis un méchant boutte.
Ca s'applique sur toute les rues de l'îles (outre highway) ou juste le centre ville avec les alentours?
I can't wait until this Coderre parasite goes away for good.
La réalité, c'est qu'il n'y a presque pas de semi-remorques à Montréal: la grosse majorité du local se fait en cubes, straight body ou sprinters. 
L'idée de switcher le contenu d'un semi-remorque d'épicerie dans le but d'en multiplier les voyages dans des véhicules plus petits est ridicule: on a assez de pollution et de véhicules sur les routes comme ça sans être obliger d'en rajouter.
Cette affirmation électorale de Coderre vise à prendre la même ligne droite que Plante dans le domaine du "fuck les chars et les camions me font peur", afin de diviser le vote de tout ce qui chie sur le gaz sans se servir de sa cervelle. L'électeur moyen est conscient du fait qu'il ne se fera pas livrer un sofa en Bixi électrique dans une plage horaire restreinte, pas plus qu'il va payer son brocoli 8$, ni vouloir plus de traffic et de pollution.
Ce n'est pas ce qu'il disait lundi au débat.
Donc on fait les livraisons comment? À moins que... on a juste à détruire 60% des commerces!!!!! YEAHHHHH!!!!
Trucking industry is a strong lobby and slow to change. Only way to force is by legislation. Also classic “but the consumer will pay”
C’est pas mal exactement ce que Projet Montréal a déjà fait avec Colibri, non?
le probleme c'est le "circulation locale seulement" qui n'est jamais respecté.
y'a pas de raison pour qu'un 53 pieds passe sur gouin(secteur residentiel) a part eviter le traffic d'Henri-Bourassa.
faire respecter ces indications et garder les gros camions sur les boulveards serait deja une nette amelioration
Et ça fait *plus* de camions donc *plus* de pollution!....
Ca semble être uniquement pour les petits colis, non? C'est pas en vélo électrique qu'ils vont livrer la bière dans les dépanneurs...
But it doesn't have to be a semi.
À part des sections plus résidentielles à St-Laurent, Henri-Burassa est pas mal moche. Un REM sur le terreplein au milieu de H.-B. serait une meilleure Solution. Ça pourait se connecter au REM à l'Acadie et aller jusqu'à l'extrémité est de H.B. et se connecter au Métro.
I'm getting convinced that this type of BRT-Lite infrastructure (100% dedicated lanes with signal priority, that any bus line can use) should be implemented on most boulevards. This will become even more important once the rem comes online and people need to get there fast. It will only be as effective as we make the walk/cycle/bus portion of the journey  Unless we're ready to pay for rail at every 1km or so, this is the next best thing (but no, buses shouldn't be a trunk line, they should be feeders).
It's a cheap way to get high quality transit now, and it's not like we're missing road space... if the capacity/efficiencies demands it, we upgrade accordingly.
I grew up on the west island, and lack of fast buses makes them basically useless for anyone who can afford a car for residents or for those who work there. But if buses could be as fast as a car (or at least not get hung up at lights and in traffic) then we have a winner.
Pas exactement le même cout.
Agreed. That would be a big improvement for a reasonable price tag. As long as it is frequent, convenient and connections with the metro/REM networks well thought through, it is going to be a big plus for everyone. The beauty of it, is that if it is successful it could be later upgraded to a tramway/streetcar service since the right of way would have been already established.
Exactement. Là, on parle de 60 millions, ce qui est assez raisonnable.
Et ça serait déjà un gros plus pour ces quartiers-là.
&#x200B;
60k de passages par jour c'est tellement énorme pour une ligne de bus!
densité de la population dans le nord-est de la ville est asser haute, jsrai curieux de savoir le % de mon se deplancant en bus et metro VS en voitures, dans ce secteur
Surement assez élevé, malgré le fait que le métro est loin. Montréal-Nord, par exemple, c'est pas riche. Y'a surement beaucoup de monde qui ont pas d'auto et qui doivent prendre le bus/metro pour aller travailler.
Chinatown is my favorite place to go after work. Montreal wouldn't be the same without it.
It's such an awesome neighborhood - it would be a devastating blow to the city if it were to disappear :(
Really well-done; the interactive elements were especially nice.
Excellent article by the CBC
Great piece
sad to see no mention of Jimmy Chan :(
Bit of a noob question, though which candidate would be best at preserving Chinatown in Montreal?
He was on CJAD the other day plugging his new documentary. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=swZbUZsNF-k
yeah I know him personally, he's an awesome person!
The man, The Actor, The Engineer, The cook, The Sifu, The Lion Dance guru etc... Jimmy is more than invested in his community.  The chinatown "police force" is another of his doings.
This man works a LOT for chinatown, i cant think of chinatown/chinese community without thinking about sifu Jimmy, he's in like 9 out of 10 committees/associations in chinatown
Selon la rumeur, c'est Denis Villeneuve qui a réalisé le légendaire lip dub de l'UQAM en 2009
j'ai garder ce photo plusieur fois et j'ai jaimais realise. le goat directeur de notre temps.
Les universités québécoises semblent gênées de montrer leurs clubs sportifs, leurs accomplissements académiques, leurs héros.
Comme si vouloir être bon était mauvais.
Pis là on a Denis, le meilleur goaler de la ligue des As sur la glace.
*En passant, les profits vont à la bonne place pour vos achats de Noel.
Didn't realize this movie was directed by a Quebecer. I might just go see it now.
Denis, fier de ses racines ! 😎
Y a plus d'avenir que la Fille de l'UQAM.
Fier de mon alma mater, héhé
Les Simpson et l'UQAM:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d9n22HL-73k
Represent!
Too cool.
Cool!
Le plus beau CEGEP au monde ❤
An internet bot picked this up since this morning's upvote count huh
Pour aller à l'Uquouam, est-ce qu'il faut descendre à Berri-de Montigny?
I wonder if UQAM will sue him for this like they did with that onlyfans chick
S'il ne parlait que le français, il n'irait jamais à Hollywood
c'était son projet principal de cette année-là si je me trompe pas
Le lipdub de l'UQAM est facilement la meilleure vidéo produite au Québec et rien ne me fera changer d'avis.
J’en connais rien sur ça, tu peux tu partager la vidéo stp?
Pour vrai? En même temps y'aurait ben juste Villeneuve pour faire un lip dub scolaire qui se ramasse [plus de 11m de vues](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-zcOFN_VBVo) donc ça me semble très plausible.
Édith: Me suis faite avoir, la description nomme deux autres personnes à la réalisation.
Projet Montreal is still a better choice than Denis' charlatan & corrupt party.
Any progressive party who gains power will slowly concede to both keep power and implement policy that is still progressive than the alternative.
Plante est loin d'être parfaite, mais Coderre veut tout céder aux grandes fortunes de l'immobilier.
Progressives are always bitching. They also see compromise as a bad thing.
Sounds like fundamentalist Christians.
Die a hero or live long enough to see yourself become the villain :)
Yes. Vote Balarama and end this nonsense
Non, et c'est ça le problème. Ferrandez a tué le Plateau, et Plante essaie d'appliquer les mêmes politiques au reste de la ville.
She's unbearable. Voting for Balarama
Unfortunately, this.
Exactement. Ça veut pas dire que les progressistes plus à gauche ont pas le droit de se plaindre de se recentrage/d'essayer de tirer la couverte de leur bord, mais c'est normal de voir un petit recentrage lorsqu'au pouvoir.
Plante au pouvoir ne doit pas seulement gérer les tensions entre les membres de son parti (qui vont du centre-gauche à la gauche plus radicale), mais aussi celles avec les autres électeurs, les autres partis, etc.
is this in reference to chomsky?
Le plateau est mort? Ah bon
Le Plateau serait un meilleur endroit à vivre avec plus de chars???
Il a tué le Plateau pour les gens qui le traverse en char pour aller travailler.
> Ferrandez a tué le Plateau
lol. My quality of life here gets better every year. 
I'm really looking forward to the new outdoor theatre and new public park opening up this year. The upgraded children's park will be nice too, but I'm more excited for the aquatic centre they're rebuilding after that's done.
Wtf. Le Plateau est un modèle pour le reste de la ville.
I agree. They suck!
Vote for other people.
Balmara me semble moins progressiste que Plante sur plusieurs enjeux.
Imagine qualifier Plante de « unbearable  » et ensuite se tourner de bord et voter Holness, le gars le moins bearable qui existe
Sadly you see other people who want her to go away, but for what, one of the biggest crooks we've had in year? I'd rather have a mediocre mayor then the other asshole we kicked out. Coderre is a corrupt piece of shit, it's so obvious that anyone under 50 voting for him has a case of brain rot.
Pitbull account for 66% of deaths by dog attack. You people saying that pitbulls are no more dangerous then other dog breeds are ridiculous. You can't argue with statistics.
https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_fatal_dog_attacks_in_the_United_States
Wow a comprehensive list that clearly shows pitbulls kill more then any other breed. That wasn't hard to find or hard to process the information. I just scrolled through the list of all the poor souls who happened to die from dogs and something stuck out, pitbull sure make the list a lot.
Then charge the owners of the dog with the exact crime committed by the animal. Your dog killed someone?  YOU killed someone.
People argue that breed isn't the problem but the owners, then fine.  Just make the owners take full responsibility then.  
Your dog killed someone?  Off to jail for 10+ years.
Your dog killed another dog?  Off to jail for aggravated animal cruelty.
I like the literally translation from French vs breed.
Impose the owners classes to go with their dogs every 2 weeks or so for an amount of time per year. Classes where professionals can not only teach them how to raise and own their dog, but also so these professionals can look at the dog's behavior. If they disregard these classes just make the owners very very liable if their dog attacks or kills someone shit even put in a jail sentence in there. I believe this will filter a lot of the fucking douchebags getting dogs just to "look cool" that cause these dogs to have a bad reputation because they are piece of shit owners.
One of the main reasons i voted for her was to remove the absolute dumbfuck 'big dog' laws enacted by coderre, this isnt exactly news.
Breed bans are bad ideas because the breed of a dog is not what causes problems.
This isn’t a secret. The data doesn’t support breed bans. It’s why most vets are against breed bans.
Here’s [one study about fatal attacks in Canada](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2387261/). You can find similar results from studies in the US:
“The American Staffordshire terrier, the most widely legislated breed in Canada in the period under study, caused 1 fatality (Table 1). The rottweiler, a target of breed-specific legislation in fewer jurisdictions, and the husky, possibly an unlegislated breed, caused more fatalities, as did the mixed-breed dogs. The rottweilers, huskies, and the mixed-breed dogs were also represented in larger numbers.”
(Edit: lol, I'm amused that I'm getting downvoted for science.)
That great until the dog kills another person
Armes à feu, Pitbull, même arguments.
Sounds nice and fair to me.
Some people - probably fueled by some hysteria in the media - are still not aware that dogs like Pitbulls as an example are often just aggressive because of their trainers/owners.
Recently I dog sit a Labrabull and I was so surprised how gentle and playful those large dogs are if they grew up as part of a family (as opposed to a neglected dog or one with an abusive owner).
Coming from Europe I think the worst influence/media we had over there were skinheads with a tendency to own Pitbulls with the intention of intentionally training them to be aggressive (the kind of dog personality that's famous for biting and never letting go again).
I love dogs. when I was 4-5 years old up to maybe 15 yo, we had pit bulls and other large dogs. Pit bulls were the best dogs we had. 
Pit bulls (and mostly all larger breeds) may be dangerous if the owners do not know how to handle them properly. 
Doing 160km/h on the highway is not dangerous if you know how to drive at that speed and if you have the car to do it. we still put speed limit because of crazy drivers that do not know how to drive. 
Also like firearms. Firearms are not dangerous... but owners may use them in a bad way and may not be able to handle properly. thus we put restrictions in place (and we may want to restrict or ban them further). 
why would it be different for dogs? even if I don't like this idea, I believe we are at a point were we have no choice to put restrictions in place, specifically for larger breeds.
“Excellent” (proceeds to import llama to the plateau)
PLM Pitbull Life Matter
On aime les chien.ne.s
Yes! Those fracking pitbulls will be able to attack new kids and citizens!!!!
Fake on va pouvoir avoir un gorille? Un lion? Un loup?
C'est absolument épais comme attitude de la part de Plante, pour plaire aux pro-chiens meutriers.
One more reason for her to loose.
Maybe they attack just as much as other dogs but their attacks are much more lethal. That's like saying we shouldnt ban grenade launchers because there are just as many pistol attacks.
Statistics may be biased because people think pitbulls are good attack dogs: people that want their dogs to be menacing might give their pitbull a poor education which will result in more pitbull attacks, reinforcing the view that pitbulls are more dangerous.
You might not be able to argue with statistics, but if you torture the data enough, it will confess.
They attract shitty owners, people get them to intimidate others, they tend to be much, much cheaper to get compared to other breeds. Their attacks can be much more dangerous than other types of dogs. 
It's just a lot of factors that influence those statistics. Like why most prisoners in the USA are blacks when they're a minority.
Deux hypothèses:
- pur hasard.
- une façon très passive-aggressive de te dire que tes une "cr*ss de folle."
Probablement quelqu'un qui les a mis là en se disant que ça pourrait intéresser un passant, et si c'est pas le cas, ils iront au recyclage.
Si t'as une mini bibliothèque pas loin de chez toi, tu pourrais les y apporter.
Une message cachée?
Quelqu'un qui a décidé de se recycler dans un autre domaine.
Une fois j'ai trouvé un sac de balles de golf à côté de mon bac de recyclage. 35 balles exactement. Yadda yadda, j'ai appris comment dire "Titleist" de la bonne manière.
Hmmm, si tu te pose la question, ça doit être un cadeau alors... 🥸🥸😜
Ton ex?
si c'est des manuels universitaires revends les, tu peux aller chercher facilement 30-80$/manuel dépendant de l'état
Je pense pareil!
thats a face that screams "I have a legitimate job, and I earn money legally"
Bris de conditions de remise en liberté.
J'aurais jamais osé y croire en regardant son beau visage. Ya l'air d'un ange.
J'en connais un qui vas s'acheter du fond de teint pour la première fois de sa vie.
I'm minding my own business if i see him on the street
This guy looks exactly like the generic low-level criminal that gets killed by some supernatural/sci-fi entity at the beginning of the movie. You know, just some unlikeable goon that you won't feel bad to watch die.
He's gonna be hard to find with a face like that...
Un bon p'tit gars.
Ce qui est drôle c’est la description du gars. Cassez vous pas la tête dites juste qu’il à des facetats.
*The year is 2199 and rival gangs have taken over Neo-Montreal...*
J vais eviter les comment sur ca face, j ai confience en vous , you will do it better
C'mon now, maybe he works as an actor/waiter at the Haunted House themed restaurant.
hooray poor people can go to the states now!
I’m a Vermonter here only live 90 minutes from Montreal. It’s been 21 months since I have been to Canada and we have missed it so so much. We ussalt come up for NYE and my birthday which is Halloween every year on top of truly a half dozen or more sporadic weekend trips and multiple day trips. We are finally coming to Montreal this weekend and can’t wait 😭.
yesss baby
I thought they went bankrupt!
I used to take it all the time between Ottawa and Montreal, will that be the case in the (near) future?
How cheeper is it compared to flying?
My friend was a driver on this route for years. He loved spending every second night in NYC!
Is it worth taking the bus for a quick 3 day trip to NYC ?
[deleted]
That’s not good, greyhound is a horrible company
I wonder if the Adirondack train line is planned for a reopening too?
The Delta variant approves. s/
*Those who are vaxxed and who are not so poor that they can afford the PCR re-entry test (if they wish to return).
Just in time! The cones are slowly starting to hibernate 😊
Welcome back!
Happy to have you, welcome back :)
Happy to have you back! Is there any good places to visit the opposite direction? I'm from the UK and the U.S. is still novel to me, would love to visit a bit more now things are open again. Taking a day trip on a bus to the U.S. is a really fun idea.
> I thought they went bankrupt!
Greyhound shut down their Canadian division, but cross-border routes were not operated by the Canadian division.
~$150-$200 bus round trip vs $320-$500 flying
edit: also, there's no need for a covid test when entering the US by bus.
What I've done numerous times in the past is drive down to Albany, park the car for a long weekend, and take the Greyhound all the way to NYC. It's a budget-friendly and easier way to travel so you're not driving or in a bus for more than 6 hours.
(edit: deleted extra words)
That's only because the train service between Mtl and NYC is woefully deficient. Otherwise it'd be Flight>Train>Rideshare>Drive>...>Bus. And if we had a bullet train, it'd be Train>Flight>Rideshare...
Denis qui continue de le défendre... Ya vraiment rien appris hin.
C’est pas pcq tu lutte contre l’antisémitisme que t’es pas raciste mon Dan.
campagne de sallissage.... par citation.
&#x200B;
criss que je suis tanné
Parti Complotist pour l'autre gars inconnu
C’est pas mal ça au provincial et fédéral, avec le nom de la jurisdiction au lieu du mot “provincial/federal”
Parti Libéral du QUEBEC
Parti QUEBECois
QUEBEC Solidaire
Coalition Avenir QUEBEC
Federal
Parti Conservateur du CANADA
Parti Libéral du CANADA
Exception c’est le BQ et NPD
Et les pancartes, on en parle?   
Qu'est-ce qu'on s'en criss de voir leurs faces? On veut promouvoir les points forts du programme, non?
Au provincial, les partis majeurs qu'on a ont tous Québec dans le nom :
- Parti Québécois
- Parti Libéral du Québec
- Action Démocratique du Québec
- Québec Solidaire
On fait des blagues, mais de façon sérieuse, y'a pas vraiment de solutions miracles.
Un nom de parti ça peut pas avoir 15 mots dedans. Donc oui, c'est un slogan vague et rassembleur. Après, y'a quand même des pointes de programmes à déceler à travers. 
Projet Montréal parce qu'on veut développer des nouvelles idées d'ampleur.
Ensemble Montréal parce qu'on veut un coalition au pouvoir.
Mouvement Montréal parce qu'on veut que les choses changent et vite.
Pas pour rien que pour les deux plus gros partis, les noms complets qui vont être sur le bulletin de vote c'est "Ensemble Montréal - Équipe Denis Coderre" et "Projet Montréal - Équipe Valérie Plante".
Sinon y'aurait sûrement eu beaucoup d'électeurs confus qui se rappelent pu qui c'est qui le Projet, l'Ensemble ou le Mouvement..!
Moi j'aime bien le parti pro-austérité de la rive-sud, la coupe longueuil
&#x200B;
&#x200B;
&#x200B;
ok c'est beau je m'en vais
Moi tout ce que je vois c'est Crosseur Montréal, Fraudeur Longueuil, Chialeux Saint-Lambert etc
Le Parti Vert pour Plante ça serait parfait. Tagada boum!
Apres faut pas non plus mettre "parti" dans le nom de chaque parti!
Parti "LinkedIn Clout" : mouvement Montréal
Parti "ben c'était pas si pire que ça tsé" : projet Montréal
Parti "Reeeeee! Pistes cyclables!" : ensemble Montréal
Ça s'écrit Complotiss pour qu'y soient capables de le lire 😁
Je ne le connais pas pantoute, j'ai donc aucune idée de quoi toi ou lui parlez :-)
y'a BEAUCOUP moins de pancartes qu'autrefois.
Je compare aujourd'hui aux elections de 86 et 90, epoque ou ma mere etait en politique.  Il y a avait 1 pancarte du RCM 1 poteau sur 2, et l'autre c'etait VM.
1 parti mettait des collants de deragotoire sur les pancartes adverses, on passaient des soirees a mettre du Pledge sur les affiches pour empecher les auto collants de coller. :P
j'ai l'impression qu'aujourd'hui tout se joue "online"
toute facon, s'pas une mauvaise chose que cette pollution visuelle diminue.
This! Meme chose avec les agents immobiliers ou hypothécaires. Leur visage partout. Moi si j'achete une maison je m'en triple-calisse du visage ou nom du courtier. Je veux savoir le prix et les atouts de la maison, pas que c'est Marie Lafourmie qui prend les appels et organise les visites.
Can't chase that clout if you're not plastering your faces everywhere. Or look like a budget dystopia figure just in time for Halloween à la Denis. ("**COMPÉTENCE**")
The only posters I've yet to see that are text/ primarily text are some big projet ones with like 5 words on it, so lots of empty spaces... or action Montréal ones that are so text laden I knew he was a weird online rant type before the chief used news of a dead cyclist to post about undoing bike lanes...
CAQ, c'est pas Coalition Avenir Québec?
Moi non plus, mais j'ai décidé de faire mes devoirs de citoyen hier après avoir reçu la lettre d'Élection Montréal avec tous les candidats dessu. J'ai commencé par rentrer son nom sur Google pis chui tout de suite tombé sur les propos complotistes qu'il a publié sur son Twitter. J'ai essayé de donné une chance aux candidats qui n'ont pas eu la chance d'être représentés par les médias, et je peux te dire que le manque de fond n'est pas leur seul problème. Mais au moins je sais que je ne votera pas pour un parti majeur médiocre en ignorant  un parti mineur intéressant.
Tellement. Qu'est-ce qu'on s'en crisse de la face du courtier que tu verras jamais ... On veut le prix et le nombre de pièces ... Exactement comme tu dis.
Oui, j'ai eu une bulle et je me suis souvenu du vieux parti de Dumont au lieu de celui au pouvoir actuellement 😂
En retard mais si jamais certain se demandait pourquoi ils ne sont plus dans la liste.
That sucks. Now i have to go all the way to Olympic stadium, when the vaccine loses effectiveness in 5 months.
I've seen a few videos/articles like this and I think it's the first time I'm seeing the Park Ex one at #7. It's a favourite of mine and I wonder if it's not that well known cause it's a bit in a weird place. Great video as always Capitaine!
This guy's videography sucks. Clean your lens ffs
I did a series of videos back in the days and I went to a lot of different neighborhood (i.E: I left the Plateau), thats when i discovered this one.
C'pas grave, Mme Plante va juste ban les armes à feux qui sont déjà ban par un ban encore plus sévère, ça va juste rien changer parce que les vagabons achètent pas d'armes légales anyway mais ça va faire beau dans les news so there's that.
On peut tu downvote ces publications là à un moment donné. Ça apporte rien, c'est redondant pis u/eric_bousquet en mets 40 par jour.
Ben bloque-le, me semble que c'est pas compliqué?
Imagine vouloir mettre ta tête dans le sable au point de censurer des nouvelles
moi aussi , j'ai rien contre lui personellement mais j'catch pas pourquoi vouloir virer /r/montreal en journal de montreal... cé là juste à coté sur le web, pas besoin de linker tout les articles de police/faits-divers sur /r/montreal... entéka, ma le bloquer merci du tuyau,.
j'avais pas pensé que ça bloquerait ses posts sur la page aussi (pis pas juste les commentaires).
&#x200B;
Merci
New ideas about policing tend to emerge in greater quantity and quality at small parties. When the gatherings are too large, people aren't really able to get into deep productive conversation.
For any troubles in the subway, the person in the ticket boot has access to call security, don’t hesitate to go to him.  
Edit : Don’t hesitate to go to the STM website and leave a comment in the complaint and comments section. Most of those who harass you are already known and will be taken care of swiftly. But DO IT QUICKLY, all security footage are only kept 48 hours. Keep note of the station and the time of said event.
As a healthcare worker who takes the subway daily, things have gotten worse since Covid-19 started. With less people taking the public transport, these individuals are more visible and there's not necessarily a rise in mental health issues. But statistically drug consumption (whether it be legal or black market) is on the rise. Add into the mix layoffs, the cost of rent and the inflation, it'll get worse before it gets better.
I think it's a mix of mental health and drug use up significantly, generally - hell, among richer residents i believe alcohol consumption is way way up, you can imagine the shelters and the streets. 
Still it's not New York in the 1970s around here yet, or even Sainte-Catherine in the 1990s - some people are really exaggerating here. Maybe I'm weird but I can deal with some crazy while mental health/social services try to catch up. The violence is the real issue and for that i fully agree a few extended Popo visibility campaigns in specific downtown areas could really help if social services also does a lot of work on this.
Maybe file a complaint with the STM. They might or might not do something about it.
It is. 
The pandemic happened, it was harder to get drugs, no one to ask for spare change, hospitals and mental health ressources overwhelmed. Mix that with the fact that there was already a migration of homeless people to Montreal...
I've lived in Verdun for more than 12 years. I've seen the neighborhood go from poor/eclectic to full of hipsters to going full gentrified with families and now I see Lamborghini and Hummer in front of restaurants. The homeless crowd has never been bigger than what it is now, and I don't feel safe walking on Wellington when the sun is down. 
Last month, someone threw a wallet in my face at Lionel-Groulx. Like you, I've seen people trying to start a fight with randoms on the subway. I see more cases of people begging in the wagons or shouting or spitting everywhere. 
I hope ressources will be put at the right places to help those people AND assure the safety of public spaces.
I live in the village and things have absolutely deteriorated big time. I completely avoid walking on Saint Catherine’s if possible, it looks like some apocalyptic, dystopian, wasteland.
Definitely gotten worse.
I hear screaming outside nearly evening night now.
Huh, sorry to read that. I hope you're okay now.
Do you mind sharing what line and what stations it was at?
Je me fais downvoté a chaque fois que je le mentionne mais ca reste vrai: la santé et la sécurité des usagers  du métro est depuis longtemps *officiellement* en bas de la liste de leur priorités. Pour la STM les stations sont avant tout un "point de service pour personne en situation d'itinérance" et pour eux ca passe *avant* les préocupations des usagers du métro.
qqun ici me traitait de paranoiaque la semaine derniere quand je disais que le métro n'est plus sécuritaire... il semble que je ne sois pas seul a trouver que c'est le cas!
Henry George 1890s: Progress and Poverty.
The more you push up land prices the more extreme poverty you get.
The latest increase of "help" to first time buyers from Project Montreal will increase prices further, pushing more and more people into extreme poverty.
Crazy. I don't ride the metro much anymore but when I did circa 2010-2014 I never worried about pickpockets... I always keep my stuff safe and with me though in general (on metro or anywhere) but maybe I was just lucky. Around the same time I visited Paris and was amazed at how many times the automated message would remind us "attention aux pickpockets!" on their metro (at least once every ride)... and I never heard that here at all.
station?  time?
i never encountered anything worse than a lunatic screaming I WANT A DAMN SMOKE...(at Bonaventure) i feel bad for all those incidents I read about.
do I scare them away or what?  they dont even bother asking me for chnage lol
It's crazy, maybe it's more visibility due to the lack of usage, but the metro feels much less safe. Downtown also, pan handlers are more aggressive and more present. I was walking downtown this weekend, and was asked for money over 15 times in the span of two hours... It's frankly disheartening. The juxtaposition of 5 Guys offering $18/hour and a person sitting right beside asking for money... Wild times.
If you think this is bad, you should see what Vancouver looks like right now. At the very least, check /r/Vancouver for some first hand accounts. Some Escape From NY type shit for real. No politician has convinced me that things will ever get better. Unless you run to the hills, expect police policy to push the problem to a jurisdiction near you.
I think pretty much everywhere is a little worse. 
During the day, less concerning but definitely more concerning at night. Bc you can tell that they are more affected by whatever substance -- or more in need of it. 
It's not a metro thing or even a downtown thing, although both of these now have more problems than they did before.
Le dimanche soir, c’est louche au centre. C’est comme ça depuis longtemps. Pas de cours, pas de magasins, pas de bureaux etc.
Omg word - my sister just got home and told me she was grabbed, followed,  and almost searched by a homeless woman at Beaubien
more cops do not make things safer though, they only react to crimes they dont prevent them....
my advice is always look pissed off when you're going outside downtown. that'll get people to leave you alone- i'm by no means imposing but i have a (so was i told) very masculine face and RBF. that has helped me a lot to make up for being otherwise quite thin
Covid really screwed up a lot of things and people. I'm sorry you had to go through that. 
My only bad experiences with homeless people were one guy kicking my leg and shoving his hand in my face while I was napping in the metro and another guy begging me to go to an atm to give him a 20 after I gave him 7. He left angrily after 3 stations because there's no way I'd go to a ATM with someone I don't know.
I avoid the orange line now because I feel like I'll snap someday...
Doux Jésus, on est dans la marde.
I live in Lasalle.... our ER is already suffering. This closing means pile ups in Verdun and Lasalle, it's going to be even longer to be seen (like, even in real emergency situation....I waited 5 hours to even get called back with suspected "gotta check it, you might be septic" appendicitis)
Why are nurses not getting vaccinated, wtf is wrong with these people? Don't they see what happens when someone gets admitted with covid?
No wonder they keep pushing the date for the vaccine mandate in the health sector.
"l’hôpital de Lachine fermera sa salle d’urgence entre 15 h et 8 h, 7 jours sur 7"
8h à 15h ? Jveux pas juger, mais ça me semble un peu extrême. Les quarts de travail à cet hôpital sont de 8h à 15h ?
From my experience with this hospital from 10 to 5 years ago, that was always the case. Anytime anyone showed up there after 5PM, they were either transferred to another hospital or left waiting until the next morning if it was deemed that they weren't about to die in the next 24 hours.
Alors avec une diminution de service, mes impots vont baisser? 🤔
Pour vrai, j'ai vraiment du mal pour les gens moins fortunés qui habitent dans le secteur :(
Et si on suspendait les employés non-vaccinés ce serait pas mal pire, malheureusement.
Yeah this is not just bad for folks in Lachine, but really anyone remotely near. It will just spillover.
They probably don't.
Mainly infirmières auxiliaires with lower education and probably not as exposed to the places where covid patients go to die. Out of sight out of mind, if you want.
Those people are simply uninformed and self centered.
You can basically see a direct correlation between how direct someone worked with covid and their rate of vaccination.
A good exemple are Respiratory Therapist (inhalotherapie). They literally put tubes in out of breath dying covid patient... and *drum roll* they are getting vaccinated at super high rate. Because they know the need
Why don't you temper your expectations about what other people should do?
La directrice du programme Stats dans les urgences du Québec, docteure Elyse Berger vient de donner sa démission, probablement en signe de protestation.
Je l'ai côtoyé quand je travaillais à l'urgence, c'est genre une A1 du system, tu peux difficilement faire mieux qu'elle côté compréhension, intelligence, proactivité, etc.
Et, elle a démissionné. Tu vois le genre ?
Si je me fie à mon expérience (mon hôpital ne fait que de la 3e ligne), à partir de 15h, les demandes tombent sur le shift de soir. Ça donne le temps au shift de jour de finir leur notes et toute la paperasse. C'est la seule explication que je peux entrevoir !
Last two times I’ve been there I was out within 4-5 hours. It’s a small hospital that some just avoid all together. Guess I got lucky. Shame because it’s a few blocks away
Same is true at other small hospitals since there is only one doctlr for the night taking care of the waiting room and patients in beds. They tend to prioritize actual emergencies and beds before waiting room patients. The other problem has been the horrible first line access. Very few people can get a fast enough appointment at clinics if at all
Il est grand temps que la population entame un recours collectif contre la RAMQ et le ministère de la santé.
Haha Non! En fait, on doit les augmenter pour assurer un qualité de service! Mwahahahahahah
Jsais pas pk on t'as downvote. C'est la vérité... C'est con mais si le gouv suspend les employés non vaccinés, on va vivre l'enfer dans le réseau.... Mais cibole... Faites vous vacciner... C'est passé l'heure....
Et les garder rend ça plus dangereux pour tout le monde, ~~suivant~~.  
Edit: le tiret, c'était trop rude pour rien
If any Redditor here gives this open mic a shot, I will personally go see you perform and applaud you as your show starts and ends.
So wait, karaoke is still banned because of sharing a mic but open mic is ok?
Hopefully this is still a thing in November when im back around
every week we have someone who is trying stand up for the first time - could you be next!?
The absurdity is undeniable. I don’t make the rules, I just follow them.
I believe its the singing because of increased droplets
We will still be around in November. You can check out our Facebook page for updates:
https://www.facebook.com/profile.php?id=100072864397496
No. I lost my legs in an industrial accident in the mid-2000s. So I will absolutely NOT be trying to stand up just for your puerile amusement.
I hear ya, i was just curious.
*Ça passé aux nouvelles* 🤪
tragedy+time=comedy?
Okay. I will go there and try to stand up on my stumps. Just know that it's not going to be pretty and probably quite humiliating for me.
If you want to see people humiliate themselves, this is the spot!
Aka known as winter.
Jesus Christ this guy's voice is horrible to listen to, I couldn't even make through 5 seconds
Also known as known as
You’re gullible, that isn’t a problem for anyone but you to fix.
Hey man, can you wire me 100$ ? I just lost my job, thanks
You basically got robbed.
>I also would like to know if this is an issue that should be addressed?
You need to be more street smart, that's what should be adressed.
Also this post seems so fake, how did you know he had a iphone12pro both times? Why would you give him any money then, he can sell the phone for 1k$ Also why would anyone go to an atm with a stranger, you're basically being asked to get robbed. Did you also gave him the card NIP# because he wouldn't take no for an answer?
Congratulations, you just helped a person buy street drugs.
As a business owner downtown, I know a lot of homeless people, some very nice ones and some not so nice.
They all have this story of having a good job, money and, often, a house and then becoming depressed, losing everything and ending up on the street. Yet, once you dig a bit deeper, they eventually admit that their drug habit drove them to the street.
The Government has numerous programs to help these people but first require them to enroll into a detox program (as to not throw the taxpayers' money down a bottomless pit). Most who make it out manage to get off drugs, those who don't refuse to let go of drugs.
I am not kidding, those who refuse detox prefer to live on the street, because that's how strong addiction can be.
It’s a con as old as time.
pleaze send money.
you got played man.
=it's just another "gypsie scam", we have belly tumor guy, war vet guy, daughter needs medication guy... im sure there's quite a few we havent heard of.
and before someone asks me "why are they scamming people if they obviously are not broke?" 
the answer is simple... Why not!? (they say) you could make an extra 20$ of some gullible dude... or you dont.  if your conscience is 10 miles away, you'll pull that shit, even on an old lady.
don't get played.
Parents need to teach their kids about crackheads and junkies before they move to the big city 😂😂
That person behaviour is a problem. Unfortunately yours was too. He they do that because it works.
sweet summer child
some guy outside the entrance to Lucien-L'allier was begging people for money. Dude was wearing a shiny North Face jacket and had brand new white shoes. I told him to fuck off and he did, he left the area lol.
Those kind of people are looking for crack and an easy way to buy it, nothing else.
Common street scam, be more street savvy blah blah blah
What I notice from this story is that he used to ask for 20, now 30. Hyper inflation is happening, people!
they always have sob stories. locked out of their car, need money for bus, need money for a cab to go renew their prescriptions. tell them if it's an emergency you can call them an ambulance, suddenly it's not going to be an emergency anymore.
Hi, has anyone seen my iphone 12 pro?
If a guy asks me for $20, I say no. If he insists and follows me, I call the cops.
Classic. This same guy tried to dupe me 2 years ago with the same bullshit.
Hey man, I forgot my wallet and I need 5$ for a coffee. I'm also blind.
Lol i never give money. If they look like they need it I’ll offer a meal but usually they decline the meal cause they are looking to buy something else with my money …
Il m'a eut et j'ai une photo de lui.
Ça rapport notamment avec le sérieux des équipes derrière les candidats. Plante et Coderre auront des candidats dans tous les districts/mairie (ou presque), et Holness en aura plusieurs tandis que les autres sont plus ou moins seuls.
i guess the other parties aren't serious. 
kinda like the marxist-leninist and communist party at the federal level
Le vote est divisé en trois : maire de la ville, maire de l'arrondissement, conseiller ou conseillère du district, dans l'arrondissement. Il y a des partis locaux pour ces deux derniers qui présentent seulement des candidats dans un seul arrondissement. Ex. : mouvement Outremont candidats seulement dans cet arrondissement.
pareil comme aux federales et provinciales...
tu entends parler des Liberaux, Conservateur, NPD et du Bloc/PQ.
les Marxsistes-lenininstes, communistes etc... y'avait genre 8-9 candidats sur le bulletin de vote dans bourassa et j;en connais que 2.
Même chose que les élections fédérales
A cause de leur opinion controversé il sont des meilleures choix pour les citoyens mais pas pour les corporations et les media sont des corporations privée avec le droit acquis de éliminer ou changer les informations.
Because the media chooses who wins, not the population.
[deleted]
L'attention, ça se mérite.
Because the media controls the campaigns and not all candidates are high-profile, controversial or "newsable".
Pourtant ils se présentent comme Maire, et donc ils sont partout. Tout le monde a les même choix pour la mairie.
when the threshold to be considered a party (or have your assets turned over to the state) was put into question by Mulroney in the 90s, you didn't see the Liberals defending our democracy in court, but the Communist party. (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Figueroa\_v\_Canada\_(AG))  
They are a party with limited ressources, but they are not an unserious party.
Well at the federal level there is a clearcut rule, either have at least one elected deputy or poll at over 4% nationally before the campaign starts.
It's somewhat silly because Bernier scored more than the greens which to me mean there's something wrong with the criterias but rules are rules i guess.
I couldn't find anything related to municipal though, they seem to be excluded for no real reasons.
Ouai mais Action Montréal et Montréal 2021 est partout.
Ils se présentent comme Maire de Montréal, pas maire d'arrondissement.
EDIT: pour préciser, les maires se présentent partout. C'est vrai que ces deux parties ont beaucoup moins de candidats présents dans les autres rôles.
dans Laurier Saint-Marie j'en avait 12.. il y avait un parti pour les Animaux genre.
Les gens ne parlent jamais assez du parti rhino à mon goût!
This situation has noting to do with the monarchy...
That’s…. not how any of this works.
Stay woke my friend
Oui, mais comme ils ont pas d'équipe, ça veut dire que même elu, ils devraient dealer avec soit Projet Montréal, soit Ensemble Montréal.
Des gens qui se payent des voitures trop cher pour leur budget, alors ils sont obligés de faire de la livraison pour arriver à la fin du mois.
Des Chinois de parents riches en Chine.
> Je vois souvent des livreurs de bouffe FanTuan (sticker bleu sur le côté) conduire des voitures luxueuses comme des BWM, Audi, VUS neufs, etc.
Asians.  J'sais pas pourquoi, mais ils aiment le luxe.  surtout les jeunes.
Parmi les asiatiques je connais bien, de 30ans a 70ans(une vingtaine de personne), le "pire" de la gang conduit un Acura RSX 2017, que son fils lui a acheté, les autres c'est du BMW X6, gros SUV Audi, lexus, etc.
2 d'entres eux, font un unboxing video sur youtube de leur nouveau iPhone a CHAQUE release, les 2 memes s'achetent tout les nouveaux Yeezy's quand ca sort...
y'a une dizaine d'annees, jsuis aller downtown avec des amis vietnamiens et leurs copines... Ogilvy.  J'me sentais tellement pas a ma place, 1 paire de jeans, lunettes soleil, 1 ceinture... 1180$
Ceux que je connais le font seulement pour passer le temps ou bien avoir de l'argent que leur parents n'ont pas de visibilité.
C’est un flex ou show off. You gotta do anything to have a good image and nice cars in most of the cultures and especially they need to show their success to their family back home
Source: I’m Asian
Définie "neuf". Si tu connais pas trop en auto tu peux facilement prendre une BMW 2010 avec 200k km qui coûte genre 5k pour du neuf.
Des fois les gens qui n'ont pas eu grand chose se payent des voitures au dessus de leurs moyens pour montrer qu'ils ont du succès. Il suffit de pouvoir faire les paiements.
Parents buy them the cars, and it is not expensive compared to the prices in China. And food delivery can get them some money by using the car. Especially during the pandemic, my friend told me the salary was very good at the beginning.
Et rebelote 
https://www.reddit.com/r/montreal/comments/iz7qf9/asian_food_deliveries/?utm_source=amp&utm_medium=&utm_content=comments_view_all
Tl;dr: Des étudiants pour la plus grande part. C’est assez facile comme side hustle and les gens qui apprécient les voitures de luxe apprécient encore plus des raisons valables pour les conduire. 
Je remarque de plus en plus cette idée classiste que les employés de service ne peuvent jamais être mieux nantis que les gens qu’ils servent. Comme si seulement les gens dans le besoin deviennent livreurs ou serveurs etc. 
Me demande depuis quand nous sommes passés d’une des cultures les plus égalitaires au monde à ça.
Je suis curieux aussi. Il y a personne qui aime se faire “tagger” son auto avec une image de livraison. 
Est ce que c’est peut etre des voitures de compagnie? Donc les conducteurs ne sont pas proprietaire des voitures?
Money laundering 🛁💰
FanTuan à mon avis c’est illégal. Déjà loi 101 ils devraient mettre leur logo et slogan en français et ça ne m’étonnerait  pas qu’ils paient les livreurs cash ou bien ils sont directement payés sur WeChat ou AliPay et donc ils déclarent revenu 0
j'connais un ing. senior de WSP qui fais genre 225K par annee, et il se claque 20-25 hrs de uber/skip/doordash par semaine en plus
Alors pourquoi faire de la livraison?
Ca
theres no rsx 2017. it stopped in like 2006
Par curiosité.. Est-ce que tes amis viets ont payé pour les achats de leurs copines?
C'est pas "asians", c'est "riches"
Ils ont quels âges pour que leurs parents aient visibilité sur leur revenus?!
This^ people are not that car-knowledgeable in general. J'entends souvent des gens dire omg mon rève lorsqu'ils voient un bmw qui vaut genre 5000 alors que leur civic en vaux 8000 lol
Un p'tit manque de préparation mon Denis.
Plante coupait trop, mais elle avait les meilleures reponses. Coderre repondait avec des slogans. Si j'etais indecis, je n'aurais aucune idée quelle est son programme.
Valérie a gagné haut la main ce débat
Coderre a dit prendre l’autobus et faire du vélo. Quelqu’un la déjà croisé dans l’autobus sans photographes mettons?
Ouin, un peu décousu du côté de Coderre... Les gens peuvent pas le prendre encore au sérieux ?
Hon j'ai manqué le débat 
Hmmm
Est-ce que j'ai manqué quoi que ce soit, en fait?
Un débat tellement serré en temps que j’ai pas eu le temps de faire une décision éclairée.
Ouinnnnnnnn ca regarde pas bien pour Denis.
Il pense que la corruption a pris fin 🙄, je dois dire aussi que Valerie manque d'information aussi surtout quand elle parle du déneigement que l'idée d'avoir des chargement décrété selon l'arrondissement c'est l'idée de son parti quand en fait c'était du temps de que Coderre était au pouvoir.
c'est un peu sa stratégie. il se mouille pas comme ça il peut pas être directement attaqué
Il n'a pas vraiment de plateforme autre que les résultats du dernier sondage.
Et la corruption.
Honnêtement, non.
ta decision devrais pas etre basee sur un simple debat.
imo.
Je partage ce point de vue. On met beaucoup trop d'importance sur les débats (qui sont plus des combats de formules de langages que des combats d'idées).
Suis je le seul à trouver ça drôle que Projet Montréal trouve des centaines de millions pour des projets de réfection de parc et maintenant l'aménagement urbain pour un seul projet mais fait fuck all pour des logements abordables. T'imagine les milliers d'unités qu'on pourrais assurer à long-term si on prenais ces centaines de millions et qu'on ne fessais qu'acheter les terres en périphérie du REM-Est.
Content qu'il y ait au moins un candidat à la mairie qui se préoccupe de l'impact urbanistique de ce projet broche-à-foin.
Sherbrooke est trop étroit pour recevoir le REM aérien.  C’est déjà congestionné et l’on devra enlever les voies réservées pour installer la structure du REM, ce qui au final aura un impact négatif pour le transport en commun.  Si ce budget et cette nouvelle prise de position peut amener le REM à être souterrain, tant mieux!
Can someone explain the logic behind this?
500 millions pour ça et 700 millions pour un parc par dessus Descaries.....
https://lp.ca/hSgn7A?sharing=true
Vote Movement Montreal instead of these clowns
En réalité, ces deux thèmes sont aussi importants et ne devraient pas s'opposer, au contraire.
On ne veut pas reproduire ce que la France a fait dans les années 60-70, c'est à dire construire des "cités" avec de "longues barres de béton" ideuses où l'on a entassé pendant plusieurs années des gens souvent moins fortunés et qui plus est, loin de tout, y compris des transports en commun.
Il faudrait que le REM ne défigure pas les quartiers traversés voire en profiter pour les réhabiliter et construire du logement social (pas juste des HLM) sur un modèle de quartier TOD mais pas au détriment d'une mixité sociale. La beauté et l'esthétisme ont un impact réel sur la santé mentale et ne devraient pas être réservées que pour le centre-ville ou les lieux touristiques.
Edit : grammaire
Je crois au contraire que ce 500M$ est probablement mieux investit dans le REM pour aider à maintenir l'abordabilité des logements. En proposant un trajet direct vers le centre ville, on ouvre de nouvelles possibilités de développement dans l'est de la ville. Et comme ils ont un avantage financier à ce que ce développement se produise, la caisse est un excellent partenaire. Alors que si la ville investissait cet argent directement dans la construction de logement, elle pourrait tout au plus construire 5000 unités, ce qui serait bien mais vraiment pas suffisant.
T'en fait pas, je suis sûr que c'est les impôts fonciers qui vont payer pour ça, pas le contribuable Québécois...
Est-ce que les logements abordables/subventionnés sont vraiment la bonne solution à la crise du logement?
Ça a pas vraiment rapport, la ville a pas le plein pouvoir pour construire du logement subventionné, c'est une compétence partagée et ce sont les autres paliers qui retiennent leur part des coûts. C'est sans compter que la ville a pas le pouvoir d'exproprier des terrains à elle seule.
Bah c'est clair que si on écoute les ptits chialer qui veulent qu'on enfouisse le REM, bah tu peux être certain qu'on aura pas un sous pour des logements sociaux.
Incluant le 1 milliard sur 10 ans pour rehausser le parc dans l'est. C'est de la foutaise. Plante, Coderre et Cie simplement pas interesser... ou simplement trouvent ca trop compliquer j'imagine etant des minus.
Est-ce qu'on aurait encore besoin des voies réservées pour les autobus si on a le REM qui roule parallèle?
Je le répète. Fuck le REM souterrain.
Je veux un projet de transport qui dure pas 10 ans et qui se paye de façon raisonnable. En plus c'est cool les rail en hauteur.
Dans la vie faut faire des choix et non, brûler de l'argent c'en ait pas un, surtout si c'est juste pour apaiser les crises de nerfs de quelques personnes qui aiment pas avoir les transports communautaires dans la face.
"Aménagement urbain": les gens viennent fous comme de la marde. En temps d'élections, la logique n'existe pas, seulement les promesses bidons financés à même les impôts des contribuables :)
Lmao Mouvement Montréal se desintègre à vue d'oeil
Accessibilite = hausse des loyers, pas le contraire.
Mon opinion personelle? Non, mais il semblent évident que les instances gouvernementales sont aucunement intéressé à apporter d'autre changement ou explorer des nouvelles idées faque on se rabats sur la seul solution qu'il semblent connaitre.
C'est une combinaison de solutions qu'il faut mais c'est clair que ça fait partie du mix.
1) Ajout de logements subventionnés suivant le modèle autrichiens de Vienne
2) Amélioration du système de transport en commun afin de permettre du développement dense en périphérie (Le REM en fait partie et permettra de développer et densifier l'est)
3) Augmentation générale du nombre d'unités ce qui passe encore une fois par la densification. Donc un besoin de rezonage entre autres
Mais oui, des logements abordables et obliger les développeurs immobiliers à intégrer un pourcentage de logements à plus faible revenu dans leurs projets c'est souhaitable. Nécessaire en fait
Love the house foundation joke hahah
Saw this in NDG. Found it pretty cool to have social commentary masquerading as Halloween decorations!
Un jour Terrebonne va avoir sa piste cyclable... Un jour.
I love this house. 
Also. Who do I vote for to get my bike path back? We have so many candidates and I haven’t heard anything from any of them. 
I have a parking spot, and I pay hella taxes so don’t even ducking start.
They are gonna get fined for it not being 60% larger in French.
“General scientific literacy” - LOL savage!
Nice to see people having fun with it. Honestly I dont think my area will have many kids trick or treating but I hope those of you who can will try and make up for last year for the lil'ones
What are the halloween guidelines this year?
[deleted]
Ohh nooo the foundation one. That one hits.
when your social commentary is prepackaged by media corporations
Basically applies to all homes in NDG😂
I was going to ask but it looked like NDG. A lot of fun decorations but I haven't seen that one.
Je suis féru de vélo moi-même, mais avec une piste cyclable sur Notre-Dame-De-Grâce et autre sur Maisonneuve, c'est débile d'en avoir une sur Terrebonne. C'est littéralement 4mn se rendre de la piste de Notre-Dame-De-Grâce à Terrebonne, donc autant passer par Notre-Dame-De-Grâce. La congestion que créerait une éventuelle piste sur Terrebonne (qui est pas large) créerait plus de danger que de bien. Surtout devant l'école. Trop c'est comme pas assez.
For Montréal, I'd say the candidate most favourable to bike infrastructure is Valérie Plante.
It's ok it doesn't include the word pasta
[Here](https://montreal.ctvnews.ca/hand-washing-no-yelling-trick-or-treat-quebec-offers-up-pandemic-halloween-rules-1.5634401) they are. We will not do the bag thing, we're all vaccinated and don't want to create a mountain of discarded plastic bags...
I'm.... Not sure I get the joke?
Imagine thinking you are the outsider when billion-dollar corporations are on your side.
Je croyais qu'il parlait de la ville de Terrebonne. Ça fait pas mal plus de sens qu'une personne de NDG parle de la rue. My bad.
La distance entre Terrebonne et Notre-Dame-De-Grâce est assez grande. Je trouve cela absurde comme argument de dire qu'il ne devrait pas y avoir plus de piste cyclable sous prétexte qu'il y en a une deux pâtés de maison plus loin. Si les gens font du vélo sur Terrebonne, il devrait y avoir une infrastructure pour qu'ils puissent le faire en sécurité, point à la ligne. Ça n'empêche pas les voitures de circuler. Le vélo devrait être considéré comme un moyen de transport légitime, et c'est en créant une infrastructure dédiée qu'on y arrivera (comme les endroits civilisés i.e. Amsterdam). On ne fait jamais d'argument similaire pour les chars "les voitures ont juste à se déplacer deux pâtés de maison plus loin pour éviter les pistes cyclables". Mais ton commentaire reflète le fait que en Amérique, le char est le roi. C'est malheureux, et tout les monde y perd, y compris les automobilistes.
EDIT: ta photo est nice par contre, thx for sharing.
most Montreal story in a while: thank you for sharing this epic tale of disgust and hope. I'm glad your doggie is ok, and I am glad to hear of nice folk. You deserve an orange cone and atleast half a dozen fresh bagels.
Geez that sounds stressful. Glad someone stopped to help.
why wouldnt you let your dog have perfectly good free fermented rat jerky???
You found my pet rat Horatio! Is he okay? Where can I pick him up? 
Seriously glad that some good people came to your aid. Sounds like you met the right people at the right time. Hope the pupper is okay.
ewww....I swear dogs will eat anything right out of the gutter! Taking them for a walk is like the all you can eat buffet.
Glad it went okay, I'm sure the dog will survive ingesting the 🤮🤮rat. 
What kind of doggy is it anyways?
over the past year I have noticed 1 dead rat on the sidewalk in Chinatown, 1 live mouse on the street in Hochelaga, and 1 live baby mouse shivering next to a garbage can as I put down an empty soda can at Parc Lafontaine. I never saw any before and I've lived in some sketch places... \*shudder\*
> epic tale of disgust and hope
You should be writing book jackets!
trust me it was probably not a cute little rat like Horatio!!
Omg just the other day I hate to fight my dog to get a dead bird out of his mouth 🙄
He didn't seem to get sick, but will have to go to the vet for some extra medication just in case! 
He's a White German Shepherd and Husky mix. :)
I live in Kirkland and I found mice in my garden shed.  It happens everywhere.
Mice are kind of common in Montreal. They’re really common in Milton-Parc. I got one in my apartment last year, and then found 3 on my block the next week. 
But nothing compares to the metro. I see mice or rats like every 3rd time I’m in the metro.
There’s more mice in fancy suburbs with large yards.
Horatio was neither cute nor little. In fact, I think he might have been a possum. He/she once gnawed my big toe off as I slept through a vicious bender. Ruined my marathon aspirations.
eww seriously. They'll pick up anything....but it's their ancient instincts. He probably saw it as a gift from the pack, LOL
must be a beauty! He'll probably be ok, dogs are actually pretty hardy. Although apparently, raw salmon is toxic to dogs! And of course we all know about chocolate. 
The rat 🤮 was decaying and the smell attracted the dog. We all know that the most disgusting objects smell like roses to them.
oh my god!!! that's horrifying, sounds more like Willard.
I think I need this too. I'm talking to a therapist tomorrow.
Also, this sub's obnoxious removal of recommendation threads should stop. That's one of the points of a city sub!
I just finished getting my diagnosis. It was on the [south shore](https://cpmontarville.com). I got an evaluation from a neuropsychologist. It was expensive, 1600$ (some of it will be reimbursed by my insurance).
[deleted]
im not 100% sure, but a friend of mine used to go at the psychiatric hospital to change his adhd meds prescription... not sure if you can get a diagnosis, but you can definitly get prescriptions
Psychiatrists and psychologist have not formation in ADHD diagnosis. What you need is a neuropsychologist and nothing else.
They can be pretty expensive in the private sector, but you can register for cheap (or free?) consultation by students (supervised of course) at universities.
maybe try seeing an occupational therapist  first. if you tell them your symptoms maybe they are in a position to get you to see a "higher" specialist.
Mine was just done by my family doctor and its been valid ever since
I don't have suggestion for you, but I'm in the same boat as you, so I'm sending you a lot of love. It is really not better on the francophone side.  :/ (was told the other day by a random lady on the internet that I could just be diagnosed by my family doctor as if I had not asked my doctor :,) )
[https://aqnp.ca/bottin/](https://aqnp.ca/bottin/) maybe you could have a look there ? you can search by language !
http://www.cliniquetdah.com/
I was gonna tell you but i got distracted
If you can get someone to write you a referral, you can try www.aminy.com
Are you currently studying at a CEGEP or university? Most schools have a student doctor or psychiatrist and I got properly diagnosed through mine at John Abbott.
[deleted]
I realise this was over a week ago, but I was wondering if you found an answer?
I'm in a similar position to you, my psychiatrist is prescribing me my medication but recommends against getting a diagnosis because it's an expensive process and it doesn't change anything medically speaking. 
However I wish I was able to get a diagnosis regardless because it would provide clarity and help me feel like I'm taking the right treatment. 
What is your plan right now, if you don't mind me asking?
Good luck! 
Yeah, this one got deleted too until I added the edit and very thoroughly explained to a mod by PM why the other posts about this topic literally did not ask or answer my questions lol!
Ouf 1600$ is not possible for me at the moment ): Happy for you though!! Must feel really great! 🤍
I reached out to her and I’m awaiting a response! Just want some more options in case she has no availability (:
Can you let me know, too?
Hey, would you mind PM'ing me the info ? I am looking for one as well.
Could you PM me too?
> La victime est connue des policiers
Je suis le manque de surprise de Jack.
Play stupid games win stupid prizes
People in this thread are missing the point. Public health clearly isn't dictating policy anymore, the government is being unreasonable and unfair. I went to a concert at the Bell Centre this weekend: 22 000 people PACKED together screaming to latin music, the masks came off REALLY fucking quick (from the pictures i've seen, masks were properly worn by less than of third of the people there). Pretending like that's any safer than nightclubs is insane especially if we have vaccine passports. Not to mention that MANY nightclubs have their dancefloors open anyway and business is pretty much back to normal, there's no way that police isn't aware since it's essentially an open secret by now. Soyons conséquents franchement, je vois pas comment quelqu'un peut défendre les mesures qui restent à part le port du masque à l'intérieur encore. Venez pas me dire que le Centre Bell à capacité maximale est somehow plus safe qu'avoir plus que 10 personnes dans sa maison (oui c'est encore la limite à ce jour)?!
They missed a great chance to call the protest "dance dance revolution".
We're vaccinated, we want to dance
You can dance if you want, but don't leave your mask behind.
Because if you wanna dance without a fucking mask, then you're no friend of mine.
-Safety Dance Covid Version
But let's not protest about any of the absurdities this government has imposed on the people who elect them.
Boomers don't care about youngsters dancing, that's why
It was supposed to be a march, cops said you can't have DJs on the float because it's not registered as a parade which I imagine needs insurance and such. Cops apparently gave the option to do the march with pre-recorded music, but the organizers decided it was more important to have DJs playing than to actually get exposure to the cause by protesting in the streets.
Sounds like the premise for 80s classic 'Footloose'. Come to think of it John Lithgow could do a great job revisiting his role as the stuffy politician playing Legault.
Wasn’t it Legault himself that said “the vaccine is the key to your freedom”? Which in itself is a terrifying line. But, doesn’t that imply that we should be living relatively normal due to the vaccine? Or was he just tryna say “get the vaccine or we’ll fine you 1000$ for being outside?
[deleted]
When we all tolerated a curfew for literally no reason, we opened the door to things like this. Don’t blame the government, blame yourself for not protesting sooner
[deleted]
Sorry no dancing - Reverend Shaw
of all things to protest about... these are the real civil rights activists apparently
That’s explains the huge crowd last night at mont royale . My Uber was saying they gather every weekend and that their mostly college students.
I do some chansonier and busking, pretty high level. Don't do it now. Why? Dancing and singing is against the law. Been like this a few years now... WTF??  Is this the Middle East??? Strange
3rd world problems...
"Priorities"
I want dancing to come back when it's safe, not just because people want it.
[deleted]
Je pense que tu n'as pas compris les règles de r/montréal. Ici, seules les photos du Mont-Royal prises à partir du belvédère avec la vue sur le centre-ville sont autorisés!
Nice photos, I like the 4th one :)
Great pics! 👍👍👍
Are there any racoons right now?
Is this a rethorical question? At this point, the mountain has become a single unmoving mass of racoons.
🤣🤣 Thanks! I'm gonna go next weekend then. Do they hang out there during daytime too?
Un p'tit souper avec le PDG de Garda pis aweille Denis
How about removing cops from doing traffic duties? That will free them up for more important things. The hundred cops or so that just direct traffic in overtime could be much better utilized
ACAB - more cops are not the answer to anything except more police brutality.
Pourquoi pas donner 2 guns à chaque policier, à place?
Pourquoi pas 500
Cleansed my nose with some coffee reading this, thanks for that.
Étudié depuis au moins 2017 mais l'administration Plante n'a donné aucune suite:
[https://plus.lapresse.ca/screens/ab494041-21da-49d5-9d4a-bd9a729e1762\_\_7C\_\_X6JLGlin7bif.html](https://plus.lapresse.ca/screens/ab494041-21da-49d5-9d4a-bd9a729e1762__7C__X6JLGlin7bif.html)
Sans surprise le SPVM s'oppose a ce qu'on enlève du travail payé temps double aux policiers. C'est l'autre mafia...
The first police chief of San Francisco said the same thing 100 years ago; police should not waste their energy (or taxpayers money) dealing with traffic; it should be its own separate job.  
Police should only have the function of investigating homicide and other violent crimes, maybe then they would actually be able to prosecute rapists.  
but having police do a bit of everything is an intentional scam, they get overtime and pensions and funnel money right out of the communities they work for (but dont live in).
Pour enlever les policiers du traffic, faudrait que les Montréalais prouvent qu'ils savent se gérer dans un traffic
J'vaus me faire négavoter en enfer, mais le Montréalais moyen est tellement niaiseux en char, en vélo ou à pied que de mettre kek polices pour gérer moyennement le tout aide quand même par mon expérience
Papineau et de lorimier il y a combien de policiers qui font le traffic à tous les jours? 8-12?
Une autre dizaine sur notre dame entre la 25 et de Lorimier..
Le plus aberrant (a part le fait qu'on paye des policiers pour gérer le traffic) c'est que pendant les fermetures du pont-tunnel la fin de semaine qui cause de la grosse congestion (incluant un gros bordel a la pluspart des intersections) dans les axes qui vont vers le pont J-C, il n'y a aucun policier qui fait la circulation. Genre si t'es pour leur donner ca comme job, autant le faire quand c'est utile?
j'pas contre.  
Protéger c'est bien, ajouter des milieux naturels c'est mieux.
Commencer par défaire le projet RayMond Logistique.
Vote for Movement Montreal instead of this clown
Selon la photo c'est soit la jaunisse, une cirrhose du foie, elle se tranforme en Hulk ou elle est dans un débat.
The woman is pushing for more green space and that's what you come back with?
The photo was funny.
Smile buddy, life is short.
North on René Levesque?? You must be new.
Also yes.
yes
Officially it is one lane, but if traffic is slow enough that two cars can maneuver, the city expects that people will treat it like two.
The reason is that the bus lane on the right has a wider minimum width than a standard lane, so they can no longer fit four proper lanes across the road. (But they paint that middle one at nearly double width to accommodate the squeeze move rather than marking three super-wide lanes.)
Also for reference, "north" in Montreal navigation is defined as northwest on a compass. The river is considered to flow east-west, so the parallel streets (René-Lévesque, Ste-Catherine, etc.) are directed east-west too, while the perpendicular streets (Guy, Peel, etc.) are considered north-south. You do get some oddities like travelling "east" on Sherbrooke past the Olympic Stadium, where you would actually end up briefly going WNW.
Hahaha this made me laugh. When i first moved to Montreal I used to make fun of the city to my girlfriend (from Montreal) that there are no lines on the streets. And now after 2 years its still a running joke because her response is always "the people decide!".
I actually lived on Rene Levesque, and while walking/driving it, it's mostly always 2 lanes. I've only ever seen it as a single lane when there isn't much traffic. But majority of the time its 2 lanes....the people have decided.
thats such a frustrating part of my daily commute.
Who you calling fat ??
East
Two the whole street is a three lane street on both sides and it’s east and west brotherman
Depends, is it your mom driving?
Depends of if you in a rush or not
It’s neither one nor the other, quite the contrary.
Now you understand Montreal.
Depends how many cars are in it.
Already been discussed 3 weeks ago :
https://www.reddit.com/r/montreal/comments/py5o0x/can_we_talk_about_the_lanes_on_rené_levesque/
I’d say two because it clearly becomes two lanes as you get to St-Marc going west. I always treat it as such.
Les lignes servent à ceux qui n'ont pas l'esprit assez cartésien pour bien séparé les voies de manière à y mettre des véhicules sans qu'ils se touchent.
Et par ailleurs, ton sens de l'orientation est défectueux, le boulevard René-Lévesque est une voix Est-Ouest.
Hell. Sometimes it's three.
Theres geographic North, magnetic North,  then there is Montreal North..
Not to be rude.. but it literally says West on the street name 😂
So if I can fit, I can drive, lol
oui
Avec Jupiter en arrière (arrière, arrière, arrière...) plan, en plus!
This might be the best angle I’ve ever seen for this subject.
That sign is perfect Montreal: Farine = French, Five = English, Roses = bilingual.
Not so long ago it said FLOUR at the bottom. 
Unless they’ve changed it, the timing sequence has a gap when the bottom row was lit.
Magnifique. J'aime voir des icônes de Montréal.
Pu super facile d'être créatif avec ce sujet la mais tu l'as nailed !
Really great picture! Thanks for sharing!
Cyberpunk aethetics
Halloween vibes 👻
J'ai toujours trouver que ça ressemblais à une enseigne de cabaret. Avec cet angle et cette ambiance, encore plus lol.
very beutiful!
For the curious, it's taken from this place: https://goo.gl/maps/Pgi1Pc5UsRCTFrU26
It's a nice little park with benches under the trees and under the overpass there's an urban gym too. I really like this spot.
And a rose is a flower (flour), so here you go.
Jeez I driven by that place a million times and never knew it was there!
Pretty sure a rose is une rose..
A rose is a flower.
The pronunciation of "flower" ressembles that of "flour".
J'imagine qu'elle a entendu la grogne des Irlandais concernant le nom de la station REM dans Griffintown... pas certain que ça va les rallier.
J'en veux un pour unijambistes analphabètes aussi.
1) Le REM va passer à côté du site historique irlandais 
https://mtltimes.ca/montreal/montreals-irish-black-rock-to-be-commemorated-before-rem-work/
2) nommer la station Griffintown - Bernard Landry (un PM séparatiste qui a été au pouvoir 2 ans seulement) et par le fait même dénigrer la communauté irlandaise qui a bâti Griffintown 
3) promettre un nouveau espace commémoratif juste avant les élections.
Really trying to buy those Anglo votes eh?
Bye bye plant
Who do you think has the real shot at winning?
Hopefully Balarama
Fingers crossed for coderre, Holness is going to split Plantes vote giving coderre the win, or at least that's what I'm hoping.
I thought Holness would split Plante's share primarily, but his weird constitutional positions seemed to end up taking up more of Coderre's lane in the end. 
I hope I'm right though, because more Coderre would be worse than useless. 
Just an absolute regressive move that brings nothing to city hall other than "I'll undo the last person's policies and pay billionaires tax money for their private property if it's a stadium"
J'ai hâte de voir les résultats, mais j'ai plutôt l'impression que Holness va voler des votes chez Coderre, il est pas mal plus populaire chez les anglos et les allos que chez les francos.
I really like his east end tech sector ideas, would help the tax base alot in Montreal and maybe make the east more attractive to live in, and he's the only one of the three that's talking about economy which I greatly appreciate. Plante is and always will be a single issue mayor, fuck the city and everyone in it, but hey, look at the trees and bike paths for my rich friends to enjoy. I don't take Holness terribly seriously, but his bilingual montreal idea is going to pull plantes young Anglo/ immigrant supporters who are all fed up of her bigotry and pro police stance.
Who knows what will happen though, we'll find out in a few weeks.
If so, I'll throw my support at him, I'm going strategic here.
Edit: looking at all the pre-election polls, forget holness, Coderre FTW
Montreal already has three or four tech sector areas already. Its the kind of repeating cheap promise that baits anyone whos not in tech.
And yet I am in tech, and im still very favorable to the idea. Weird eh?
Well in that case, let's make it city policy. 
Also I live out east and it's plenty fine, and rapidly changing without the need to make it a tech centre or whatever. 
We can focus those in our several existing locations for such purposes and leave areas to specialize in other ways later if necessary.
Not sure what you mean by "city policy"
We don't have any green / carbon neutral tech centers in Montreal to my knowledge, I love the idea of mixing business with green initiatives, bring in more skilled workers, boost the tax base, all while caring about rhe environment. Being an island, we don't have much space to grow other than the east either. Much more effective than what plantes been doing. Montreal keeps losing high skilled people, I want to see that change.
To follow up : the existing tech centers are emptying because of covid, don't need new places to grow.
Boosting the tax base means paying people more so that they don't leave, only leaving thoses who put up with scraps. Its a federal and a bit provincial issue, not municipal.
Montréal and Québec and Canada as a whole lose high skilled people due to our low wages and proximity and cultural connection to the United States, where they can leverage their quality educations with less debts than Americans into well paying jobs down there. 
Building a tech park in the east end will not stop that brain drain, and adding another tech park when the others are not full/ shrinking is a terrible decision. Especially with covid uncertainty continuing remote work possibilities
Honnêtement quand même La Presse dit que ça a pas de bon sang:
https://www.lapresse.ca/debats/opinions/2021-10-23/territoire-non-cede-ou-colonialisme-2-0-a-saveur-canadienne.php
Il serait peut-être rendu temps de prendre un pied de recul sur la situation.
Il y a vraiment beaucoup de monde qui sont rendu conditionner à grimper dans les rideaux lorsque n'importe qui essai de résonner avec eux par rapport à ça mais je vais vous dire dequoi un peu comme Nantel a dit à son passage a TLMEP: malgré les pleurs du libéral et la reconnaissance et les gestes insignifiants par ci par là, il y a pas d'eau potable sur les réserves et les amérindiens restent la minorité la plus pauvre et de très loin au Canada, et puis les instrumentaliser et les utiliser comme pion politique ça va rien leur donner de plus.
Stossel a un vidéo magnifique sur le sujet (malheureusement sur la situation aux USA mais c'est vraiment similaire au Canada) : https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pQ4lnDy2xnQ&t=1s
tl;dw : le gouvernement n'aide pas les amérindiens du tout et la mentions des amérindiens par les gouvernements modernes ne sont que pour des gains politiques.
En plus que depuis que ce délire est commencé les historiens sont pas mal d'accord pour dire que c'est faux en toute part, ça a juste causer de la discorde et c'est un point qui est maintenu pratiquement seulement par ceux pour qui c'est avantageux politiquement de perdurer ce mensonge.
Ça a rien donné de bon et ça donnera jamais rien de bon.
Ils ont changé quoi dans le message à part la formulation?
Je pense que le CH va découvrir que de remettre en question la légitimité de la ville sous de faux prétexte avant chaque match pour scorer des woke points ca va être pas mal moins populaire a Montréal qu'a Toronto.
qui, concrètement, chez les canadiens de montréal, prend les décisions à ce sujet
geoff molson?
Avant de mettre des messages, mettez donc l'eau courante dans les réserves. First thing first.
[deleted]
Il ne devrait meme pas avoir de message anyway
Spineless. The Habs folded like a cheap umbrella, gave in to political pressure from a former cop rather than talk to a historian, let alone a specialist in Indigenous history
The prior message heavily implied that Montreal was Mohawk territory. But there isn't really any historical evidence to support Mohawk control of the island at any point.
The new message emphasizes that the region was used by diverse nations (e.g. Iroquoian, Algonquian, and Mohawk). The Mohawk are singled out as having the only contemporary connection to the area.
Wonder why, just read these comments... yikes.
Well yeah, he was a cop. 
That goes without saying
pourquoi?
1- The Mohawk are Iroquoian
2- They lived on the island in the 1670s
3- There are no other competing claims to Montreal
4- Mohawk territory does include most of Southwestern Quebec
5- The Hochelagans/Saint Lawrence Iroquoians were likely related to the Mohawk, far more directly than say, the French or English
Devine tsé
>The Mohawk are Iroquoian
Oui ok, et?
>2- They lived on the island in the 1670s
Source? Et n'oublie pas que Montréal a été fondé en 1642
>There are no other competing claims to Montreal
Faux, les Hurons et Algonquins affirment que leurs ancètres habitaient l'ile
>Mohawk territory does include most of Southwestern Quebec
Partiellement vrai. Les frontières sont des zones floues, ce n'est pas comme maintenant. Mais de toute façon, on parle de l'ile de Montréal.
>The Hochelagans/Saint Lawrence Iroquoians were likely related to the Mohawk, far more directly than say, the French or English
En effet, mais il ne s'agissait pas des même nations. Je peux accepter que les Mohawks sont devenus les représentants des Iroquoiens du Saint-Laurent, mais ça ne change pas le fait qu'ils n'habitaient pas Montréal.
To be clear, when I said Iroquoians, I was referring to the St. Lawrence Iroquoians and not the Iroquois confederacy (Haudenosaunee).
> The Hochelagans/Saint Lawrence Iroquoians were likely related to the Mohawk
It is widely believed that conflict with the Mohawk/Iroquois/Haudenosaunee led to the elimination of the Iroquoians. They had a similar but distinct language and culture. For any political/territorial issues, they were separate groups. It is unequivocally false to claim that the existence of 16th century Iroquoian Hochelaga is evidence that the island of Montreal was Mohawk territory at the 17th century arrival of permanent European settlers. 
Overall I feel that the new statement does a better job of representing the complex (and frankly, ambiguous) history of the region while still recognizing the Mohawk as the most relevant claimants.
bah mon premier guess c'est qu'un fait historique qui fait l'unanimité dérange ta sensibilité? mais je suis curieux de voir si il y a un autre argument plus solide
I don't know if it is widely believed or if it is one of several potential reasons for the apparent disappearance of the Hochelaga.
We know they moved every 20-30 years, is it not possible they simply exhausted the soil and moved elsewhere?
My understanding is that the St lawrence Iroquoians were related to the Mohawk, possibly a clan within the nation or a closely related albeit somewhat culturally distinct group
Ça fait pas l'unanimité dutout.
>My understanding is that the St lawrence Iroquoians were related to the Mohawk, possibly a clan within the nation or a closely related albeit somewhat culturally distinct group
Ton "understanding" va contre le "understanding" de la vaste majorité des historiens et des résultats de fouilles archéologiques exhaustive si tu prétends qu'ils étaient un clan dans la nation Mohawk.
Des vrais pros comme à  l'habitude. Je suis certain qu'ils sont restés hyper polis.
Their incompetence would be comical if it weren't so dangerous. A bit more and they'll reach 'Murica level, where a cop shot a man after mistaking a sandwich for a weapon last year.
> surrounded the pedestrian with their weapons drawn
Wow! If you're close enough to be accurate with a handgun, you should be able to see the difference between a walking cane and a rifle. If you're too far to be accurate with a handgun, the gun is safer left in its holster.
seems like some dingbat (whoever placed the call) didn't know how do differenciate a cane from a rifle lol. Cops get a call about a weapon and they show up all ready and realize it's a cane hahaha.
I don't know what's worse:
Lethridge police stormtrooper incident or the SPVM cane incident.
My dog was carrying a rifle the other day... no wait it was a stick. I know, close call right?
Where's the outrage for someone who decided to call 911 for a fucking cane, though?
Donc un témoin appelle le 911 pour signaler une arme à feu et ça trouve que la police aurait dû prendre son temps pour intervenir...
Bra-vo!
that's a real skinny rifle!
Ah yes, let's give these idiots more money 
/s
This is why I'm gonna vote for Balarama.
[deleted]
Pas sûr si sarcastique ou réellement content du travail des policiers.
[deleted]
So, say you see someone walking around with a rifle, how would you want the cops to react?
J'aurais du mettre /s pour les idiots?
🤣
The fact the cops can’t tell the difference between a rifle and a cane is pretty sad
Ouf, j'aurais dû aller voir ton historique avant de répondre. Voyons qu'est-ce que tu vas répondre maintenant. Vas-tu me dire que ton compte Reddit est plus vieux que le mien, ou me traiter d'idiot une seconde fois sans savoir le moindre détail sur qui je suis.
Sérieux, je comprends ton engouement de délibérer avec des inconnus sur Reddit, mais tu dois comprendre que tu parais pas très bien derrière ton clavier.
Je te souhaite bonne chance pour le reste de ta vie, je crois que tu vas en avoir besoin.
P.S.: Ton application pour ma liste d'usager ignoré est approuvé.
I hate defending cops, but it seems like they were able to tell the difference...
Now if they came guns blazing for a couple of kids fighting that would be something else, but ever since polytechnique, I'm pretty sure that if there's a suspected shooter they rush to the scene and secure the shit out of everything.
PS: je posais simplement la question mon champion, belle grande reaction de ta part. Fucking snowflake
🙃
That sign post gives me anxiety
These look like Jerusalem artichoke flowers! Mine have been in full bloom for over a week now.
Black oilseed sunflower
I'm not an flower expert, but that looks more like a yellow daisy than a sunflower.
It is the infamous parking sunflower which follows the decrees of our overlords.
Old Montreal, please. The Old Port's the other side of de la Commune.
Bienvenue à Montréal, lol
Oh lovely! I always associate the Jerusalem artichoke with being a smaller flower head and found in massive quantities. I’ll have to look more into it.
No, that is sunflower. I grow a whole bunch of types in backyard - hard to tell which type from photo though…
There should be seeds forming inside the head of the flower - once it gets a bit colder you may be able to get a few if on public property. Leave some for the birds though - winter can be long!
Oh interesting! I’m no flower expert either, I’ll have to look that up! Thanks
Yep on the other side is the river!
Groups of boys trying to project the image of gangsters.
Other articles detail the mounting animosity between two groups of boys, the victim belonging to on of those groups.
Both groups apparently want to be seen as "gangsters" and are ready to go to extremes to increase their "street cred"... 
This is really pathetic. Maybe the cops should tour schools and show the "wannabe gangsters" uncensored images of the corpses of other dead gangsters and videos of jailed gangsters.
Maybe we could salvage one or two.
This Lady at the wake was saying our youth don't get opportunities...  
Last time l've checked Québec tuition is one of the, if not THE, least expensive in North America.   
Staying in school, studying, working your ass off... Trying to better your community?
Too difficult?  You prefer the easy money of the gang life?  I won't shed a tear when you  die.
These kids chose to be animals i grew up in the ghetto and it never made me a monster.
Just saying.... https://www.reddit.com/r/Quebec/comments/qewyqu/je_suis_si_proche_de_graduer_de_luniversité_étant/?utm_medium=android_app&utm_source=share
Cry me a river when you say kids don't get opportunities to he successful.
Jailed gangsters? Where? 
all those hells angels and mafia spent a pittance of a jail sentence actually behind bars.
Most of those parents and kids don't have all that information unfortunately. Yes they have access to getting that info but for "uneducated" folks, getting the info is work on it's own. 
Have you been on a government website? You really gotta look and a lot of them don't read french or English that well.
A lot of them don't even know what tuition is and if they do, they don't know how to get it. 
Then you have the environment you live in where people around you don't see that as a "normal " life. 
Not excusing it, just not that easy to get out of a life style so easily, trust me I know lol.
Oui tsé la méthode asiatique
[deleted]
They have the information, they choose not to use it. Social pressure is a thing and when your peer group rewards violent behaviour, unless you change your peer group and environment you will not change your behaviour. I used to be in a "gang" type peer group, and anyone who had a normal life was frowned upon and outcast. When I moved towns and stopped hanging out with these people, I found financial success, started my family, and am now a respected member of the community.
Are there are no longer counselors in highschools? 
As early as secondary 2 ours was always available to discuss class choices and future careers. There was tons of info at the office about cegeps and the loans and bursary system. Students who were undecided got tests see what professions aligned with their interests. Every year in January they started to discuss application deadlines for schools and student aid with students of the graduating class so that by late March everyone who wanted to get an education beyond highschool was just awaiting replies from those entities. Younger people I know had the same experiences but none are graduating right now so have things changed completely?
>Have you been on a government website? You really gotta look and a lot of them don't read french or English that well
Are you seriously arguing that the biggest problem is the crappy design of Quebec's govt websites? That's certainly a novel claim...
That’s a fair assessment
what do you mean by "uneducated" and what do you mean by folks?
Scaring straight doesn't work.
Bienvenue à la réalité du monde qui a pris l'autobus avant 2010.  Avec beaucoup de chance on pouvait attraper un chauffeur zélé qui hurlait les arrêts.
Comme les chauffeurs sont encore des humains (ou au pire des reptiles), ça se demande, « pouvez-vous me dire quand on arrivera à St-Joseph? ».
Tu peux utiliser ton gps sur Google maps si ça arrive encore
> Sérieux comment les gens font pour trouver leur arrêt? Faut que je check par la fenêtre à travers les textures pour apercevoir les lumières qui correspondent plus ou moins à mon arrêt et espérer avoir raison....
Comme dans l'bon vieux temps. 
Les premières fois que tu fais la ligne, tu demeures en hypervigilence constante, scannant follement les panneaux de rues jusqu'à ce que tu sens que t'es proche de ton coin de rue. Tu te lèves, prêt à descendre, jusqu'à ce que tu réalises que t'as 2 ou 3 autres arrêts à faire avant d'arriver. T'essayes d'avoir l'air comme si c'était normal que tu te lèves de façon aussi prématurée.
Fast-forward un an à faire le même trajet, t'embarques dans l'bus, tu trouves un siège et tu pass-out instantanément, la seconde que ton derrière s'installe sur le banc pis que ta tête tient contre la fenêtre, lourde de ta journée de travail. Ton inconscient embarque et prend le contrôle, passivement.
Après un long moment (qui semblera qu'un instant éphémère pour toi), tu te réveilles, fermement mais pas brusquement, à 9.2 secondes de distance de ton arrêt. Tu te reconnais. Tu sonnes, tu descends, et tu auto-pilot jusque chez vous.
Ça viendra.
À l'ancienne...
This post makes me feel so old
Demande au chauffeur? Il va sûrement t’envoyer chier mais ça vaut le coup d’essayer. Sinon, application Transit, je suis presque sûr que c’est la même voix vu que j’entends souvent l’un après l’autre.
De la meme façon que quand tu marches sans ballon dirigeable qui t'annonce à quelle rue t'es rendu. 
Quand tu marches, évite de demander ton chemin à un arbre. En bus, essaie le chauffeur.
Dans la 18 il y avait un chauffeur qui chantait les arrêts.  Mais ça fais longtemps, dans le genre Snake le seul jeu longtemps...
Vraiment ?
Hahaha de beaux souvenirs et le stress d'être ado la nuit dans une ligne de bus qu'on connait pas.
Sérieux, un.e chauffeur.e devrait toujours être disponible pour te signaler un arrêt si tu lui demande comme du monde. Je n'ai jamais eu de problème de cette façon.
Des fois le GPS est tout simplement brisé sur le bus et il n'a pas d'autres bus pour le remplacer. Ou le bus qui le remplace est au garage à l'autre bout de la ligne du chauffeur, et ce n'est pas ca décision de rentrer son bus et d'en prendre un autre. Donc malheureusement, ce n'est pas possible.
Google maps et transit vont te dire exactement quand sonner la cloche. Ils t'envoie une notif ,: le prochain arrêt est le tien ! 
Tu peux pas vraiment te tromper avec ça.
J'ai souvent utilisé mon gps quand il faisait trop noir pour voir par les fenêtres. Ça semble niaiseux mais si t'as peur tu peux même mettre ton téléphone en navigation et ça te dira quand débarquer.
Google maps
> Bienvenue à la réalité du monde qui a pris l'autobus avant 2010.
2010?  C'était comme ça jusqu'en fin 2017!
>Bienvenue à la réalité du monde qui a pris l'autobus avant 2010
Surtout en fin d'hiver avec toutes les fenêtres couvertes de boue et les panneaux montréalais écrits en police taille 4 accrochés seulement sur un coin de rue
ou l'application transit qui fait un très bon travaille. Tu peux même voir ton autobus pendant que tu l'attends.
Effectivement, même pas besoin de donnée cellulaire pour faire ça en plus.
tell me you're a millennial without telling me you're a millennial
Moi j'ai souvent demandé et les chauffeurs l'ont toujours fait sans problème. Je l'ai toujours demandé poliment, c'est pt là la différence.
> Holness had never met the pair and admits communication with his new political bedmates from Ralliement is somewhat strained.
> He indicated that he and his team are barely in touch with those who joined Movement Montreal as Ralliement candidates.
> “I just hope they are doing what they need to do to get elected, including going door to door campaigning.”
On voit à quel point il prend ça au sérieux lol
Je commence à croire que Ralliement pour Montréal s'est rallié à ce parti uniquement pour lui nuire
Ya love to see it folks!
FYI, ce sont deux nouveaux candidats, donc on est rendu a 6 candidats je crois?
And they just keep dropping
That party seems a bit too thrown together at the last minute. Maybe next time around they will have their shit together and present a viable  alternative.
Lol
Still the best party option out there.
c'est vraiment intriguant la politique
Not with Hollness that's for sure.
Somebody with his charisma but without his ego perhaps.
He has no charisma. Did you hear him interview?
And less divise ideas about language.
Succès en sport =/= Charisme ou talent politique
Ça aide que les gens connaisse ton nom parce que tu es dans la section la plus lue du JDM. Mais faut surtout du leadership, de l'écoute, de la patience... Des choses qui lui manquent visiblement.
> "I think we don't want to get into judgment and condemnation. I think we just need to keep talking to each other and explain to each other, try and answer questions and try to convince them that it's a good thing for them and for everybody else."
> "We had a few discussions over a few weeks," Marchand explained. "We took the time. It was very amicable, very friendly."
>"We talked about why she was apprehensive. What was she really afraid would happen with the vaccine?
>"We talked about how it went for everybody else. We talked about all the positive effects of the vaccine, the statistics. We talked about all of that."
> Marchand realized Dupriez had legitimate fears about the vaccine but, after hours of discussion, she'd been convinced.
> "I had a reaction to a vaccine when I was a child and I lost a daughter who reacted to a vaccine, so I was hesitant to take it," Dupriez said quietly.
I mean, the hesitancy there is quite understandable.
This example of someone losing a daughter to a vaccine is salient and all, but it’s is not the norm for the holdouts.  Many of them at this point are are ignorant and arrogant clowns and I’m not going to treat them like a five year old, hoping they’ll do the right thing. That ship has sailed. The best way to get the majority of these leftovers vaxxed is to make their lives a series of hoops and closed doors by way of vaccine passports. Enough is enough.
"I'm not anti-vaccine. I'm in favour of the vaccine for everyone else — just not me."
Mixed in with a bit of pure selfishness. 
I understand how she'd be terrified of doing it but the above statement is saying "I know vaccines work but I'll just let everybody else take the risks involved while I also benefit from herd immunity".
Non.
Quant est-il de Will Prosper?
Qu'en*
Quand :/
?
Bien que le projet n'est pas parfait, j'aime bien le fait que la caisse soit aggressive avec son échéancier. Si on essaye de plaire à tout le monde on va se retrouver avec 40ans de promesses comme pour la ligne bleue.
On a même pas encore commencé les consultations pourtant. C'est nécessaire pour avoir un projet qui a le support de la population il me semble et éviter la réception tiède du premier REM.
Le seul principe de "La caisse" c'est que personne ne se fassent blamer si ça foire n'est-ce pas?
Je pense qu'il y a moyen d'allier l'efficacité de la Caisse et le développement durable.
Apparently,  it's everybody's fault but that of the killer
[deleted]
S'il y en a que ça intéresse, il va y avoir une marche pacifique en hommage à Romane et pour protester contre la violence conjugale. C'est ce samedi, ça commence à 12h30 et le point de départ est à l'école F. A. C. E. sur Université (entre Sherbrooke et Milton).
https://m.facebook.com/events/1043202486496112
Personne, absolument personne ne dit qu'il faudrait le laisser sortir car il fait pitié. Mais la cousine marque un point: ç'aurait probablement été différent si on avait eut un meilleur support social et un meilleur investissement dans les troubles mentaux.
À vue de nez, les valeurs les plus conservatrices estiment à une quinzaine de pourcents les gens souffrant, au Québec, d'un diagnostique de trouble mentaux. La valeur moyenne semble être un sur cinq.
Quand le cinquième de ta population souffre de troubles mentaux variés, il faudrait peut être commencer à y penser.
Et la pandémie a certainement empiré les choses.
On a jamais autant entendu de trucs comme "la santé, c'est aussi la santé mentale, c'est important, faut en parler, pas de honte à avoir bla bla bla". Ironiquement, les soins en santé mentale sont plus inaccessibles et dispendieux que jamais.
Et c'est impossible d'obtenir consultation avec un psychologue dans le système public au Québec. Vraiment pathétique.
Je pense qu’ils font le pari que 98% des gens seront honnêtes et les profits seront au rendez-vous malgré une certaine quantité de vol. 
Ya pas de cash sur place alors ça devient moins intéressant de voler une caisse de Doritos et du Mountain Dew.
exact, t'as juste a attendre qu'une porte ouvre et puis tu rentres calmement. T'as meme pas besoin de mettte un masque de ski, tlm porte deja des masques mais faut que tu laisses ton cell a la maison par contre... Tres faisable mais y vont mettre un agent de securite jimagine
Man, if the homeless swarm Concordia's buildings when they are empty, can you imagine how many homeless will live in a clean area filled with food?
Aux Pays-Bas y'a plein de "dépanneurs" automatisés qui sont en fait des énormes machines distributrices qui servent même des [repas chauds](https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=h0SpY_pXURE). Je me suis toujours demandé pourquoi ont avait pas ça ici.
Ya rien qui empeche les gens de faire la même chose dans un dépanneur conventionnel. L'employé n'est pas supposé de confronter les voleurs ou les braqueurs.
J’avais entendu parler d’une boutique Amazon a New York où il n’y avait pas de cassiers ni même de caisse libre service. D’une façon ou d’une autre ce que tu prenais était scanne et chargé directement sur ton compte. J’imagine que ce n’est pas ce qu’ils vont faire à ce dépanneur mais c’est pas loin.
Question pas rapport:
La police check tu ça le simple vol à l'étalage?   
Les 3 dernières fois que chu allé au couche tard, la file était longue, le gars à la caisse checkait fuckall, le monde derrière moi sont juste parti avec leur stock, pis il s'est rien passé
&#x200B;
genre c'tu la norme
Il y a beaucoup des dépanneurs sans employés. Souvent un couple propriétaire qui travaillent 12 heures chaque jour.
il y a des caisses "self-checkout" partout maintenant, c'est pas un si grand saut que cela...
You're telling me that a soulless Torontonian neighborhood wants to have even less human interaction? LOLOLOL
Griffentown is such shit
I thought we were still years away  but really this is the first solid link in a chain that will change the way society works. Im not saying this is bad or good, but eventually more and more places will adopt this mode if it is successful. This means that stores will have less employees but still take up the same space and community requirements. What are people supposed to do when there literally is no where left to work, at least the low skill jobs which are thr majority.
At some point in time cars will drive themselves and delivery trucks will drive without drivers, taxis will have no drivers, small items delivered my drone. The number of available places to work will drop and drop as we head towards the future...
The interesting thing is that eventually we will ask the question why are there people who have nothing, when society is so productive. You replace say 1/3 of the population with automation and do they just get fucked? 
These types of stores are incompatible with the way our societies currently work and I'm interested to see what solutions this problem we come up with.
.
Je sais pas quel pourcentage de la population à un téléphone intelligent, mais j'en fais pas partie. J'espère que ce genre de truc sera jamais trop répendu. Capitalisme sauvage.
En régions plus isolées il y a des station-service sans employés pour l'essence. Même si il faut déjà que tu paies a la pompe avant de faire le plein, il y a quand même un employé dans un bureau ailleurs 24/7 qui regarde les feeds de caméra de sécurité et qui autorise les pompes. 
Si les dépanneurs de la compagnie se font voler, c'est pas compliqué d'avoir un employé qui regarde les caméras de 5-10 dépanneurs et qui débarre la porte a distance. Comme ça pas moyen de sortir du local si tu as volé/pas payé tout ce que tu as pris. En cas d'urgence (incendie, etc.) Tu peux mettre que quand quelqu'un essaie d'ouvrir la porte elle débarre automatiquement après 15 secondes sauf si l'employé qui regarde les caméras override.
C’est pas plus avantageux so tu dois payer un agent de Garda 20$ de l’heure au lieu d’un commis à 13$…
y vont pas mettre ça à montréal nord ou à lachine... c'est pas pour rien qu'ils ont choisi griffin town lol
Tu ouvres la porte avec ton cell, ils vont savoir qui tu es.
Vu dans le courriel que j'ai reçu : La deuxième porte se déverrouille automatiquement une fois la première porte fermée.
Donc ya 2 portes pour éviter que du monde se faufile, un peu comme dans une bijouterie j'imagine.
you have to scan something to enter. im guessing some sort of barrier to prevent what you described from happening
En asie aussi.
Il y en a ailleurs en Europe aussi. La bouffe est pas géniale, mais c'est pas cher et ça bouche un coin.
>Turkey (the country most of you make fun of)
We do?
Just watched your profile because I felt a narcissist vibe, you called Americans dumb fag****, And also you're denying Armenian genocide. 🤡
Bienvenue à Montréal!
Concerning your second point, I must disagree. The strength of Canada’s banking system rests in how rigourous its standards are. Opening an account might be more of a hassle, but I’d trade that for a reliable banking system any day of the week.
It’s no coincidence that our banks made it out of the 2008 financial crisis (relatively) without a scratch — Canada has an extremely tightly regulated banking system. It’s a feature, not a flaw.
Pour ton premier point, je ne crois pas que le ghosting fasse partie de la culture, mais on n'est pas le peuple le plus direct et en général on n'aime pas la confrontation. Je te recommande la lecture de "Tout ce qu'on ne te dira pas Mongo" de Dany Laferrière pour comprendre certains aspects de la culture locale.
Concernant les banques, c'est peut-être une mauvaise succursale? Il me semble que ce n'est pas si long d'ordinaire. Essaye ailleurs.
3- c'est l'Amérique du Nord. Notre transport en commun est très bon pour l'Amérique du Nord.
4 - ouep
5 - c'est un problème. Beaucoup moins pire pour les ingénieurs que pour certaines autres professions. Au moins pour les ingénieurs c'est atteignable (bien que ça demande du temps et des efforts).
6 - tu vas t'habituer.
Bienvenue! Ça doit être difficile d'immigrer en temps de pandémie.
[deleted]
Welcome to Montreal!
Canada's banking system is one of the best, if not THE best, in the world.  
[https://www.finweb.com/banking-credit/the-best-banking-systems-in-the-world.html#:\~:text=According%20to%20the%20survey%20by,points%20and%20topped%20the%20list](https://www.finweb.com/banking-credit/the-best-banking-systems-in-the-world.html#:~:text=According%20to%20the%20survey%20by,points%20and%20topped%20the%20list).
You are arriving in the country with no credit history.  Yes, financial matters will be less efficient for you until you establish credit and residence.  However, once you do, it does get simpler and more efficient.
There are things like paying bills that are not as easy as in Europe, and it can seem antiquated seeing people still use cheques for certain things, but things will get better for you with time here.
Bienvenue à Montréal! Be prepared for much higher electricity bills in the winter! My advise is to dress warmly in your house and never heat at more than  21c or else, you'll have a very bad surprise later on!
4: telecom monopoly/lobby runs canada
I have been living in Montreal for more than 10 years and still don’t get used to the ghosting thing… you interact with a contractor, or anyone that is supposed to reach back for an estimate or anything and after a few interactions they just don’t show up when they were expected to and then don’t answer messages anymore…
So far, it looks like you have not experienced our worst yet: our awful health system. I really hope you don't need to any time soon.
Lol you think Montréalais think Turks and Arabs are the same? Or we make fun of Turkey often?
Baby I'm not Arab or Turkish at all and still I pick up Arabic and Turkish slang/ knowledge from osmosis.
Maybe people ghosted you because you have a chip on your shoulder? Or you're the type to nationalistically brag about banking systems lol...
What a way to introduce yourself to others...
Hey, I work at a bank in Montreal and while you do mostly need an appointment, if someone is free at the time they should be able to take you no matter the bank. The mandatory appointment rule could very well be because of COVID, but the length of everything else does just sound like some bad luck, definitely a mishandled situation. Depending on the institution you’re with, and even the specific branch you go to, your service should be A1
As for the cell phone rates, DO NOT go with Bell, Rogers or Telus unless you want to spend a ton of money. Same with your internet for Bell. I recommend Fizz for Internet, cheaper packages and your leftover data at the end of the month rolls over which is a nice perk. Only catch is you need to bring your own phone, but overall it’s a lot cheaper than going with one of the companies. Concerning the internet, I hear virgin offers pretty decent internet service for about $50 a month.
Interesting post, thanks for taking the time to write it. I immigrated from the US 20 years ago, (and l also ived in Italy for a little while) and agree with all your points.  The thing that still amazes me is how bad the traffic planning and road signs and road quality is here. If you live in the city proper i would recommend avoiding driving or owning a car if you at all can, and go metro + car sharing even though it can be expensive.
Also, in terms of tips, put yourself on a list now when you likely don't need it, for a family doctor. It will take a while but down the road you may find it useful to have one you can have a relationship with.  
Also, if you can make a plan or two to get out of the city and see the regions or do some outdoors stuff especially in winter. There's a Montreal Outdoors Club which does regular hiking trips and activities in a group and is very friendly bilingual and affordable. 
Generally the people are great here and make up for a lot of the inanities. It's interesting how blind we humans are (in almost all countries) to how things could be done better.
I’ve been to Turkey, Hoşgeldiniz. Things are much different here. In regards to your complaints, there are improvements needed in the recognition of overseas schooling/training. There are doctors from other countries that come here who are not recognized as doctors, we have a large shortage of them across the provinces(nurses too). This must be a key frustration point for many who immigrate here. Loved staying in Turkey, everyone I met was incredibly gracious and generous. So Teşekkürler, Canada is happy to have you here!
On the banking system: I agree with what others here have said. AML/KYC (anti-money laundering/know your customer) is a huge part of what keeps our bank's credit ratings so high; integrity is a large part of Canadian culture. Meanwhile, Turkey allows stuff like [this](https://restofworld.org/2021/farmbank-turkey-scam-jail-time/)...
On the telecoms: I'm not defending them by any means; it is an oligopoly and they weild way too much power over our country. That being said, we are the second largest country by area. It is very costly to install infrastructure because of just how far apart everything is. I for sure think the government could do something to encourage competition in the industry, however. But frankly, at least Quebec has Videotron... you should see the pricing in Ontario where it's just Rogers, Bell, and Telus.
On your degree: I know it sucks to hear, and likely you are a very qualified engineer! But imagine we just accepted engineers from anywhere. We might end up with buildings like the one in Florida that collapsed this summer, and that's a big risk to our population! Canada doesn't have the resources to vet each and every university across the entire world. I imagine it's easier if you are in the EU, but unfortunately Turkey isn't and has not lately been making too much effort to achieve that goal it used to have.
I used to work with someone who had received an architecture degree from Egypt. They came over here and were doing apprenticeship to get their license but ended up getting fired by their employer for an expensive mistake they made on the beams in the ceiling. While it is devastating for them and their career, and I do feel bad for them, I am glad the system protected us from a potential disaster.
&#x200B;
Good luck on your wife's visa and welcome to Canada. :)
For the engineering degree thing, you might be able to get your degrees recognized if you can validate that the schools at which they were completed are "legit." You will likely still have to do the licensing exam which relates to ethics/law in Canada regardless, as do engineers educated in Canada.
My understanding is that there is a running list of schools that will be considered valid for the purposes of obtaining your PEng, but that it may be missing some institutions because well, the world is big and there are a lot of universities. I'm not sure of the precise process, but I had a roommate who had to do this because for whatever reason his university (in Germany) was not on "the list." I'm not sure what processes were involved here, but I think he basically had to submit detailed transcripts/course descriptions to prove that what he'd done was equivalent to a Canadian university engineering degree in terms of content.
It's a bit complicated though and depends on the rules where you're from as well... my understanding is that if you've done your degrees in a foreign country, it's only PEng admissible if you've done ALL the steps to qualify to be a PEng/equivalent in that country. So for example, someone who has done their engineering degrees in the US must also pass the US professional exam, which evaluates engineering core content - the degree alone is not enough because in the US the degree + content exam = professional engineer. The US got mad at some point about this (Canadian licensing exam is just ethics and "easy"), but we did a study that showed that that almost all Canadian engineering grads could pass the US exam on the first try ;).
Welcome in North-America! Yes you need an appointement for everything. Usualy opening a bank account take 15-30min and receive a credit card take 2 days. Don’t go to Desjardins!
I arrive not so long and I totally agree with be banking stuff, the call center is so bad that one time it was easier for me to just go there
If you find Montreal's public transit bad and expensive wait until you try the TTC. STM is one of the better systems.
Quite the passive aggressive rant...
Une autre histoire réglable avec des caméras corporelles pour les policiers
I work in banking and I GUARANTEE clients say worse things to me all the time... but I don't get bent out of shape, track them down, and bust into their home like the Kool-Ade Man to whup their asses. The "thin blue line" should be renamed to the "thin-skinned blue line".
All I know is what's in the article. But I do know something else... I live across the street from an expensive, and very big, daycare center, and some parents simply don't give a shit about parking rules because "it's only 2 minutes". My driveway is always blocked by some entitled asshole. I've tried telling them nicely, they don't care. I tried telling them a little more forcefully, they get even more mad at me. I've tried talking to the daycare administration, they act all apologetic but nothing happens.
Coincidentally, this morning it happened again and I called the city to tow or at least ticket their asses. I've spoken to my neighbors and we all have the same problem. It's a one lane, one way street, with a bike path. The chaos at 3 p.m. is ridiculous.
To reiterate, these people dropping off their kids do not care at all. That being said, to have police enter your house and tackle you over a parking fine is beyond ridiculous as well, but the way humans are in general, both civilian and law enforcement, it doesn't surprise me that a situation would degenerate to this point.
This is what happens when cops are untouchable in Montreal. Is the guy a jerk? Yes but those public security officers are asshats as well. This is precisely why you need security cameras to a cloud in and outside of your home
Who cares que c'est un docteur? C'est pour lui donner de la crédibilité?
Obstruction of justice. Nothing more than a bullsh*t power trip tactic on the part of police to charge/arrest anyone who dares to argue with or question them.
It's fine, we have 7 cops walking the streets to connect with people on some pilot that's going to be cancelled next year. We're good here.
I don't understand the psychology here: they're acting all tough beating up people for no reason, but at the same time they're little pussies who feel "threatened" by any random word or "fear for their life" when a scrawny unarmed homeless person charges at them.
Tout le monde ici croit vraiement que les policiers se sont rendus chez l'homme trois heures après l'altercation avec un agent de sécurité juste parce qu'il a  dit"Go ahead" quand on l'a menaçé de le remorquer?  Come on.  Le policiers sont pas des saints, loin de là, surtout ceux de Montréal.  Mais il manque clairement la version de l'agent de sécurité ici.  Il s'est certainement dit quelque chose de moins anodin que "Go ahead" pour que les policiers se présentent chez lui.
Question technique, est-ce que la sécurité publique de Ville Mont Royal ce sont des agents de la paix?
acab here, acab everywhere. 
Give angry and violent men weapons and power, and let them handle minor altercations, good idea… /s
devastating trauma for the cops, better give them another 300 million $ for some reason
Point gagnant pour les candidats.. fucking bodycams, now!
ACAB
Woa did he really dare the police?
The guys was a dick to the security guard no doubt but the security guard and the police overreacted in a criminal manner.  Disgraceful.
ACAB
J'aimerais tellement savoir si c'était parfaitement gratuit, ou si c'était après que les policiers lui ont demandé 150 fois de faire quelque chose ou si c'est quelque part entre les deux?
Vivement les bodycams!!
A crime is a crime. 
I think he should be at least sentenced to three years of labor concentration camp in Yukon. 
Then after his last supper, he can choose between Lethal Injection, Electrocution, Lethal Gas, Firing Squad, or Hanging
These cops are a great example of the ACAB syndrome
Damn, that website on mobile sucks. Can't have the page centered for some reason.
[deleted]
https://montrealgazette.com/opinion/columnists/brownstein-jimmy-chan-is-on-a-mission-to-save-montreals-chinatown
Yes, all chinese are born rich.
> Although Quebec’s comments do not come as a 
surprise, the MCK is repulsed by Quebec’s attempt to politicize a 
genuine reconciliatory action on the part of a sports club
Shots fired
J'aimerais connaître l'avis des Algonquins sur le sujet.
S'ils changeaient Mohawk par Iroquoiens, ça pourrait  être satisfaisant pour pas mal tout le monde.
Ils ont besoin de conseil en relation publique.
"'serve as an example of true reconciliation between Canadians and Indigenous Peoples"
"The MCK believes in working collaboratively "
"true reconciliation can only occur when both parties are willing to create an open dialogue"
"Working collaboratively is the only way to establish goodwill"
&#x200B;
Moi je voudrais bien savoir ce que eux (le conseil Mohawk de Kahnawake) prétendent faire de leur coté en tant qu'effort 'collaboratif' et 'réconciliatoire'. Ca m'a toujours semblé vachement unilatéral.
Nationalists and using technicalities to deny native heritage because they can't share their victim complex with anyone else, name a more iconic duo.
I mean, aren’t those statements largely used for political purposes? You saw the Mohawk mother’s group use the exact same statements this week to claim ownership of the Royal Vic site.
Alors on va avoir une idée plus précise de notre histoire en étant plus vague ?  
S'il s'est passé quelque chose à La Réunion, ou en Martinique, est-il suffisant de dire que cela s'est passé en France ?
What makes you say that?
Ils ont coupables de la colonisation maintenant?
C’est une erreur de frappe. Ils voulaient dire revendications.
………..C’est pas eux les colonisateurs…..
being english and giving more credence to skin color than historical facts
"""progressive""" liberals being unable to differentiate minorities beyond physical appearances.
Natives historically lived here for hundreds of years. They're not Mohawks however. The Mohawk leaders in Québec do claim they're the ones who killed the Iroquois du St-Laurent however, granting them Montréal by right of conquest.
Les iroquoiens sont distincts des iroquois.
Well for one the press release isn't the most professional.  They accuse the government of saying things but make a vague reference to articles in the media. They criticize the government for using the media to debate but they're doing so in a press release.   They put the full statement from the Canadiens in the second paragraph when that should probably be in appendix or have the relevant bit summarized in one sentence. There are some usage errors - eg respectively when they mean respectfully. 
Granted they're basically a community group and not swimming in tax revenue and presumably English is their second or third language. Yet it's a press release and public relations they're engaged in.
I'm not a PR professional but that's what jumps out at me first.
Attention, si on peut 'accuser' le gouvernement Québécois aujourd'hui de 'colonization' pour des actes d'il y a plusieurs siècles, on peut accuser le conseil Mohawk de bien des génocides pour la même période, pour peu que vous connaissiez votre histoire.
Mais votre réaction montre bien qu'il n'est nullement question de "réconciliation".
Les Mohawks ne viennent pas de Montréal, ils viennent du coté américain. Leur "claim" sur Montréal vient du fait qu'ils auraient tué les habitants d'Hochelaga entre la visite de Jacques Cartiers en 1535 et celle de Champlain en 1603. Alors ça leur appartient selon eux. Les méchants colonisateurs eux se sont établis pacifiquement ici pour faire le commerce de la fourrure avec les autochtones.
Personne au Canada n'a colonisé les Mohawk ni dans le présent ni dans le passé. Maintenant c'est ce conseil qui lui-même parde de gestes **des deux coté**, alors moi je voudrais savoir ce que eux entendent faire de leur coté pour se "réconcillier".
That's inaccurate. Mohawk territory has always included southwestern Quebec. The Hochelagans were likely a clan within the Mohawk nation whose society/economy was more focused on trade with the Huron and Algonquin than other Iroquois peoples/nations.
While shopping I've been hearing a lot of depanneur and small business owners whinging about "la PCU la PCU" and how they have trouble finding staff.
When your wages are so low that they are competing with a bare-minimum emergency benefit due to a global disaster, maybe there's an issue there. 
COVID provided an opportunity for a lot of service workers to take stock of how little their employers care about them and how bad the workplace environment is. How bad the job security is. How they show up for a 6-hour dinner server shift and get cut early that evening due to lack of customers.
Many people took this opportunity to say "fuck that" and I commend them.
A job requires two parties to come to an employment agreement. A lot of employers are feeling the heat now that the employees have some bargaining power and employers can't just dictate all the terms of even entry-level work.
C'est fou a quelle point cette pandemie a mis au jour de facon flagrante plusieurs problemes de société qui étaient la bien avant qu'elle ne frappe...  Surtout concernant les conditions de travail dans le domaine de la santé et de la restauration.
J'étais une barista à temps plein en 2010-2011. 
Jamais je ne reprendrais ce genre de travail. C'était sincèrement le travail le plus difficile de ma vie, au plan mental and physique. Le stress était épouvantable.
Even jobs that aren’t minimum wage are actually minimum wage when you look into them. For example, jobs teaching English as a second language are advertised at $18 to $25/hr in the city. But they only pay for in-class time and not for prep work, corrections, etc so really you’re making near or below the minimum wage. How is this sort of thing tolerated? It’s not like it just started happening. Wage theft, is what it is.
I dunno if you done that already, but there is a channel named antiwork on reddit. You may want to vent a lot there, Its very, very usefull.
This just in! Water is wet. More breaking news at 6!
High expectations can be a bitch
Yeah, the owner of the restaurant in my building is complaining that he can't find staff to work, and how he's had to resort to working 6 days a week in the kitchen.  But he drives to work every day in a cadillac.  
I'm willing to bet that wages are a small fraction of his operating costs, and that he could easily afford to increase the hourly wages by 50% or more.
The last 18 months have been tough, but he was collecting support cheques from the government the whole time as well.  There also hasn't been any marketing being done to notify folks in the area that they've re-opened with their full menu, and the patio was re-opened...  So, there's a lot of blame to go around...
C'est facile dire "fuck" that quand tu fais porter aux autres les conséquences de ce choix...
J'pense que le monde sont tellement épuissé du covid que avant, il pouvait "enduré' une job de marde pour raison X ou raison Y, mais que apres 2 dans de ce shit show la, on ne peut juste plus retourner dans ces conditions la. Et les cheaps fuck de boss pensent qu'ils peuvent juste remettre le salaire d'avant, mettre une ptite prime de 1$ de l'heure et que tout le monde va courir vers eux pour avoir la job.
Idem pour la job de serveuse. Dealer avec une grosse famille avec des jeunes enfants = un cauchemar.
Bin oui toi avoir une job dont l'impact positif est significatif et dont les conditions de travail te permettent d'avoir un style de vie confortable et le fun, quelles attentes élevées!
Les propriétaires d'entreprise ont la responsabilité de gérer leurs finances et de fixer un salaire qui attire un personnel adéquat tout en étant capable de payer le coût des produits et les frais généraux. That's it, that's all.
Leur budget n'est pas mon problème.
>avoir une job dont l'impact positif est significatif et dont les conditions de travail te permettent d'avoir un style de vie confortable
C'est une étudiante avec une job d'étudiante là. Si les jobs d'étudiants cochaient toutes les cases, qui se donnerait la peine d'avoir une carrière?
Je suis d'accord, et de la même facon, c'est la responsabilité des travailleurs de travailler au mieux de leurs capacités si ils veulent de la subsistance. Bref, travaillez ou pas, mais qu'on ne demande pas au reste de la société de payer a rien faire quand il y a du travail. Parce que si vous n'avez pas remarqué, on paie déja tous les conséquences de la PCU/PCRE, et c'est pas fini.
L’idée c’est pas de cocher toutes les cases, mais que le résultat ne soit pas un net négatif sur la santé physique et mentale VS le salaire. C’est pas _si_ tant difficile de donner des bonnes conditions de travail, c’est juste pas une dépense que les employeurs ont envie de faire.
Les guides touristiques et plusieurs travailleurs autonomes ont besoin de ces programmes
Loose with the truth is a long euphemism for liar. Why is the CBC mincing words?
We care, we just dont talk about it cause we're used to him lying. C'est pas nouveau.
*Loose* with the truth? Now that is a lie! 😅 He blantly lies all the time!!!
I for one care and I'll make sure NOT to vote for his lying ass.
His electors don't care, they believe that he's going to get rid each every bike path I'm the city so they will be able to get parking right in front of their condo or retirement home and that is all they really care about.
The mother of all euphemisms there. Jesus....
"loose with the truth"
interesting way to say to say pathological liar
No
Anyone but Plante. Old people know not to vote for her and guess who votes in elections, especially municipal elections?
strong liberal bias
n'est-il pas un nouvel homme? Avec des belles valeurs comme la transparence?
/s juste au cas
CBC is anti-liberal but very pro Liberal
allegedly
Penn and Teller fool us sur yootoob est pas pire pour ceux qui veulent voir ceux qui ont survécu.
And that is stuff you should know!
Wow, first William Shatner MTL homeboy goes to space, and now this. I'm just researching all these things while I happen to be here for a few days. This is interesting, I didn't know this happened in Montreal. As it turns out, I'm a martial artist who is quite interested in the physical principles behind sustaining blows and generating forces internally, and it's completely possible, you sort of learn how to use your breath to create extra forces within your muscle tissue and this is part of what I think something like what Houdini could do, I'm sure, as a person who was interested actually in mastering his own body and mind (something David Blaine took up and to the next level, I think), but if you don't have time to do it and prepare in the right moment, then it won't be of much use. It always sounds like the guy that did it was either an ass or misunderstood this and thought Houdini was claiming to be some magical being that could absorb any force at any moment, which is not the case if you're not prepared for it, no matter how good you are at it.
Penn and Teller Fool Us est une très bonne émission, point. Bonne suggestion
Ouais. Y a eu des magiciens assez hallucinants à l'émission.
[deleted]
he wont spend too too long in jail. maybe 10-15 years. He'll be out before 30.
Depending how many years he gets, he'll go to a juvenile detention center until 18yo. Then, depending on behavior, the judge could agree that he stays there until he's 21 (max) and thus avoid going to jail at all.
Our justice system is extremely lenient toward minors.
You can also vote on the 30th and 31st October.
Im predicting 40-45% turn out over two days
J'ai toujours voté, mais j'ai jamais eu autant le gout de resté che nous que pour celle la.
Bien sûr!
I’ve noticed that since Plante took office, the road quality has improved — new pavement that’s been put down stays down, doesn’t crumble to shit within a year. That little observation indicates to me that the shameless grift and wholesale thievery (and presumably the endemic corruption) within the municipal govt has been stemmed. For that alone they got my vote. Went out of my way to get registered, that lying fat fuck Coderre isn’t getting back in.
Je vais voter le 30 octobre
Tous ceux et toutes celles qui disent que si on vote pas, on chiale pas et que voter est un devoir de citoyen, alors faites ce que vous croyez et allez voter.
Sinon, c'est malhonnête.
Qu’est-ce qu’on fait si on n’est satisfait d’aucun des candidats? Je suis contre la philosophie de “voter pour le/la moins pire”, puisque c’est la raison pourquoi notre classe politique est si merdique. Un vote blanc qui sera tout simplement discarté sans être compté?
Même si je vote pour Dollarama Lochness?
Est-ce qu'il y a des débats disponibles facilement pour m'informer?  Je souhaite aller voter mais je m'y connais absolument pas en politique municipale!
I lol'd at real democracy.
Hum, comment on fait pour aller voter? On est supposé avoir reçu un petit carton?
Oui, allez voter pour la prochaine mairesse de Montréal, que la meilleure gagne.
jserai pas à montréal le 7 novembre:(
Plante a fais pas mal de pistes de skateboard et parks refait a neuf dans mon côté de l' île.  Elle aussi va ouvrir la rive a l'est pour la nage cet été.   On pense voter pour elle parce que ça aide les enfants a faire de la excercise.
Moi, j'aime pas voter.  
\-le schtroumf grincheux
Isn't that Holness dude running on SJW identity politics platform? I nearly threw up when I read that. That's gonna go well for him.
How do I vote? Born and raised in this city, do 8 just walk in to an office somewhere and cast a ballot?
Given that all the candidates suck nuts I’ll pass.
"Vraie démocratie" retourne apprendre ce que c'est et reviens me dire dans les yeux que votre une fois par année pour une personne c'est de la démocratie ... imbécile
not one person at my door, no issue I care about, can I vote to burn the olympic stadium down through an act of terrorism and every Montrealer collects a cut of the insurance money?
I don't really understand the underlying statement here. What does it have to do with the tragedy?  
What would it have changed if she was in a professional setback or failing at school?
Horrible story.
[deleted]
Socially, it's an expression of grief... acknowledging the magnitude of the loss helps recover from the loss.
Now is it *news* ? No.
I'm with you. It sounds like "people die all the time and I don't give a shit, but THIS ONE was important".
it's like when they say "beautiful young woman" etc. 
Fine, but would her death be any less tragic if she was homely?
Classic victim blaming.
He was her roommate…should she have thought twice about not being able to afford housing without roomies?
>Socially, it's an expression of grief... acknowledging the magnitude of the loss helps recover from the loss.
That's an interesting aspect I've not thought about (I don't think it works the same for me).  
Thanks
Does it get clicks? Yes. So it is news.
Classic no accountability
really? how about seeing it as self-defense or victim prevention?
If I blamed her I'd say, "it was her fault".
If it's offensive to say that we should be smarter and more careful, that's even more insulting.
This person is arguing against the death penalty in America for a mass shooting event. Troll much?
I guess Pornhub is a news site then.
like how dare we suggest that we can be smarter and have better self esteem to avoid shit like this in the future!  It's so much better for women to be victims!
victim blaming is wrong, but so is being a victim.
and? what of it? being against the death penalty isn't the same as promoting wanton acts of violence.
I really believe they should diversify a bit and combine porn and news. People would be way better informed.
Classic classic
You litterally just said being a victim is wrong. This is textbook victim blaming.
Yeah just try not getting stabbed next time, so easy not to get stabbed....
Clinique privée à 300$ est la bonne réponse, vas-y?
Les nouveaux arrivants doivent se procurer une assurance privée pour la période de 3 mois pendant laquelle ils ne sont pas couverts par le régime public, ou payer les frais médicaux de leur poche.
Appele au 811 - ils vont être en mesure de t’orienter. Tu risque d’attendre longtemps au téléphone mais au moins tu vas parler à une personne et non un ordi.
Si tu es réfugié ton numéro IUC permet au médecin d’être payé via l’assurance croix bleu. Sinon tu va devoir payer 300$
Essaie la clinique cloud Med. Ça coûte environ 150$ mais je pense que tu peux prendre RDV sans carte ramq
Clinique privée à <150$. Y'en a en masse. La mienne est 145$ pour les non membres, rv le lendemain (Rive Sud par contre)
Certaines assurances privées vont même payer pour (comme celle de mon ami étudiant étranger).
Cela dépend de la nature de la consultation.  
Au delà d'avoir la carte d'assurance maladie, il y a aussi la question d'avoir un médecin de famille.  
Si cela concerne un traitement ou quoi que ce soit qui nécessite un suivi, tu risques de juste avoir attendu ton rendez-vous et t'être présenté.e pour rien.  
Après avoir perdu presque un mois en allant à trois rendez-vous en clinique sans rendez-vous (pour lesquels on m'avait mal informé au téléphone), j'ai craqué et suis allé dans le privé pour $320. J'ai pu aller chercher mon médicament le jour-même...
Sinon il est courant d'aller aux urgences pour quelque chose de pas urgent, précisément pour cette raison.
À ce que je me rappelle, la clinique diamant à côte des neiges prends les patients sans RAMQ, tu paye évidemment mais c'est pas un prix exorbitant. À voir si le privé est moins chère ou le même prix car le public, et surtout cette clinique, c'est ultra long et pas super le fun
Peut-être voir avec https://medecinsdumonde.ca ?
Clinique utgence reine elizabeth est 50$ si jamais
Chez le vétérinaire? 🤔
Sans RAMQ (ou autre assurance) l'urgence va couter beaucoup plus cher qu'une clinique par contre.
C'est juste...
im just so tired, any one else?
just feels like i've been tired for 2 years +, its the constant stress for covid, work, and family i guess. just feels like a never ending day. 
every time i get a sniffle, oh it must be covid but i haven't seen any one in days so how could i catch covid? keep hearing how oh theirs no common cold well what about just a leaky nose from sitting out side...
just rambling, winter blues and more cold weather to come makes me not want to live in canada any more.
Le vendredi, c'est ravioli.
Semaine folle. Mon gars a ramené un virus de la garderie, ca ressemblait à la gastro sans la diarhée mais vomis sans arrêt (bon appétit). Heureusement ca n'a durée que le temps d'un après midi. Mon bébé a attrapé ce virus hier. Même affaire. Et moi aussi. Tabarnak!
je profite de cette tribune pour vous demander un peu d'aide pour mon canal Youtube sur Montréal. 
Je commence a manquer de sujets intéressants.... vous connaissez des bâtiments, attractions qui pourraient être le sujet d'une video d'environ 10 minutes?
Ça fait 2 mois j'vais au gym et que je suis Stronglifts 5x5 pi là j'commence à être mélangé sur quel programme suivre quand je vais accoter mon maximum sur mes lifts, ce qui s'en vient très rapidement. J'regarde les programmes recommendés sur /r/fitness pi je comprends fuck all. Esti que c'est le fun stronglifts pour le fait que c'est simple comme bonjour même au point d'en être trop simple.
The city taped flyers to our doors last spring telling everyone on my street that the street cleaning parking signs would not be enforced this year due to construction. Yesterday was they day that they decided to give everyone a ticket for not following the parking signs.
Chronique d'un enseignant au secondaire : c'est la journée de la photo de finissants aujourd'hui pour les secondaire 5. Ça rend vraiment concret le fait que c'est leur dernière année à l'école secondaire. Faut que je pousse les profs qui enseignent au finissants à prendre aussi une photo pour être sur la mosaïque avec les élèves.
Je suis passé cette semaine voir une pratique de basketball après l'école. Les jeunes avaient l'air extrêmement heureux d'être là après une année et demi sans sport organisé à l'école. On en a plusieurs pour qui c'est un des seuls plaisirs qui les retient à l'école. J'ai déjà hâte au premiers matchs inter école!
Well, it took about 4 months, but I finally got a handyman in to fix my ceiling post water leak, hurrah!
On the downside, that dude did a real ugly job of the patch. Win some and lose some, eh?
Thinking about leaving the country for 1 or 2 months this winter. Just wondering, what temperature should I leave the thermostat set at in an empty apartment? Trying to find the balance between "not going too low as to cause damage to things inside" and "not paying a ton of money to heat an empty place"
Do you take vit D ? It helps some people a lot.
"I'm just so tired" dude we all are, I feel you. There's this mushy grey cloud hanging over us that seems like it's never going to go away. 
The best we can do is try to find peace and harmony where we can, and where we can. Be good, stay safe and mentally we should all take time for ourselves - somehow, someway.
Désolé pour vous tous.
Les virus de gastro sont les pires avec des enfants. C'est quasi-impossible que ça ne se propage pas à la maisonnée au complet.
Le pire est de ramassé tous ces dégats quand ton propre estomac est sur le bord de tes lèvres.
Pas de suggestion, mais un petit message pour te remercier. J'aime bien tes capsules sur Montréal.
As-tu parlé de la saga de l'hôpital chinois sur St-Denis?
J'ai croisé un gars sur un chantier de construction a Vancouver qui en revenait pas de la qualité de l'ouvrage dans les cathédrales montréalaises (they didn't have computers or power tools!!). Je lui ai expliqué qu'un monument a dieu implique pas mal plus d'investissement que des condos en béton, drywall et vitre construits pour faire la piastre. Y'a de la belle architecture et de l'artisanat vraiment solide dans nos églises.
Tu peux parler en général des Soeurs de Notre-Dame qui ont été les premières à éduquer les filles au Québec, beaucoup d'écoles dépendent encore d'elles de façon plus éloignée bien sur.
As tu parlé de Griffintwn et de l'embourgeoisement? Ou du musée de la medecine Osler ou y'a des trucs un peu glauque, avec le musée Redpath?
J'ai progressé vers *5/3/1 For Beginners* après SL et c'est ce qui était le plus recommandé sur le sub à l'époque; ça m'a vraiment plu. 
C'est une belle continuité, assez de base pour les main lifts, avec plus de latitude sur les accessoires. Il y a un template Excel aussi pour t'aider à set up tes charges au début...et ça aide beaucoup à la compréhension parce que la description est un peu mêlante! Je me suis toujours permis de skipper quelques sets de warm-up parce que ça faisait énorme, mais à ta guise.
https://thefitness.wiki/routines/5-3-1-for-beginners/
Tu peux rester là-dessus pour un solide 6 mois - 1 an en continuant à progresser selon moi.
keep the flyer and dispute the ticket
Les studios de photographies sont-ils toujours aussi bandits? Quand mes kids étaient au primaire et secondaire ça nous coûtait une beurrée chaque année pour les photos. Les dernières années, si mes kids ne les voulaient pas, on ne prenait que la photo de groupe.
Aujourd'hui, avec la qualité des photos sur les cell., je ne vois vraiment pas l'attrait des photos d'école (autre que la photo de groupe).
genre finissants au printemps prochain ?
I once had an apartment where the previous occupant wanted a flat screen tv but couldn't afford one so he cut out a hole in the wall and just put his tv there. He "patched" it up before leaving but did a horrible job.
1877-644-4545 option étoile, option numero 3 
C'est l'ancien 811. Ils vont te trouver un rendez-vous dans une clinique.
[deleted]
Si je peux te donner un conseil, c'est d'appeler les cliniques autour de chez toi et les démarcher toi-même, c'est comme ca que j'ai trouvé une clinique qui allait avoir un nouveau médecin prochainement.
Sur ce site : https://sante.gouv.qc.ca/repertoire-ressources/
Je mettais mon code postal, un rayon de 5km et j'appelais les cliniques les unes après les autres. Ca prend un peu de temps mais je ne crois pas du tout à l'inscription au guichet d'attente.
Checkups réguliers? Haha, non. Quand je suis malade je prends 2 advil et je me croise les doigts. Rendez vous santé qc ne me donne pas dutout de r-v. Pas encore essayé bonjour santé. Je nai pas vraiment le temps pour tout ca, car ma fille et ma femme passent en 1er.
En ce qui me concerne, je consulte seulement quand je suis en voyage à l’étranger. Jamais au QC.
Qui t'as dit que ce n'était pas un cas d'urgence? L'infirmière du triage? 🤨
Je payed 140 la visite au md privé pour get des prescription pour les tests/traitment quil me faut pis japporte sa au clsc/clinique qui les offres. Cest pas rapid ou gratuit mais cest all i can do tbk
Est-ce que tes parents/conjoint.e/enfants ont un doc? Tu peux demander à avoir le même.
Je trouve que le système en tant que tel n'est pas si mauvais. Je me suis fais opérer du genou en mai et l'opération s'est bien passée et le suivi aussi (Hôpital Pierre Boucher).
Pour moi, le principal problème c'est le manque de médecin de famille. C'est trop dur d'en trouver un et donc de pouvoir accéder au soin. La mafia de l'Ordre des Médecins y est pour quelque chose : quand on voit tout ce qu'ils demandent aux médecins étrangers qui veulent venir ici, c'est aberrant.
Comme ci un médecin français ou marocain vaudrait moins qu'un médecin québécois. C'est dommage car cela permettrait d'avoir plus de médecins.
Il faudrait aussi plus de petits cabinets où les médecins travailleraient toute la semaine. Trop de médecins se baladent entre plusieurs cliniques et il est souvent difficile d'avoir un rdv rapidement.
Vous n'êtes pas le seul à vivre ça. Le mieux est de réeassyer sur les sites en ligne de RV (celui de QC et Bonjour Santé). C'est ce que j'ai fait et j'ai finalement trouvé un rendez-vous (à 6h du matin devant mon ordi sur le site de RVSQ). Courage!
Moi j'utilise Bonjour sante
>J'ai peur d'avoir des enfants dans ce système pourri!
Tu va pouvoir découvrir la joie de payer pour le système de CPE avec tes impots tout en étant forcé de payer 1000$ par mois au privé parce que ya pas de place en CPE!
Moi too j’ai eu un médecin de famille assez rapidement. Je suis à Montréal depuis que 4 ans et ça fais juste avant la Covid que j’ai eu l’appelle pour confirmer et avoir mon premier RDV. Aucun condition. Mon copain lui too ça l’a pris environ deux ans. 
Nous sommes les deux dans le ciusss ouest de l’île par contre.  Ça l’air que les gens dans les autres secteurs ont plus de misère à en trouver mais à Verdun/dorval/lachine/ville emard ça semble que ça passe assez bien 🤔
Le truc pour RVSQ c'est d'appuyer sur le bouton de recherche à 15h pile parce que c'est l'heure ou les places se libèrent. Attention ça part en genre 1 minute.
Selon moi, le problème n'est pas la reconnaissance des diplômes hors-Quėbec. Lorsqu'accepté, un médecin reçoit un numéro de facturation RAMQ. Si le Québec acceptait tous les médecins venant de l'extérieur du Québec et leur donnait un numéro de facturation, le budget de la santé exploserait. Donc, limiter l'emission de ces numéros est une façon de rationner l'offre de soins. Il y a 2 façons de rationner l'offre, soit en réduisant le nombre de médecins ou par l'argent (privatisation). Dans les 2 cas, des gens vont souffrir, mais pas pour les mêmes raisons. L'Etat pourrait faire mieux mais nous sommes gouvernés (monde occidental) par des gens qui ne veulent que se faire réélire à n'importe quel prix. Sachant cela, les profiteurs (pas seulement le privé, tous les profiteurs) se servent de cette faiblesse de nos "zélus" pour pomper le système. Un exemple: j'ai vu un poste affiché dans un CIUSS qui offre 6 semaines de vacances avec 13 jours de congé férié. Une des tâches principales est d'assurer la productivité du service. Et après, on s'étonne que ça coûte cher et que ça fonctionne tout croche.
Weird, ça fait juste 4-5 ans que j'ai déménagé à Montréal et ça m'a pris genre 1 an et demi avant d'avoir un médecin de famille. Y'ont toujours des rendez-vous la semaine prochaine ou l'autre... Pour les prélèvements, mon médecin me dit où aller pis d'habitude même pas de rendez-vous requis, jamais vraiment bien occupé au CLSC Metro ou autres.
Quand j'étais à Québec, j'utilisais bonjour santé pis c'était gratuit, fallait juste prendre rendez-vous à 20h pile pour avoir une place le lendemain.
Pas le best, mais j'ai jamais vraiment eu de problèmes non plus à avoir accès à des services dont j'avais besoin.
Suis-je le seul qui est resté sur le 40K d’impôt par année?
Gatineau says hi
J’ai un médecin de famille. Ça rend la vie 15x plus facile. Avant ça, j’allais à la clinique sans RDV mais ça prenait quelques heures aussi et il faut y aller tôt le matin.
As-tu vérifié sur le site du guichet si il y’a vraiment une demande à ton nom? 10 ans me semble trop long.
Sinon pour le reste:
RVSQ, les RDV apparaissent la veille vers 12-13h et se remplissent *vite*. Tu ne trouveras rien si tu cherches trop tôt ou trop tard. Si c’est vraiment urgent, appelle le 811 et il te transfèreront à la centrale de RDV du CIUSSS. Ils ont toujours des places extras. 
Études de sommeil, faut appeler soit un hôpital soit une clinique de sommeil. Ça ne se fait pas chez le médecin. 
Pour les prélèvements, c’est clic-santé qui gère ça pendant la pandémie. Avant, tu pouvait tout simplement venir à l’hôpital et ça prenait 20min max.
J’avoue que ça prend un peu du sien mais à un moment, faut au moins savoir où aller avant de se plaindre.
Ça vaudrait le coup d'étudier le phénomène. D'accord avec tes données mais les medecins de famille verrait tous les cas qui ne se rendent jamais aux urgences. Je partais de cette idée. A suivre.
Je ne sais pas comment tu t'y prends...
Je viens de regarder, j'ai trouvé **plusieurs** rendez-vous, dans un CLSC, pour des prises de sang, dans moins de deux semaines, sans avoir a appeler nul part. [https://portal3.clicsante.ca/](https://portal3.clicsante.ca/)
L'année dernière, je craignais d'avoir un pied casé, j'ai appelé info santé, le soir même un médecin m'appelait chez moi et m'envoyait mon papier pour un rayon-x, j'ai eu un rendez-vous le lendemain.
Pour un médecin, quand j'ai déménagé à Montréal, j'ai été sur la liste d'attente. J'ai eu un nouveau médecin en 14 mois.
Quand j'ai eu à consulter un allergologue, j'ai attendu 7 mois et j'ai eu mon rendez-vous.
Un moment donné faut savoir se débrouiller aussi... Si tes critères sont trop étroits, tu ne trouveras pas grand-chose.
Honnêtement j’étais pas sure of the idea du REV, c’est tellement un love-hate entre les automobilistes à Montréal, *mais* cet été I used the shit out of it, I felt safer as a cyclist, I felt less annoyed as a driver, and it was really cool to see St Denis looking more.. human. 
I’ll take the REV and Madame Plante’s cycling infrastructure over Coderre’s which amounted to “painted lines” (where you still can easily be at risk from dangerous drivers)
tldr: I was scared for the longest time to cycle all across the city, with Plante’s new infrastructure, myself and many other people are now happily cycling across the city safely and far more frequently than before.
Mais personne l'utilise! /s
I use it daily. I go 15 minutes out of my way to use it because it’s just so much safer than my normal route. Hopefully we can see more of this infrastructure in the near future. 
… Maybe take down the stupid fence on acadie and add it there..? Pls..?
le REV c'est du gaspillage! On aurait pu s'ajeter un stade de baseball avec toute cet argent là!
heureusement coderre va revenir à la mairie et ramener le parking et les banlieusards avec lui
&#x200B;
et, on l'espère, un autre esti de beau party pour le 381e de Montreal!
J'aurais dû écrire « pour sa première année », pour un titre plus précis, mais bon. Il est possible de consulter les données de compteurs de vélos à travers la ville ici:
[https://data.eco-counter.com/ParcPublic/?id=630#](https://data.eco-counter.com/ParcPublic/?id=630#)
''lE rEv EsT tOuJoUrS vIdE''
\- un frustré surement
Timing impeccable pour le débat de ce soir. J'ai bien hâte de voir Coderre chier sur le REV alors que ce jalon important a été franchi aujourd'hui même!
Toute ma reconnaissance aux gens qui ont conçus ce tronçon. Efficace, rapide. sécuritaire. LEs chiffres le prouve.
Coderre n'osera jamais démanteler cette piste si il est élu... même si c'est pas l'envie qui lui manque.
Yep, it’s great, love taking the REV. I biked all through last year, even winter, and the bike infrastructure like this made it easy.
Avant le REV j'avais souvent des problèmes avec des automobilistes qui frolent, etc ce qui ne m'incitais pas à rejoindre le centre ville en vélo. Maintenant c'est bien mais il manque cruellement un REV au centre-ville, pas cette piste cyclable pitoyable sur Maisonneuve dans l'angle mort gauche des voitures qui a nécéssité des feux de circulation distinct et en plus non synchronisé donc stop and go à toutes les deux secondes, c'est lassant...
It's one of the best lanes in the city now! barely affects parking, separates everyone. And makes it super safe & direct to go north in the city. Hopefully it helps start a push for more lanes like it.
Pour vrai, j'ai commencé à vraiment utilisé ma bicyclette cette été, et j'ai adoré le REV.
Belle réalisation.
J'ai travaillé sur la construction 3 mois, comme ma job fut annulé à cause de la covid...eux, à 90%, non pas aimé le REV! ):
Ce samedi on fait une balade de vélo pour célebrer et exiger qu'on garde la piste sur bellechasse! https://www.facebook.com/events/1264360227337885
That's awesome. I'd love to know how many cars use the street as well in the same time period. But then again, it's not like anyone looks at pedestrian counts versus car counts as an argument for abolishing sidewalks. So maybe it's all just a moot point. Roads, sidewalks, and separated bike lanes everywhere, so everyone can enjoy getting around how they wish. What a concept!
Ne vous laissez pas distraire par un propriétaire italien volubile qui a perdu sa place de stationnement; la piste cyclable sur Bellechasse est également abondamment utilisée.
That's amazing !
Un peu forcé comme franglais, mais bon to each his own.
cette année c'est la première fois que je roule en vélo à montréal, j'avais trop peur avant.  ces pistes cyclables comme le REV changent tout!!
I'm the same. I never rode in the city before due to fear. I moved to the east end  the Rev is amazing!!!! Got a bixi membership and rode everywhere
its the same dude doing a million trips /s
Holness qui dit qu’on devrait privatiser la STM. C’est une mauvaise idée ça! Ça va juste augmenter les prix en flèche!
Bon, Coderre qui fait son Erin O toole. 
&#x200B;
Coderre: "J'ai un plan"
Holness et Plante: "C'est quoi ce plan" 
Coderre: "J'ai un plan"
Un permis de bécyk. J’ai tout de suite eu l’image d’un gros Charger qui colle ma nièce avec ses p’tites roues.
Ensuite un permis de skate, de roller blade, pis de panier d’épicerie…
Moi qui pensait que Sylvain Larocque était le seul humoriste qui se présentait au municipal hahaha
"Qu'allez-vous faire pour la ligne bleue?"  
"CITÉ-ÉTAT!"  
N'importe quoi.
still better to watch than the Habs game
Moi qui cherchais à aller voir un spectacle d'humour on a quand même bien été servis !
J'aime vraiment pas Coderre, Plante à été ben correcte et je viens d'apprendre qu'il y un troisième candidat...
Take a shot every time Valerie Plante cuts off another candidate.
Update: im already trashed.
Valérie avait l’air d’être sua poudre. Elle twitchait et coupait les autres. Sans parler de son rire malaisant.
Venez acheter de quoi a Montreal, si vous avez un kid m'a bous envoyé une boite de cossin.
Holtness est un plais a ce debat . Il  est fendant connait pas ses dossier et il prend tu temps d'enteine au 2 partit qu'on a envie d'entendre
mOnTrÉaL est SALE Sale SaLe
C'est drôle de voir la personnes avec ses 3 comptes se jaser a elle même..t'es discrète la grande!! Lol
Impressed with Balarama.
y’en aura pas de facile! 
nothing will be easy!
j’ai peur.
i’m scared.
je suis marqué.
i’m scarred.
aidez nous monsieur coderre.
help us mister coderre
Valérie Plante est aussi cave que Donald Trump quand il s'agit de ne pas respecter le tour de parole.
WILL YOU SHUT UP? SO UNMAYOR-LIKE.
C'est quoi ça ?!
J'veux bien croire que les Montréalais sont biaisés au point que tu pourrais cracher dans la face à n'importe quel autre candidat et recevoir un standing ovation, mais quelqu'un pourrait dire à cette bitch enragée que le décorum, le respect et le droit de parole existent aussi ?
Vraiment malaisant comme débat, i'm pissed. Fuck Plante.
Lmao, privatiser la majorité des déplacements sur l'île, how could that go wrong!
Ça pue tellement le lobby automobiliste ça le permis de cycliste.   C'est enlever la seul autre moyen de transport gratuit à part la marche.
C'est taxer le transport actif et la santé des citoyens. 
Pis le permis, c'est la SAAQ, pas Montréal. Le SPVM va contrôler sur le pont les cycliste de la Rive-Sud?
C'est pas une fausse bonne idée. C'est une vraie mauvaise idée.
Ça serait revenir dans le passé comme c'était le cas il fût un temps à Montréal.
Son livre va être dedans?
J'ai pas vu la liste des items dans la boite, mais j'espère que ca va être des trucs utiles et fabriqués à Montréal
These are great, lot of precedent in Scandinavia, but could she promise something even a little more generally impactful? 
Anyone who learns about these is not going to oppose these, they shouldn't be a campaign promise just introduction of a new policy.
Elle devrait se concentrer sur la construction de logis sinon on va arrêter d'en faire des enfants..
I am going against the wave of cynicism and say that this is a great idea. It gives parents the possibility of getting everything they need to take care of a newborn with very little cost, usually free but this time its going to be 100$. Its a small gesture that can really benefit low income parents. They have clothes in various sizes to fit babies when they start to grow. The box can be used as a bed. They have childrens books, washable diapers, thermometer, toutous. Its not a grand gesture but I believe that it is a small gesture that should be implemented and hopefully expended
Une sacrée joke. Je comprends pas comment font  les gens pour endurer sa fausse sympathie. C'est vraiment nous prendre pour des cons.
This would be a good time to remind everyone that Coderre spent more than this would cost, on a gazebo and fake granite tree stumps in a forest.
$2,000,000 is pocket change when your budget is over $5 billion, at least this goes to something that is obviously useful. I'm not quite sure how useful fake tree stumps in a forest are though.
...mais pourquoi?
>diapers, pyjamas and metro and museum tickets
Je dis ca comme un parent de 3 enfants: c'est du gaspillage de taxe. Au lieu de prendre mes taxes pour m'acheter une douzaine de couches dans une boite, laissez moi donc acheter les couches que je veux.
I have no kids. I already pay more than enough for school taxes, taxes for affordable day care and all of the other services. I'm ok paying for that knowing it eventually makes our society better.
This baby box thing though, yeah F that. 
During her first term, she broke a promise that she wouldn't raise taxes past inflation rate. She announced new metro lines, but no dates have been set yet. 
Maybe she should deliver on her previous promises instead of forcing us - the tax payers - to spend more for "cute little things"
I'd rather have a family doctor to have adequate prenatal and postnatal care...
How about we focus on our infrastructure? L'état des rues est pitoyable
If elected, I will spend your money needlessly
Je n'ai pas d'enfant et commence à en avoir plein les fesses de payer des taxes et impôts toujours pour les familles. Y'a pas déjà l'ACE pour ça ?!
Another reason to NOT vote for her!!! 🤣🤣🤣
I walk around this city, around the orange cones, the detours, the potholes, the small businesses getting choked into bankruptcy by the debilitating infrastructure works and road closures and this is where this imbecile's priorities lie?  Baby packs?
Can't wait to vote this moron out.
Non. Sorry, non. C’est assez. Ce n’est pas le rôle d’une administration municipale de s’occuper de ça. Déjà que nos taxes vont à de nombreux programmes pour familles (dont aider des familles qui sont déjà propriétaires, à acheter un logement sur l’ile jusqu’à 630 000$!)
$2,000,000. Really? Good grief. I'm so glad I live close to Montreal but just outside of it and am not under her ridiculous thumb.
It's a small gesture but definitely useful for any parents, especially first time parents or those who have premature kids (aka their little bundle of joy decides to pop out a lil earlier...). Would be extra cool if they partnered with Montreal/Quebec based fabricants to support local businesses. Obviously more needs to be done to support new families, but this is a move in the right direction.
Oh geez I'm over the moon. Just what we need! Giving more freebies to parents.
-_-
C'est pas la job du municipal de faire ça.
Il faut un électorat crissement peu éduqué pour que ce genre de proposition soit populaire.
Ok these oddly specific weather stats are a bit ridiculous lol
Is "specific" the right word for this?  11°C is just as specific as 20°C, it's just not as nice looking a number.
On top of this, today, the reported weather are reported at the Dorval Airport and already has bias (example: traces of snow while not snowing due to winds and the absences of building). Now you going back 100 years ago? Trust me, give me a temperature meter and depending where I am on the island, it will be different.
To the guy that posted that crap graphic, global warming is real and these data do not take in account all records we reaches this year.
I actually like[McGill's land acknowledgement](https://www.mcgill.ca/equity/initiatives-education/indigenous-initiatives/land-acknowledgement), and is much more nuanced and conciliatory than what we've seen the Habs do:
>*"McGill University is on land which has long served as a site of  meeting and exchange amongst Indigenous peoples, including the Haudenosaunee and Anishinabeg nations. We acknowledge and thank the diverse Indigenous peoples whose presence marks this territory on which peoples of the world now gather."*
It doesn't grant stewardship to any group, acknowledges past contribution, has an attitude of "vivre ensemble", is not exclusive to any one indigenous group ('indigenous peoples, **including')**, and recognizes contemporary contributions that made Montreal what it is. It places Montreal first and foremost as a place of meeting and exchange, a role it had since *La Grande Paix de Montréal*, where it served as a site of meeting and exchange between the First Nations and the French. 
Overall, if you're gonna have an acknowledgement, I find that this one is the best. It's inclusive, relevant, modern, and conciliatory.
Je crois qu'il y a des bases raisonnables d'argumenter que le territoire montréalais est un territoire autochtone non-cédé, mais c'est simplement historiquement indéfendable d'argumenter que c'est un territoire *mohawk* non-cédé. Je pense pas qu'il y a beaucoup d'historiens qui défendent sérieusement ce point de vue, qui est limité à une poignée de militants.
C'est pas parce qu'il y a, en 2021, des réserves mohawk en banlieue de Montréal que le territoire est traditionnellement mohawk. L'histoire est beaucoup plus complexe (et intéressante) que ça.
I love the Habs but they shouldn't be getting involved in this debate. They also have a huge potential for myth-making and I can understand how the nationalist-minded people can be horrified by this decision.
La fait que Anglade penche immédiatement du coté du Politically Correct, malgré le mensonge historique avoué, montre que le PLQ est déja retourné a ses réflexes traditionnels. Ce malgré le virage qu'elle prédendait vouloir faire prendre au parti.
Riche venant de la famille Molson.
Did any of these rich white men ever consider asking the various nations about this? Just curious here... My guess is "no"
C'est effectivement historiquement faux, selon plusieurs historiens et experts. Je me fie plus à eux autres qu'aux wokes qui essayent de nous culpabiliser si on pense pas comme eux, même s'ils se foutent des faits, de l'exactitude, de la rigueur et du contexte\*.
\*La notion de contexte est d'ailleurs ce qui pose le plus de problème au mouvement woke, qui ne sait généralement pas quoi faire avec ça, vu leur habituelle ignorance culturelle et historique.
(Pour downvoter, c'est la p'tite flèche ici en bas).
J'aimerais bien qu'on jase du fait que les Canadiens Français étaient pas nécessairement d'accord avec le Traité de Paris et qu'à ce compte là le Québec aussi pourrait être considéré comme un territoire revendiqué et conquis par la force... Just saying
Acknowledgments like this do Jack shit. It’s white people patting themselves on the back for “doing a good deed”. Are you planning on giving back the land? No? Then your acknowledgment is empty air.
"acknowledges past contributions" and "recognize contemporary contributions" how? I don't mean to sound ignorant or rude, but I fail to see this as a tangible contribution since there wasn't an owner
Très bon point!
I prefer this one from the Peer Support Centre at McGill:
> The Peer Support Centre operates as part of McGill University, which is located on the unceded territories of Indigenous peoples, including the Haudenosaunee and Anishinabeg nations, which has long served as a site of meeting and exchange. More specifically, our campus is built on territory that has long acted as a site of meeting and exchange amongst the Kanien’kehá:ka peoples, who are the rightful stewards of these lands and waters. We are settlers here on Tiohtià:ke (Montréal), which is situated in the larger Turtle Island (North America). We must understand and work against the ways in which colonial violence manifests in all facets of life, including but not limited to, restricted access to and oppression within mental and physical care sectors, which can and have been used as weapons of colonialism.
In the 16th century, at the time that Jacques Cartier arrived in the St-Lawrence River Valley, it's indisputable that Montreal was populated by groups of people characterized by archaeologists as Iroquoians--they had a distinctive style of ceramics, practised agriculture and lived in longhouses, and had been living in this region for centuries.
Linguistically and culturally, they had much in common with neighbouring Iroquoian peoples such as the Wendat and the Haudenosaunee (i.e., the People of the Longhouse, whose Eastern Door was defended by the Mohawks.) (Look at the [vocabulary](http://www.native-languages.org/famiro_words.htm) that Cartier compiled and see the similarities between St-Lawrence Iroquoian and Mohawk words.)
There is evidence of considerable exchange and interaction between the Mohawk River Valley and the St-Lawrence River at this time--if you look at a map, you'll realize that for people used to travel in canoes, the Lake Champlain-Richelieu River system was a virtual highway that invited constant interaction (hunting, fishing, trading, raiding, marrying) between peoples living at either end of the waterway.
And in fact, there are Iroquoian artifacts from the 14th-17th centuries that have been unearthed along this entire river-lake system, leading archaeologists to conclude that there was a complex and varied Iroquoian social and cultural world that encompassed the entire territory, from the Finger Lakes of present-day New York to the St-Lawrence River Valley.
This population was dynamic, and one of the shifts that took place during the course of the late 16th century was the abandonment of settlements in the St-Lawrence River Valley--warfare being the most commonly posited cause, but the evidence is not definitive. 
It seems that the greatest share of the Iroquoians who left Montreal and other parts of the St-Lawrence River Valley wound up in Mohawk communities north of the Mohawk River (some archaeological evidence from pottery and pipes provides evidence of this migration; see the work of James Pendergast).
It is almost certain, however, that the people who migrated into Mohawk territory continued to hunt and fish in Montreal and surrounding areas well into the 17th century. When Maisonneuve and the French "founded" Montreal--bearing in mind that this was an act of colonial conquest--they were almost immediately attacked by Mohawks who were engaging in regular hunting and raiding expeditions to the St-Lawrence during the summer. 
The Jesuit priest Barthélemy Vimont (Jesuit Relations, vol. 24, chapter 12) remarked in 1642 that "in former years, the Iroquois came in rather large bands at certain times in the Summer, and afterward left the River free: but, this present year, they have changed their plan, and have separated themselves into small bands of twenty, thirty, fifty, or a hundred at the most, along all the passages and places of the River; and when one band goes away, another succeeds it."
Embroiled in increasingly violent warfare, many Mohawks--following a broader pattern of northward and westward migration that characterized Iroquoia in the second half of the 17th century--eventually decided to permanently establish agricultural villages in the St-Lawrence River Valley by the 1660s.
While these villages were ethnically and linguistically diverse, it's almost certain that a large share of their inhabitants were descended from the people who lived in St-Lawrence Iroquoian settlements centuries earlier.
So yes, it is complicated and nuanced--but then again, one wouldn't say that the French don't have sovereignty over their own territory because they're not all descended from the Gauls, do we? And I don't think it's that much of a stretch to describe Montreal as traditional Mohawk territory.
>L'histoire est beaucoup plus complexe (et intéressante) que ça.
Oui!
Corporate virtue signalling at its finest.
Surtout venant de la famille Molson qui a beaucoup à s'excuser pour son propre passé.
Mettons s'excuser pour avoir incendier le parlement. S'excuser pour les actions *des autres* c'est hypocrite.
Mettons que la bande de multi millionnaires qu'est l'équipe des habs pourraient, d'une vision matérialiste, faire tellement davantage.
Mais bon, les slogans c'est gratuit!
C'est comme un réflexe presque impossible à éliminer. Ils réagissent avec émotions en premier et après, peut-être, ils réfléchissent ou s'informent.
dont worry they probably have a whole diversity inclusion and equity team working round the clock, the have paid their progressive indulgence and have been absolved of their sins... for now.
Crap, me suis trompé de flèche...
One mistake? No
One big fucking mistake? Very well could be
I dunno depends on the crime.. i guess if you worked for the cops and sold sensitive info to criminals is not a good thing for your reputation .
The guy lied for years..... But so did Denis Coderre. So he should be safe.
As he said, he reaped the consequences of his actions and he is aware of his wrong-doing. Prosper is an exceptional candidate who has a major chance at making a difference in people’s lives. I don’t think that we should shun people forever for a f***-up when they have taken accountability for said mistakes and are aiming to do better! He’s a better candidate than most people running, regardless of his history.
dont think coderre lied about a murder investigation though.
I guess Attila the Hun was a good guy, even though he killed thousands... deep down, he did good for his peeps
people literally get canceled for less.. 
worse still, those found guilty of high treason and espionage, that's life imprisonment.
That we know of*
Maybe not a murder case, but adding all the lies and half-truth he ever put up.. that sure adds up to a murder case…  Gerald Tremblay would be real proud of him…
Wtf..
I guess if Americans can turn a blind eye to Trump, you can do the same to satisfy your narrative
C'est un meilleur option parce que la rue Sherbrooke a du potentiel pour être reamengé et plus amiable aux pietons (elargir les trottoirs, avoir des terrases, piste cyclable, plus d'arbres, etc.) mais avec le viaduc du REM le potentiel sera perdu à jamais.
J'aime bien la première proposition, surtout pour la correspondance avec Radisson vs H-B et pas tant parce que c'est souterrain (j'habite dans l'est et ca me dérange pas un tracé aérien sur Sherbrooke).
Pour ceux qui ne connaissent pas trop le coin, Radisson a un gros terminus d'autobus pour les autobus venant des différentes banlieue, tandis que le terminus de H-B est plus pour concentrer sur les bus locaux.
Je m'attendais a voir quelque chose de ridicule. Au contraire, ca semble nettement plus sense que ce qui est propose presentement par la CDPQ infra.
j'pas contre.  
Mais ça semble être un mélange hauteur/sous terrain un peu bizarre ??
Ouin. La vérité c'est que la densité de population à l'est de Pie-IX est probablement insuffisante  pour justifier les coûts d'y faire un tunnel avec le mode de financement du REM. Faudrait que le gouvernement allonge la différence.
Franchement, Montréal...    
choix 1: La dame qui s'acharne pour améliorer notre ville (même si elle n'est pas parfaite, l'effort qui est mit est remarquable)  
choix 2: Mr. Corruption lui-même...
Like, c'mon guys! Ça devrait même pas être proche.
Je regrette presque d'avoir quitté l’île, juste pour pouvoir voter contre Coderre.
Énormément d'indécis encore, c'est fou quand même.
wow, j'ai vu le breakdown, pis Plante a 36% d'intention de vote chez ceux avec un diplome universitaire, comparé à Coderre qui a seulement 23%,... thoughts?
Lmao 5% for Holness
>C’est à peine plus que les 4 % consentis au chef de Montréal 2021, Luc Ménard.
C'est qui ça Luc Ménard, wtf?
Fait intéressant, le dernier sondage Crop donnait un avance de 5% (avant répartition des indécis) à Coderre et là, ils sont presque qu'égalité.
&#x200B;
Aussi, les gens très satisfaits de Valérie Plante sont plus nombreux à être certains de voter. Mais Coderre attire 5% de voteurs chez les plus vieux (qui votent plus).
&#x200B;
Rien de jouer encore!
The amount of hate for anyone who says anything positive regarding any policy that Coderre or Holness proposés has led to an echo chamber in this subreddit.
Et 5% pour Holness.
Me voici de nouveau à commenter sur la terrible campagne de Coderre. Parce que sa campagne est entièrement basée sur le négatif, sa stratégie est « votez pour moi car je suis votre seule option ». Ce qui, malheureusement, ne suffit pas pour que les gens veulent voter pour vous. Vous obtenez juste des gens dégonflés et déjà découragés. Nous avons vu ce qui s'est passé lors de la campagne Trump de 2016 (Oui, il y avait bien plus de problèmes que juste la campagne), Clinton ne faisait que mettre de l'emphase sur le fait qu'elle était meilleure que son adversaire et les gens n'étaient tout simplement pas enthousiastes à l'idée de voter pour elle. Valérie Plante a à peu près le même niveau de satisfaction qu'il avait à la fin de son mandat, et pourtant elle avait une intention de vote beaucoup plus élevée, les gens étaient plus enthousiastes à voter pour elle, car elle avait à la fois un « je suis meilleur que lui » campagne mais aussi de grands projets qui ont fait rêver. Je ne comprends tout simplement pas pourquoi il sort constamment des projets ambitieux et pourtant ne les capitalise jamais. Toute sa campagne est basée sur la peur, et bien qu'elle amène les gens à voter pour vous, c'est pas assez pour donner aux gens le gout de voter, en particulier les indécis.
Valérie Plante a aussi une campagne terrible, et je pense qu'elle mise aussi sur la tactique de la peur un peu trop , mais pas autant que Coderre, elle essaie d'apporter une approche plus positive à sa campagne, en mettant l'accent sur son approche de quartier, mais pas assez à mon avis.
Vote for Balarama.
Hopefully Balarama can pull through. Would be amazing to see these clowns fail.
Franchement Montréal, c’est un nouveau parti ça?
Coderre = libéral. On a vu au fédéral que c'était suffisamt pour se faire élire de loin dans les secteurs anglophone et une bonne partie des francophones
Honestly, I didn't really have any intention to vote... until I heard our beloved Coderre is coming back.
Yeah, everyone should be voting for Balarama Holness instead of those two clowns.
Tsé!
Wathever... Montréal est de moins en moins vivable.... c'est en train d'imploser..... Mais si les Montréalais ré-lisent Codrerre.... MOUHAHAHA!!!! C'est vraiment le début de la fin!
Moi aussi
Oui mais au moins tu peux voter pour Catherine.
You can buy 4 x 5kg bags at Canadian Tire.
>I'M looking for a lot of baking soda.
On parle de quel unité de mesure icitte? Des kg, des baignoires, des pallettes, des chars, des fiftwheel, des dix-roues, des wagons ou des paquebots?
Try a food service place like Sysco, GFS, Ideal Foods, Regitan, and Dubord & Rainville. Some are open to the public, some are not.
Could try Aubut?
Mayrand si je ne te trompes pas
Costco?
Have you looked at bulk barn?
Aubut, Mayrand ou regarde chez Bulkbarn
Try Les âmes fleurs. They sell it up to 22.68kg but they charge extra for delivery. 
Or at the merci grocery store (https://alimentsmerci.com/achat/bicarbonate-de-soude/)
Try calling Brenntag in Lachine.
Bulk barn
Now if only somebody had a barn that sold items in bulk.
des "burger square per freedom eagle"
des 20 kg !!
LOL j’ai trop ris 😂
Une ligne rouge donnerait beaucoup trop l'impression sur Google Maps que c'est de la congestion à la grandeur ;)
De ce que je comprends, les lignes A B et C désignent les trois branches du REM qui vont se séparer dans le nord de l'île vers Deux-Montagnes, Sainte-Anne et l'aéroport: https://rem.info/sites/default/files/2018-08/carte-rem-james-amend.jpg
Présumément, le REM de l'Est va être la ligne D (et plus).
Je n'aime pas vraiment la couleur car je la trouve laide mais c'est bien que ça ressemble à ceux du métro puisque le REM est un métro léger et ça va permettre de le distinguer des lignes de train
That map dates from the early planning stages and should probably be ignored. It also shows the outgoing numbered fare zones and it has provisional station names.
When the first REM trains were shown off to the media, [they had this diagram inside](https://i.imgur.com/yKh4ySe.png) showing the [A1](https://i.imgur.com/ckfmmFB.png)/A2/A3/A4 branches mentioned by OP. (Though I suspect they will have something different indicating the new lettered fare zones when they actually enter service.)
Oui, c'est un beau graphique et c'est dommage que cela ne soit pas la version officielle de CDPQi. À ma connaissance, c'est juste une version artistique créée pour illustrer ce a quoi ressemblerait les différents types de dessertes.
Spot on! It seems that they want to mimic the parisian RER network, for which a letter was given to each line. Their different branches have also a letter and a number. For example, A4 is the branch you want to take if you want to get off at Disneyland Paris station [Line A map](https://www.ratp.fr/en/plans-lignes/rer/a).
Je suis surpris du rendu, c'est très joli!
Beauty!
Wow, this is surreal; the thumbnail looks more like a drawing than a photo
Really beautiful photo, look like an intro for a Dracula story.
Vraiment pas mal!
beautiful, I love watching the full moon rise....not tonight though! WAAH!
Damn! What’s the focal length on that lens?
Superbe photo, j’adore la qualité des couleurs et le rendu des détails pour la distance… tu utilises un télescope 🔭 (un vrai télescope? J’ai un Nexstar 8SE) ou juste un zoom ajustable clippé sur un mobile? Je suis vraiment impressionné! Beau boulot 😊🙌
angery mün
Hi I’m just commenting on this post bc it’s recent. I’m looking for advice. :) my precious boyfriend is from Montreal and moved to the US almost a year ago. I want to get him some things from “home” as a gift. What kind of things should I be looking for? We’re in TX by the way, so I’m trying to start early since some things may take a long time to get here.
Important info: he is 29. software engineer. lived in Montreal most of his life. McGill & Concordia grad.
Et ce soir (20 oct), vous pouvez voir la Lune comme ça encore. Regarde est ~18:17
Thanks! It clouded up a few minutes after, so we got lucky catching this. 
Try and spit it tonight (Oct 20) in the East starting at 6:17 PM
I was doing a workshop last night with a mother and her 7 year old son. It was the first time they’d come to a Moonrise and they were blown away
Merci!
I actually was able to see it for just a few moments after it rose, but then it got covered by clouds again:
https://twitter.com/plateau\_astro/status/1450954144936775681?s=21
I used my telescope, with my phone attached to it. Here’s the link to it:
https://www.celestron.com/products/c90-mak-spotting-scope#specifications
Focal Length: 1250mm
Oui! Pour cette photo, j’ai utilisé un C90 Mak et mon iPhone Xs (https://www.celestron.com/products/c90-mak-spotting-scope)
An orange cone would most definitely make him laugh.
If it was me though, I'd love to get something like an Expo jersey. Pretty rare that people have those nowadays and it's nice nostalgic piece given his age.
Ideas that may or may not apply depending on taste:  
Montreal bagels (+smoked salmon and cream cheese?). Can be frozen for transport.    
A "postcard" showing the worst that winter has to offer ([example1](https://i.cbc.ca/1.5006626.1549391813!/fileImage/httpImage/image.jpg_gen/derivatives/16x9_780/winter-water-slush-montreal.jpg) [example2](https://globalnews.ca/wp-content/uploads/2019/01/weather-1.jpg?quality=85&strip=all)) so he does not miss the snow too much.   
Quebec microbrew beers, or ice cider.  
Maple syrup (bonus point if it comes with crêpes).   
[Orange cone plushie](https://i.etsystatic.com/6980070/r/il/f02e63/914127270/il_fullxfull.914127270_cdez.jpg).  
Also, you can just make a new post. The sub is not that inactive.
I did see it later on, but was blurry and of course, that means rain. I actually have a really good view of the full moon and love watching it right from my front window. However, it's overcast right now.
Il y aura sûrement des articles avec un peu plus de substance qui sortiront dans les prochains jours, mais je voulais avoir le scoop pour le sub. Edit: [l'article de l'AFP (edit 2: maintenant ça dit AP...)](https://www.lapresse.ca/arts/musique/2021-10-20/un-pianiste-montrealais-gagne-le-concours-frederic-chopin.php)
Contexte: [le Concours Chopin](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Chopin_Piano_Competition) est une compétition internationale de piano classique axée sur les oeuvres de Frédéric Chopin, qui se déroule à tous les 5 ans. C'est probablement le concours de piano le plus prestigieux et compétitif au monde. Gagner ce concours garantit presque automatiquement une carrière de concertiste internationale du jour au lendemain. Certains noms que vous reconnaîtrez peut-être parmi les lauréats du passé: Martha Argerich (1ère place, 1965), Maurizio Pollini (1ère place, 1960), Krystian Zimerman (1ère place, 1975), Vladimir Ashkenazy (2e place, 1955), Daniil Trifonov (3e place, 2010), etc.
Xiaoyu Liu est né à Paris mais est a grandi et vit à Montréal. Il a été formé par des maîtres de chez nous tels que Richard Raymond, au Conservatoire de Montréal. Il étudie présentement avec Đặng Thái Sơn, un ancien gagnant du concours, à l'Université de Montréal. Durant une entrevue entre la finale et le dévoilement des résultats, Xiaoyu Liu a révélé que dans ses loisirs, il aime faire du go-kart.
À noter qu'un autre Canadien, le Torontois J J Jun Li Bui, est arrivé 6e. Ils étaient les deux seuls Canadiens en finale.
Aussi, non seulement c'est la première fois qu'un Canadien gagne ce concours, c'est seulement la deuxième fois que des Canadiens *se rendent en finale*. La première et seule autre fois que des Canadiens s'étaient rendus en finale, c'était lors de la dernière édition, en 2015. Le Québécois Charles Richard-Hamelin était alors arrivé 2e, et le Torontois Tony Yike Yang avait fini 5e, devenant le plus jeune pianiste à jamais figurer dans le top 6, deux exploits déjà remarquables en eux-mêmes. Visons 3 lauréats pour 2025, donc aux pianistes qui auront moins de 30 ans à cette date: à vos claviers!
Bref, Montréal a de quoi être fière!
La performance en question :
https://youtu.be/UcOjKXIR8Iw
Wow, incroyable réussite pour le conservatoire/UdeM
Merci d'avoir partagé. J'ai trouvé ça incroyable!
Oui merci! Il torche vraiment. Cool aussi que le concours mette tout en ligne gratuitement comme ça. [Voici Charles Richard-Hamelin en finale en 2015](https://youtu.be/rawF-OsPE70), qui avait joué l'autre concerto.
Merci pour ce lien!
Oui! Entre la victoire de Xiaoyu Liu aujourd'hui et la 2e place de Charles Richard-Hamelin en 2015 (qui étudiait alors aussi à Montréal, avec André Laplante et Jean Saulnier si je me souviens bien—des profs du Conservatoire et de l'UdeM, respectivement—et qui avait étudié à McGill par le passé), je serais pas surpris qu'il y ait un influx de jeunes prodiges du monde entier qui s'en viennent à Montréal dans les prochaines années pour étudier.
On se souvient du filtre Coderre pour l’intégrité… 
Ben, il ne fonctionne pas.
On se souviendra que Coderre avait été extrêmement agressif dans les médias sur cette histoire, parlant de diffamation... Visiblement il y a une intérêt public.
lol.
&#x200B;
Quand tu changes de nom ... ça veut tout dire.
> M. Coderre estime que les procédures de vérifications des antécédents des candidats aspirant à se présenter à son parti sont suffisantes. « On a fait toutes les vérifications, il n’y en a pas de problème », a-t-il affirmé.
T'es-tu sur de ça Denis?
ENCORE????
>Ben, il ne fonctionne pas.
Peut-être que oui. Pourquoi est-ce que tu supposes que c'est le corrompu que le filtre rejette?
On dirait presque que pour lui, les fraudes monétaires ne sont pas des problèmes lolol
Ah! T’as un point.
Ce serait même logique. Si tu utilises un filtre pour les agents pathogènes, tu veux qu'il n'y en ai pas dans ton eau. 
Donc si tu as un filtre pour l'intégrité...
Il y a toujours eu des interactions/échanges avec le crime organisé (surtout la mafia), mais quand ton corps de police est rendu au point d'aller demander à un groupe criminel de faire le ménage d'un secteur, ça démontre à quel point notre système est mal fait et tellement incompétent...
Pretty crazy that in this article you have the police asking the mafia to get a handle on gun trade and an acknowledgement that the Hells are responsible for the lack of fentanyl laced drug. Can we get either of them to run patrols too?
Merci beaucoup à la famille Rizzuto!
J’attends l’épisode de District 31 sur le sujet avant de me prononcer.
C'est pas nouveau tout ça toujours été comme ça sauf que par le passé les médias n'avait pas les ressources pour le publier.
C’est un secret de polichinelle. On tolère certain crimes pour maintenir l’illusion de la paix.
The Rizzutos brought peace from violence in montreal’s streets before. It’s fairly well known that they brought the irish mob, the hatian street kings, the hells, the triads and the italian mob into an era of pragmatic cooperation back in the day, there was even a documentary about it at some point, you could probably find it on youtube.
Un bon point pour Coderre ça. Ils a travaillé pour eux pendant 4 ans, ils lui doivent bien ça.
this is disheartening… when we ask for their protection (essentially), we’re legitimizing this parasitic crime organization.
Yes, let's make a deal with the devil. That always works out fine.
La mafia n’a pas à rendre de compte à la population. C’est win-win… /s
C'est une question de choisir le moins pire. Les Hells et la mafia sont, non ironiquement, des professionnels organisés qui comprennent la conséquence de leurs gestes. J'ai hâte de les voir maîtriser les gangs de rue.
I think that's also what Bad Blood covers (Netflix)
It has always been like that, this is nothing new. The city can tolerate the non-violent criminal activities but public executions are too much for the population to handle.
they're already legitimized. You think Saputo never had to deal with Rizzuto?
Lesser of two evils. Organized crime is, as the name says, organized. They know that attention is bad for business, so they strive to keep a low profile and when there are conflicts, they deal with them quietly and with few collateral victims. The cops prefer to deal with that rather than with stupid kids who shoot up half a block with innocent victims because someone offended them on Instagram/Tiktok.
Il y aura toujours du crime organisé. L'important c'est surtout de laisser le monopole aux moins pires.
Police qui arrête du monde dans certain secteur: ils sont racistes.
Mafia qui deal avec le problème dans le même secteur: all good.
I am not against it. Eradicating crime is a pipe dream.
About as realistic as the war on drugs ever being won (thank god America is gradually giving up that pointless battle)
Ça ressemble pas mal à un pavillon d'expo 67 qui n'existe plus non?
I think the best people to talk with are the archivists at the [CCA](http://cca.qc.ca/) Canadian Centre for Architecture) they have a whole collection dedicated to [EXPO 67](https://www.cca.qc.ca/en/archives/379544/may-cutler-collection-on-expo-67) including a very deep collection of photos of the construction..
[FOUND ](https://www.cca.qc.ca/en/search/details/collection/object/415372)this picture for you & this [one](https://kimberleykeepers.ca/keepers/images/expo3.jpg)
&#x200B;
based on this [site](https://www.worldsfairphotos.com/expo67/man-and-his-world/index.htm) the location was originally for Czechoslovakia but was turned into the "band shell" for 68,69,70 it is unclear if it was changed or removed for 71 "public safety".
If I understand correctly the b was indicative of this being a minor location compare to the ["main bandshell"](https://www.thecanadianencyclopedia.ca/en/article/expo-67-emc) so as the 2nd photo shows it would showcase smaller musical groups like the highschool band  ...If I had to take a guess similar construction techniques was used in the main shell as the smaller one so you might find more photos of that big one under construction .
My 2Cents about creating a model (I am not an architect) depending what materials/machines you have available & what your prof is expecting from you  you could tackle this in different ways. I would be tempted to model the frame in sections and print them with a wood PLA that can be sanded&stained this would make getting the angles super easy and you could recolor or use a regular PLA to make the steel components as well if you wanted to print them separately, I would then find some really thin wood  veneer(the stuff on rolls) and use that to skin the frame/alternate is go get those little formica/counter laminate sample cards and cut them up  .This seems faster then getting(balsa wood?) and hand making the entire frame
&#x200B;
&#x200B;
Oh if you don't mind please come back and share pictures of the finished model !
Hello, I am an architecture student in the United States and I was wondering if anyone knows where this pavilion is located or has images of it. In my course, I was assigned to recreate this structure into a physical model and all the information I have on it is in the posted image. I have been dredging through google trying to find information and actual images of it to help with the recreation but with no luck. Any help is much appreciated and I apologize if this is the incorrect subreddit for this type of post.
Update: The structure was in expo 67, I found it in the background of birds eye view photos of the event. It's next to West Germany`s pavilion. Just need a photo of the structure now. Thank you for those who commented.
Update: It's in the Great Britain section of the expo.
You have the architect name.
You could do some historical googling.
&#x200B;
[https://www.thecanadianencyclopedia.ca/fr/article/corneil-carmen-et-elin](https://www.thecanadianencyclopedia.ca/fr/article/corneil-carmen-et-elin)
You make me doubt my Google skill.
Do you have the year of construction or the location?
C'était des bâtiments beaucoup plus gros, ici c'est un arrière-plan pour une scène de spectacle.
You sir are a God sent. Thank you and I will contact them.
I'm pretty sure it doesn't exist anymore.
It looks like structure that was created for Expo 67 and, as other said, it doesn't exist anymore. You  could try to reach this [organisation](https://expo-67.ca/). They have a huge set of archive document that might prove useful. Good luck!
We'd love to see the model when you're done! And the research that went into it :)
Bruh, all that left with the monorail. Look for montreal of 1967-1970
I found that link and looked through their archived work with no avail. When you Google the Architect not much comes up that is relevant to this structure. His latter works are award winning though and are recognized.
An exact date and location no. All I can conclude from my limited Google success and surmising is that it's in Montreal along a waterfront of some sort and it was most likely built in the 60s. That's it.
Another photo, in colour, is available at https://curbfinds.files.wordpress.com/2015/09/martinslidesoct2014a__108b.jpg
Yup, the structure is mostly plywood!
Thank you very much, I will contact the organization and see if I got lucky.
Not directly relevant to your project, but if you want to put the structure in context, check the Expo 67 site map (a little above and to the left of the ship in the Seaway).
https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/f/f6/Plan_souvenir_officiel_Expo_67_%28recomposé%29.jpg
If you want to find more pictures, I suggest searching for the pics of the adjacent pavilions as the bandstand was one of the more minor structures of the fair.
Thank you, that's a really nice photo of it. The photos I have found are of either exquisite clarity or very grainy. There doesn't seem to be a middle point.
I agree and gave been saying this for years. The CDN-NDG is too large to run efficiently. It's nothing to do with "division"
The borough is already literally cut in two thanks to the highway... so there is some logic in this.
I honestly never understood this. It’s by far the largest borough, even the geographical shape doesn’t make sense. Cut it down!
Oui, avec Decarie comme limite entre les deux arrondissements
Faites attention à ce que vous dites, ça peut être de la diffamation. Denis lui fait confiance.
I'm convinced 5eme av store is a front. Even when things were busy I never say anyone inside and they have a bunch of locations all close to eachother. Let's be honest.. a good chunk of those stores are a bit strange
lol 5e Avenue n'est pas un bon exemple, tout le monde sait que ça sert seulement au blanchiment d'argent.
These kinds of shopping experiences today feel tacky, cheap and outdated unfortunately. It feels like a holdover from a time when the whole underground thing was still a novelty, probably as recently as the early 2000's. Sadly, going into these stores these days just feels kind of...weird. I could see why they aren't getting much business. Would probably do better if Montreal had a larger population (e.g. look at Japan where you have businesses tucked away in all these little books and crannies where the sun never shines but they have the population + culture to support that).
It also doesn't help that many Montreal store owners are terribly behind the times. How many stores in the city feel like they belong in the year 1992? I live right next to St. Hubert plaza where the modern sits right next to the bizzarely outdated and it's very plain to see. Walking into some of these stores feels like taking a step back in time. I get that most of these stores probably don't have the money to invest but entering them is often not very pleasant, if I'm honest. It might work fine in lower income neighborhoods but downtown Montreal is anything but these days.
Sur le long terme, même lorsque tout le monde aura son horaire de travail « hybride télétravail/présentiel», il y aura probablement une offre excédentaire dans le centre-ville. On est pas mal mieux de concentrer l'activité et l'achalandage en surface sur des rues comme Sainte-Catherine, qui sont attirantes pour pas mal plus de gens. Les commerces de sous-sol, une part de l'offre en espace devra trouver une autre vocation. 1700 commerces, c'est énorme comme offre.
Une bonne part du Mtl souterrain pourrait être un parcours d'art à mon avis.
C'est triste... je l'aime moi le Montréal Souterrain, même si c'est surtout des magasins. C'est unique au monde. D"après moi l'achalandage ne reviendra jamais comme avant. Il a des tonnes de gens très heureux en télétravail... et ils ne voudront pas retourner au bureau.
C'tu un jeu de mots, le titre? 😋
I rarely go downtown (and the Montréal souterrain).  
I assume those shops used to cater to the office crowds at lunch time and when they leave in the evening.
I always have questions about that store (and some of the jewelry stores) in that section... I've never seen them busy, pandemic or not, and it's kinda depressing and sketchy. Maybe they did well with a more student/buyer who likes to negotiate?
*money laundering*
Ya des econofitness en prison?
Plus de 25 000 ménages vivent dans des conditions déplorables dans les immeubles où le propriétaire n’est nul autre que le gouvernement. 
Si un proprio privé gérait un immeuble comme le gouvernement le fait, les autorités municipales condamnerait l’immeuble en moins de 2 secondes et ce proprio passerait aux nouvelles à chaque semaine ainsi que devant la TaL à se faire punir à coup de dommages-intérêt et d’ordonnances ( et avec raison )
Welp, you wanted the city as a landlord… something something Berlin. /s
Et si ils renovent ... vont ils augmenter les  loyer  eux aussi ?
I think it's weird how much coverage he gets for how little traction he has.
On voit le genre de "leadership" que Holness exerce. Dès qu'il y a un problème, c'est la faute de l'autre. 
Lui, il n'y est pour rien. Jamais.
Sa plateforme selon moi est déjà un drapeau rouge, mais les éléments de sa personalité qui commencent à émerger me confirme que ce gars là n'a juste pas affaire à être maire de Montréal.
How long have they been sitting on this
Who the hell is Balarama Holiness?? Lmao
Is it me, or reading that didn't discredit him as a potential mayor in any way
EDIT: I feel like people forget what a politician, vying for positions of power, really is.
I mean, it was predictable from ten thousand miles away.
A dude who goes in the public light, trips over his own two feet on a constant basis, and spreads discord like it was a national sport?  **The media jerks off to that shit.**  For them, it's an absolute gold mine of viewers and clicks.  Free money.  The stories just write themselves.
Il a beaucoup d'idées controversées, tandis que Plante et Coderre font des campagnes beaucoup plus modérées et posées.
Plante et Coderre ont d'ailleurs encore la majeure partie de la couverture médiatique, c'est juste que Holness a réussi à en avoir une part intéressante, pour le meilleur et pour le pire.
C'est un des trois seuls candidats sérieux à la mairie de Montréal? On devrait faire un effort extra pour taire et cacher ses scandales selon toi?
Because he wants to challenge the francophone status quo. I think his ideas are ridiculous, but him gaining momentum while wanting Montreal to be bilingual is welcomed by anglophones and hated by francophones so ….
>On voit le genre de "leadership" que Holness exerce. 
Leadercheap. Acheté au Dollarama.
News orgs "sit" on a lot of stories all the time for a lot of different reasons.
> Balarama Holiness
C'est sûr qu'il se présente comme un martyr après les élections.
"Holness told CBC News he used the contact list from Montreal in Action to send emails for Mouvement."
This is a big red flag for instance. Thats not allowed at all.
C'est toi.
It gives me a better sense of how he really is and I don’t like it. I won’t be voting for him.
There's a dozen sentences of positivity in the middle of a sea of negativity, 50% of which comes from someone on his team...
It really should, guy is a total hack
Si même après ça, tu le considères acceptable, c'est ton opinion, mais mettons que tu peux pas vraiment chialer sur l'ego/personnalité de Coderre après.
Unfortunately Montrealers don't want identity in their politics unless it's their own identity. The moment this hypocritical stance gets questioned it becomes an overall sad situation, comparable to a scared animal backed into a corner. Example:
Yeah I don't go for that, there's been many clowns who did not get this amount of coverage. That's why it's notable.
Our city is so beautiful we are so lucky.
Ça c'est au sud-ouest de Cohen si je'n m'abuse
This is a fantastic photo
Bravo!  Saisir le bon moment; la clé de l'excellence en photographie,
Très belle photo!
Thank you !
Je continue à penser qu'on devrait avoir un compteur dans la sidebar pour le nombre de photo de cet endroit là posté sur le sub
Les nuages, c'est dû au neuf boutique sqdc sur l'île de Montréal
The lonely stoner seems to free his mind at night. At at at night
Night! Those lights are pretty 🤤
First one is day second one is night
Day, just because of the pretty fall colours that don't come out on the night pic
Jazz
night
Some day I get to visit Montreal.
I toss and turn I keep stress in my mind, mind
Night
La nuuit
Nayght
Cette photo et une autre dont je ne nommerai pas, un certain monsieur sur un mur.
Pire encore si tu check sur internet au complet. Ahurissant!
Let’s do that cuz I am very ready to post two pics next time I bike up there!
I’m so happy I wasn’t the only one who’s mind immediately went to this, thank you kind stranger
https://c.tenor.com/P33yFybH_cwAAAAM/thank-you-the-office.gif
Dinkin’ Flicka
Humpty Dumpty?
I assume "sanitation" is a code word for declaring certain areas blighted so that they can justify knocking them down.  Also I don't know how effective basements and 3 story extensions are compared to instead zoning out single family detached homes.  None of that will have an impact without mandating sizes so that we get more middle and low income affordability.
It's not the worst plan I have heard, but it seems to pass over some low hanging fruit which I assume is because rich donors don't want those changes.  Like restricting short term rentals and pied-à-terres seems like a majority would be in favor.  Or do the majority of Montreal actually like those?
In case the title isn't clear, this is an analysis of Ensemble's platform. Cult MTL is reviewing each of the party's platforms.
But who cares?
Fesse qui aime?
Also, when this situation is dealt with, consider keeping two copies of all important data. All hard drives eventually die, the only question is how long it will be.
Kenedacom Data Recovery Inc
1180 Rue Bégin, Saint-Laurent, QC H4R 1X1
(514) 332-2807 https://g.co/kgs/xCL5Yn
Canada Computer should be able to do a basic diagnostic for you.
I would suggest checking with another cable first to rule that possibility out,depending how comfortable you are with a screwdriver you could open it up depending the model it might be possible to plug in a cable directly to the drive with an inexpensive adapter cable (usually under 20.00) to see if it is a bad board/connector.
While I don't have any local suggestions I can tell you that services generally come under 3 categories 1) Those that do the work themselves on site 2)companies that have an office or store front that they collect drives and mail them to a central lab  3)companies that send out to a 3rd party service(this tends to be the most expensive) not every drive repair needs to handled in a clean room or sent to drive savers and billed at 1000s of dollars
&#x200B;
[https://www.vitaldata.ca/](https://www.vitaldata.ca/) is local and they have been recommend on here a few times same with https://www.kenedacom.com/
\[HDD Recovery Services\]([https://www.hddrecovery.ca/](https://www.hddrecovery.ca/)) (In ottawa but has mail in service) is well known and has very interesting \[youtube videos\]([https://www.youtube.com/c/hddrecoveryservices/videos](https://www.youtube.com/c/hddrecoveryservices/videos))
Gonna keep this post close.  Like dude said, “ it’s just a matter  of time ‘til they die.”
Google's your friend.  Easeus data recovery wizard is good.  Pirate it...
You can usually open the case and it's a plain old hard drive inside.  Sometimes the hard drive has a specific hardware connector that only goes out to USB, other times there's an adaptor from 'regular tower PC connector' on the disk to a USB thing.  If that's the case, you can try plugging it in to a tower PC in case the little USB board died.
oh for sure....thanks! 
Vitaldata is right near by where I live.
thanks!
yes, I tried plugging it into another laptop, but I guess I can get another cable. 
I've heard of Vitaldata, I'll check them out. No, I am not comfortable opening it up with a screwdriver, I've done some repairs but I'd rather not risk it in this case.
Thanks again!
I fortunately saved a lot of data and documents on a thumb drive, clouds, etc so I could get back to work, all my work stuff is saved. I did lose some stuff that might be on that HDD but I'll live, and get a nice new HDD.
I'd also recommend hddrecovery in Ottawa. Their YouTube channel speaks well to their knowledge. Good luck.
Wherever you choose, I would suggest doing some research on them, I've heard too many poor outcomes. It's like hiring a home contractor.
Nope, there's no way. It's undemocratic and ridiculous, IMO, but that's how it currently is.
Elections MTL is such a cluster fuck. I couldn't register for mail voting because my license has my old address on it but I'm on the electorate list with my new one (obviously) I have the sticker from SAAQ on it. I told them "what happens when I show up with my voter card but my license isn't accepted. "Bring proof of residence like deed etc"
Unfortunately there is no way, unlike for Elections Canada you will not be able to register on the day of… I know it sucks, and I also wonder why they make it so difficult for people to go vote and register in the first place… I went to register yesterday and it was such a tideous process :(
Did you try.. calling them?
Tu peux donner une soirée de bénévolat au parti de ton choix. L'impact sera probablement plus grand qu'un vote.
🤯😩
Municipal elections are won as much by low voter turnout as it is by winning the hearts of their electors.  My local counselor wins with less than 4p0 total votes in his favour usually.
Is that like... texting but with my mouth?
Bien essayé mtlblog!
Its soaring real estate prices
Bars closed. Downtown's empty. Rents skyrocketing. Half of the streets are blocked. Can't drink. Can't fuck. Can't sleep. Can't drive. 
New bike paths are great but a cool city they don't make.
That sounds like a trick question.... 😅
Quand le Canadien était capable de marquer des buts…
Construction cones or potholes...
La dolce vita.
Still a few glory in Montreal
[What makes is great? What makes it great...](https://youtu.be/_gRnvDRFYN4?t=190)
These posts
Hey we want a “world class city” ^/s
Homebrew shops are a good bet. I've heard fire extinguisher places too, but dunno if they'd do sodastream, as I think it is a different thread or something. Unfortunately, the homebrew shops are all a little far flung depending on where you are.
[deleted]
You should be able to buy/exchange empty bottles with filled one where they sell them (you get a discount when exchanging bottles)  
I get mine from the Quincaillerie Home Hardware on St-Laurent (corner Vallière) (They reuse the bottles and they refill on site.)
If you have 2 tanks you can register a free pick up!!
Get the CO2 tank adaptor and get a big bottle of it at Messer Gas etc.
Extincteurs ABP à Laval, de mémoire c’était environ 25$ pour remplir un 20lb.
This guy in Pointe-Claire will swap your bottles for $8 each and has a loyalty card. Good operation.  
https://www.facebook.com/marketplace/item/597155074327998/
hufill.com , they have 6 service points, 10$ for exchanges
Eau Pure Plus
(514) 725-4939
https://maps.app.goo.gl/RLwfyMqey6HgMy9K8
There's a section of the MontreAlers site for resources, including [CO2 refills](https://www.montrealers.ca/front-page/about-us/faq/). I've used Globe in Lachine a bunch of times (but not in years, now). Unsure if they do the tiny sodastream tanks; my refills were 15-20lbs, back then.
Thank you everyone! So many choices! 😃
You can ask *any* questions about Montreal to Denis Coderre at [dcoderre@vmtl.com](mailto:dcoderre@vmtl.com) 😆
Dude!!! Merci! 
Ça fait un bout que je cherchais une place pas trop loin de mon good.
it's just 4 to 5 times more expansive than any other type of CO2 refill
I don’t know if you were trying to be funny here but oh boy change career now.
Yeah... Political irony and subtility on reddit never work really well.
next time, I'll try to make fart jokes and explain them.
Kids are mean. But at least this gives police some more insight into unraveling this gang war that’s spread to schools
Aucune classe, aucun respect, aucune empathie...vraiment les pire déchets humains inimaginables.
La joie des réseaux sociaux. 😶
I don't want to flair this "Elections 2021" but given that they ask the opinion of no less than THREE candidates in this article, seems appropriate.
[this?](https://www.google.ca/maps/@45.4473691,-73.6562285,3a,75y,103.64h,90.2t/data=!3m10!1e1!3m8!1sf4OnPcXilcAyh5Zpi_qicQ!2e0!6shttps:%2F%2Fstreetviewpixels-pa.googleapis.com%2Fv1%2Fthumbnail%3Fpanoid%3Df4OnPcXilcAyh5Zpi_qicQ%26cb_client%3Dmaps_sv.tactile.gps%26w%3D203%26h%3D100%26yaw%3D33.58677%26pitch%3D0%26thumbfov%3D100!7i16384!8i8192!9m2!1b1!2i35)
If it's not this or that, it's gotta be [the other thing](https://www.google.ca/maps/@45.4387615,-73.6562097,3a,75y,43.39h,91.03t/data=!3m6!1e1!3m4!1sdDZ_2mlIt9Tz1YY6FjdI-Q!2e0!7i16384!8i8192?hl=en).
The site of a million detoured West Island buses whenever the 20 east of Dorval is being worked on. Or at least it used to be.
We sure are using the word 'tunnel' loosely here.
[this](https://www.google.ca/maps/@45.4773316,-73.5972799,3a,75y,151.31h,92.39t/data=!3m6!1e1!3m4!1s99Jo2qt654fC12HqQQT5Xg!2e0!7i16384!8i8192)?
I'm 99% certain it's the spot posted by fr-_-mage. 
It was the narrowness of it that struck me. Thanks everyone for helping me dig!
Let's wish for some traffic tonight then :)
Bretelle A20-O vers 13-N ?
St. Remi tunnel perhaps?
That's the first thing that came to my mind.
This must be it! Not exactly how I remembered it (it's been a few years, I thought it was a natural rock formation).
Thank you!!
It’s not on the way from Lachine to the West Island.
That's the first thing I thought even though it doesn't totally match the OP description
u/fr-_-mage pick your flair
Je suis revenue d'aller faire des courses chez Provigo et en rentrant, gros barrage policier, ambulances, rues barrées. Une jeune femme, attaquée en plein jour. À 50 mètres de chez moi. Affreux.
Selon plusieurs témoins qui parlaient à des journalistes présents sur les lieux, elle serait décédée. J'espère que ce ne sont que de fausses rumeurs.
Good grief this is getting really terrible. 
Not the targeted/ gang violence we were seeing primarily earlier in the year. How awful.
Yvon l'a dit, c'est rendu fucked up.
Already made a non-guilty plea. I bet the motherfucker is trying to get out on temporary insanity... hope they don't fall for his bullshit.
À Milton Park, pas le plateau
On est rendu à quoi, au 16e féminicide cette année au Québec? Dégeulasse.
Édith: 17e
This is awful! Do we know if it was random or if they knew each other?
Either way, I hope she pulls through!
This does not sound good
He stayed with her. Didn't try to run away like the was feeling he loss of her, that he just caused.
We just had a massive gas leak yesterday too, shits been unlucky up on the hill.
I literally was just in that area on Monday night looking for an apartment. Womp womp.
L'article a été updaté, son décès a été confirmé :/
>As the altercation continued, the man pulled out a knife and "stabbed   
the woman several times in her upper body," said Montreal police   
spokesperson Raphael Bergeron.
We don't know what happened yet, but it feels like yet another domestic violence /feminicide case...
il a dit ca ya 20 ans. ca doit être rendu extra omega fucked up maintenant.
Techniquement partie du plateau
She died
people who get into fights etc, usually know each other. It's rare to get into an argument with a total stranger.
He was her ex-roommate.
Edit: Just saw new info on RC that he was her ex-partner.
&#x200B;
This is just so sad.
The murderer stayed next to the victim after he was done , so I’m guessing they knew each other.
Oh no :( that’s tragic
Very well done 👍
Quebec should be on permanent UTC-4 (Eastern Daylight Time / Atlantic Standard Time) with no time change, and I will die on this hill
[This map is a great visual indicator of the offset of solar time](https://i.imgur.com/Eq0Mb5p.png). 
You can see that Montreal is near the central white band of the Eastern time zone, meaning that noon on the clock is pretty close to the peak rise of the sun.
Using the other examples in the video, Percé is much closer to solar noon for AT while Thunder Bay is almost at solar noon for CT, explaining the nearly two hour difference in sunset times. 
Some other oddities on that map include France and Spain using the aptly-named central European time despite each lying on the prime meridian, and the brutal application of Beijing time in western China, resulting in a 3.5 hour offset across the Afghan border.
Of course this map is demonstrating standard time. Where daylight saving time is observed, everyone takes a giant leap towards the red side for later sunrises (and sunsets).
Great content. Earned yourself a sub
Excellent! J'avais d'ailleurs acheté tes lunettes pour regarder l'éclipse du 10 juin 2021. Un excellent service personnalisé, merci encore.
I love it when someone explains something unintuitive so clearly.
Thank you for taking the time and effort for doing this.
Thank you for this video! As a Montrealer who has had to travel to Edmonton during winter, I must say that being in an office tower and seeing the sun rise on the (mostly flat) horizon well after 8am has made quite an impression on me. Edmonton is so dark and cold in the winter mornings, yet so beautiful at the same time...
I always attributed this to Edmonton's northern latitude. It never occurred to me that our relative position within our timezones also played a part. 👍
The merit in this video is palpable and substantial.
Therefore, on behalf of the Montreal Reddit community, I recognize your valuable contribution by awarding you this Medal of Appreciation. 🏅
Very well done!  I really enjoyed that and learned a lot!
Nice video...   I'm going to keep it handy when debating whether *Standard* or *Daylight Savings* time is the better one to have year round -- no doubt where people live in their timezone affects their opinion!
I'm also an Edmontonian living in Montreal. Thought the same thing! TIL!
love your content. I also saw your video for the latest eclipse but I had NOT the strenght of character required to get up at 5am to see the sun be partially hidden behind the moon heheheh
Really cool stuff
That’s great! What do you think of daylight saving time then ? According to me it’s a big reason why people hate winter sunsets.
I want to fight to stick with summer time all year long
excellente!!
Hahahahahah. Our shortest day, I think we get just over eight hours. It’s great if your a vampire or a albino but you also gotta like the cold. Like really cold. Like why would you live there. It’s too dam cold.
Thank you very much!
Absolutely agree. Time changes also cause an increase in incidence of strokes, heart attacks, and car crashes. Down with standard time!!
as a developer I first agree, then remember that everywhere else in the world will still observe daylight savings, leaving me in the same mess.
> Some other oddities on that map include France and Spain using the aptly-named central European time despite each lying on the prime meridian
De mémoire, les Français (et peut-être aussi les Espagnols?) étaient sur le même fuseau que les Britanniques jusqu’à la seconde guerre mondiale. Pour des raisons de logistique, ils sont passés au CET qui était l’heure des Allemands.
Ahahahah quel esti de cirque.
Ballarama et sa belle bande de clown lol
Tellement prévu que ça parte en éclats, il y aura encore du drama avant le jour J je pense. A suivre…
Ben qu'in.
Il s'est fait enfirouapé de A à Z dans cette espèce d'aventure dément avec Holness. Pas surpris de le voir quitter, il ne lui restait pas grand chose d'autre à faire après tout ce qui s'est passé.
J'prends pas la politique municipale au sérieux la plupart du temps. Même là encore, cette élection ne fut qu'un cirque. C'est exceptionnel.
>La pression est très forte depuis l'annonce de la fusion des deux partis, poursuit M. Holness. "Je me sens comme Tupac, ça tire de partout", dit-il, en référence au rappeur Tupac Shakur, assassiné le 13 septembre 1996 à Las Vegas.
Quelqu'un a des infos privilégiées / potins sur ce qui s'est passé ici?
(À part l'évidence que c'était un mariage impossible à la base cette fusion entre politiciens trop idéologiquement différents)
Musique de The office qui part dans le background,   
JIM HALPERT ?!!
Il vient de détruire sa carrière politique avant même qu'elle commence. Good job Marc-Antoine.
Donc la fusion des deux partis est avorté. Mdr quel fiasco.
Mais c'était prévisible, Desjardins voulait ralentir le déclin du français à Montréal, Holness veut l'accélérer. C'est genre, un point de discorde majeur, non? Comment ils allaient se rejoindre là dessus?
A little late to extricate yourself from Holness.  Balarama is not a serious candidate and Desjardins' rep took a hit here
Woof. I feel like there is a lot more to come.
(Surprised Pikachu Face)
francophones contre les référendums? je suis en quel univers?
Quand je vois cette campagne là, j'imagine le meme du chien avec la maison en feu qui dit: everything is fine
C'est de notoriété publique que Holness est un crosseur, si Desjardins a été assez cave pour lui faire confiance, il n'a qu'à se blâmer.
Le gars a pas réalisé que de mentir à son "co-chef", c'est pas juste mauvais pour sa relation avec ce dernier, mais aussi avec les électeurs.
Comment faire confiance à Holness quand il trahit lui-même son monde.
Il se prend pas pour un 7-UP flat, le gars.
Le même gars qui s'est déjà comparé à Obama. Il ne semble pas très sain d'esprit.
Tu sais tu il parle de quoi le dit référendum au moins?
Je suis interessé. Tu as des exemples de crosses passées?
Et comment faire confiance à Desjardins à l'avenir maintenant que tout le monde a pu voir comment il s'est fait enfirouaper?
After buying, take a good long look at it while its still new. Soak in and enjoy its untarnished beauty. It'll be scratched and dented from life in Montréal soon enough.
Most stolen cars are the "mass-market" cars, CR-V is #1 I believe.
If I were you I'll be more concerned about the potholes than having the car stolen. That and the hazardous behaviors of other luxury cars owners.
I wouldn't worry, those are very common in Montreal generally and parked day and night on the street in most areas.
The real safety issues with luxury cars here are all the knobs that have them and can't drive for shit.
The shitty roads and winter did more damage to my car than any vandalism.
Your car won't get targeted anymore than any other unless someone is particularly angry/drunk and is feeling super "fuck the rich" that day.
A stock car from the dealership isn't going to draw any attention, it won't be any more likely to get stolen unless it's one of those very specific cars that get targeted for theft (a Lexus GX/LX for example) parked outside overnight is just asking to get stolen.
Meh, I had a car stolen and it was the oldest and most banged up in the garage.
You have very little to worry about in Montreal. You see tons of em everywhere even exotics in the summer.
I see high end Porsche everywhere in Montreal and especially downtown, you guys here seem to really love Porsche. I've seen quite a few Lamborghinis here too, Urus in particular several times. High end BMWs and Mercedes are a regular occurence. 
But of course these cars get damaged by jealous people all the time everywhere in the world, Montreal is obviously non exception. You should always be ready for this to happen no matter what vehicle you drive.
As long as you have indoor parking for protection/winter you're fine.
Some Lexus models are among the most stolen cars in Quebec so I would take that into consideration too.
You’ll be fine. You can park it overnight no problem no one will care.
ça va aller.
You're pretty safe. I'd just be warry of parallel parking downtown because some people literally bump into your car to get out of their spot. Get a dashcam, and make it a habit of taking a picture of the car infront and behind you every time you park. Sounds hectic but it's literally 45 seconds of your life
It's going to be ok, but if it's going to be your daily commute, it's still gonna wear pretty fast.   
I'd personnaly commute by bike/subway and have a pleasure vehicle for week-ends and stuff.
Thieves are targeting Toyota and Lexus in Boucherville
If you get something with low profile tires, be very careful where you drive. I had 11 flats in 5 years. Started with 650$/tire and now I buy the cheapest I find, since i have 5 brands of tires in 2 sets...
And don't be surprised if people park touching your car, if you find boot prints on your windshield for some reason... Or if people hit it in a private parking at work where you pay 400$/month to park...
Besides that, it's awesome :)
Wrap your keys in foil, they won’t be able to scan for a car key signal
Might be vandalized. Cut tires, keyed, broken mirrors. Its a common occurrence downtown. Outside of it hit or miss. Just petty smashed window for whatever. Happens to all cars. Maybe badges stolen... Car thefts happen all over town, no stopping that. A friend of mine in St Henri had his Audi trashed up pretty good a few years ago.
I've seen cars get dinged up from bikes. Mirrors broken off or scratched paint. I've also seen it from cars parking. 
If say it's something not to worry much about but don't be shocked if it happens. Parking anywhere on the street you risk damage
If you do get a lease get the damage excess plan..BMW has a good one
Triste, le gars allait prendre sa retraite en 2022 en plus
:(
It’s a really gnarly section of the river. I would not venture out there in a boat, and doubly not at night.  Kayakers and surfers go out there, but they’re super familiar with the place, and they don’t rely on motors to get out of trouble.
What were those boaters thinking, hanging out upstream from there? Even looking from the bird sanctuary you can tell those waters are no joke, once you’re in the current, you’re going down, over the ledge and through the waves - if you’re lucky and don’t get shredded in the shallow sections.
Those firefighters are very courageous to head out there like that. Foolhardy almost. Sending a helicopter directly may have been a safer way to handle it.
RIP
It's always so sad when a firefighter loses their life.
Selon les témoignages ce serait soit une pièce de son équipement qui serait restée prise dans la structure de l'embarcation ou encore, le courant qui l'a maintenu collé sous l'embarcation chavirée.  Quelle fin atroce. Pensées à la famille et collègues.
Les témoignages de confreres et citoyens affluent a la caserne 64: 
[Le casier du Pompier Lacroix a la caserne 64](https://i.imgur.com/yguWri8.jpg)
That locker picture is heartbreaking. I hope the two rescued boaters put their lives to the best possible use after this.
[removed]
F
Well the old saying. Firefighters are the only ones running into a burning building. This was the water rescue team as well at house 34 in Lachine. They deal with all sorts of water rescues on the St Lawrence. Iirc we don't have a chopper based SAR team locally 
But yes the current is very powerful in that area and up river. Maybe the people on the boat had a mechanical problem and drifted down river. I've seen people trying to swim near Rene Levesque park all the time near the Mercier.
64*
Sorry I was thinking about 34e av for some reason
If you don't mind hanging out with ancients, I'm always down for a long walk on a nice day!
It would be helpful to specify your preferred area ;)
Damn, Verdun's too far for this to be practical.
I love long walks, but I don't run so much. I did lots of gyming pre-pandemic, but put that on pause for covid. I also bike a lot. If that interests you, feel free to DM =D
May I recommend the discord server associated with /r/MakeFriendsMTL/
There are lots of people looking for workout buds.
You could try east laurier running club. Not too far from RPP
I've been neglecting exercice since the beginning of  the pandemic, I would love to start with long walks or some hiking!
I tend to do walks around the Mount from the Mile End
Hello :),
The discord of r/MakeFriendsMTL/ is nice, I'm on it.
I live next to laurier parc and I'm usually out for a run or walk at least 5 times per week (I can't stand staying in for more than 48hr \^\^).
I usually go around petite patrie/laurier/La fontaine by walk during the evening (45min/1h). I run one or two times per week (less than 10 km).
During weekend, when I have the occasion I can sustain bigger walks (up to 5h in the city), usually the goal is to try new pastry places XD.
I won't mind someone to discuss with by doing that \^\^. En francais ça me va aussi.
Don't know if you're still looking but I'm down for a workout buddy. I'm even willing to to go to the gym haha. I'm not in bad shape but I completely lost my abs 😅
>My name is Virginie, I'm a 29F. My first language is French
Alors pourquoi t'as écris ton poteau en anglais?
hey :) Thank you!!! Ancient????
I am in La Petite Patrie :)
wow thanks!
wow I love it thanks
Salut! T'as l'air nouveau sur reddit. Laisse-moi t'aider : Reddit est une plateforme anglophone utilisé majoritairement par des hommes anglo-saxons entre 18 et 35 ans dans les sphères technologiques. Comme plusieurs subs de villes asiatiques remplis d'expats anglo-saxons qui fittent ce profil, /r/montreal  n'est pas une exception.
Étant une plateforme anglo-saxonne, plusieurs francophones utilisent également reddit pour apprendre l'anglais. J'espère que ça ne te fait pas trop de peine!
pète un coup ça va te faire du bien ❤️
Disnosaur. Fossil.
Like a worn out, beaten down couch, ready for the curb
I'm in my 50s. Doesn't seem quite so ancient from where I'm standing, but it might do from where you're standing.
I'm in pretty good shape though. I can't run for shit, but I can walk alright. Haven't gone for a 20kms walk in a while, but i often do 10-15.
Si tu avais passé un peu de temps sur ce sous-reddit, tu aurais toi même remarqué qu'on y parle aussi français. La surreprésentation d'anglophones et d'expatriés anglo-saxons n'est pas une justification pour agir comme une colonisée.
On n'en parle pas beaucoup de la ligne bleue ou de la rose pendant la campagne municipale.
C'est tu à cause de ça ce matin voir de service A-40 E et Jarry méga traffic à Lacordaire?
Il y a des informations très intéressante sur le site de la STM concernant les nouvelles stations : [https://www.stm.info/fr/infos/etat-du-service/travaux/future-station-lacordaire](https://www.stm.info/fr/infos/etat-du-service/travaux/future-station-lacordaire)
Entre autre que la fameuse pharmacie/clinique médicale exproprié ne servira qu'à construire un édicule seconde. La bonne nouvelle, c'est qu'au dernière nouvelle ces édicules là allaient probablement être retiré étant donné l'explosion des coûts.
i really wish this blue line had gone more north toward Montreal north or st-michel would of really help connect them to the rest of the city.
Crisse juste trop tard pour mes études lool
[deleted]
La CAQ a officiellement canné la rose au profit du REM de l'Est (la CDPQ a d'ailleurs commencé les démarches d'appel d'offre aujourd'hui).
&#x200B;
&#x200B;
Sucks to suck.
Au moins 100M$ ont été dépensés par l’administration Plante pour la feu ligne rose.
Ça déborde pas mal parce que la pandémie a fait mal aux transports en commun, mais les voitures elles sont de retour et même plus nombreuses.
https://www.lapresse.ca/actualites/grand-montreal/2021-10-19/les-gros-bouchons-sont-de-retour.php
Jean-Talon et pie-ix sont pas mal en construction aussi. Ça déborde de partout.
Il y avait un BP a cet endroit avant au debut des discussions sur la ligne bleu.
Seigneur qu’ils ont géré croche les expropriations. Des magasins utiles à tout un quartier, un centre d’achat où toutes les familles vont? Pas grave on va agir en fou pareil. Je pense au Centre Le Boulevard entre autres (où l’ancien proprio semblait aussi être un moineau pas fameux). 
Heureusement ils semblent vouloir corriger le tir maintenant, il était temps.
Yea I still don't get why they have so many of the old cars, how many years has it been since they started the replacement?
La CAQ avait déjà donné son désaccord il y a 4 ans quand elle avait sorti ça comme promesse électorale...
Vous parlez du Petro-Canada? Ça c'est l'emplacement de l'édicule principal, ici je parle du secondaire.
Concernant le centre d'achat, ils ont voulu exproprié qu'une partie du stationnement mais c'est le propriétaire qui semble en avoir profité pour se faire exproprier en entier en passant par les tribunaux. Mais en effet, gros fiasco.
Concernant le pharmaprix, je comprend que le second édicule est utile pour les autobus, mais est-ce réellement nécessaire? Et pourquoi ne pas l'avoir construit dans le parc en face? La ville indique ne pas vouloir réduire le couvert vert, mais on aurait pu retirer des stationnements de ce même parc pour compenser.
C'est une bonne nouvelle que le gouvernement québécois ait forcé l'ARTM à revoir à la baisse leurs ambitions, autrement les coûts exploserait et on aurait jamais d'extension.
I think the new cars don't fit in the blue line tunnel or something.
Ben elle a fait son travail de tenter de convaincre le gouvernement du Québec qui visiblement n'écoute pas les experts et se fout de Montréal.
J'veux dire, la chaire de mobilité de Poly encense le projet de ligne Rose dans des rapports officiels pis se fait tabletter, quossé tu veux que Plante fasse de plus. C'était un projet magnifique et bien pensé, elle a voulu faire embarquer la population de Montréal dans le but de forcer la main de Legault mais il est trop épais. Je suis certain qu'elle est la première déçue.
non avant, il y avais 2 station-service au coin.
En effet le proprio a voulu se faire de l’argent facile et il a gagné. Fait suer. 
Ce qui est weird pour le Centre d’achat, c’est qu’il y a aussi un parking de Maxi/Winners rarement utilisé à plus de 30%, à moins de 10 pas du centre d’achat qui a été exproprié. Un peu d’imagination aurait pu éviter le problème (quoique je ne connais pas tous les détails). Et à te lire, je comprends qu’ils ont aussi manqué d’imagination pour le Pharmaprix. 
Mais bon, ARTM ne vas pas détruire le centre finalement et elle va en confier la gestion à des experts. Trop peu trop tard peut-être, mais au moins le quartier va garder un point de rassemblement et de services et l’arrivée du métro va en faire monter grandement l’attraction je l’espère.
I live in one of the fourplexes that I own and I have no issues with tenants.  They are great tenants because I applied the same rules to select them as the bank applies to me when granting a mortgage.
If you become a proprietaire-occupant, you need to run the place like a business.  You don't give out your personal phone.  You don't answer emails off-hours and you don't react to anything until the next business day, minimum.
You are not a tenant's slave.  You are the owner of a business that they patronize and as a business owner there are many ways to offer great service to tenants without you becoming their slave.
The tenants I inherited when I first purchased this place were all deadbeats.  One by one I kicked them out.  None of them paid on time.  Don't take shit so you won't have to deal with shit.
Having said all this, running a business shouldn't be underestimated.  It still is a lot of work maintaining a building and requires someone with both handyman and organizational skills.
C'est moi ou l'article n'explique pas l'attrait qu'aurait ces « autres acheteurs » pour les plex de 900k avec 33k de revenus annuels? Parce que ces acheteurs investisseurs était inexistant dans les 5 dernières années alors que les prix étaient moindres. Les plex des quartiers populaires déjà bien établis ne se vendaient presque qu'exclusivement à des propriétaires occupants alors que ceux qui devaient être rasés était alors vendus à des investisseurs.
Imaginez le proprio qui achète cet immeuble à 900k$ dans lequel un logement est loué moins de 1000$ par mois. Vous voyez la pression qu’il ou elle aura a augmenter ce loyer, légalement ou non? La spéculation c’est drôle à Wall Street, mais ça ne devrait pas être permis sur un actif qui est aussi essentiel qu’une maison.
Never live amongst your Tennant's
I don't understand why you're being downvoted. I'm a landlord and everything you said is correct.
My old landlord had the same rules about business hours. It was fun when my apartment got flooded on a Friday night and they refused to answer any of my calls or emails until the next Monday.
I PM’d you.
as in investor 900k for a duplex making 33 780 (\~1410 a month per rental), that's 26x rents... that's just terrible as an investment, that means that i need to raise rents to at least 60k to break even, good luck finding renters at \~2400  a month, and legally i cant even increase them much.
lets say you put all the money and improvements possible to make that apartments renting at 1400 worth 2400 now...well theirs the next trap within 5 years you will be re evaluated by the city and taxes will be increased to match the new property value, so you just increased expenses again, so a probably not cash flowing anymore.
>Leçon apprise à la dure mais tellement vraie. Chaque acheteur désirant être propriétaire occupant avec d'autres unités dans la bâtisse devrait se renseigner avant de se lancer là-dedans.
Can you elaborate please ? I feel like living with tenants above gives you better control. For exemple a tenant will maybe not do huge noisy parties if the landlord lives below ?
Leçon apprise à la dure mais tellement vraie. Chaque acheteur désirant être propriétaire occupant avec d'autres unités dans la bâtisse devrait se renseigner avant de se lancer là-dedans.
my recommended way of doing it is, have a property manager have tenant issue be through them and never through you. 
you get to live like an owner with out the rest of the tenants knowing so and if there is a complaint to the PM about you so what its your building. 
yes it costs money for a PM but its peace of mind and you can expense it.
Which means plexes go to the real estate speculators.  I'm not sure renters want that either.
This sub is filled with tenants who feel that living in clean, perfectly maintained, functional housing located close to where they work is their "right" and that they should all have equal access to this, regardless of their income, just like they have access to Medicare.
Of course, this is a complete disconnect from reality.
But tenants often have no first-hand experience with the sacrifices and hard work one needs to make to gather funds to purchase and maintain a property, or that the very government that they count on to somehow miraculously deliver them this housing, is the one that makes it so unaffordable.
For example, tenants don't know about loi R-20 that makes it illegal for me, the landlord, to paint or fix my apartments myself.  They don't know that their taxes are being used to fund a state-run mafia outfit like the CCQ that forces me to hire professional painters at ridiculous rates which result in high costs that I'll pass on to them in the next raise.
[https://www.tvanouvelles.ca/2019/09/13/elle-risque-la-prison-pour-quelques-coups-de-pinceau](https://www.tvanouvelles.ca/2019/09/13/elle-risque-la-prison-pour-quelques-coups-de-pinceau)
They don't know that the government continues to do nothing about the mafia-like real estate agent associations that enforce a 5% commission "tax" on just about every real estate transaction in this country.  Think about this: many buyers today can only gather a minimal 5% downpayment for their homes -- well, that 5% goes directly into the pockets of the real estate agents involved in that transaction.  If a seller tries to avoid this and sell it on his own, this is what happens: [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ShBvRe0Jv68](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ShBvRe0Jv68)
https://www.tal.gouv.qc.ca/en/the-dwelling/urgent-and-necessary-repairs
Making a 1400$ apartment worth 2400$ will cost you 100k
Plex's are just investment properties. They for people who want extra income to help pay their mortgage while living in one of the units.
They more will complain about eveything little thing, harass you at all hours. Send you a text the moment is snows to clean the snow or how the parking situation is bad. Throw your lifestyle in your face etc. They'll still have those loud parties.
Not sure why my comment is getting downvoted but it's also sorta normal here
Je serais curieux d'en connaitre plus sur ton opinion par rapport à ça?
It's getting to that point. I no longer live amongst the tennants. However I've already started shopping a management company
Well no.  Until recently, live in landlords actually cared about the property and maintained things.  Now they've been priced out and replaced by faceless entities that don't actually care about the property.  End result is far worse conditions for the renter and the creation of slums.
Tsé.. because what Montréal really needs is Griffintown Phase 2 par Devimco.
> Pis encore le processus de consultation n’a pas apporté les résultats souhaités, car les villes ne retenaient que les recommandations en ligne avec leur vision
Oh non, la ville défend ses électeurs à la place de donner le champ libre aux slumlords! Quel drame! Je pleure toutes les larmes de mon corps!
>Denis Coderre, «Le but [...], c’est d’établir un carré de sable où tout le monde sera assis à la même table», a-t-il dit.
Quel genre de carrés de sable fuckés est-ce que le gros Coderre veut mettre dans nos parcs?
Les promoteurs : " c'passe qu'y a encore pleins de chinois qui veulent acheter des condos... "
Les promoteurs ont une grosse part de responsabilité dans la présente bulle immobilière qui rend hors de prix les locations et les achats immobiliers. 
Après s'être fait fourré par des entrepreneurs verreux dans les années 2000 (corruption du règne Gérald Tremblay), on se fait maintenant fourrer par des entrepreneurs verreux qui savent très bien qu'une grande partie de leurs condos sont vendus à des prête-noms résidant au Canada pour permettre aux compagnies et particuliers étrangers d'acheter de l'immobilier qui restera vide pendant 10 ans avant d'être revendu à 400% de profit.
Plus carré de marde qu'un carré de sable
je suis surpris que ça arrive pas plus souvent.
Je pense (je peux me tromper) que les règles sont simple pour les convoyeur d'argent, si tu te fais attaquer, tu laisse tomber l'argent ?
> je suis surpris que ça arrive pas plus souvent.
C'est parce que d'un côté, le calcul "risque vs récompense" est vraiment mauvais pour ce genre de crime et de l'autre, la façon dont ce type de crime est designé, ça filtre la majorité des criminels potentiels: ça n'attire que les criminels avec un haut potentiel de violence, ceux qui préméditent leurs gestes (donc pas les criminels "opportunistes" et les voleurs qui passent quand la maison est vide) et ceux qui sont assez "sociaux" pour être capable de travailler en équipe.
De plus, comme le braqueur de camion de sécurité sait qu'il va faire face à de l'opposition armée, il doit donc se préparer pour de la violence: il doit recruter au moins un ou deux autres complices et il doit s'assurer que tous les complices sont d'accord sur le même niveau de violence à utiliser. Si un vas "trop loin" alors ils sont tous responsable de meurtres et passeront 15+ années en dedans. Si un complice n'est pas assez motivé, ils pourraient tous se faire attraper et passer 10+ ans en dedans. La "plage de violence acceptable" est donc très mince pour réussir le crime, puis ensuite il y a l'aspect "garder un secret à plusieurs" qui est tout une autre paire de manches.
Il est aussi important de noter qu'il n'y a pas de facebook/pages jaunes du crime: ces gens-là se ramassent à faire des coups avec ceux qui sont disponible, alors ça amène un autre lot de problèmes potentiels.
Il ne faut pas oublier aussi que le crime sera fait dans un endroit public, avec des témoins potentiels ainsi que la présence de caméras partout. Il faut donc avoir des masques et déguisements, puis un changement de déguisement et de véhicules, puis une façon de détruire les éléments de preuves. Avec les techniques d'enquêtes modernes, c'est plus facile à dire qu'à faire!
Finalement, le butin n'est pas aussi élevé qu'on pourrait le croire, considérant que ce n'est pas un plan "solo" donc qu'il doit y avoir partage. Ce partage peut aussi causer des tensions, ce qui peut mener à se faire attraper même après un "plan parfait" à cause de jalousies où autres situations humaines.
Bref, au final c'est le risque de passer la majorité de ta vie adulte en prison versus le gain potentiel d'une fraction du contenu du camion, que tu ne pourras simplement pas dépenser frivolement sans te faire attraper par l'ARC.
\- Rhetorical\_rapine
Crimier professionnel
haha ouin dans ce cas-ci c'est que j'avais vu une entrevue avec un ex-voleur de banque réformé qui parlait que les prisons étaient pleines de gars qui faisaient du temps pour des vols de camions qui avaient mal tournés, alors faut croire que ça m'avait marqué!
Poutine is a full meal at the Banquise. Not just a snack you can take in between meals. It should either be your lunch or dinner
Not to be mean, but Bouillon Bilk for dinner and then Pied de Cochon a 10PM… sounds like a lot of food in a short time lapse… Bouillon is great, one of my favorite… I wouldn’t want to restrict myself because I have to eat so soon after… And Pied de Cochon is great, but a lot of food and calories at 10pm… maybe come back when you’ll have a better reservation ?
For your Sunday, walk down the mountain and through the MURAL festival walls, grab a sandwich at Les Co'pains d'abord (rachel & st-denis), Santropol (st-urbain & duluth) or a poutine at patati patata (rachel & st-laurent).
Gibbys, why, oh why... it's a steakhouse, probably have better in TO.
For more local authentic : Pastaga (don't let the name fool you), Hogan&Beaufort...
You do Bouillon Bilk AND Au Pied de Cochon on the same night ? cancel Au Pied de Cochon.
She in old
Montréal try Olive and Gourmando.
It likely won't be quick, as there is often a line-up, but maybe try Arthur's on Notre Dame Ouest in St-Henri for lunch. 
Don't forget bagels at either St-Viateur or Fairmout!
Le 4e mur is a great speakeasy but there is also stilllife (make reservations) and Atwater cocktail club. 
One of my favorite things to do in Montreal is to catch a burlesque show at the wiggle room (pre-drinks at Big in Japan bar if it's still open).
Omg I'm so excited for you! Montreal is a great city for eating and strolling around. Bienvenue :-)
>Grabbing poutine from La Banquise in the afternoon
La Banquise does not have a good poutine, despite everyone recommending it.  They have a wide variety with many different combinations AND they are open at 3am after the bars close.  La Poule Mouillee is better, and across the street.  
The croissants at Kouign Amann are amazing.  They are always hot, fresh from the oven. Check the opening hours before going.  
The potato and cheese bread at Boulangerie Guillaume is addictive.  I usually eat the entire loaf, same day.  Get the larger size.  For some reason, the half size does not taste the same.
I think you are trying to do too much within a short period of time. You don't live that far away and some of those meals will be very filling such as the poutine. Sunday breakfast I would grab a full English breakfast at burgundy lion pub.
If you are driving.. factor in extra time for 401 being a disaster in either direction.
For a quick lunch before going to the MMFA, I'd suggest Cafe Aunja.
Thanks for all the great comments and feedback! I've added a few stops to our list such as *patisserie au kouign amann* and changed our reservation at Bouillon Bilk from Friday to Saturday (bye bye Gibbys). Can't wait for the weekend!
In the old port i definitely recommend Un po di piu - love that place. Also second the other user's suggestion of Olive & Gourmando. 
If you want a quick bite when you get into town parma cafe near by has some good quick eats. 
Arthur's is a popular breakfast brunch spot in St-Henri was also mentioned and is solid, another breakfast option maybe on your Sunday would be Le Passé Composé.
On Saturday for lunch, grab a chicken cutlet sandwich with spicy mayo at Dispensa on William near McGill. Eat it in the old Port whilst enjoying a cold beer.
Edit: downvoted by a Subway connaiseur. Lulz.
if you don't get the kouign amann from patisserie au kouign amann, you will regret it
If you are looking for great food in chinatown try Fleurs et Cadeaux
Re Sunday: Mount Royal's a fairly substantial outing. Instead of trying to cram something else in on Sunday, I'd suggest committing the day to the Mountain (assuming the weather's decent). You'll enjoy the experience more if you're not rushing to get to the next thing.
Take the metro to Cote-des-Neiges on the blue line. Pickup take out lunches and some refreshments (there are plenty of options in the neighbourhood). Then take 90 minutes or so to check out Notre Dame des Neiges cemetery (the entrance is on Decelles, south of Queen Mary). We've been burying people up there for 250+ years. The monuments, the natural surroundings and the solitude of NDdN are (imho) even nicer than Mount Royal Park. It's more romantic too, in case you want to impress the gf with your thoughtfulnes.
Make your way to the gate on Remembrance Road here:
https://www.google.ca/maps/@45.4998972,-73.599373,59a,38.7y,343.23h,48.69t/data=!3m1!1e3?hl=en
Cross the street and check out the park for a couple of hours. If you want to stop for coffee (or need a toilet) in the park your options are Beaver Lake Chalet, Smith House and the Chalet at the lookout. Smith House usually has some neat historic exhibits if that interests you.
From the lookout you can walk down to to the top of Peel Street and head back to your hotel. Follow the Promenade Fleuve-Montagne if you want to check some landmarks out, or go down your own way.
https://ville.montreal.qc.ca/fleuve-montagne/assets/docs/PFM-Carte-WEB-EN.pdf
The Oratory's just a couple of blocks from Cote-des-Neiges metro. If you're out in the neighbourhood early enough I suppose you can try to squeeze that in along with your mountain walk. It's pretty damn huge too though. I'd allow two hours to walk to it from the metro, look the place over and walk back to the cemetery entrance.
Enjoy your stay.
La Maison Publique is my favorite restaurant in the world. Can't recommend it enough.
Le club chasse et pêche is in old Montréal and is top notch french gastronomy.
One of the best wine waiters in Quebec also works there.
Quick tip for Gibby’s: If it’s not what you asked for, or the wellington is dry, send it back. Don’t let the snotty waiters bully you!
This is my high school, It happened right after the end of the school day. I was in the hallway when I saw him enter the school, I was one of the first teenagers to call 911 while my teachers were doing CPR. I couldn't sleep today
[deleted]
16 year old me used to get off the 161 at that intersection twice a week to go to violin practice. I’d walk back and get snacks from Euro-marché in the winter or a drink at the 2nd cup in the summer. 
Almost a decade later, and the place is unchanged. Same teens and middle aged working people crowding the bus stop, same uncles at the Tim’s, same Filipino businesses, same hellish traffic because of the parked cars on VH, and I think the robotics banner on the school was still on display recently?
I can’t imagine murder happening there. Ngl, this hit different.
Wtf is happening to this city? I feel it was never this bad growing up. Are the amount of shootings going up, or are we just hearing about them more often because of reddit?
Prioritize your own wellbeing and make sure you speak to a therapist. What you witnessed can take years to resolve. You did a great job calling 911. Hang in there.
I don't think the city has ever been this bad.
Growing up we had biker wars and mob wars, the former leaving well over 100 deaths & a little boy blown up by a car bomb. It seems scarier because of todays 24/7 news cycle.
As I said it was way worse. You just hear about it more now thanks to 24/7 news cycle
It's always the same Reddit user that posts the bad Montreal news, check his post history
It was much worst, I dont know if you forgot or you simply dont know but Montreal was a lot more violent years ago. 
You hear about one crime today and think it's the standard but it isen't, back then it was so common we didnt hear about it unless it was something bigger. Now things get reportee more, its good but it gives the wrong impression.
I feel like crying, I know who died, his nickname that everyone called him was Twizzy and he was in Sec 5. I was with my science teacher and a group of classmates outside when the firefighters and ambulance took him on a stretcher.
Oh yes it has and much much worse. We just enjoyed years of calm. Who remembers car bombs going off ? I do.
I'm just glad I stayed home today. Seeing the homicide unit on a way to workout isnt cool. I'm also the mom of an adult teen male. This stuff horrifies me.
The Jeep blowing up an the bumper killing the kid was the turning point not only in the public's eye but also in the field between the groups. It brought negative attention.
It was also way worse for women in the 70s-80s with tons of rape/murder cases and "disparitions" which were in fact murder cases with no suspect.
It was way worst in the 70s.
The number of shooting this year is 4 times what it was in 2016 and much higher than it was during the biker wars.
Montréal was the murder capital of Canada in the freaking 60s...
Good lawd. It’s making scared I ain’t gonna lie.
I don't care, I appreciate his posts (lol I actually checked his post history real quick and i've clicked them all) and as far as i'm concerned I encourage OP to keep posting and keeping us informed.
Merci OP!
Jesus, you're right. Multiple posts per day. C'est quoi le problème /u/eric_bousquet ?
They took him to us. I'm a nurse and I work in the emergency room. I was the first one there when the ambulance brought him to us. We had a huge team of emergency doctors and nurses, cardiothoracic surgeons, respiratory therapists, support workers, admins etc... I guarantee you that we did absolutely everything we could to try and save him.
> The officers were looking for a suspect described as a Black 18-year-old man whose height was 1.85 metres, whereas Burke stands at 1.70 metres and was 54 years old. Burke and the suspect were also wearing different styles of clothing. 
lol, jesus. Open and shut case, Jean-Philippe!
> The judge found Auger and Théorêt guilty of wrongfully arresting, handcuffing and searching Burke; failing to inform him of the motives for their arrest, using excessive force and being disrespectful toward him. 
> 
> McMahon also said they were "negligent or careless of the health and safety of Monsieur Burke."
"Why don't people like us!?!!"
For the ethics committee to find a police officer at fault, I can't imagine how egregious the facts they were presented must have been. Just reading the article makes me angry, and we know the police must have hidden the best.
> "What struck us back when [Burke] first contacted us is this phenomenon of jumping on any Black person that they could find at the time even if the suspect description just does not match his profile," Niemi said.
 > "We want a decision that clearly reflects the principle that Black lives matter, and hopefully in this case we will have that." 
I don't remember which sitcom made that joke/observation (I think it's *Everybody Hates Chris*), but there's a scene where a convenience gets robbed and the police asks the owner to describe the perp. The owner goes "Black guy, medium complexion, about 6 feet tall and around 170-180 pounds, medium built, he had a tat..." and the mind of the officer goes "Black guy, black black black black black black" while the owner gives a detailed description. 
It's a trope for a reason, it happens very often.
Funny how /r/Quebec doesn't talk about any of this but are the firsts to fight agaisn't any news calling them racist lmao.
As a french canadian Quebecer, i've never seen more racist and angry people online and irl
The photo with the Labatt Dry 7.1% is amazing.
Wait - but Blanchette and Legault said we have no racism problems in Quebec?
Did they lie to me?
WHAT??? SINCE WHEN????? WTF??????? 
/S
Quelle surprise. Je suis choqué. Quelle sera la prochaine révélation. Que l'on doive respirer pour vivre.
(/S juste au cas)
Yet again... 
** surprised pikachu face **
I am just here for the comments.
A step in the right direction, but meaningless without actual consequences. Fingers crossed.
Why is this a surprise? Have none of you ever lived Montreal?
>Sanctions for the officers based on the ethics board decision are expected in the coming months. 
Does anyone know what kind of sanction could apply here?
Systemic. Racism.
WHAATTTTT NOO WAY.....Who would have known
I thought it was the Beaverton article...
I'm a brown guy, police stopped me and asked me for ID because they were looking for a white guy with totally different hair. He even showed me the picture. I tell him that the dude in the picture is white to which he replies you match the clothing description. I was dumbfounded, honestly.
Yeah... I'm generally critical of this kind of complaint but it certainly seems warrented in this case.
Edit: What the fuck? I said I agree with the guy who complained about this! And by being critical I mean that every complaint should be evaluated on it's own merits without bias.
theres a Chapelle joke thats eerily similar.
/r/Quebec est un ostie de sub de réactionnaires identitaires. 
Si un sujet est pas à propos d'à quel point le Québec est une minorité qui fait face à de la méchante discrimination du Canada Anglais, alors ça les intéresse fuck all.
"La police du Québec est racistes" /r/Quebec: * *criquets* *
"Un sub de streamer accuse le Québec d'être raciste parce qu'ils se font attaquer par un groupe de racistes identitaires Québécois" /r/Quebec: *"C'est la fucking guerre, comment ose-t-il dire des choses comme ça à propos de nous! On va en parler pendant trois semaines! Come on gang, brigadons!"*
"Les Canadiens vont reconnaître les terres autochtones" /r/Quebec: *"Ostie que c'est du blabla inutile et niaiseux et basé sur de la fausse histoire, maudit que les wokes SJW vont trop loin"*
"Do they even speak real french in Quebec?" /r/Quebec: *"C'EST LE PLUS GRAND AFFRONT ET L'EXEMPLE DE RACISME ET DE DISCRIMINATION LA PLUS FLAGRANTE DE NOTRE SOCIÉTÉ MODERNE!"*
LOL. Go to an American city the same size and get back to us
Pas du tout. Si on regarde les statistiques, c'est beaucoup moins élevée qu'il y a 15-40 ans. 
https://www150.statcan.gc.ca/t1/tbl1/en/tv.action?pid=3510007101&pickMembers%5B0%5D=2.1&cubeTimeFrame.startYear=1981&cubeTimeFrame.endYear=2020&referencePeriods=19810101%2C20200101
Dans un autre pôteau, voici quelques semaines, Montréal était la 2e grande ville la plus sécuritaire sur la planète, juste derrière Québec.  
Ceci étant dis, ce que j'aurais aimé voir, c'est le nombre de policiers par 100000 citoyens et les comparer avec les autres villes du Canada, comme ils  ont fait pour les meurtres.
https://newsinteractives.cbc.ca/montreal-crime/
Ça s'arrête à 2019 mais le crime est en baisse à Montréal.
not even the most dangerous city in canada.
Go to any city in Afghanistan and its way more dangerous 🙄
Montreal was *way safer* 15 years ago. No comparison.
Pas du côté des meurtres en tout cas. 
https://www150.statcan.gc.ca/t1/tbl1/en/tv.action?pid=3510007101&pickMembers%5B0%5D=2.1&cubeTimeFrame.startYear=1981&cubeTimeFrame.endYear=2020&referencePeriods=19810101%2C20200101
C'est encore plus visible si tu y va en Homicide par 100 000 habitant. 
Nous sommes à 0.97 alors qu'il y a 15 ans c'était à 1.5+.
Effectivement.... Mais les coups de feux pis les agressions de gangs de rue, y en n'avait pas autant avant.
Meh, je n'ai jamais entendu un coup de feu dans les 10 dernières années à Montréal. 
Si ça ne serait pas des médias, je ne serais même pas au courant de cette "crise".
Tant mieux. Mais, comme on dit, moi j'ai jamais été victime de racisme dans mes nombreuses ann;ées de vie, sSi ça ne serait pas des médias, je ne serais même pas au courant de cette "réalté"...
Je suis blanc mais même sans les médias ne suis au courant que le Québec était encore plus raciste avant. Juste à voir mes arrières grands-parents quand j'étais plus jeune jeune qui m'appelait "petit nègre". Où encore les données sur la pauvreté / emplois des nombreux recensement canadiens. 
Les données sont là. Montréal était plus dangeureux auparavant. Le feeling actuel qu'il y a plus de violence actuellement est irrationnel.
>« Oui, il y a une escouade mobilité, mais elle est pognée dans le trafic ». -Denis Coderre
Oui, on s'ennuie tellement de l'époque de Coderre quand il n'y avait pas de construction, pas de trafic, pas de bouchons. Tout était très fluide quand il était maire alors il va sûrement ramener ça. 
>M. Coderre l'a alors accusé de « faire de la politique sur le dos des victimes ».
Et lui quand quelqu'un crevait il se contentait de rien faire, ou au forçail, d’obliger les cyclistes à utiliser les trottoirs sous les viaducs. Problème réglé. Il en fait pas de politique sur le dos de ses citoyens qui se font tuer (par des voitures), lui! C'est pas du tout ce qu'il vient de faire en disant ça!
Mensonges évidents, populisme crasse et sophismes, Denis Coderre, le politicien, me répugne et je peux toujours pas croire que des gens veulent voter « pour lui » parce que c'est « contre Plante ».
C'est une question un peu rhétorique mais, qu'est-ce que Projet Montréal a fait à ces gens pour qu'ils veulent ramener le parti de Tremblay et Applebaum au pouvoir à nouveau?!
EDIT: J'en reviens pas. Une personne est morte *pendant qu'il était maire* et sa « solution » a été d'interdire le passage aux cyclistes et de les forcer à utiliser le trottoir. L'administration suivante aménage et sécurise une piste cyclable à l'endroit où cette personne est morte, et il accuse cette administration de faire de la politique sur le dos des victimes! Bin kin! Pis toi?! T'es pas supposé faire ça de la politique? 
Parlant de politique sur le dos des victimes pis de sophismes, je me souviens des pittbulls. Combien de victimes de chiens dangereux, Denis, pour toute la réglementation et la médiatisation? C'était pas de la politique sur le dos des victimes ça? Combien de gens meurent d'une attaque de chien à Montréal par année, versus des piétons et des cyclistes écrasés/renversés par des autos et des camions? Est-ce que de légiférer contre certains types de chiens serait plus politiquement payant que de faire des aménagements plus sécuritaires pour les cyclistes et piétons? C'est clair que Denis, lui, y fait pas ça de la politique sur le dos des victimes!
J'espère tellement que ce menteur et hypocrite compulsif va encore perdre et juste disparaître de l'espace publique pour de bon.
Coderre doit viré son directeur de campagne parce que celui qui lui a dit que "reprendre la ville" est un bon logo est en train de le saboter. ça sonne tellement... cultish.
Un personnage méprisable qui nous ment en pleine face, sans gêne, depuis des années. Mais sa campagne se déroule mal, et j'ai bon espoir qu'il sera défait encore une fois. Est-ce qu'il va enfin nous sacrer patience après cette autre défaite?
>ils veulent ramener le parti de Tremblay et Applebaum au pouvoir à nouveau
[Même face, nouvelle gang de crosseurs / Nouvelle face, même gang de crosseurs](https://i.imgur.com/gV5QkdH.jpg)
Le parti de Plante siphonne nos taxes pour des projets qui ne profitent qu'a 2 où 3 quartiers chou-chou tout rendant l'accès à notre ville plus difficile. Il y a le Montreal de Plante et le Rest Of Montreal.
Mon frère!
En effet, c'est assez flagrant de voir tous ces politiciens de carrière graviter et coller autour du même groupe, même si le parti change de nom.
Et si on fait quelques recherches rapides on peut voir qu'il y en a encore plusieurs de l'époque de Tremblay qui sont encore et toujours là.
Lionel Perez, Jean-Marc Gibeau, Michel Bissonnet, Chantal Rossi, Alan DeSousa, Aref Salem, Michèle D. Biron, Mario Battista et Lili-Anne Tremblay sont encore sous la bannière d'Ensemble Montréal.
Donc la progression ressemble à Union Montréal -> Équipe Denis Coderre -> Ensemble Montréal -> Ensemble Montréal - Équipe Denis Coderre. 
Plus, how narcissistic do you have to be to create a party in your name, leave it after losing, give it time to get a new leader and a new name, then come back and take it over with your name and as the leader again? I'm looking forward to the party name going back to plain and simple "Ensemble Montréal".
Que je sache les arrondissements et leurs maires ont généralement pas mal de pouvoir, et c'est eux qui décident d'une bonne partie de l'aménagement sur leur territoire. C'est pourquoi certaines pistes cyclables arrêtent brusquement entre certains arrondissements ou encore, que le déneigement n'est pas égal partout. Certains arrondissements préfèrent les politiques  d'Ensemble Montréal et élisent encore des candidats pour ce parti. Ils décident de beaucoup de choses dans leur arrondissements. Et les résidents des arrondissements centraux qui votent pour Projet Montréal ont aussi les maires et les aménagements qu'ils veulent. 
La ville est terriblement décentralisée et à ma connaissance, c'est difficile au maire de la ville d'imposer sa volonté sur tous les arrondissements. Surtout s'ils sont dans l'opposition.
Pour ce qui est de l'accès à la ville, je me souviens que la démolition de l'autoroute Bonaventure s'est terminée pendant que Coderre était encore maire. [Il a posé sur ce truc.](https://www.lapresse.ca/actualites/montreal/201607/07/01-4998706-demolition-de-lautoroute-bonaventure-quand-la-modernite-chasse-la-modernite.php) Sauf que pour être juste, c'est un projet qui date d'avant qu'il soit en politique municipale à Montréal. Il l'a juste pas arrêté.
Qu'est-ce qui rend l'accès à notre ville difficile? Qu'est-ce qui ne profite qu'à 2 ou 3 quartiers? Est-ce que tu peux pointer des exemples?
Prochainement ça sera *"Ensemble nous sommes tous Denis Coderre"*
Je viens de l'arrondissement Ste-Genevieve - Ile-Bizard,
Toutes les requêtes que mon entourage à fait à la Ville clarification de la signalisation sur une rue qui est aussi un stationnement d'école),  amélioration d'un parc canin, réparation d'un trottoir, etc ont été répondu par "On attend l'aval de la ville-mère". Tandis que avant le maire avait plus de pouvoir pour des "petites affaires".  
L'accès à la Ville? On peut simplement pas se stationner nulle-part. Je suis parti de chez nous cet été pour faire du Vélo sur le fameux REV que mes taxes ont payé, et aucune place se stationner. Si je veux prendre le métro, c'est la même chose. Je dois aller à Laval pour me stationner.
J'aimais bien aller magasiner sur St-Hubert ou prendre un verre en ville de temps en temps avec ma femme. Mais la le magasinage c'est Mirabel ou Carrefour Laval, les drinks c'est Ste-Anne-de-Bellevue ou Vieux Longueil.
Je suis consultant en informatique, ma firme charge le double de déplacement pour tout client qui est au sud de la métropolitaine entre Décarie et la 25.
Le premier point sur la gestion locale qui ne remonte pas bien, semble effectivement quelque chose à améliorer pour Projet Montréal. Il faut le concéder, ça semble leur point faible.
Par contre pour l'accès à la ville, je ne comprends pas comment on peut blâmer Valérie Plante directement, ou Projet Montréal. C'est une question de grande ville. Tu vas me dire que ça circule bien en voiture à Toronto ou Boston? Que New-York ne supprime pas des stationnements pour des bandes cyclables? Surtout que tu ne parles qu'exclusivement de stationnement et d'automobile.
La situation du stationnement autour des stations de métro était la même sous Coderre. Est-ce que tu t'attendais à ce que Projet Montréal exproprie des terrains autour des stations de métro pour faire plus de stationnement? Comment est-ce que cette situation est la faute de Plante? Est-ce que Coderre a promis faire plus de stationnement incitatif près des métros et de permettre aux gens d'y stationner leur auto?
Les travaux sur la Plaza St-Hubert ne sont pas de Projet Montréal. Ils ont été planifiés avant que Valérie Plante ne soit maire. [Ils ont été planifiés par la Société de Développement Commercial de la Plaza, *sous Denis Coderre*](https://jbourbonnais.org/2017/02/06/travaux-50-m-plaza-saint-hubert/).
>« Je suis heureux de vous annoncer que mon Administration investira environ 50 M$ pour refaire les infrastructures de la Plaza Saint-Hubert, réaménager la rue et remplacer la marquise, qui en avait bien besoin. Nous allons redonner à la Plaza Saint-Hubert ses lettres de noblesse, la propulser au 21e siècle et offrir aux Montréalais un espace de vie agréable et une expérience commerciale unique et attractive. »
>-Denis Coderre
Puis l'argument de "mes taxes ont payées ça et ça et je peux pas y aller en char", faut le faire quand même. On habite dans la même ville. Mes taxes paient aussi pour ça et moi ça me va. Ça va clairement à une grande partie des autres citoyens qui paient pour ça aussi. Ils votent même pour ça. Veux-tu bien. Plein d'autres gens paient des taxes. Tes taxes ne te donnent pas plus de poids dans un autre arrondissement où des citoyens votent pour les dépenser sur autre chose. Ça a pas rapport. J'ai pas d'enfants pis je sais bien que je dois payer pour l'éducation des enfants des autres. J'en tire profit autrement.
Même chose pour le REV. [Les compteurs montrent que la piste sur St-Denis est populaire](https://www.lapresse.ca/actualites/grand-montreal/2021-06-16/donnees-des-compteurs-des-pistes-cyclables/le-reseau-express-velo-cartonne.php). Si cela amène moins de gens à utiliser leur auto, ça crée moins de trafic et demande moins de stationnement. Même si le REV enlève lui-même du stationnement, c'est surtout en milieux résidentiel sur Bellechasse. La rue St-Denis a conservée la majorité du stationnement mais elle a perdue une voie de circulation dans les deux sens. Reste que selon les citoyens et les gens des environs, c'est effectivement un succès pour eux. Même si tu ne peux pas t'y rendre en voiture.
Et puis parenthèse mobilité. Le train de banlieue Deux-Montagnes aurait pu t'amener toi et ton vélo plus près du REV, s'il était toujours en opération. Cependant Coderre et Charest ont donnés la ligne à la CDPQ pour y construire un métro léger. C'est Denis Coderre lui-même qui en a fait l'annonce.
>[Le 22 avril 2016, le maire de Montréal, Denis Coderre, et le PDG de la CDPQ, Michael Sabia, annoncent un méga-projet de SLR nommé Réseau électrique métropolitain (REM)](https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/R%C3%A9seau_express_m%C3%A9tropolitain#R%C3%A9seau_%C3%A9lectrique_m%C3%A9tropolitain)
Tu pourras utiliser le REM pour te rendre au REV dans quelques temps. En attendant, de l'ouest, il est aussi possible de prendre le train de banlieue de la ligne Vaudreuil. Par contre, les aménagements cyclables nord-sud des villes de l'ouest de l'ile laissent malheureusement à désirer. 
Et puis, d'une personne qui fait parfois le voyage à vélo, traverses DDO en suivant de Salaberry puis traverses le Bois-De-Liesse. Super belle piste cyclable dans le parc. Ensuite suis Gouin, il y a une piste cyclable pratiquement tout le long. Ça va t'amener au REV sur Lajeunesse/Berri à Ahuntsic. Ça prend environ 1h15 à partir de Ste-Geneviève. C'est facile de faire un aller-retour en quelques heures.
Mais si tu tiens absolument à venir essayer une piste cyclable (que t'as payé en partie!1!1) avec ton auto, ce serait pas possible de le stationner dans un parc ou un stationnement public? Genre le stationnement du Parc du Bois-de-Liesse? Ou un stationnement privé? Est-ce que Valérie Plante a supprimée les stationnements du Complexe Desjardins? Est-ce que ceux de la Gare Centrale étaient pleins? C'est pas possible de se stationner à Angrignon? 
Mais j'y pense, ton plan pour essayer le REV, à partir de Ste-Geneviève, c'était de mettre ton vélo sur ton auto, le traîner jusqu'à un métro, t'y stationner, prendre le métro avec ton vélo jusqu'à une station proche du REV pour pouvoir l'essayer? Est-ce que t'avais l'intention de faire du vélo dans l'histoire?
Donc, qu'est-ce que tu attendrais de Valérie Plante et Projet Montréal pour "l'accès à la ville"? Ils auraient dû faire quoi pour avoir ton vote? Et qu'est-ce que Denis Coderre pourrait faire pour améliorer l'accès à la ville et rectifier tout ça s'il est élu? Est-ce que c'était plus facile de circuler sous Coderre? Est-ce que les arrondissements ne mettaient pas des sens-uniques et des mesures d'apaisement même si Coderre était au pouvoir?
1er point - Ces demandes n'ont jamais eu à remonter jusqu'à la ville-mère, c'est des demandes locales, c'est juste depuis que Projet Montréal est en poste que c'est le cas
2ième point - La plaza St-Hubert et l'accès à la ville. Ce que je plaint ce n'est pas de ne pas pouvoir conduire jusqu'en ville, c'est que les aménagements intermodaux ne sont pas fait. C'est bien beau avoir un métro, mais faut tu t'y rende, même chose pour le train de banlieu et le REM. Les stationnements disponible pour se rendre en ville sont plein et la ville choisi de les rétrécir et d'interdire le stationnement à proximitée. La en plus, ils arrêtent pas d'essayer de bloquer le REM de l'Est, qui aiderait énormément à diminuer la congestion à Montreal. 
3ième point - Le REV. La chose intelligente aurait été de le joindre aux longues pistes de l'ouest de l'Ile. Disons le long de Gouin (qui n'as aucune piste cyclable à l'ouest de la 13) ou le long de Lakeshore. 
Mon plan était de prendre mon bicycle mais c'est un peu suicidaire Gouin entre Pierrefonds et la 13.
J'aurais pris le bus, mais pas le droit.
Pour guarder mon vote, Projet Montreal aurait dût:
1. Décentraliser au maximum le pouvoir
2. Augmenter les transfert de fonds vers les arrondissements
3. Attaquer le vrai problème de la crise du logement
4. Soit faciliter l'accès au centre-ville ou arrèter de nous casser le bicycle en nous disant qu'on doit y retourner.
J'ai parlé longuement aux deux candidats qui sont venu
"Artistes" graffiteurs. Sorry mais des lettres ballounes moi je trouve ca hideux comparativement à une belle oeuvre urbaine.
[deleted]
The main reason I got into graffiti when I was younger was because I saw society as something that was owned by a small group of "rich people" who talked down to the rest of us through advertising and propaganda. I thought it unfair that only the few who could afford the ad space could have their opinions heard in the public sphere. I started putting up stickers, stencils, posters inside bus shelters, painting walls, trains etc... I was "bombing the system" by putting up my own messages. I wanted to show that it's not just the rich and powerful who have a say, but anyone who puts their mind to it and takes a bit of risk can be heard. After some years I got quite good and was painting professional murals and creating fine art and installations with the same mind set. But as popularity for murals grew, the messaging behind them quickly became friendly only to those who are funding them. Apart from some festivals that grant artistic freedom like Under Pressure, the artist usually becomes a human printer at the service of public and private clients who just want to make a surface look pretty or be part of a trend without offending anyone. There's nothing wrong with making walls look more pretty, but to me, those murals, no matter how well executed they are, are often so boring I don't even notice them. But that's what you have to paint if you want to be at that level. If your work contains a strong message that is critical of corporate culture, you're probably not going to have corporate clients lined up around the block for your work (obviously) and when you make your living painting murals like in my case, that meant having to hide the message cleverly or just work as an artist assistant to other muralists and either not sign the work, or sign under a different name. Graffiti is also boring too as it has become so deliberately terrible as to disassociate itself from mainstream public art that it's painful to look at without cringing. Now we're in a situation where we have muralists consisting of former graffiti writers, painting commercial friendly murals getting crossed by the new generation of graffiti writers who see it all as a bunch of advertising and propaganda, because it pretty much is. Even murals which critique the corporate system are crossed since they're created under the same commercial umbrella and are seen as part of the problem. Going after the graffiti writers risks having all your murals destroyed in minutes by people who have nothing to lose. I've even had a fine art installation at HEC crossed out by someone I've never even met. But that's what graffiti writers do, they attack the system. They write on what they can reach. Unfortunately they have very little to say other than "FUCK YOU" to the person who's nearest to them, even when that person is one of the only ones who might understand them most. Considering the consequences of getting arrested, I find it disappointing to see how many writers still take that chance to paint the same old corny throws and tags like it was 1996 and act like they're "keeping it real" or that they're the first to do it like them. 
Anyway, as long as it's fun to break the rules and you have lots of young people who have nothing to do, you're going to have a graffiti problem and no amount of buffing, mural painting, obstructions, or silicone anti-graffiti coating will make it go away.
[Un bel exemple](https://i.ibb.co/qBnMhy6/Screenshot-20211018-121346.png) sur Bélanger.
>MERCI DE RESPECTER LES ARTISTES
>Cette murale a été faite par des jeunes du quartier Saint-Michel
(Avec un logo "Pas de canette aérosol" pour les illétrés)
Le reportage est extremement bien fait. Il donne la parole au deux camps et a une scientifique qui a étudié le phénomène... La gang de Rad a vraiment le tour!
Taggers hurt the image of our city, I don’t know why we put up with it. If the only thing you have to contribute is your name in lowercase letters over a work of art, maybe it’s time you re-evaluate what you’re doing with your life. 
Pourquoi des montréalais.es se contentent de ruiner des œuvres d’art et des façades de commerces, je le comprenderai jamais.
I felt the same way about graffiti tags until I realized that there is no functional difference between someone's fugly spray-painted name and most outdoor advertisement. They all serve the same purpose -- capture eyeballs for brand recognition.
In fact, I consider graffiti more benign than ads because ultimately pressure-washing walls helps keep the city clean of grime. Plus, taggers aren't trying to rent space in my head to buy their stuff, so they are probably the lesser of two evils -- one of them just happens to be normalized.
J'trouve ça quand même drôle des taggeurs qui aiment pas ça que les murales prennent l'espace de leurs tags, alors que leurs tags à la base étaient pas plus désirés par les propriétaires.
J'comprends aimer le rush d'adrénaline pis tout le côté anti-establishment et tout et tout, mais bon, à chacun sa manière d'être anarchiste I guess. Si au moins ils tagguaient juste des édifices de grosses entreprises ou whatever, mais en "s'attaquant" à absolument tout, c'est là que ça devient juste une nuisance, et non pas une prise de position.
https://youtu.be/mfn-0O4v6fg?t=492
Des criminels dont le but avoué c'est juste de faire des truc illégaux pour faire chier les gens de manière visible. Il est grand temps que le SPVM fasse des opération ciblées pour les attraper.
Parce qu'ils sont caves. 
J'ai connu plein de monde au secondaire qui faisaient ça, ils étaient tous de vrais imbéciles qui voulaient se penser badass et trouvaient des excuses pour justifier que c'était pas juste du vandalisme. Sans exceptions ils sortaient des trucs vraiment cons pour expliquer que ça fait partie de l'art de le faire sans permission, ou que c'était pas juste que certaines personnes puissent décider quoi faire avec un mur (genre... C'est pas juste qu'un mur qu'on doit tous voir appartienne à quelqu'un en particulier?), etc.
Ma femme et moi sommes allés à Lisbonne il y a plusieurs années. Cette ville est, de loin, une des plus belles et historiques au monde mais elle, comme Montréal, est complètement gâchée par la présence de graffitis. Il y en a à tous les deux pieds sur quelque chose qui, autrement, aurait pu être apprécié pour sa beauté. Pour moi, ces « tagueurs » doivent être attrapés et les conséquences de leurs actions devraient être très sévères pour les décourager. S'ils ont un talent, qu'ils le démontrent en créant un chef d'oeuvre dans un coin démuni de la ville mais signer et re-signer leur surnom n'embellit rien.
y a pas assez de tags cochons
Comme des chiens qui urinent pour démarquer son territoire
Moi je trouve que ça manque de tags ACAB à Montréal. Je pense que les problèmes de brutalité policière seraient mieux réglés s’il y avait 3-4 tags ACAB de plus
Great video. I'm always so disappointed in the lack of nuance or understanding whenever this conversation comes up, so it's nice to see the reporting go into a bit. 
I get not liking tagging (especially in this context) but just burying your head in the sand and refusing to understand why it happens is dumb and childish.
Les deux c'est de la marde, c'est mieux de juste casser des affaires.
Si on résume ça, les graffiteurs veulent foutre la merde. Ils ont un côté anarchique et revendicateur. Après, ce qu'ils doivent comprendre... c'est qu'ils paient la ville pour les effacer. J'imagine qu'un jour, il y en a un qui va se faire prendre par un autre et se faire péter la gueule...
Monke, un peu dans l’champs! Les murales sont over pas juste à Montréal. Toutes les grandes villes où j’ai voyagé et vécu ont le même problème.
Lets be honest here, there are a lot of really awful murals. Montreal is going overboard with them if you ask me. The motto for most murals in montreal seems to be: colours and shapes, just fill the wall with colours and shapes. There is rarely any connection to the neighbourhood or space that it is taking up, its all just completely random crap. We are forced to look at these massive artworks every day, In my opinion more consideration should be taken with each mural.
Because they are garbage people.
Je partage l'opinion de David Meren. Je pense que de reconnaitre que le territoire de Montréal fut occupée par des nations quelques décénnies avant sa fondation est une bonne chose, ça permet de faire un rappel historique et de favoriser la réconciliation (même si dans le cas du Canadien, c'est purement pour gagner des points politiques), mais si on fait cette reconnaissance, il faut impérativement reconnaitre les deux autres nations qui affirment avoir habité l'ile, soit les Algonquins et les Hurons. Dans le cas des Algonquins en plus, on sait qu'ils connaissaient très bien le territoire montréalais lorsque Champlain est venu.
Symbolic gesture with nothing concrete to help these people.
An empty gesture...very neo-liberal and so freaking shallow.
Brown imperialism good white imperalism bad.
Le problème, c'est que le registre archéologique prouve que personne sauf les Algonquins du Saint-Laurent, une tribu éteinte, n'a habité Montréal. Pire encore, selon le registre historique, ce sont les Mohawks qui les auraient exterminés.
>la réconciliation
J'aime pas l'utilisation récente de ce mot. Une réconciliation, c'est quelque-chose de bilatéral, ca va dans les deux sens. Ce qu'on voit, c'est de l'autoflagellation.
Oui mais tu ne comprends pas l'idée derrière.
C'est qui leurs amis? Les flèches dans le sol, bon, c'est pas assez pour aider la cause. Les faits c'est pas important ici, là. Mais as-tu pensé à l'émotion? 
Et c'est qui leurs amis?
Et c'est comme ça que l'histoire s'écrit.   
Mais cette histoire est très progressiste qu'ils disent. Alors ça l'est. Avec les plumes dans cul et toute l'orchestre.
>Je pense que de reconnaitre que le territoire de Montréal fut occupée par des nations quelques décénnies avant sa fondation est une bonne chose
C'est super contesté et inexact historiquement. Mais bon... les wokes se sacrent du factuel
Je croyais que les Hurons venaient de la région des grand lacs?
Les Hochelagiens se sont fait tués par les maladies et soit par les Hurons soit par les Mohawks, mais ils sont allés se réfugiés chez les trois nations selon les études ethnohistorique. C'est pourquoi les trois nations affirment que leurs ancètres ont habité l'ile.
euh, Viel s'est pas faites tuer par les Hurons a Ahuntsic?
si ma memoire me sert bien, j'ai appris ca l'ecole.
C'est pas contesté du tout que la Vallée du Saint-Laurent était habitée par les Iroquois du Saint-Laurent, de quoi tu parles?
En effet, mais des études archéologiques nous ont permis de savoir qu'ils ont battus les Iroquoiens du Saint-Laurent à l'ouest du lac Saint-François (~60km à l'ouest de Montréal), c'est pourquoi ils ont peut-être battu Hochelaga aussi. 
Le territoire était fréquenté de manière temporaire par plusieurs nations, si je me rappellr bien une étude, on mentionnait des camps de pêche sur la rive-sud.
La plus part des tribus rencontrés par Champlain vont lui dire que les AdSL sont morts dans des batailles avec la ligue haudenosaunee et principalement les Mohawks. Les traces de potteries retrouvées dans des fouilles prouve pas mal conclusivement que rien de la culture AdSL n’est resté chez les Mohawks (ou ailleurs) et la thèse de l’esclavage de guerre est plus probable que le refuge.
Le père Viel est mort noyé! Ils avaient essayé de traverser des rapides trops fortes.
Ce que plusieurs semblent répéter (pour pas se sentir mal) c'est que l'île de Montréal n'était pas habitée lors de la conquête des européens. 
De ce que j'ai pu apprendre dans mes cours d'histoire, c'est que la région était habitée et utilisée par les trois clans amérindiens, et que l'île servait surtout comme lieu de rassemblement et d'échange (troc). De plus, étant donné que les amérindiens étaient surtout des peuples nomades, ça me semble facile de proclamer qu'ils ne résident pas à tel ou tel endroit.
Bref, ces réactions négatives face aux mesures de réconciliations semblent étrangement similaires à celles qui ont fait surface lors de la montée du féminisme, qui s'explique par des individus insécures qui se sentent coupables et/ou attaqués.
>Les traces de potteries retrouvées dans des fouilles prouve pas mal conclusivement que rien de la culture AdSL n’est resté chez les Mohawks (ou ailleurs) et la thèse de l’esclavage de guerre est plus probable que le refuge.
Aurais-tu un lien, je serais intéréssé à en lire plus
jpense ma aller pecher a Paps a soir(on va aller fish quand meme :P)~~et rechecker la plaque.. jsuis sur davoir vu "par les mechants huron" ou qqchose de meme sur la plaque du monument~~
edit: https://proposmontreal.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/04/ahuntsic.jpg
> L’Histoire de la noyade du père Récollet Nicolas Viel et de son apprenti Ahuntsic dans les saults (rapides) de la Rivière-des-Prairies. Dans notre chronique toponymique d’aujourd’hui je vous explique d’où vient le nom de Sault-aux-Récollets et d’Ahuntsic.
excuse mon ignorance, mais je ne comprends pas le sens du mot "precipite" sur la plaque, le seul sens que jy trouve c'est "qu'ils(ahuntsic et viel) furent précipité(rushed, poussé a) dans les rapides et ainsi morts noyés
si qq1 d'autre a des precisions genez vous pas.
>Bref, ces réactions négatives face aux mesures de réconciliations semblent étrangement similaires à celles qui ont fait surface lors de la montée du féminisme, qui s'explique par des individus insécures qui se sentent coupables et/ou attaqués.
Ben oui... faudrait te renseigner comme il faut avant d'assumer des niaiseries style secondaire 3.
Oui je vais te l’envoyer plus tard je doit commencer à travailler, pas le temps de les trouver en ce moment.
Il n'y a pas une légende aussi qui est attachée à cette histoire ? Que si tu te promènes sur le bord de la rivière le soir, tu peux voir quelqu'un complètement trempé assis sur la berge ?
Edit : http://legendes-quebecoises.e-monsite.com/blog/cuisine/le-sauvage-mouille.html
On dirait l'enfant illégitime de Dan Bigras et de Russel Crowe
[deleted]
Je me demande s'il sait lear.
Greasy. So, so greasy.
King LEAR?
Lear? Is he a motard?
MONSIEUR ÉPINE.
Seriously I think it's a requirement to fall into that category.
*The* King Lear
While of course I want a park, I don't think that $700m is going to happen any time soon. 
What I'd like to see as a stop gap is to sell the land to someone with the provision that some percentage of it be used for a park. I have my doubts that we could necessarily recoup the entire investment, but I'd bet people would take condos over an open trench any day.
Being near numerous metro stations and being generally well served by local businesses, it is a good way to use now useless land.
Napkin calculations show that at about $4k per sq m, Jean talon to Sherbrooke could sell for $500m, possibly more as there are few huge empty lots near metros still available. Factor in the increased tax revenue from the useful land, it could very well be feasible. Not to mention of course how awful an open highway is just awful for residents for health and wellbeing.
It would be easier to tarp over the Decarie Expressway than to tarp over Coderre's ego.
I was beyond sick of this asshole the last time around. Having him pop back up and seeing his name back in the news is like some Stephen King jack in the box shit.
I would much rather use those funds to induce demand for public transit and bike travel in areas that have been designed for cars. And by that I mean neighborhoods, not an important structural addon to the highway. You'd probably get a much better pay off than you would with a $700m bandaid.
Why does Coderre love combining highways and parks?  He just comes off as someone who has never set foot in a park...
That travesty on bonaventure is only enjoyable when traffic is closed off...who wants to sit in a narrow park surrounded by 4-6 lanes of car traffic?
Un autre projet pour Coderre? Y est rendu à, quoi, 395 projets??
I just want to say that's this proposal has been out for a week already and Coderre's party still hasn't updated their plan to reflect the image, or the image to reflect their platform
Literally, the part he says he wants to cover is the part left uncovered in the photo.
How is it Cult MTL picks up on this and La Presse and the Gazette don't?
Crazy idea! Why would QC Gov elate the West end ........Open Cavendish build more metro stations to West Island if anything for west end. Fix our roads for fuckes sake! The metropolitan is about to have a disaster coming soon . You ever look at that concrete that so shoddy on the met? Crappy mafia construction. Infrastructure is key .
Even if it doesn't recoup the entire investment it would at least reduce the amount of air pollution coming off the highway and into CDN.
Sorry, am I understanding correctly that you want to sell the space over the expressway and leave covering + building on top to the owners? That's a massive can of worms engineering-wise, and probably a very bad idea. 
It's not impossible to build over a trench/tunnel, but the last thing we want is a grab bag of private developers doing the bare minimum and not being around in 30 years when things are falling apart, or closing the highway on hundreds of separate occasions for all kinds of construction and inspection. 
Just developing the requirements and coordinating things to make sure construction follows those requirements would cost the city a pretty good chunk of the sale price. 
Plus the price of covering being built into the sale price of these homes means nothing would be affordable. A condo that costs $500k normally would probably cost double just from the cost of all the other work going into it.
IMO until the Blue Bonnets project gets completed I don’t see the cost being feasible, after completion though it’s certainly possible!
Someone needs to figure out how much CO2 could be captured and scrubbed clean if the whole trench was covered over.
In fairness, this would be on top of the expressway, and he did say that he wants to reduce traffic lanes on either side of the park. I don't think that's actually feasible, because if I recall correctly, the surface roads are three lanes not including the ramps and the inner lanes have parking. 
I'd take park over exposed highway trenhc any day.
That said, the image Coderre is using shows the Queen Mary to Cote-Ste-Catherine section as open, not covered. He goofed.
Exactly!
One guess would be that The Gazette will endorse Coderre and don't want to throw too much shade on him.
And the noise, and the general ugliness/scar.
Maybe noise pollution but the air will still be transferred through ventilation structures.
How? The covered sections would need to be ventilated and end up right back on top. 
It will help with noise and general Beauty of the area. Although decarie on both sides is pretty shit in terms of 'beauty"
As far as engineering goes, its a matter of getting the plans and ensuring they follow through on it. The engineering work would be at the expense of the developer and the requirement for the government would be for confirming their work both in their calculations and on the job site. You don't just give them carte blanche to do whatever. The government can set the building standards and validate the work before the construction above.
It's also not the first time something like this is done. This is similar to the Hudson Yards project in NYC (similar in size) where they built towers over a passenger rail yard. Being the owner of the land, they have an incentive to build it to last.
Is the financial incentive there now? I don't know, but it will at some point and I don't want to see us try holding out for a $700m park.
They've already built buildings over the Ville Marie - the CDPQ office is over a section that was once exposed and open. Ditto the Palais des Congres. And a park was built over it as well, recently, Place des Montrealaises.
Hopefully they can be done in tandem with a comprehensive transit plan! I vote for electrifying the Lucien l'allier train to at least Montreal west and running frequent Small, fast trains, finishing Cavendish and running a high quality bus service from St-Laurent till that train.
Drink driving maybe. Then just leave the car and when cops knock on your door: "wait what?!? My Lambo should be in the garage!!".
Ferris Bueller's night off
Lol quelqu’un s’est payé un petit joy ride
j'ai hâte que ça arrive chez kenny you poule
ça va être dur de retrouver le propriétaire. /s
He didn’t kill anyone.. could be drunk driving and leaving b4 police arrive or actually stolen car, could also be insurance fraud
There’s a lambo dealership like 5 minutes from there. It was probably a rental or a company car
I was waiting for someone to post it,
this is what the west island has become bunch of rich spoiled yuppies
"hello ossifer, I sink someone stole my lam... \**hick\** ...  lambogini. I sink it was blue"
Lol now you guys post it ? This happened like 2 days ago
j'étais un peu chaud
Technically not Montreal. ;) The spot where this happened is right at the borders between DDO, Pointe-Claire and Dorval – all three of them being de-merged cities.
J'ai vu pire... gars saoul vire son char a l'envers dans un fosse pas loin de chez lui, marche jusqu'à chez lui, s'assis sur son balcon avant avec une caisse de bière et en cale quelques unes et attend la police.  Il dit qu'il a perdu contrôle de son char a jeun et a bu après.
La police peux rien y faire car en buvant après l'accident il a contamine la preuve.  Il a juste eu un constat pour avoir quitte les lieux de l'accident.
Even if you can't prove the DUI, doing this would still be criminal in many ways
Insurance fraud
Making a false report
Interfering with an investigation
Leaving the scene of an accident
Dangerous driving
Not to mention the DUI itself which is harder to prove
*Do ya think so?* /s
Ou bin prendre un *devious lick* sur le lieu de l'accident
J'ai braillé de rire 😂
J'le connais pis y venait juste d'avoir le char pis le mettre à louer
It was 1-2 in the morning
As if it wasn’t before…? 
Source: 20 something years of living there.
Si tout le monde sort dehors pis met du Breeze en canne en même temps ça devrait être moins pire
Bienvenu dans l'est de Montreal! Il y a un paquet d'usines qui puent, les raffineries et la fameuse station d'épuration, mais on y reste parce que c 'est le dernier endroit où les maisons sont abordables. Je me demande d'ailleurs pourquoi?
Pour avoir été pris dans le traffic en voiture, derrière un de ces camions, c'est effectivement une odeur absolument putride, impossible à décrire. Ça fait peut-être 15 ans de celà, et j'ai rien oublié de ce 5 minutes d'horreur !
so this factory was there almost 100 years ago, and people moved into the area knowing full well the factory is there, and probably paid a cheaper price for the house as a result. If indeed Sanimax isn't respecting whatever standards now, thats on them. But, like the Asphalt factories in Montreal-est, there's nothing to be done, then its on the nearby residents.
These residents stand to profit immensely if they manage to get the factory to close down or move.
Pour avoir visité l’intérieur de cette usine pour le travail, je vous certifie que l’odeur extérieure, c’est de la petite bière comparé à ce qu’on sent là-dedans. Le spectacle est particulier.😂
C'était déjà le cas en 2017... 
https://www.google.com/amp/s/ici.radio-canada.ca/amp/1061285/sanimax-equarissage-riviere-des-prairies-sanctions-ville-montreal
Better yet, une usine de febreeze to cancel it out CHECKMATE
Tu viens d'avoir mon vote pour les élections municipales
Les quartiers a l'est de beaucoup de villes dans le monde sont comme ça, c'est principalement à cause des vents.  La révolution industrielle a fait en sorte que les bourgeois s'installaient a l'ouest, avant les vents des usines pollueurs.  La plèbe vivait dans les quartiers pauvres après les usines (ex: East London pré-olympiques, Paris Seine-St-Denis).  
C'est la même chose a MTL, encore plus fort a cause de la présence du Mont-Royal a l'ouest.
Il me semble qu'il n'y a plus de raffinerie. Il reste juste une usine petro-chimique, mais la grosse raffinerie proche de la carrière Lafarge n'existe plus depuis longtemps.
J'ai conduis ces camions là pendant quelques années. Imagine se faire couler ce liquide là dessus toi pendant que t'es entraîne de faire tes inspections de remorque.
Le pire dans tout ça, c'est que c'est juste de viscères frais que ça fait même pas 2 heures qu'il est sorti de l'animal. J'en ai déjà transporté de viscères que ça fait 4 jours que ça traine dans la soleil en été. J'avais eu de difficulté à manger du porc pendant une semaine.
Quand mes amis se demandent pourquoi j'ai changé de carrière, je leur montre une vidéo où un de mes collègues ouvre une porte de garage, et une rivière de sang est sorti comme dans The Shining.
Ça pue en maudit cette usine là. De temps en temps, ça sent jusqu'à Pointe-Aux-trembles et Laval. Je connais rien à ce qu'ils font exactement, mais ça me semble anormale d'incommoder des gens à 5 ou 10 km de distance.
Actually lots of people moved to that area because it was cheap due to the refineries, quarry and rendering plants. My uncle and his family did because it was half of Laval in the 70s
Si t'aurais lu l'article, tu saurais que
>En juin 2021 et en 2018, la cour municipale de Montréal a reconnu Sanimax coupable  d’avoir pollué l’air et l’eau, en déplorant sa « passivité » et le manque de crédibilité de ses témoins.
et que
>D’après le Registre des lobbyistes, l’entreprise veut « éviter d’avoir à se conformer aux normes actuelles », jugées incompatibles avec ses activités.
Ils veulent éviter de payer de l'argent, point. Comme toute compagnie qui pollue.
Also, it was established 84 years ago. What was good 84 years ago isn't necessarily what is good today. It's for sure the area was a lot less dense. But anyways, it's in the ghetto and people *choose* to live there, right? So let's just forget it because it's not *our* problem!
😂
Je suis la plèbe.....
Edit: la raffinerie de Suncor.
Tu as la video que tu peux nous partager ?
but you all knew that before moving into the area...
Ah en effet j'avais oublié celle-là. C'est la seule raffinerie qui reste.
pink camo pants?
Without a leader who's willing to stand up to the police union, we're only ever going to see slow, small progress on this. Which is *really* sad because I think police reform could be a big quality of life improvement for the city, while also saving money. 
Ideally the police themselves would be interested in reform, but I guess if that was the case we probably wouldn't need it in the first place.
Could we start by hiring and training some normal people to operate the traffic lights and direct traffic when needed? The thought of paying douchebags with guns and bad attitudes $75/hr each to stand around and push a button every rush hour turns my stomach. I stopped paying to ride the Tour de l'Isle when I learned the biggest line item in Velo Quebec's expenditures was overtime for the police.
Body cams and fines no longer go in the city coffers would be steps forward.
Don't even need to read it: it will look like it does right now because city hall doesn't want to get into a fight with their tax collectors.
100% this!
The Police Union is the one giving them a poor image. Zero accountability (since they know the commissaire deontologie will never charge them), zero respect for the uniform (remember camo pants?) and zero consequences. There’s nothing for Montreal police to be scared for when they abuse powers and/or break laws themselves. It’s a shame the Police have such a crooked Union. Until they go, there will be no support or improvement for our officers or the Spvm as an organization. 
Hope a future mayor will take action to fix the issues and face the police union
>« Quand on sent que le tapis tire sous les pieds, il y a du salissage. Je trouve qu’ils ont été vites sur le gun », a déclaré Denis Coderre, lors d’un point de presse donné dimanche. Il a souligné que Mme Kostaredes a « **toute sa confiance** ».
Denis a déjà démontré qu'il ne fait pas confiance à personne alors pardonnez-moi de douter de la sincérité de ce commentaire.
&#x200B;
>M. Coderre estime que les procédures de vérifications des antécédents des candidats aspirant à se présenter à son parti sont suffisantes. « **On a fait toutes les vérifications, il n’y en a pas de problème** », a-t-il affirmé.
Pas mal sûr qu'il ne le savait pas, mais s'il le savait c'est peut-être pire.
&#x200B;
>« Il ne faut pas tomber dans des amalgames, des choses qui pourraient presque **ressembler à de la diffamation** », a évoqué le chef d’Ensemble Montréal.
Une belle petite menace à peine voilée pour finir le tout.
&#x200B;
C'est tu juste moi qui pense que quelqu'un accusé de fraude ne devrait pas être candidat?
Ça va pas bien tes affaires Denis !
I'm not voting for Plante necessarily,  but i am voting against Coddere...life long politician who is totally out of touch. Never want to see this guy run anything, especially my city!
One after the other…
😂😂😂 comme on dit qui se ressemble s’assemble… quand tu es plein de marde, c est sure que les dechets humains gravitent autour de toi
A corrupted candidate with a corrupted team. Nothing ever changes!
Fuck away Denis, fuck away.
Same shit different smell
Le gars qui a **COMPÉTENT** avec sa face en extrême gros plan sur ses pancartes... il nous troll c"est certain.
[Même face, nouvelle gang de crosseurs.](https://i.imgur.com/gV5QkdH.jpg)
Compétents dans la corruption!
"Y'a pas de problème, j'aurais fait la même affaire."
C'est comme.un poisson qui ne voit rien de mal a être sous l'eau. Quand c'est tout ce que tu connais, tu ne comprends pas pourquoi les autres s'énervent.
JFC this is why I'm voting for Movement Montreal.
Coudonc... Will Prosper qui a menti pendant des décennies sur son passé douteux, l'autre gars qui flippait des logements ''sans connaitre les règles de l'immobilier'', Codrerre.... qui est Coderre.... pis là c't'histoire-là.... Ciboire, y en as-tu des politiciens qui sont clean au municipal?
J'veut dire... Valerie Plante a dit que c'etait pas grave pour Wil Prosper...
Pas que Coderre est mieux... C'est juste la meme marde de tous les bords...
C'est quoi qui est pas de la diffamation pour Denis ?
Pas mal oui, accusé c'est pas la même chose que condamné.
Sérieux, est-ce qu'il y a quelqu'un qui aime Denis? J'ai peut-être pas suivi les élections municipales autant que j'aurais dû, mais j'ai juste l'impression qu'il va se faire démolir solide.
Je veux dire, même Maxime Bernier et Éric Duhaime ont l'air d'avoir une base électorale vraiment dédiée et vocale, mais Denis Coderre, on dirait qu'absolument personne est assez con pour croire à sa bullshit.
L’art de s’autopeluredebananiser
http://www.tvanouvelles.ca/2021/10/17/rapides-de-lachine-des-personnes-manquent-a-lappel-apres-etre-tombees-dun-bateau
>Selon la conseillère en communication pour la Garde côtière, Guylaine Beaudoin, un pompier manquait à l’appel.Les recherches sont effectuées entre Lachine et le pont-tunnel Louis-Hippolyte-La Fontaine, a précisé Aurélie Côté, responsable du sauvetage maritime pour la région de Québec de la Garde côtière canadienne, en entrevue à TVA Nouvelles.
>Un hélicoptère de la Sûreté du Québec (SQ) a également été demandé sur les lieux, alors qu’un hélicoptère des Forces armées canadiennes devrait rejoindre les recherches plus tard en soirée.
Intervention de l’équipe de sauvetage nautique en cours – 75e Ave et Lasalle
How the fuck did they capsize? Rfibs are supposed to be extremely hard to flip, especially the rescue ones.  I have met people who have claim to have taken them out it 40ft high seas.
Il y aussi ce vidéo qui montre la situation.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W4OmxZ7a37M&ab\_channel=SkyOfTheUniverse
Il a été retrouvé ce martin.  Il était prisonnier de son bateau qui a coulé au debut des rapides.
https://globalnews.ca/news/8273338/montreal-firefighter-lachine-rapids-missing/amp/
The firefighter has been found under the boat... No word on their condition but doesn't seem good...
What kind of boat do they use?
Les plongeurs de la police ainsi qu'un bateau remorqueur ont retirés des eaux le pompier noyé ainsi que le bateau du service dans lequel il était prisonnier. 
[https://ici.radio-canada.ca/nouvelle/1832384/sim-pompiers-montreal-chavirent-saint-laurent](https://ici.radio-canada.ca/nouvelle/1832384/sim-pompiers-montreal-chavirent-saint-laurent)
Later tonight? That might be too late.
They should seriously make a public announcement and ask drone owners to land a hand with the rescue.
They'll have a blast and if they can save a life, that'd be a win-win situation
[deleted]
Hi there! Saw the boats from up close and met the great people manning these vessels. Selfless people with great intentions. Unfortunatly, very little training is given for the white water rescue part of their contract. Next to little knowledge is given to these people about the Lachine and Sainte-Catherine rapids and the surrounding currents
Hammerhead rescue boats.  They are specially made for rescue operations in rough waters and are used by fire and police all over.
Of course the Lachine rapids are \*extremely\* dangerous and rescuing people there is a very high risk operation, specially after sunset when you have no visibility.  We lost one boat there during training a few years ago (nobody was hurt).
It was a no drone zone they had 2 helicopters above the scene (SQ and Armed Force).
That really pisses me off honestly. It seems to be a common theme here. Save people lives? Great, we will pay you less then a cashier at the saq and give you shit working conditions/equipment.
Somehow i am shocked but not at all surprised.
I would really, really hope that their life-vests are equipped with a knife -- these should be standard issue for anyone going into rapids, they certainly are for recreational white-water paddlers.  Getting trapped under a boat (presumably in the rigging) sounds like a terrible way to go, I feel bad for this firefighter.
>Next to little knowledge is given to these people about the Lachine and Sainte-Catherine rapids and the surrounding currents
Avec la construction de la Voie Maritime, on a perdu le savoir-faire des habitants de Sainte-Catherine et des Mohawks de Kahnawake, qui connaissaient très bien les rapides. 
Si tu savais la quantité de personnes sans gilets de sauvetage que je vois qui tentent de les remonter.
I’m surprised they don’t use rib bots like military and coast guard operations.  Some of those zodiacs are even self-righting
It also looks like Rosborough boats that make that boat have military grade rib models.  The Hammerhead is probably a decent boat but Montreal’s needs are pretty extreme.  It’s very big water that the average Canadian wouldn’t appreciate until seeing it.
Ceux qui connaissent les rapides savent à quel point ils sont dangereux. Parfois, je vois du monde dans des embarcations pas du tout adaptées, sans gilet de sauvetage pis ils suffit juste d'une seconde pour chavirer pis se noyer. 
Si je me trompe pas, la vitesse est d'environ 2m/s dans les rapides.
Il va s'en venter, mais pour moi c'est au contraire un gros "red flag"
Dans les autres nouvelles suprenantes:
* L'eau est mouillée
* Le Canadiens est plus populaire que le CF Montréal
* Les gens jouent au spikeball dans les parcs l'été
* Plus qu'il neige plus qu'il y a de la neige
Hey ça c't'une cr\*sse de bonne nouvelle...... surtout pour les logements.... 🙄
un chum ct'un chum
Une des raisons pourquoi je ne vote pas pour lui...
“Pas de problème” le bon denis
Ils savent qu'ils peuvent facilement "négocier" avec lui. 
Une petite enveloppe pendant une rencontre en privé hors des registres (parce qu'il avait arrêté de tenir le registre) et voilà, tout est approuvé.
I had no idea spikeball was a thing until today.
Je me demande ça coûte combien pour "négocier" avec le bon Coderre. Si c'est pas trop chère, j'aimerais ça, moi aussi, de lui glisser un petit vingt piass pour qu'il approuve des petits projets.
Tu ne vas pas trop dans les parcs je suppose?
Je suis étonné, considérant que plusieurs vols depuis Montréal sont présentement sur la glace, incluant de YUL-Shanghai
[removed]
j'pas contre.  
Ça l'air que c'Est juste le retour à la normale et que les vols existaient avant la covid ?  
"We announced today **the resumption of non-stop flights to Delhi**, India, following the lifting of the Government of Canada restrictions"
Lame, id prefer Montreal to Bombay :/
c'est quand même 16h de vols!!   
À y aller, je me prendrais un siège affaire minimum.
L'Inde a un taux de vaccination de 20%(je sais que ça monte très vite) et une population qui attein prèsque 1,4 milliards avec des villes extrêmement densément peuplées peu sanitaire (même si ça s'améliore rapidement) si on les compare aux villes des pays développés et même celles de beaucoup de pays en voie de développement. J'espère que le vaccin est assez efficace pour prévenir l'importation directe des variants.
Lmao
[deleted]
>j'pas contre.  
>  
>Ça l'air que c'Est juste le retour à la normale et que les vols existaient avant la covid ?
They were banned until very recently...
Il y avait des vols direct entre Delhi et Toronto/Vancouver avant la suspension le printemps dernier, mais c'est la première fois qu'il y a des vols directs entre Montréal et Delhi.
Great. Maybe you won't benefit much from this flight then?
Yes I think biz or 1st class is worth it for flights this damned long...
C’est le même temps que ça prend Mtl-Gaspé en autobus dans un inconfort total, et il n’y a pas d’autres alternatives que l’avion qui coûte le même prix que Mtl-Paris. Et encore chanceux que PAL Airlines a pris la relève, car Air Canada a flushé la Gaspésie. À quand la remise en service du train?
as-tu une idée du prix...
[removed]
You’re very sensitive
I will, one stop in Delhi, hopefully the domestic terminal are in the same buildings and off to BOM
1st class is like 8k + to india ....still worth it?
Selon kayak, départ le 5 décembre pour 2 semaines en business : $4,423 (13h de vol) :   
[https://imgur.com/a/inqS84w](https://imgur.com/a/inqS84w)  
Sinon, $1,000 avec 2 correspondances et 50h de voyagement :   
[https://imgur.com/a/EAUbtf2](https://imgur.com/a/EAUbtf2)
Chaipo toi mais la Covid c'est un peu important c'est tu vraiment le moment d'augmenter les vols internationaux? Surtout vers les pays avec un taux de vaccination inadéquat? Dis moi quelle partie de mon commentaire est ill informed and half baked ça me ferait plaisir de me coucher moins niaiseux à soir.
Corporate Virtue signalling at its finest
Est-ce qu'ils vont quand même faire jouer l'hymne national qui dit que le Canada est la terre de nos aïeux ?
Faut souligner que leur communiqué a tout faux... les Mohawks sont arrivés dans la région après les colons Francais. Ce ne sont pas les Montréalais qui vivent sur des terres Mohawks non-cédés, ce sont les réserves Mohawks qui sont sur des terres qui leur ont été cédés a eux.
Bien entendu, la culture PC n'a jamais rien eu a voir avec les faits ou la vérité.
L'organisation du Canadien de Montréal insulte Montréal et le Québec au complet avec ces mensonges.
finally more politics in hockey
"So... should we go?"
"Oh, no, no."
"So some of the money from the ticket sales is going to Indigenous communities?"
"Well, no."
“So is the money from the bottled water sold here going to First Nations for clean drinking water?”
“No, that money goes to Nestlé”
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xlG17C19nYo
Quelle aberration
The CBC got this one right lmao
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xlG17C19nYo
I see plenty of people losing their minds over the most minor of gestures once again. “OMG THIS DISTURBS MY HOCKEY VIEWING SO MUCH”  🙄
I remember when people complaining incessantly about everything they didn’t like were considered ginormous babies.
I'm not invested in this at all either way - I'd much rather see concrete policies to help First Nation communities than this type of symbolic gesture but I'm also totally fine with it - but what happens if the acknowledgments start to get booed by rowdy fans? I don't think they thought this through.
Et qu’est-ce qu’ils font pour rendre les terres au juste?
Who cares? It is all part of damage control by the Canadiens to make people think the team has honor. How can this team be respected in any way after they drafted a player that shared child porn with his teammates?
Drop Logan Mailloux and I will begin to respect this team.
Land claims of the Mohawks are extremely weak from a historical perspective but , if this is to happen can it replace national anthems? 
Its just horrible to watch people go through 2 performative pieces before I can watch hockey.
C’est un geste vide et égoïste, mais ca se fait partout ailleurs. 
Si ça peut seulement nous épargner un “AH HA!!! Tout le monde le fait sauf à Montréal!!! Québécois racistes!!!” Alors je suis pour.
It looks like I made the right decision in cancelling cable and not bothering with a subscription to the NHL. Goodbye Canadiens, good luck.
The video game company Blizzard turned me against them years ago for that same reason. Pro BLM and Pride all over the place, but oh the Chinese CCP is making us big money. Gotta protect our audience against hearing about the Hong Kong protest.
I give the habs no brownie points for this.
> Corporate Virtue signalling at its finest
"The land acknowledgment marks the first of several initiatives the Canadiens will be unveiling throughout the year to support Indigenous communities."
> Corporate Virtue signalling at its finest
It's definitely virtue signaling, but it will also serve as a means to raise awareness. I was at the game on Saturday and felt the same way you did until the boy sitting next to me asked his grandfather what this was about since he recognized the word "Mohawk" but didn't understand the rest. Baby steps, I suppose.
ils vont changer "aieux" pour "vieux chums"
Je suppose que c'est le temps de faire jouer Gens du pays comme lors de la victoire de la Saint-Jean
Ils vont le remplacer par les boys d’Éric Lapointe
There's a bit of an induced demand "if-you-build-it" situation. If you did run a frequent bus service shadowing the Metro overnight, there would probably be a lot of people that could find it useful. With a reliable transit alternative, you could probably convince a fair number of shift workers to give up cars they currently consider an absolute necessity.
But it would take a long time for people to make that switch, and initially you would probably see pretty low ridership. And at a time of huge budget shortfalls for the STM, with service reductions likeliest in the short term, it's incredibly difficult to justify speculative routing in the hopes that ridership will eventually justify that capacity.
Ça fait un bout que j'ai pas pris les lignes de nuits (chuis rendu vieux et plate), mais de mémoire, ils fonctionnent avec des arrêts limités...
La fréquence est vraiment pas là par exemple... C'est dommage que les limitations techniques autour de l'entretient du métro me permettent pas du 24h
J’ai commencer à prendre les autobus de nuit, et franchement pour certains trajet c’est vraiment efficace. Comme ils sont souvent pas très pleins et avec peu de traffic, j’ai maintenant certains trajet où je préfère prendre le bus que le dernier métro. L’application transit aide aussi grandement à améliorer l’expérience.
Mais c’est pas partout. Quand il faut faire un transfert, ça deviens pas mal plus compliqué.
À ces heures là ya des Communauto Flex disponibles à presque tous les deux coins de rue, c'est parfait (ça dépend jusqu'où tu t'en vas, ou ben si tu sors chaud d'un bar évidemment oublie ça)
Hier j'ai pris un bixi au lieu d'un Uber du Plateau à Hoshlag. Ça fait du bien d'aider la planète 👍
Quand je sortais la nuit avant la pandémie, je faisais de mon mieux pour prendre les autobus de nuit (comme tu as dit, le service n'est pas fréquent). Il m'est arrivé plus d'une fois que l'autobus n'est jamais venu, et après 30 minutes d'attente, j'ai dû prendre un Uber....
Avec la vie nocturne très touchée par la pandémie, je ne sais pas si la demande des employés travaillant la nuit justifierait davantage d'autobus la nuit.
Prend un bixi/communauto
Uber est bien, peu dispendieux et sécuritaire.
Y a maintenant des belles autos 100% électriques sur le marché. Je vois pas de meilleure alternative.
That pretty sums up my thought.
Also I don't understand why we're again threatened to have cuts in our métro and bus services... The STM says it needs a bailout and I can already imagine some people already upset with their request.
But the truth is that the service needs to be improved not downgraded if they want people to quit using their car. It makes no sense to wait over 8 min for the next train or 30 min for a bus...
On va devoir attendre que Communauto offre des autos Flex autonomes pour ce genre de situation 😅
J'adore Bixi mais je ne suis malheureusement pas suffisamment courageux pour l'utiliser quand les températures baissent de beaucoup ou faire du vélo en plein hiver.
>Also I don't understand why we're again threatened to have cuts in our métro and bus services
Look how many people have stopped using public transit over the pandemic. I'm amazed they've lasted this long without having to make cuts, honestly.
People aren't going to need to go to the office 5 days a week anymore. Parking at the Sheraton costs only $13 if you're in by 9am and out by 6pm. Do I want to pay $90.50 per month to ride stinky, poorly-ventilated public transit, or do I want to be comfortable in a car? If I'm going to the office 7 times or fewer a month, there's literally no price difference and I'll get to the office faster in my car.
There seems to be a misunderstanding that PUBLIC transport should be profitable. 
If this were the case, it wouldn't be public. 
Clearly each person who leaves the car at home helps all of us move around easier, so why do we expect to get this for free?
C'est pas nécessairement pour tout le monde, mais perso j'adore pédaler l'hiver. T'as juste à t'habiller convenablement (layers!!), t'équipper convenablement (t'as pas besoin d'un fat bike mais décolle pas en fixie genre) et finalement une petite pointe de "wow fuck j'suis badass à faire du vélo dans la neige" pour te sentir supérieur aux automobilistes (le ego boost sert de motivation pour pédaler plus)
y'en ont pas l'hiver... ça finit au mois de novembre :( ça commence au mois d'avril, par exemple, alors c'est plus que la moité de l'année qu'on peut s'en servir.
2021 c'était la première année où j'ai commencé à en utiliser, et voici mon résumé...
Pour:
- Seulement $90 si on achète la saison complète à l'avance, ça fait comme $12 par mois environ
- Dispo pas mal partout sur l’île, et même un peu en dehors
- Le radius s'agrandit de où tu peux aller vs. pied (évidemment). J'étais étonnée de voir à jusqu'à quel point... on a découvert pleins de nouveaux restos dans d'autres arrondissements cet été!
- L'application Android fonctionne très bien; elle est assez vite/intuitive et ça démontre des statistiques intéressantes (kilométrage, calories brûlées, etc)
- Je n'ai pas à m’inquiéter de la logistique de rangement ni du vol de mon bicycle
- Je suis beaucoup plus en forme
Contre:
- Peu de bicycles chroniquement à certains endroits
- Bicycles vraiment lourds et ayant souvent besoin d'entretien
- Surabondance des bicycles électrique par endroits... et selon ce que je comprends, ça va s'empirer l'année prochaine. C'est $0.10/min de plus pour un Bixi électrique (pour celles et ceux pas forts en maths, ça fait $3 pour 30 min PLUS ton $90)
- La plupart des sièges montent pas assez haut pour que les grandes (je dirais 5'8" ou plus) personnes aient les jambes confortables
- Faut que je traine mon casque partout avec moi
- Je ne peux pas l'amener avec moi en vacances ou aux Sépaq les fins de semaine
Overall, je recommande fortement. À $90 pour la saison, les inconvénients mineurs sont minimes. Mais je vais m'en acheter un l'année prochaine. Sorry Bixi!
Do it
J'ai parfois peur que, facilité l'accès à la propriété, ça soit surtout pour les gens qui sont déjà assez aisé mais qui ne peuvent pas se payer des grosses maisons à Montréal à cause des prix de fous versus permettre à des gens qui ont des revenus moyens de se payer une propriété.
Subventionner la demande fait juste monter les prix. Ils voient bien que non seulement le programme n'a pas fonctionné, mais que les choses ont empiré, pourquoi continuer dans cette voie? C'est désespérant.
A peu près la seule chose que la ville peut faire c'est monter les taxes. Monter les taxes foncières met une pression a la baisse sur les prix. A long terme tu paies la même chose hypothèque+taxes, mais la mise de fond nécéssaire est moins élevée pour acheter, et vaut mieux envoyer l'argent a la ville qu'aux banques. Pas populaire auprès des propriétaires existants bien entendu...
Le reste de la solution (du problème, dirais-je) est au fédéral.
Ils devraient subventionner des nouvelles coop et mettre en place des nouvelles règles tel que le montant du loyer serait calculé selon le revenu du (des) locataires...
Par subvention? How about you freeze property taxes instead? Idk me semble qu’il y a un écart quelque part. Are Household revenues keeping up with housing costs? Like les taxes foncières??
Vote Movement Montreal instead of these clowns
J'ai personnellement bénéficié de ce programme en 2019 pour l'achat d'un plex avec ma conjointe (enceinte à l'époque). Nous sommes définitivement dans la classe moyenne et allons pouvoir rester longtemps à Montréal grâce à cet achat qui a été rendu en partie possible par cette subvention (environ 6500$ de sauvé en taxes de bienvenue). Je suis cependant d'accord que toutes le mesures qui aident les gens à acheter ne règlent pas le problème. La seule façon de rééquilibrer l'offre et la demande du marché actuel est de construire plus et de meilleure qualité.
L'autre chose côté offre, c'est d'augmenter la construction non? C'est très municipal... Relaxer le zonage, la réglementation et simplifier les démarches de permis pour encourager la construction et la densification!
Pourrait pas faire un moratoire pour interdire airbnb, ou du monde d'acheter une 5em propriété ou une entreprise etc? Agir sur la demande pour la réduire.
You are speaking real sense here. Housing is bid for, allowing everyone to have more money will see the price rise and people will get the same house for more money. Therefore only sellers who have more than one property can cash out, at the expense of everyone else.
You are also totally correct to say that raising property taxes will lower prices. The overall price to individuals will be the same, but crucially the increased taxes will be captured by society, rather than privately.
I'm absolutely dismayed Projet Montreal are doing this, Plante is demonstrating zero comprehension of the economic dynamic here.
Montreal looks less attractive by the day.
Après, cette mesure a pour but de subventionner certaines demandes (les familles / premiers acheteurs). Donc oui, ça risque d'augmenter un peu les prix, mais pas non plus tant que ça et ça peut surtout changer un peu la composition du pool d'acheteurs.
&#x200B;
Après, en effet, si y'a pas d'autres mesures, c'est compliqué (mais PM en propose d'autres donc bon).
Il le font déjà avec les logements sociaux. C'est juste long à mettre en place...
Le programme est juste pour permettre aux familles de pouvoir obtenir un prêt plus élevé. Moi je me demande: Si ça fait augmenter la demande sans nécessairement augmenter l'offre, les prix vont monter de toute façon?
Decreasing property taxes will decrease the monthly cost of carry on housing meaning people can borrow even more, raising property prices.
Taxing the unimproved value of land will chase out speculators and make housing cheaper:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD_dZvPwAj0
A big step would be temporary halt on welcome tax.
B I L I N G U A L    M O N T R É/E A L      V I L L E  B I L I N G U E
La construction me semble déja rouler au maximum, autant en terme de main d'oeuvre que de matériaux.
Interdire airbnb serait une bonne chose.. c'est de l'hottelerie déguisé. Je ne sais pas si ca aurait assez d'influence sur les prix. Interdire aux gens d'acheter plusieurs propriétés... je ne suis pas sur que ce soit constitutionel. Une taxe sur les maisons/appartements non occupées serait une bonne chose, ca a aidé a Vancouver (sans rien régler, mais ca a eu un effet mesurable)
Not sure I understand your logic. Raising taxes might slow down the market a bit, but they will not lower the prices (except if the raise is realllyyyy big). And higher taxes will just mean it will continue to be really difficult for new buyers to enter the market.
Also, this scientific paper even suggest that a national property tax cut in Sweden did not impact house prices. ([https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167268117302585#fig0005](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167268117302585#fig0005))
This said, i'm absolutely not an expert in that field, so thats that.
Même pas, parce que le marché (les gens, quoi) réagit a l'annonce de la subvention et les prix montent avant même qu'un premier acheteur puisse bénéficier de la subvention.
En effet.
Demand side measures don't do shit.
Tant qu'il nous fourre pas du rent control dans gorge ça reste pas trop pire
Selling those dodge chargers they got and laying off the useless STM security would probably help with that.
Transit systems all around the world suffered temporary shortfalls during Covid, and governments are helping to plug those gaps, to varying degrees. The province needs to take action to address the gap until revenue returns to normal. That's simply what you do when there's a problem with an essential public service. 
(As for why it needs to be the province and not the city, it's a simple matter of revenue. If the city collected the bulk of income taxes then it would be a different story.)
For this particular issue I'd sure feel better with a PLQ, QS, or PQ government than the one we have. It's been a hard sell in Quebec to support Montreal when almost every MNA from the island is in the opposition. But I'll at least give them a chance to get this right before I judge them too harshly.
Stop paying your executive so much. I’ve always felt the metro service to be inadequate in this city. Buses are always late and the metro always had shutdowns on a weekly basis. Not only that but they spend so much money on STM cops to avoid fare skipping, but I don’t think it compensates for the salary that these guards make.
[deleted]
[deleted]
I have lived all over the world and the STM is by far the worst public transit in a city I have lived in..Seoul and Vancouver had the best. The buses here show up when they feel like it and the metro stops working in peak rush hour regularly. It’s so bad that at age 32 I signed up for driving school, did that whole process and now drive everywhere even though I live the Plateau. Also, there was an incident with a drunk homeless man yelling on the metro and that was the last straw for me….the STM sucks at their job. Took public transit my whole life but never again (in Montreal anyway).
FML. Il est temps que nos gouvernements réalisent l'importance des transports en commun pour le bien être des gens ET de l'économie.
Chaque dollar investi dans les transports en commun rapportent des meilleures retombées économiques (ROI) qu'un dollar investi dans l'infrastructure automobile, à long terme.
Les conducteurs chialent sur la STM sans réaliser les MILLIARDS dépensés pour l'infrastructure automobile et toutes les subventions pour le stationnement (sans compter que chaque utilisateur doit acheter et maintenir son propre véhicule!) L'automobile comme moyen de transport par défaut n'est pas soutenable, c'est une question d'espace!
Avec des meilleurs transports en commun, on peut garder à peu près le même taux d'imposition ET tous ceux qui n'ont pas de voiture sauvent des milliers de $ par année en coûts et assurances. Ça revient carrément moins cher! Économie 101.
Cut your costs on "security": No wannabe cop cars, rent-a-cops, plus the recent development of wanting to ARM these clowns
Allez voir a la source. Ne vous fiez pas aux journalistes.
https://www.stm.info/fr/a-propos/informations-entreprise-et-financieres/rapport-annuel-2020
Good, stop charging people 250$ if they forget to renew their opus card.
Et l'ARTM, ou une autre façon de noyer le poisson. Sautez à  la page 94 du pdf.
https://www.artm.quebec/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/RP_Rapport-annuel-2019_ARTM_2020-06-01-2.pdf
Can they move to a more on-demand model for lesser-used routes and off-peak hours?
Perhaps they should have done cuts when they were locking the province trying to get us to social distance and closing down every other business.  I mean public transportation is a lot more concerning in terms of social distancing than say a book store.  Instead they kept the system running at full scale at near empty capacity for months on end.
Hell they probably could have used the buses as Ubers and saved money during those months the system was so empty.
Mouhahah!!! Cr\*sse, y peuvent pas couper *plus*!......... Y va rester 2 métro pis 3 autobus pour toute le réseau!!!!! 😂😂😂
How real is the problem and how much of it is corporate accounting?
90 bucks for buses to be 10 minutes late and the orange line to fully stop afterwards. Throw the whole thing out and redo your service, STM
Maybe it's time to CUT the STM useless Cops/Security already?
Keep your car gassed up.
I'm not saying it's an easy job ... But drivers get paid crazy amounts for what they do. The dude's in the booth doing nothing also get paid way too much...
Most drivers with a few years under their belt can pull off $100k annually with some OT.
Bah theyll get it and they know it. The union just wants to stir the pot
Zelda se présente à la mairie
Savepoint pour sauvegarder le progrès fait par Montréal. On est peut-être dû pour un reload…
En vrai c’est un projet pour le 375e, livré en retard. Article de la Gazette:
https://montrealgazette.com/news/local-news/two-other-375th-projects-delivered-late-and-provoking-questions
Je cherche un article en français
EDIT: PDF de la ville de Montréal en français qui décrit le projet: 
http://www1.ville.montreal.qc.ca/banque311/webfm_send/2728
C'est de la propagande Hylienne
A chaque fois je pense que c'est des commandites de Microsoft, Target et Mitsubishi.
La Triforce... Wow!
À soir je joue à Zelda a Link to the past ;))
Pour paver le chemin vers une vente de skis Fischer? Ça fait déjà un bout que c'est là, j'y porte même pu attention.
Nouvelle saison de squid games
*Desperately search's for ocarina*
Votez Link et Zelda pour un retour à la monarchie!
Si tu joues la berceuse de Zelda devant un de ces panneaux, tu fais apparaître des fées pour te soigner
No clue... but just so everyone knows the pho restaurant in this picture is one of the best I've tried in MTL. Mr puffs after your bowl of pho also if you're into that kind of thing.
FYI this has been there for about 4 years now, been wondering the answer myself.
Les complotiss vont finir par nous le dire ce que ça veut dire *pour vrai*.....
what did zelda say to link when he had trouble pooping?
..
..
tri force
C'est un Predator qui flash une pancarte avec le pointeur de son cannon?
Ç'est un savepoint.
Maybe for the 400th
logo de la compagnie de skis ficher ! peut être une boutique proche ?
Fischer logo https://www.fischersports.com/ca_en/
Honnêtement je voterai pour Dampé
*No non on a pas de problèmes de logement au Québec* 🤦
C'est de plus en plus visible en centre-ville aussi... 😒
C'est bon pour une raison.  Si ça devient plus visible comme problème, peut-être il va avoir plus de pression à avoir une solution.  Pour les banlieusards, comme moi, c'est facile à dire que les itinérants et sans abris sont un problème du centre ville...mais quand ça se trouve au Dix-30, our complexe fairview, peut-être nous seronts plus motivé à assister.
Pre-pandemic, when downtown was full of office workers, restaurant and bar clients, theatre-goers, hockey fans, etc., a pan-handler could get a decent take each day. When downtown emptied their source of alms disappeared. Then merchants went almost exclusively to no-contact "tap and pay", and people stopped carrying cash. So even if I wanted to throw an itinerant a $2 coin, I don't have one in my pocket. I used to walk around with a small stack of cash and a handful of coin, now I just have my cards.
yah guess what no one is denying there is a problem, its just that no one is talking about why there is the problem. And its a ll about population increase.
You cant ~~double~~ have a 50% increase in the population of a city every 10 years and expect something different. There is no physical or material way any city can keep up with a population explosion like we are experiencing in the North america. We are actually just mimicking the trajectory of latin america in the middle of last century. in 50 years if population increases in the same way (immigration and rural to urban centers) we will have shantytowns.
On s'en calisse des paysans du centre-ville /s
Nah. Ils vont faire comme avant et juste les déplacer ailleurs.
C'est quand même triste comme constat... On vit tellement dans un monde NIMBY
Montreal growth rate is less than 1% yearly for the last decade.  It isn't and hasn't been a boom town for decades.
2011 population: 3.94 M.  2021 population 4.24.
So, we aren't doubling in population, but did grow by 300,000 which would constitute a major city itself.
So growth has thankfully been slow, because that number alone represents a lot of housing to develop.
Yeah. No. Not even close to double. Try again.
I totally agree. Funny thing is that people see this point of view as “racist” . There is simply a huge mismatch between the capacity our construction industry has for building , and the population growth we are having.
At +70k per year for the metro area, we're the 6th fastest growing metropolitan area in North America, Toronto is #1 at +130k.
that is the metropolitan area, not the city itself
2001	   1,039,534
2011	   1,649,519
2021    ?  waiting for census numbers, but its going track. maybe an increase in metro vs urban because of covid flight.
that is not a 1% growth rate.  Between the 2011 and 2016 censuses, Montreal’s population grew by 3.34% and that is for the metro area not the city proper. Density wise we are @ the same # as toronto.
https://canadapopulation.org/montreal-population/
my bad increase by 50%, double in 20 years. point still stands. population explosions is the the cause of the housing crisis
yah the neolib establishment/ corporate hegemony/ Crony capitalist/ Gloabalists whatever flavour of ideology you care to call it,  really has convinced people its racist/backwards to have a normal or negative population growth rate. 
The most laughable is the "socialist" calling for open borders, its like dont you know that it is a way to destroy labour's bargaining power?
Can you find that source?  I'd be curious how long that has been going on for
The population of the city increased from 1 to 1.6 million from 2001 to 2006 because of the municipal mergers, not because of population growth. The size of the city basically doubled.
Even your source says that jump was because of the urban merger, lmao
Very bad and deceptive data there.  The forced mergers took place and some of those municipalities stayed with the city.  This was not a population boom but just some politicans redrawing taxation maps.
https://dailyhive.com/toronto/toronto-fastest-growing-city-north-america
That's a reason why I think real estate will keep going up in Montreal. Also it's the second fastest growing city.
That area is a dumpster fire.
stop stabbing people
What the fuck?
>et on ne craint pas pour sa vie.
Par chance mais le crisse d'osti crottez qu'a fait ca n'a toujours pas encore été appréhendé.
Euh... allo?!? On peux tu avoir une description du fucking madman stabber qui est en liberté dans nos rues en ce moment? 
Jpeux pas croire qu'il y a zéro image vidéo...
Wtf? en plein jour?
"what are you gonna do? Stab me?"
Defund the police... Lol
Stabbing people is bad :/
En effet.
It’s not the same person, and one was arrested.
Tu sais très bien pkoi il n'y a jamais de description des suspects.
N'écoutes tu pas les nouvelles?
i'd laugh but ....
Oh je sais, mais je parle du 2e. Viens pas me dire que depuis ce matin, plus de 12 heures, ils ont pas mis la main sur des évidences vidéos de l'attaque qui s'est déroulé dans un building, dans Ville Marie, près de Berri. Ya des caméras partout...
This is the spvm youre talking about, not exactly known to be a top notch professional police department lol
True 😂
Nothing new
Ils ne recruteront pas dans les CHSLD
Do they give out flyers and cookies? Or even better fortnite cash?
2001-2010 vibes.
Faut-tu être vacciné pour faire partie de la gang?
[deleted]
yeah that's always been the case.
They should if they want to contraband Granny's' recipes
Unfortunately it's an even lower investment than that, they just have to give out self-esteem and a sense of belonging.
? La race n'a pas été mentionnée une fois ni dans l'article ni dans le clip.
Je comprends pas trop ton commentaire. Copaganda? J'veux dire, tu peux être en désaccord avec les méthodes policières I guess, mais c'est pas des intervenants avec des signes peace and love qui interviennent quand ya literallement des fusillades...
Il faut définitivement plus d'intervenants en milieu scolaire tho
Touché XD
Depending on which area of the city and the timing I'm interested. I'm English, chatty, and a really great cook/Baker/cleaner. Message me privately for contact info.
Go on the FB page called “Montreal Cleaning Collective”. ([Link](https://www.facebook.com/groups/3098333420436123/?ref=share))
There’s tons of English speaking cleaning ladies!!! Like tons!!! Check out market place on Facebook.
Props for taking care of your mom, not everyone does.
Which part of town
cleaning services are deemed "essential" and should never have stopped. ours is a crew of 3 (husband,wife and sister) and they are in and out in 1 hour. alas, they are fully booked. we found them facebook
I’m looking for one as well. Have a dog, and need a clean freak .
First, I'm sure there's plenty of Francophones that are perfectly able to clean a home.  Just prepare written instructions in French and let the person work.  My cleaning lady can't stand clients that follow them around the house telling them how to do something.
Otherwise, there's a massive amount of people willing to do this work that happen to be English speaking.
House cleaning is difficult to find and keep. So adding language requirement is just making it more difficult ...
Edit: looks like many don't like my comment but seriously, I lost one cleaning lady during Covid, another found a better job. The one I currently have isn't great but I can't complain, there is no one to replace her. Facebook is full of people asking for help.
Even hotels are having a hard time finding staff.
Ouf, tough one, but if you have the luxury of choice, go with a Portuguese or Philipino
On it.  She's not super internet savvy (obviously) so she's only called a few places.  I'm sure i'll find something that works.
Top part of Lachine, basically Montreal West.
Oh i agree, but my mother is the chatty type, so i'm sure she'd want to be able to speak with the person, that's the only reason i'm looking some something language specific.
Ya, she isn't having much luck so i'm asking around.  Only know a few people that have it, and most of them lost it during covid.
what the fuck
They make the best chicken
Yes I get it. Do the internet sleuthing and hook her up :) hopefully she’ll get a mutually chatty person!
Ill save this thread. I'll see if my cleaning lady would be "interested" she already grumbles coming here (I'm not far away from your mum)
I know a lot of recently arrived women that live around there, some are doing housekeeping. Shouldn't be too hard to find in that area.
C'est clair que ça limite le choix... Mes parents ont eu des femmes de ménage mais très peu parlaient anglais.
Je paris que c'est un prochain candidat d'ensemble montréal. Il a le background
Chest-Bras-Chest-Barreaux
Tabarnak... il a 49 ans? Les stéroïdes ça en met du stress sur le corps lol
South shore cops are extremely shady. Weren’t they recently got caught for being in relation with catalytic converter thieves
on devrait tester les policiers pour les stéroïdes comme on teste les sportifs. des fois on en voit que c'est évident qu'ils ne sont pas naturels. on pourrait argumenter que ce soit légal pour tout le monde, mais tant que ce ne l'est pas, les policiers devraient mener par l'exemple. il y a aussi les effets secondaires à considérer comme l’agressivité, et le fait que comme ce n'est pas légal la posologie n'est pas supervisée par un médecin.
Ce qui me choque, c’est qu'il fait son propre stock. J'ai toujours crue qu'il fallait des connaissances poussées pour faire ça. Ce n’est pas simple comme faire pousser du pot.
Ce que je comprend pas c'est que tout ça peut se faire dans la ''semi légalité''. Trouve un docteur, sdit lui que t'as des problèmes de testostérone. Un peu d'argent en dessous de la table et pif paf pouf tu te fait prescrire un Testosterone replacement therapy ben légal.
Mais personellement, j'acheterais pas du stock qu'un dude fait dans son garage.
C'est quoi son numéro téléphone?
c'est stupéfiant.
Un prochain Policier du peuple?
C'est ce que je me disais aussi. On dirait qu'il a la soixantaine...
Tu as raison, mais la plupart des jeunes au gym n'ont pas d'éducation sur l'usage intelligent de stéroïdes (oui oui, ça se peut!), Alors ils vont se fier sur le plus gros dude de la place en pensant que prendre du Dianabol va automatiquement te donner une shape de rêve en toute sécurité. Le Dianabol est un stéroïde qui gonfle rapidement et qui est simple a produire, également il est pris sous forme de pullule et non a l'aide d'une injection. Sachant tout cela, il est facile de comprendre pourquoi il y a un marché pour des stéroïdes mal fabriqués: le manque d'éducation. Personnellement je crois que cela devrait faire partie des notions de base (comme la finance personnelle et la fiscalité de base) mais apparemment le ministre de l'éducation n'est pas d'accord 😅).
911
Vraiment intéressant, merci!
J'adore cette série sur Montréal, merci.
I actually own a business that's across that specific Tim Hortons. It's insane how many cars (mostly customers) get towed everyday by that tow company .
Example: One of my employees last year, when to Tim Hortons by car to pick up 2 boxes of donuts for our office as we usually do every week (because my employees ask and enjoy that treat) and she walked across to drop them off at our office before she drives off to one of customers. In 6 mins (walk to the office, drop and go back to the car at Tim's), her car was gone. I paid her ticket but told all my employees to NEVER go back to that Tim Hortons.
I understand sometimes you have non-customers who park their vehicule and leave for couple of hours (those should get towed).
This is so horrible what they do to actual customers  (most of these people are poor- I can see their faces when their car get towed) -- I paid for twp customers tickets. It's morally wrong and fraud "not sure i'm using the right word" .
To avoid all of this mess.
They should put a big  warning sign that says something like: CUSTOMERS or NON-CUSTOMERS are not allowed to leave their vehicles in the parking lot if they leave the Tim Hortons premises or they will get towed.
Ce Tim Hortons la ... Et le mc Do en avant, ils sont tous les deux surveiller par un garde de sécurité. C'est un des pires coins pour le stationnement aussi. 
Quand tu sors de ton char, il te watch. Si tu n'entre pas dans le resto, immédiatement il appel le towing. Et je suis certaine que ce n'est pas les seul à Montréal. Le cash doit couler dans ce genre de situation
Man, people love to victim blame for a quick righteous fix. This is such, SUCH a slippery slope...The problem is not that people are getting towed for using the Tim's parking lot without actually going into said Tim, that's not the point. It's that there's a towing company illegally holding your car against a 117$ ransom. Justifying this type of practice will simply open the door to more businesses having a towing company parked 24/7 in front of their store and immediately tow everyone that's not instantly running inside the store and instantly driving off, milliseconds after exiting their shop. The next step is that they'll start charging more than 117$, and eventually they'll start towing actual customers. Ex: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LJ8bwhuzuhQ
"Lucky Luke du remorquage"
En plus, s’il remorque ta voiture à leur business, tu n’a pas besoin de payé. Tu demande ta voiture immédiatement et tu leurs dit de t’envoyer la facture à la maison, et tu n’a aucune obligation l’égal de payé.
C'était le même problème avant au Tim Hortons à Verdun. Du moment que tu stationnais ton char et tu mettais un pied sur le trottoir, y'avais une charrue sur une chaise de soleil avec un cibi qui callait un vieux tabarnak avec son towing. Il bloquait tout le temps le stationnement comme un épais. Je me suis plaint au siège social de tim hortons en leur disant que c'était extrêmement abusif de faire ca. Depuis ce temps-là, la charrue à disparue.
The Tim Hortons owner isn't to blame neither is the tow truck company. However the article is correct they cannot "hold" your car and they can't tow your car if someone is in it. So I'm a bit confused at what sensationalism JdM is trying to get across
theres a guy with a cellphone that stands there all day watching where the parked customers go. hes already talking with the truck driver.
Depuis quand CDN est considéré comme "l'ouest de l'île de Montréal" ?
la question que je me pose est plutôt pourquoi sont ils si sauvage dans ce coin avec le remorquage et la seul réponse legit que je voit c'est qu'il y a une station de train a proximité et c'est surement dû au manque de stationnement incitatif pour le monde St Leonard et RDP qui vont prendre le train pour aller au Centreville et comme il ont plus de place dans le stationnement offert ,ils vont se stationner toute la journée dans les espaces a client des mini mall aux allentours.
Ah, towing. One of the few industries that actually *prefers* to hire convicted criminals.
Laissé vous pas faire, défendez vous viarge.
Quand ils disent d'appeller la police, ça veut dire appeller le 911(normalement réservé au urgence) ou un numéro de commisariat?
C'est préoccupant si chaque personne appelle le 911, ce qui congestionne la ligne pour des gens qui en ont vraiment de besoin
I mean isnt that rule kind of a given?? 
While i don’t agree with the shady towing tactics here, If I park at a grocery store’s free parking lot and walk to get coffee at a café next door even for a couple minutes, why would that be fair to the business? (Especially those that have busy lots)
Most signs usually say that it’s parking for customers for the duration of their visit (and not for the time to visit adjacent shops/businesses.) Offering parking isn’t free to business owners either.
aka "parking reservé aux clients"
Ça reste un terrain privé… si un *rando* se park dans mon driveway je vais pas attendre longtemps avant de faire venir un towing (true story…).
La mafia du remorquage ne va jamais cracher sur une occasion de faire du cash.
I've had a towing company come and put up signs at work. I tossed all the signs in the trash then called them asking to come get them. The owner was very stereotypical.. covered in gold chains and rings. Tried to strong arm me into using his services then said what I did was illegal by tossing his property out. I told him to call the cops if he had a problem but first he would need to get off my property. He muttered around for a few mins and finally left. 
It's not a bad thing to have if there are people abusing the parking situation in a limited area. They business is likely getting 30-50$ commission off the deal under the table. While it might be easy to jump to victim bashing the signs are clearly visible. Besides the truck isn't driving far with the car if they can come back that quick. There is also a law on how far they can take the car.
On the phone the company will say "we towed it to a secure yard etc" in order to strong arm you into paying when in reality it's a couple blocks away. It's such a grimy industry
The fees are set by the city though and the industry is pretty well regulated here in Montreal. In Ontario it's the wild west and in that video you posted
It's basically carnapping
This is r/Montreal. People see cars and automatically assume bad. It is partisan politics at its fucking stupidest.
Wow, Coderre surrounds himself with candidates of questionable morals... Like he has always done!
" « Respectant les normes éthiques les plus élevées, Dimitra est membre d’un comité disciplinaire d’un ordre professionnel dont l’un des principaux objectifs est la protection et les meilleurs intérêts du public. »
Elle est aussi impliquée dans la communauté grecque. Elle présidait le conseil d’administration d’un foyer communautaire pour personnes âgées."
Si j'ai appris quoi que ce soit des trumps et autres crosseurs de ce monde elle doit fourrer les vieux en plus.
En restera-t-il un.e de moindrement clean d'ici le vote coudonc'.
[Nouvelle face, même gang de crosseurs.](https://i.imgur.com/gV5QkdH.jpg)
No way !! Du monde croche en politique municipale?!? À Montréal?!? Dans l'équipe de Coderre?!? IMPOSSIBLE! 🤣
Le prochain à recruter c’est Vincent Lacroix.
"Mais que fait-elle dans l'équipe d'un "ancien" libéral?" Est une question que personne ne se pose.
So CDN has the choice between an antivaxxer, a old persons scammer and a woman that has been city councillor of CDN for 8 years. Jeez such a tough choice
Tabarnak il y a juste des maudits arnaqueurs dans l'équipe de Coderre.
Fuck away Denis, fuck away.
Why am I not surprised?
SHOCKING
[deleted]
Et Coderre n'y voit pas de problème. Pas surprenant, il a lui même l'éthique élastique.
Team culture is self selecting.
This is clearly the result of negligence in vetting, the candidate being deceptive, or, most likely, both.
Suggesting Coderre deliberately picks crooks over honest folks is idiotic.
Et pourtant, un méchant paquet d'idiots vont voter pour eux parce qu'ils "ne peuvent pas sentir Plante".
Ce n'est que le début, restez à l'affût de ce qui va sortir semaine prochaine!!!
Spoiler : Non
Je vous invite à aussi checker la candidate de Coderre dans Ahuntsic, je sais pas si elle est croche mais son incompétence est légendaire.
Vicente LaCrosse pas pentoute le même gars!
Australian/Canadian here, I've been living in Montreal for 14 years. I've been to Ta pies many times. I think they're pretty good, but they're not the best Australian pies in the world.
I find their pastry to filling ratio to be too heavy on the pastry. I also find their meat (beef) pies have too much tomato flavour. As is customary, I prefer to add ketchup (tomato sauce in Aus) to the top of the pie, I wonder if they bump up the tomato flavour in the pie so you don't need to add ketchup, although they have ketchup available at the restaurant too.
That said, if you went to five different bakeries in Australia and bought a standard meat pie at each one you would get five slightly different pies, and people would probably disagree as to which one was the best.
The sausage rolls and lamingtons at Ta are pretty good, and if you're looking for a bit of Australiana in Montreal it's a bit of fun to drop in. Of interest, the owner/baker is originally from New Zealand.
7.5/10 for the pies, I recommend.
I don't doubt they are very good, but it's not hard to be the best when you are the only one...
Kiwi here, I reckon Hugh Jackman is only rating them so highly because he's comparing them to pies in Australia.
They're kind of the only "Australian pies" in Montreal so it's a bit pointless calling them the best.  What's the competition? They are very tasty but I agree that they are calorie bombs and could use a higher filling to pastry ratio. Had meat pies in Australia many times.
Web review says NZ restaurant, Shop front says NZ restaurant, Owner is kiwi...
How does this count as Australian pies? Weird.
Thanks for putting this place on my culinary radar. I had the classic pie yesterday afternoon and the butter chicken one for breakfast. Both were outstanding.
Je suis peut-etre completement ignorant.... mais c'est quoi ça une Australian Pie?  (oui je peux regarde la vidéo pour le savoir). Mais depuis quand c'est typique et important dans la culture de Montréal? De mon point de vue de francophone... c'est 0.
I agree, it's a good pie but the pastry is too much. It's good but if they gave more filling and less pastry, especially around the edges, the pie would be better
Thanks for the review. Still though 7.5/10 is pretty solid. How are the sausage rolls?
C'est peut-être la meilleure, mais c'est aussi la pire 🤔
Exactly, Australians stealing all the glory again. Genuinely though, NZ does better pies in general
Est-ce que les Kiwis ont des sous-marins nucléaires?
Their signage (at least before the reno) and [web site](https://www.ta-pies.com/about-us) say both. The owners are a husband-and-wife team: he's a New Zealander and she's a Quebec-born Australian citizen. So it sounds like they have all the bases covered.
C'est parce que la culture de Montréal en est une de diversité, non pas d'hégémonie Québécoise.
Une bonne culture de cuisine est une culture exposée à de divers sources, c’est bien que le monde puisse y goûter et essayer. Si tu n’aimes pas les nouvelles choses tu peux toujours rester chez vous et manger de la soupe aux poix Habitants.
The sausage rolls are pretty good. It's been a while since I had one though. I picked up a couple last weekend but I haven't eaten them yet, they're still in the freezer.
A surprising find a while ago was the sausage roll from Cocobun inside the Berri metro, next door to the the pizza place. They call themselves a Hong Kong style bakery, which is a term I'm not familiar with at all, but their sausage roll was very similar to what you would find at bakeries in Australia. Since covid and work from home I'm no longer taking the metro every day, so I haven't been there for a long time. I'm not sure if they still make them, I don't see them on their website, and I don't know if the Berri location is still open, but if you're going by a Cocobun (there are a few of them) I suggest you take a look.
Je ne savais pas que la « bouffe australienne » existait avant de tomber sur ce lien. J’avouerai que ça me donne pas plus envie…
[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oCaAROT-EVg](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oCaAROT-EVg)
Je dis juste que ça n'a rien de montréalais (cette chaine youtube relate habituellement les choses typiques de Montréal).  PS: j'ai visite 26 pays et partout dans le monde et j'ai gout a des centaines de plats exotiques... et toi? https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oCaAROT-EVg
Pourquoi tu poses cette question alors?
> Mais depuis quand c'est typique et important dans la culture de Montréal?
J'ai visité : vous avez autant de temps que vous voulez pour le faire, pas 30 minutes. En proposant des billets à chaque demi-heure, le Jardin botanique veut simplement s'assurer de minimiser les bouchons de foule.
Ma visite a durée environ 90 minutes.
J'y suis allé avec ma femme et mon enfant la semaine dernière, achete ton billet en ligne pour éviter de faire la fille à la billetterie. 
Personne check une fois que tu es en dedans, le tout nous avait pris approx 1 hr à finir.
Merci pour vos réponses, ça répond à mes questions!
Va s'y un peu plus tard le soir. Si tu y va tôt, tu va pas avoir le full experience.
J'adore l'Ile de la Visitation! Un coin de campagne en pleine ville!
Pas trop loin de chez moi! C’est une très belle place! :)
Belle photo!
J'aime qu'ils aient mis plus d'emphase sur le jardin des premières nations cette année. Ça me semble approprié suite aux événements de la dernière année.
J'ai aussi aimé qu'ils n'aient pas surchargé le jardin chinois comme c'était le cas les années précédentes. Moins de lanternes qui permettent de mieux apprécier le jardin.
I'm going tomorrow with friends, been a while since last I visited. Is it worth it?
[deleted]
Yes! The Chinese garden is particularly gorgeous.
Yeah, it was fun, found parking easily, lotsa kids roaming around, free tea at the Japanese garden, an evening well spent...
It’s better than it was 2 years ago. Just a little disappointed not to be able to buy a moon cake.
Relis le titre.
Qu’est-ce que j’ai manqué, une question sur l’endroit de l’événement ?