big city vibes right there... love it!
so at like 3:30pm right fml
/r/cityporn
i miss montréal so much!
please let responsible, well americans visit again.
it kills me that i'm an hour and a half away, have been obsessed and in love with the city my entire life, and i can't even go.
thos are all the buildings
woah! i'm assuming you edited in post, what did you do to it? the colors look so... smooth. i'd love to be able to edit my own photos like this (i'm self-taught in lightroom and pretty comfortable with it, but i've never been able to give that much mood to my shots).
great photo!
hey op, where did you take that pic? i’ve been wanting to go on a rooftop for a while but haven’t found any available. if you did take it on a rooftop, would you care to indicate me how to access it? thanks in advance
r/uqam
really good looking with hdr. the colors are superb.
[deleted]
this is beautiful!
i wanted to say thanks for the reddit silver and award! you guys rock 👊🏼
great shot!
very beautiful, i love it
very nice
i miss this beautiful city
beautiful pic !! i miss this city so much, i would love to come back... please continue to post some picture of montreal :)
it's a magical place
that's some quality content right here, nice pic op
wow, what camera is that
nice skyline.  and it’s going to get even better.
looks like one of those building development cgi mock up
ouh very nice
🔥🔥🔥🔥🔥
kinda strange seeing my university on reddit
my all time favourite city in canada!
what camera?
awesome click 👌
nice shoot, pic for today?
what camera did you use? nice shot btw
looks like a ravensberger.
that s a screensaver/ wallpaper
wow great pic. thanks for sharing
nice photo, thats a great view, thanks for sharing.
😍😍😍😍
[deleted]
[deleted]
“i took a photo of downtown montreal during the sunset. "
thanks a lot! appreciate it ☺️ @lifebynicolas on instagram to see more if you want.
painfully accurate
appreciate it ☺️
montrealer here,    
i will love so much to get back our tourists. the city lost is identity since the pandemic. no tourists, no festivals, no bars,  no fine restaurants, no students and no more downtown workers.  winter is here and it sucks.  
but you have to get your shit together before we let you in america! the sooner , the better.
same. i go at least once a year in fall. i miss montreal so much right now. other than my house it’s my favorite place in the world.
big ones i mean
thanks! i edited the shot in lightroom first to get the tones i wanted using the hsl panel. i added some radial filters and reduced the  contrast of the photo then exported to photoshop. from there i did manual dodge and burn to highlight the nice lights. those are the main rough steps. i would say reducing the contrast, playing with the highlights and hsl panel should be a good way to start. radial filters help too. hope that helps!
same, curious about the answer too!
looks like sherbrooke, east of saint-laurent.
hey, i am lucky that i went to my friend's place that has access to this awesome view.
sherbrooke and st-lo
thanks a lot! ☺️
this. is. awesome.
i love mini undercover social experiments!
still nice idea that.
it would be mad dope if all bixi stations glowed like this.
r/midlyinteresting
pretty cool!
awww that just made my day, it's too cute 🥰
damn thats a really strong projector !
congratulations on your new job in bixi pr. you should be paid for this!
what a fantastic idea.
ooh!! this looks so fun!
bixi and other active transportation methods should implement fun and interactive design like this to make ridership more compelling and fun for users
we need more people like you. giving people a little bit of excitement during a mundane task is very cool
awesome! bixi really should be more colourful and fun, those bikes with the cool designs for the 375e should have been made permament.
i really love this. well done :)
good game!
i personally hated having a bixi stand in front of my place when i lived in the plateau... that out of the way, you’re amazing! awesome idea
a lightform mark ii, nice
maybe change the color depending how recently the bike was used. would be a cool computer vision project
does the software allow you to change the color if the dock is busy or free ?
that's awesome man, leave it there so i can use it tonight and admire your work haha
very fun idea!
you're cool 😎👌
cool!
cool!
i had no idea lighting technology like this even existed. neat.
that is so cool! 😍
awesome!!
i did not know that the "lightform projector", it is a projector to emit lights of different colors like in parties, is it? what is the 3rd image? the management software?
this is so cool and creative! what do you use the projector for when it's not enhancing bixi docks?
we need more people like you.
haha that's awesome!
keep it up!
you. i like you.
i love this!!
nice ! 🙌
this is awesome, well done!
what is a lightform projector?
drolet and marie-anne? we were neighbours until a month ago!
that is super cool!
osti d'troll. i love.
/r/nextfuckinglevel
i bet you can't wait until events start again haha.. i have so many vj friends who are getting desperate now xd
you should propose it to the city to keep the bixi hubs well lit for when it gets dark!
please keep doing this haha.
glad to have such an inventive neighbor! fun stuff!
that's nice of you :)
cool. (-: since you asked about other experiments below: could be really fun to scrape dock status from the bixi site and light up docks that have bikes. might need to do some computer vision work to determine which docks are actually occupied if all the api gives is number of docks in use/empty, but you could use the status change as a trigger for refreshing the cv… you could even figure out which docks/bikes are disabled if bikes are present in the image but the api says it's empty…
json: 
the héros we didnt know existed but needed
if your really interested in this type of thing a good friend of mine who recently moved back to france from here, was working on something in the same realm: 
if you wanna have a look.
we need more people like you.
i read this as dick colour
nice but this thread will turn into fairmount vs st-viateur
that would make such a great jigsaw puzzle.
i think we can all agree this is a great photo, montreal bagels are the best, and fresh bagels are amazing.
zoomed in to make sure it wasn’t a photo
very cool! best bagels in town
amazing work - is this for sale or copies of it? 👌
very cool but the real question that burns our lips: fairmount or saint-viateur?
we should have a "counter" of the number of days on the sub without debate on the bagels!
upon closer inspection it’s obviously a painting but damn did i think it was a photo at first!! you did damn well!
awesome job! but where is the lineup of people waiting to get some delicious bagels
you should share it with them! they love using user generated content on their social media
nice! paintings in this style are sometimes very flat looking, but you do a great job giving everything proper depth, and weight (especially!)
your work is better than their bagels
awesome. anything for sale?
so you sell prints?? well done!
you like bagels, eh?
[deleted]
i miss montreal: '(
wow! love it!
lovely!
didn't think it was a painting till i read the caption wow
a montreal landmark!  beautiful work!
love the details on the bricks and plants. a really nice style.
good job! very well done ✅
seriously. how much? i need this.
one of the things i really like about montreal!!
so nice!
looks nice.
beautiful!! you’ve got a real talent.
wow what a beautiful talent that i unfortuately no not have .
very pretty my friend
this is such a beautiful painting! love the details. do you have any social network profile where you share your art?
i miss those bagels
the shadows and reflections in the windows alone make this an astounding achievement. gorgeous.
i have a soft spot for hyper-detailed paintings like this one. i like that you went the extra mile and included arahova's weird facade's reflection in the top left window. no one would have noticed if it wasn't there but you did it anyway.
love it !  looks like it hasn't changed that much since i took [**this photo**]( back in 2006 😊
st viateur, fairmont... can we all just agree to continue allowing bagel places to use wood burning ovens?
gorgeous painting!
love this place !
beautiful painting. would make a wonderful canvas! 🥰
cool! it needed it!
wowwww!! i was like wow she painted the glass windows of st viateur. but noo this isnt a pic
looks good!
this is giving me such a nostalgic feeling about being able to just fearlessly stroll in (or line up 😆) on a whim and grab something delicious.
whats your @ instagram?
i'm about to leave montreal for the suburbs, i swear i will still make the 45min drive on saturday mornings to get my sacred poppy seed bagels.
plz dm me i would love to buy a print!
absolutely my favorite place! i miss it. (moved to ontario years ago) they always laugh at me when i come in asking for a box of 🥯 to take home. 
on another note i also picked up pounds of smoked meat at schwartz  but they have become rude over the years.
nice feel.
that’s excellent. the sign is so cool.
love it!!!!
that’s sooooo good
do you have a live feed from the brothel that's going to hang out in front of the bell center?
don't forget that they also won the clarence campbell trophy which is also unique.
the entire city is going off right now. you could feel it building up all day.
dominic ducharme has shown the world that work from home is the way!
woooohoooo :) saint-jean and more!
don't riot don't riot don't riot
cries of tabarnak it feels the cup my guys
are you having fireworks at jeanne mance park?
[deleted]
congratulations from edmonton!
i never thought i would see that in my life!
i love getting tear gassed
congrats boys!!! fuck yes!
the police absolutely lost their minds and turned the biggest party this city has seen in years into a warzone.
finally !!! it really is the weather! gogo habs! the stanley cup welcomes us!
nature is healing!!!
ah so that explains why people are celebrating outside lol. can hear the yelling and cars honking
i was at the cv for the toilet during the intermissions with my car. my first reflex is gtfo from the cv before the end because i don't want any breakage on the car ...
incredible, it is such a beautiful beaume for this covid year.
wooo! go habs go!!!
woooo !!
yessir
great time to be a habs fan!  go habs go!!!!
fuck yeah!
hopefully we won't be asholes like my upstairs neighbors from vancouver in 2011 who started throwing bottles off the side of our apartment when they lost. guys, don't be those guys.
happy saint-jean in tabarnak !! go habs go!
olé olé olé olé olé olé olé olé olé
people are going nuts right now
oh fuck yeah !!! woohooo let’s go
happy saint john !!!
woooo it smells like the cut !!! 🔵⚪🔴
ole ole ole ole
it's still insane to see that the team everyone seemed to agree was really mediocre one shot at winning the cup for the first time in 20 years lol
hope everyone has good insurance for fires and riots.
teams in las vegas, tampa etc so silly. these cities have no business having hockey teams.  i lost interest many expansions ago, but glad to see our glorieux back in the finals. great games.
wooooooooooooo 🗣🗣🗣🗣
we are here!!!!!
do we want islanders or lightning?
i see fort lauderdale, fl. i am too excited !!!! ahhh !!!
i'm so glad i'm off work this week. i was up until about 3 or 4am just reading everything i can about last night on here, on hfboards, on twitter...
i was 8 in 1993. i remember staying up late watching the games and usually falling asleep, but i was far too young to appreciate it. last night i had tears in my eyes following the game. i can't imagine how i'll be if we can pull this off.
i'm exhausted, a little hungover and can't wait for monday.
fuckyea's friend
yeaaaaaaaaaaah!
sucks i missed the riot
its coming home; vancouver, calgary, edmonton and ottawa tried and failed.
leafs will never win as long as hnic theme exists, so its upto to habs to bring the cup up north!
huh?
been cheering for the habs the entire playoffs. much love from cincinnati, a city without an nhl team! allez les habs!
fuck you luc ferrandez. drette in the ass.
[removed]
delta variant incoming. but, but hockey eh.
i sincerely want to understand. i have never been a fan of a sports team. to me it's just a private company made up of millionaires who don't mind where they play.
how do you come to give so much importance to that?
snapchat map
this is a nice vibe
i adore this was well, you should consider making prints! it has this gorgeous retro feel to it, the angles, the colors\~ <3
caught your post in r/analog. gonna upvote it here at home, too.
the composition really works for me. \*chef's kiss\*
nicely done. an interesting composition.
i especially like the cooler colours of the stadium, tower & sky in the background juxtaposed with the warmer hues of the foreground and sweeping structure in the upper right.
i wonder if this would work as well as a b&w version?
excellent candidate for r/liminalspace
i don't know why but sexy!
never seen the stadium from this angle, nice shot!
i like it! definitely captures the 70s style! i have taken so many cool shots there. my favourite building in the world!
if anyone is interested this was taken on medium format film around the end of summer last year. it was a ghost town around there!
what film did you use(if this was analog)?
that’s gorgeous.
great composition
i would print and frame this
wow.. simple beautiful photo..
i'll add to the chorus saying if you made prints i'd buy one
awesome composition!
this is awesome! looks so modern
very beautiful photo!!
solid olympic games '76 vibes
your composition is great, thank you for sharing this photo!
wow i wanna make an album to fit this album cover!
the composition is super great! keep it up
love it!
looks like a postcard, dope work!
camera, settings and lens?
love it. reminds me of adrien heberts paintings of the old port.
perfectly balanced, as all things should be.
super nice! look like a painting.
great dynamic lines!!!
freshening to see it from that pov.   
thanks for sharing!
i love the unintended starfleet academy feel to it.
1:1 aspect best aspect
awesome shot :) i really like how the blue of the tables contrasts the rest of the scene! what film did you use for this?
r / fakealbumcovers material
like in those magazines from 60s looking towards the future. retrofuturism.
oh, you should definitely post it to r/liminalspace they'd live it over there. :)
thought i was in r/retrofuturism
nice shot and great use of the square format.
great shot! i love the angle and composition.
i don't know why but i did this:  
that composition is actually insane, good pic!!
you just gave me a wave of nostalgia of that place. i loved going to the biodôme when i was a kid. the photo is clean af though.
the photo is absolutely gorgeous (thanks op!!), though i do find it sad how projects like this end up underutilized. whenever i go visit (save for games of course), its practically a ghost town. i really hope in the future we learn to strike a good balanced between modern architecture and human-centric design. places like this could be so much more lively!
i think r/liminalspace would like this
this is really cool! any chance i could pick up a print in montreal to save the shipping fee?
it must not be in montreal, i do not see leonard cohen's wall.
yo. this is my new imac and iphone wallpaper. thanks its insane
there's literally no way to know which *decade* this photo was taken in, and i love it. great shot!
great pic!
i've been living on the west coast for a few years and this made me realize i miss *architecture*.
this is geometric pornography
wow, this is really impressive
i had help from a few other people, but the majority is mine
unbelievable. no more! i want leonard cohen's mural.
good work !
wow. this is so cool! do you think about releasing this when you're done? i would love to walk there!
damn that's seriously impressive
i am super impressed dude!
and worried about your sanity xd
it gives you the taste of machining minecraft just to visit what pile is doing
i understand if you want to protect your work, but would it be possible to have the honor to download this map? i am ready to pay a small fee if necessary. if not, there is no problem!
nice job sti
i hope you weren't playing survival mode 😂
wow!!!
whore! very strong
i thought it was a photo, wow.
whoa! this is completely crazy!! what work. i love the texture pack; the really perfect * haze *!
i had seen a minecraft project a while ago to recreate the earth in 1: 1 or close. are you part of this project?
jesus christ !! bravo🤙
mind-blowing!
woah. what filter are you using? looks very realistic!
beau works well done
you are a machine..wow
i see my office! what people do with minecraft always impresses me, but there you go!
would love for a godzilla to walk among those amazing buildings! great job
beautiful, well done!
nice work: d
holy shit
omg it's really cool the place ville marie is going to be i think a challenge: d
my mind is absolutely blown. how many hours did you put into this?
that is actually incredible, what kind of shaders are those? it would be great to have a server like that up and running
did you put the preacher of jesus with his signs on the corner of mcgill and st cath? good work!!
you should put it on r / gaming
damn that's awesome 👌
wow
congratulation ! very well done !
wow, only after the 3rd pic did i realize these are not real photos.
holy shit, this is insane
wow!!! represent!
sick!
hooded esti, a big bravo.
insane, the metro ??
great job! this is impressive. it looks just.. awesome.
we distract ourselves as best we can during confinement! well done, very impressive!
it's super beautiful, congratulations :) there you have to do it in lego, hehe. really a great job, the city should buy it from you for the promotion of the city, so nice :)
animals vibes
oh wow! i'm sure a lot of people would pay to have the file just to walk around in it creatively.
very well!
thank you and bravo! keep it up!
c’est fucking cool guy!
awesome!!
really cool.
finally, my minecraft bought at $ 3 on microsoft store was used for something, it's insane all the work you did.
"i will push all promises off the tables"
now these are candidates i can get behind
good way to advertise your cafe
make montreal meow again
i admit it's cats there, i used to go to the chat l'heureux café with my mother when i was younger. i recommand it!
they have them for all the parties, here are the rest: 
he's got my vote
what in the bojack
finally candidates who represent me
they've got nothing on [gatineau's candidate](
legalize catnip!
better then all the other candidates...
ooh, i'd like to check this out irl. which stretch of st laurent is this on? i suppose near duluth?
well, finally, candidates that we will want to cajole! he has my vote. go gustave mark your territory on the signs in coderre 😺
mtl is very creative
"meow together" 😂😂😂
honestly, this election stinks in my face so much that if these kitties had been a rhino-like option, one of them would have had my vote.
he's got my vote
i'll vote for them more! very cool
photoshop skills on point
i always make jokes about mindless liberal voters who would vote for a chimpanzee if he ran for plq or plc, so i have no trouble believing this cat could win his election!
oh - think gustave is harmless? then what happened to the goldfish?
for a safer montreal for fish - vote sheldon
i am voting for sheldon he looks very lazy
meow
plateau meow-royal
is it still support for the liberals? as long as it is, why not have invented a party or at least a parody name? did you miss a part of it?
hahah....i remember a few years ago there was a website called trash ta pancarte, during the provincial election. people would post pics of local election posters that had been defaced. it was fucking hilarious
i absolutely love this! 😂 i’m from toronto and always make a point to visit that cat café when i’m there! gustave would get my vote! ha!
got my vote
i wish that philadelphia had this kind of spirit.
well fuk they have my vote
i thought it was the quebec version of [el candigato morris] ( a cat who introduced himself in the mexican elections in 2013
lol
you missed the conservative one on duluth
ha st-laurent and duluth
conservative has to be grumpy cat
humbert 2021 for ndg-westmount
kiss me gustav
the liberals could run a bag of potato chips in the west island and get 80% of the vote.
finally a candidate that i can give a belly rub to!!
oof the cat is not very happy lol
not voting this year. sorry gustave.
the majority cat party!
oh hell yeah!!
nice!
damn i should have voted
found shane dawson’s account
wouf!
wtf
not op but i saw these outside segal’s today - so at st laurent and duluth haha
outside segal market near st laurent blvd/ ave duluth.
and yes my friend sent me another conservative party poster from another street.
you’re either on stanley or drummond facing sherbrooke
very cool! you definitely got the feel of mtl captured!
you could sell this! its gorgeous :)
you should put this on a shirt!
i often see posts like this and go meh, yours is truly stunning. has this great anime background style
that is pretty fucking awesome dude. you got some talent!
i think art that celebrates artists' home towns are lovely. you did a wonderful job!
that's really nice
fantastic
this is really beautiful! you’re very talented.
how long did it take you to draw this?
how much!? 💵💵💵💢
needs more cranes and pilons
that's wonderful! i miss mtl so much!
this is beautiful. do you do this professionally? as in, do you sell your artwork?
great work, origin protocol just opened a form for people to individually drop their art there. worth a look if youre interested in selling your impressive art. ty for sharing !
[deleted]
amazing- i wanna buy it - pm me in case you wanna sell it.
impressive !
me likey.
i like your style, great work!
lovely! stylish work.
do you draw other cities in canada?
this is really beautiful!
i live in that building on the right (large, brown one) on drummond and instantly recognized it. very well done thank you for sharing.
nice ! is it watercolour or felt pens?
[deleted]
that would make a cool comic book!
beautiful! that must have taken you forever to draw?
[deleted]
you have a page or instagran with your art?
beautiful 😍
i want this so bad!! would you be interested in selling it?
has a really nice feel. do you pencil rough it all first?
do you sell your artwork? i’m looking to buy!
... and you managed to make it look really ugly. maybe next time don't make your focal point generic brown apartment building, a narrow street and flat rooftops?
wow you’re correct-it’s stanley!
i’m glad you think that! thank you!
aww thanks!!
ooo that would be fun!
haha i’m glad you think this!
aww that’s so kind thank you!
i completely agree! thank you very much
thank you!
thank you :)
very sweet thank you
i drew it a year ago so i don’t remember exactly. it for sure took more than a day (of course with breaks)
i completely agree
thank you so much!
aww thank you. i’ve been wanting to sell prints for ages but never ended up putting it together. hopefully soon!
is in the right neighborhood too
i'm happy to know that there will be something familiar to greet me when i move to montreal from vancouver this fall.
funny story, once i left the champs-de-mars station then a man came and asked me "do you know where the street is blocked?" i thought i was on a hidden camera show i almost said "uh everywhere". it was the day that i discovered that there is in fact the unique and original rue barré.
the beautiful orange cones 😍🥰 it's really cool that the city of montreal has decided to choose them as symbolic animals of the city !!
definitely better than naming all streets after douchebag politicians. more of non political names!!
imagine a construction sign written: "rue barrée, detour sur rue barré"
coneoranger street should be a candidate for mourial!
i see what you did there
shit, that’s funny!
lmao that hits home
there is also "de la barre" in longueuil
i once lived on the street.
i did my driving school downtown and the instructor had me pass there one day to mess with me. what does that sign mean? barré, you can't pass, just kidding it's the name of the street.
the time chapleau made a caricature of nadal holding an orange cone as a rogers cup trophy.
of course!
she is good lol
this conversation is going nowhere!
street "i got out"
the results in google maps are funny: 239 results for "barred" street.
vote valerie plante out of office in november and get rid of these “rues barrées”.
hey i could!
familiarize yourself with the construction cones. you will see it often
if you know potholes you will be in familiar territory.
there are more former anglophone montrealers in vancouver than there are anglophones in montreal. good luck my friend.
the worst part is that they often shoot the gags of just for laughs in the old man. i would have had the same reflex as you!
i once worked on the street.
i remember when the closed street was closed, i made self-jokes quite often when i got out of the metro.
i did my bachelor's degree at ubc, the “university of building and construction” so that doesn't worry me too much.
there are no potholes in montreal, just ostrich nests!
i can't decide, why not both?
garda?
good luck going anywhere without seeing the great cones of montreal, but you get used to it anyway.
welcome to your new city, it's still beautiful montreal. the cones, the denies of hens, the tramps and the completely fucker person, the breakdowns of the subway and the difficulty in finding a parking lot. the police zealously.
rent too expensive etc.
by that, it's beautiful. people and music, shows and when they open the streets for pedestrians. i left because of the covid, but i miss montreal a lot.
okay, you're right.
the whole street is basically garda now.
not as a security guard, but in the garda building, yes.
hey everyone, hope i haven't been spamming the sub too hard with my work, but i hope you'll indulge me this last time. looks like the pandemic is wrapping up, and tomorrow i go back to my day job. covid has been a weird, scary, boring, uncertain time, but one thing that i'll always be grateful for is how it allowed me to focus on my art and live for myself. so on this last day, i wanted to challenge myself, to see what i could come up with, sun up to sun down. i think it came out pretty good for a rush job! hope you all enjoy it, thanks so much for all the support and kind words you've shared over the past few weeks. you guys are great! if you want to see all my previous destructions, i'm on insta, @apocalypse_montreal
i think this is the best one yet. nailed the window art.
the sake is a nice touch.
please do the coco rico just besides it 
also has s tier poulet rôti at a low price and the nata are fucking top notch
i like the garbage bag. nice touch. the alley beside schwartzs smells like absolute shit, full of smoked meat scraps baking in the summer sun. just taking all that stank in as you wait in line to get inside.
that’s awesome
this is insanely on-point, both accurate and detailed. you're doing some great work, man.
it lacks orange cones but i love it :)
i used to live near that one and you did an great job.
i don’t know how awards work but i had 24 hours to give that bear to a post, take it
excellent, as usual. bravo!
holy fuck!!
wow true artistry. 
i'm very drunk and depressed right now but this is making some cylinders fire.
if anyone wants to reach out. i just need some anonymous shooting the shit moments.
this is absolutely amazing work.
i feel like your artistry will breathe life back into montreal
whatever it is
keep it burning
schwasted at schwartz’s
should still have a line up of zombies outside!
anyway to buy them? or have custom done based on pictures? that's could be a jobs.
very well done
looks awesome
this is dope! thanks for the eye candy
if the covid lockdowns go any longer you can market your art as "exact scale replicas"
i'd still eat from there in a zombie apocalypse
this is awesome!
i really like your work man. i love to visit old abandoned building, it gives me the feeling of being somewhere else. when i look at your stuff i feel the same feeling! i really like the small touches you add, like the sake graffiti haha.
wow this is awesome and so inspiring, i'd love to do this kind of art maybe i'll try
omg! this is amazing!! absolutley loving it. hitting up your insta.
this is really good, well done.
those trash bag are huge ahah. nice work man!
schwartz, good choice
j'adore! very well done
love it, has a fallout 4 / 76 flavour to it!
yo this is lit
are these for sale or do you do commissions? i have a pal who is a habs fan that would probably enjoy something on the subject? maybe suggest a price to me via dm or here...
these are some buge garbage bags...
nice
surprised no one told you to do the main restaurant across the street instead of schwartz
that's really, really cool, love it! keep'em coming :)
do you sell your work? have a website showcasing it? if you don't, i think you should xd
really love your stuff man. sad i won't see more of it on the sub but i'm happy for you at the same time that you can work again.
we respect self-promotion when the promotion is not too much;)
i absolutely love your stuff!!! please keep posting.
dude seeing your stuff makes me so happy, you're super good at it! these look great every time and i hope you find the time to do more :)
i really enjoyed looking at your art! it's been a fun ride for us too.
i would love to see you put all these models you've made over the year (brilliant btw) into a model train set, where you also create custom max max style trains.
your work is fun. keep it up
it’s been wonderful. this work is one of my favorites. i think this place is already like this in my head
thanks! it's funny, this is the model i spent the least amount of time on. i guess practice pays off! i spent the day with my dog taking reference pictures of various tags about town.
what is sake?
dog, if i do the coco rico, i'm gonna have to do the whole damn street. which i'll probably end up doing eventually, because nobody's told me to stop yet.
coco rico is so good, god damn i miss it
i think the garbage bags are my favorite part, even if i made them a bit too big. i'ma fix it tomorrow.
the alley smell is the first thing i thought of!
that's a beautiful photo!
oh hi seb
that's a great picture. it'd make a cool album cover.
r/bladerunner
nice shot!
nice photo! what was this taken with?
magic 💛
so pretty \*\_\*
wow!
absolutley amazing!
beautiful shot. /r/cityporn would enjoy.
nice picture
corner of what
great photo!  if that is close to décarie and sherbrooke then i lived in that high-rise lol.
marcil and sherbrooke? i grew up one street down.
wow, so beautiful 😍💛
so, are we going to end 2020 pulverized by the death star?
that sounds like an english street name.
this is great
i can't believe luke smith is sunsetting the entire city of montreal now.
it's very pretty, beautiful, serh schön
what a beautiful scene 😍
that's beautiful. great shot!
hey seb! long time no see
wowwwww
wow wonderful
damn this happened on my birthday. beautiful
i totally stole this 🔥
i used to live in that tall building back there ❤️
good job my pot. good game.
gorgeous
so, will those anglos ever truly get québécois culture?
fuck bombardier
thank you!
who's this!
thank you! appreciate the comment.
yes! that was actually part of my inspiration in the editing of the pic. if you want to see the other pics from the shoot, you can find them here:
[
ps, how can i cross post to r/bladerunner?
thank you!
hi alex, i took this with my nikon z6 using the 300mm nikon f4 af-s. you can check out my ig if you want to see more photos from the set! [
thank you :) !!
it was a beautiful scene!
thank you :)
thanks so much!
i'm a noob, can i cross-post this?
thanks john! it was the corner of marcil / sherbrooke near girouard park.
yes it is! it's the corner of marcil / sherbrooke facing west down sherbrooke.
i’m slightly concerned that a bear in a wig grew up in such a densely populated neighbourhood 😂
thank you :)
there is a great probability !!
it does! the town of sherbrooke in quebec is named after a british general whose full name is sir john coape sherbrooke. i wonder if the street is also named after him.
gorgeous. according to meteomedia, the red moon is caused by smoke from several hundred active forest fires in the west of the country.
that's a beautiful mural dedicated to the late anthony bourdain 😍
excellent photograph!
this is one of the most beautiful photos i have seen here. i find it very cool that the moon seems to want to set over leonard cohen
absolutely beautiful photograph!
nice aligment.
with a little cohen thrown in! love it…
cool reflexion of the moon in the st-laurent. well done!
reminds me of the conan background
😍
i have a great view of the full moon here, it was just beautiful! of course it's overcast now, but it would be still almost full. you could also see jupiter, very bright to the left of the moon.
beautiful
wow! thanks for all the love guys! my brother is not on reddit, so i’ll pass on the lovely comments to him. if you want to see more of his pics, check out his instagram @cjnphotography
majestic!
beautiful picture. leonard would be honored!
that's the best i've seen of last night's full moon.  bravo to your brother
its cheese, gromit
i love that picture with leonard cohen looking and smiling
that man is staring at me.
‘moon over montreal’ sounds like denny’s next advertised sandwich
does he have instagram?
that is no moon. it's a space station.
nice
beautiful shot,beautiful city!!
wow!
bro thats a 7 days to die blood moon. run
yep, took a photo then photoshopped the shite out of it.
how beautiful the end of the world is 😊
a lot of people confuse between them 2 but anthony bourdain mural is on sheerbroke/stanley
it’s leonard cohen
lol xd
thanks! i’ll let him know!
he does! @cjnphotography
this is a legit, one shot photo. he takes his time, tracks the moon through an app on his phone, gets to his spot hours before to set up his camera and takes a ton of photos. that night , luck and prep was on his side.
thanks! i'll give him a follow
instead of asking "do they need renovations?", shouldn't we be asking "why does it need such extensive renovations?"?
remember [this one]( from a couple of years ago? 
it's about a five minute walk from the one on papineau. the owners let it get so rundown that the city evacuated the building. then the owners renovated it and are now charging $1500 for a studio apartment with a fucking murphy bed. 
stop defending shitty landlords.
lol that place needs renovations badly. i used to deliver heating oil there and shits falling apart
i'm certainly not for loopholes for renters, i've been one forever and i've had to fight at times with landlords as well. 
looking at the balconies it would seem like they legit do need reno's?
i understand people don’t want to loose their home, and are fighting to stay there. but let’s be honest : the place is in ruin and tenants pay next to nothing, which would certainly not allow the new owner to renovate and make money out of the building. it’s sad but this is reality : good location and good building don’t come cheap. you can’t blame the guy to want to make money out of his investment. he is not in the business to do charity work
context: [
what is it with so many people blowing the capital investors? there's something really fucking wrong with you if you think a capital investment firm making money takes priority over housing low-income people.
we'll see what the city inspector says. when we renovate, we blame the owners, but when it is completely ruined we also blame the owners.
[deleted]
our government doesnt care or do anything about this, especially during covid. they are too busy imposing curfews.
good news for them, the court said that the homeless people are exempt so if they dont find some place else to go....
getting mad arkanoid vibes
i see many members of facebook landlord groups polluting this subreddit. well up yours.
the shillers are at it again...
we got evicted two summers ago due to this. popire told us that they got the number of cases in a week which they used to get in a year. i do miss my place in st henri.
wow, there are people who have spent 40-50 years as a tenant.
the landlords willfully neglect their rental properties ,allow degradation and leave renovations ignored for years due to the fact that it is easier to implement renovation evacuations with intention of getting the low rents up to competitive current market standards. rent increases on existing tenants are governed and they do not keep up with inflation and other costs. landlords see their existing tenants as liabilities.
provided yesterday's riots. how come protesters always want to destroy stores of innocent people, but never want to destroy homes of very very bad and very very rich people like shiller and kornbluth?
they took over rue masson a couple of years ago and rents went through the roof.
the building is run by private owners. a coperation is an entity with rights and responsibilities. the private owners and their coperation bought the building in order to make a profit.
 we live in a capitalist system. capitalism gives private owners power to use their property or assets to control the economy. 
the government has no power to control the economy since the government also depends on the capitalist and capitalism to exist.
humanism and capitalism can never go hand in hand. 
the landlords are capitalists looking to capitalize.
landlords did not fail montreal.
the leadership in montreal failed its people.
the blame is on the government for not legislating and for not creating protections for human beings who need housing.
the moment someone owns another person's right or right to access a means to a right ...it is impossible to stop greed and exploitative practices.
this is the new normal ... and it sucks ...
at the end of the day it’s all about $$$ for the building owner. pointe finale.
why are you upset at the building owners? if you want a system that gives everyone a safe and clean place to live at an affordable price, then blaming landlords and contractors isn't the right approach. the building owners never promised to house anyone without profit.
if you want to make a better system, then don't live in these properties. find the co-ops in the area and join them. you'll notice their buildings are functional, plain and generally a little run-down but livable. [check here for co-ops around montreal.](
support the system you want, stop buying into the system you don't want.
my low rise landlord in toronto is replacing the water pipes, upgrading the wiring and electrical panel, replacing the radiators, replacing the doors, kitchen sink, toilet. refinishing the bath tub. balcony repairs. and all without evicting anyone.
the landlords are two of the scummiest people ever.
it also happens in rue basile-patenaude. old apartment blocks will be changed into luxury condos and tenants are kicked out.
i live close by and i know tenants of these blocks, there are who have lived there for more than 20 years and they are demolished, they don't know where they are going to go but there is little chance that they will be able to stay in rosemont .
[removed]
almost a tic tac toe, almost!
i got demovicted from my home of 10 12 years a few years back. it sucks hard
this is why its important to work hard and buy your own house this is bullshit one day you wake up and they tell you to leave no my house my rules fuck renting
the building is old and dilapidated. hillpark likely bought the building at a premium and need to recoup.  i see no problem with them.  blame the government for lax regulation and inviting housing speculation.
ah yes, montreal. home of the "pie in the sky" economic philosophy.
general rule.  if the building has that slanty shelter over it's entrance that looks like the charlie brown shirt, the building is an absolute shit hole.
or we could work hard, stick it out, and buy our own property. or is that a scandalous thing to say?
i know many landlords that have lost their homes and apartments due to tenants living free....landlords have a load of bills to pay. they’re not welfare.
i saw it with my own eyes, it's true!
owner supposed to spend 25,000$ on renovations and then the tenant complains when the rent goes up 25$.
ya but buisness is buisness
and that's how you win the meme wars
if you let more buildings be built upwards, rent prices will fall. it really is as simple as supply and demand. nimbys and people selfishly holding onto their single detached homes and small 3-story triplexes are the problem.
disgusting and horrifying. the government better not allow this.
[deleted]
landlords are parasites. their property should be taken away from them and given to the people
gonna get downvoted but renters have too many rights right now... you don’t own the place, somebody else does and if he wants you out he should be able to push you out. it’s not the owners problem about you not having anywhere else to live, he owns that property, you’re just renting.
i thought montreal was in canada?  why are the signs written in french, are they surrendering?
when shit gets this bad, the landlord should be forced to pay for the renovations, the lodging of tennants while it's being rennovated at their own cost, and let them back on the previous rent. your job as a landlord is to provide a habitable place for your tenants, if you failed at that to the point that their living space isn't safe anymore, you've been criminaly negligent.
i always thought owners let their properties get bad so they can evict everyone to renovate and charge more for rent
when the one on marie-anne was allowed to fall into disrepair, that's all you needed to know about projet montreal wasn't "for the people." they let the lower-income folks out on the street where they would have to find accommodations outside the plateau.
and now this one on papineau. pm is all about the gentrification of the plateau and close surrounding areas.
a grain of salt on this one. i live a couple of blocks down from there on marquette and marie anne, the place was an utter dump. it had police there nearly every second night and people drinking and doing drugs out front all the time. 
i took a look at the new place post renovations. it's not murphey beds, you aren't telling the full story. the places are really nice inside and the area is better for it.
are you serious about the 1500$ murphy bed price point??
extensive renovations = mould. magic eviction word of the day.
but that's the market, that's what people like , you can't have it both ways , everything dies
better move their cars.
after living in that area for a few years, all i see are bedbugs and mice problems. 
for the uninitiated, beautiful as always!
all i can think of is how much those row houses must cost
beautiful. montreal is so beautiful 🤩
i caught the sunrise today too. so glad i was up early. well, technically, i haven't slept yet. covid life got my schedule all messed up. but anyway, yes, the sunrise was cool :)
my road had no parking signs and they didn't even clear it. hundreds of cars moved but snow not touched
good morning :)
i miss my old hood.
grew up in little burgundy. love this place forever
👌
beautiful picture
waaaaah
nice sky !
nice shot!
nice shot!
same here in laval this morning
cool. there’s also a little burgundy in the sky.
i snapped a sunrise photo from my backyard in ndg, brilliant red. i nearly froze but it was so pretty. however, a red sunrise means bad weather!
i'm glad i moved out of the city, they still haven't removed the snow
is there a neighborhood called “little burgundy” in montreal?
my first thought was "they have one minute to move their cars"
i recently moved to little burgundy and you just triggered my anxiety now.
hello from ile bizard my friend. what a small world even if we are on montreal subreddit
there’s one for sale right now asking $995k 😯
it's luxury housing!
it's usually nicer when the snow hasn't been removed. once they do it's all black/brown slush.
weeeeeyoooooo weeeeeyoooooo hoooonk hoooonk !!!
lived here for 2-3 years. mice problems are real, especially in apartments.
hi! it's much quieter here than downtown certainly!
oh wow i found the listing, only 2 upstairs bedrooms and doesn’t even have parking. yikes. very attractive looking house though.
compared to some other prices i've seen for far uglier properties, that's not so bad.
saw a house that looked like a cube built in the 60s for well over 1 million.  i'm still half convinced it's some kind of money laundering scheme because i've seen much much much nicer places for that price.
the same house in most any other big city in n america would be 4x the price
it's really linguistic hegemony
i have had mice at 3 different places in montreal lol.
but haven't heard of bedbugs. in toronto i wasn't so lucky though
i had mice in a building in ndg years ago, they were everywhere! 
if you can get a cat, that's always a good idea. dogs, not so much, they're useless.
probably will put mice poison and/or traps in my crawlspace/basement after reading this, haha!
mice are everywhere in montreal except westmount. in westmount there are only rats.
i love it here. 30 minutes away from downtown but feels like the country side. the forest we have here is also a gem.
it depends on the location more than anything. across the street from me is one of those ugly mid 50's brick boxes. but it's a duplex and it's selling for 1.2m
it's kind of nuts.
compared to the montreal median income that's not a real important distinction
so 4 million? not sure that high...
you just have to say that you don't know montreal ...
[deleted]
the little burgundy has been here for a long time my big one. it was incorporated at the beginning of the 20th century. you have to get informed before saying nonsense.
had mice in verdun and own 2 dogs. watched a mouse run over the big dog's tail. absolutely useless.
30 year resident. we got both. ive had a pigeon fly through too
and the sale time is a little under 2 months for a single family on the island at the moment. despite the prices, there are buyers in spades.
in the plateau mont-royal, townhouses are sold at 1.1 million median price. 29 days the time of sale lol.
worse, it is that the rest of the province took a turn in the same direction in accelerated mode. invest in real estate, there will be a tenant.
[deleted]
little burgundy it doesn't exist, the little burgundy yes
i don't give a damn about hockey (sport in general) but it's really hot as a photo. more montreal than that, you're dying. nice.
it is beautiful in esti as a photo, well done.
it's gonna be crazy tomorrow!
i thought this was r/accidentalrenaissance for a second
the name behind the sweater is perfect
my montreal is all about the alleys!  looks like y’all enjoyed yourselves yesterday was such a dope night.  my neighbourhood was buzzing, habs win...
[removed]
if we could sum up montreal in a photo ...
good game!
very beautiful photo
invite me!
i heard my neighbors scream when the team won and i started singing with them after 🤣
points for creativity to take it outside !!!!
it looks like the chambord / lanaudière alley ... between laurier and st-joseph..cote est!
why do i feel like i know this alley ....
are you on rue chambord? it looks like a house very close to where i live ...
r/accidentalrenaissance
fantastic picture
j'adore! this is an awesome shot, only made more awesome by that jersey
amazing photo!
i would love to see this in high res!! awesome pic!!
i love this photo
i admire the spirit of community
oh niiice which corner is it in?
criss how beautiful ... i love you gang
i love the pic!
great pic. where is this? i have a similar one on my phone.
you better do this again. no one is allowed to do anything different tonight!
montreal is such a cool city.  i miss it, and i want to go back
more than 8 people. im calling the cops.
the only true game of yesterday was the champions league final.
i don't give a damn about hockey too! and i love the photo 😀
here is the person who felt the need to say “i don't care about hockey” lol every time
i would have preferred to have my good device but the phone still does the job! thank you !
it was crazy yesterday
same! i had to double check the sub lmao. fantastic picture op
> this is a great photo; however, it is in violation of our no sports rule, so it has been removed.
> while this is a large subreddit, it is also a very specific, niche subreddit; therefore several posts are removed daily. removal is fairly common and is not a reflection on the photos themselves or the person posting them.
> please consider re-posting your photo to r/sportsrenaissance, a subreddit for sports photos that resemble art. they would appreciate your photo there!
this is the response i got.
[deleted]
i didn't even know the people, i just came home from shopping and they were setting it up, i came back after supper to see the end of the game with them. a great atmosphere!
seriously i will come too
sing what ??
yes !!! good game :)
new game : let's guess the alley !
yes chambord and st joseph
in ostifi
i noticed the jersey text only with the comments on this post
plateau towards the laurel park
there is another comment where people are trying to guess the alley (hint : close to pace laurier)
so far there is nothing prepared. but i hope they will do it again
get out o here. go to montreal
> lol every time
i think i've seen the phrase "i'm not interested in hockey" twice in this sub in the past six months.
why do you take it so personal, bro? what the hell are you doing that i don't like sports? that doesn't stop you from being interested in it after all.
your answer is also one of the reasons why i don't like team sports.
too often, there is a mentality of quasi-fanaticism attached to it and which i find very ugly.
anyway, i didn't say that to shit about hockey (which i didn't do), i just said that despite the fact that i'm not interested in this discipline, when am i even able to appreciate how representative this photo is of our city.
after that, if you decide to see it as an attack on your person, well that's your problem.
proud that there's not so much anti homeless benches.... there are some of course but not the majority
lots of those were made with ash cut in the last years all around the city. trees had to be cut because of the emerald ash borer disease.
i recently just moved to montreal from the prairies and i have to say i honestly love the number of outdoor public spaces/benches this city has.
this is the kind of quality content i come to this subreddit for.
for those interested, the bench in the first photo was designed by the montreal design studio [dikini] (
i’m in toronto for the week and expected to have a place to sit and eat my takeout so i relate to this post very much, and the good seething only available on montréal.
happy to see that at least most aren't hostile architecture
it’s depressing being american, because any time i see a bench with someone in the middle (table or rail in these pictures), i think, the only reason that’s there is to stop homeless people from sleeping on them.
the one thing the pandemic has done has increased the number of nice places to sit in this city. i adore the little kiosk things set up on wellington in verdun, for instance. summer seating in a box, outdoor dining... what's not to like.
where is the first bench from? haven't seen that one before!
it is nice, but i can see they've gone with the anti human design by putting a table in the middle to ensure that a homeless person can't get a rest on it.
bench photos = immediate relaxation
these kinds of things make me happy because the state of street furniture in many other canadian cities is atrocious. like [these new benches]( in toronto, for example.
i know some people think that unless we install literal beds\* in our streets everything is "anti-homeless" but all but a few of the benches in this slideshow are examples of interesting, highly functional and comfortable street furniture that do not have any hostile design qualities. and they don't even scratch the surface of the diversity of street furniture available in montreal.
\*incidentally in many parks there are [benches like these ones]( that are pretty close to actual fucking beds.
public cigarette rolling table
ah yes benches, technology has gone so far in recent decades
we don't fully appreciate  our city,i fear
beautiful work. if that was in victoria mayor lisa helps would have removed it by now because the varnish was offensive
the fact that i've sat in most of those chairs haha montreal public seating is actually pretty top tier!
can’t wait to visit again once borders are freely open for travelers. what a great city! i still remember my first poutine and beaver’s tail from eons ago.
merci montréal as well back to the us after a week, you’ll be missed!
[deleted]
looks like it's made so that the homeless can't sleep.
1 and 4 seem more like anti-roving benches, benches that an itinerant cannot stay on comfortably for a long period of time, which several cities use (but which does not solve the problem)
enjoy it while it's still clean
its just benches bro chill tf out
isn't this table just a way to deter homeless people from sleeping on the bench? 
ps. i agree it's beautiful, but i've seen some crazy anti-homeless shit in my time
[deleted]
ah yes, benches that prevent poor people from distracting tourists from our beautiful city.
they just have to buy a house like everyone else!
/s
montreal is a mob run cesspool.
that beauty is lipstick thin.
have you noticed how most of thoses benches are designed to prevent people from sleeping on them?
yup have to agree with you. as much as i complain about  mtl;  this, i give them kudos. some cities are real d\*\*ks.
there's definitely been more of them popping up over the years.
yeah only a couple had the measures on there i was expecting more, genuinely happy. not perfect, but a start
semantics alert, the word disease is reserved for fungal, bacterial, and viral pathogens. you can say eab infestation but the damage it causes isn't a disease, it's simply the larvae chewing through the sapwood.
yess whenever i visit montreal, i’ve gotta admit it’s pretty lively compared to alberta
c'est parce que nous sommes gens de parole. and we also take pleasure in small talk. last year i was in a more anglo-saxon part of the city, and they had individual seats not facing each other!
bench!
lol dikini
we don’t seethe at torontonians anymore …much
;)
those tables ones are put in front of restaurants. i would say that it's pretty useful.
saint-laurent / fairmount i think
pretty sure it’s [these ones on fairmount](
bench number 1 is actually next to a restaurant so during the lockdown  (and still now) it was quite nice to be able to sit outside and put your food on the table. at least the table serves a purpose and it's not just a random division?
13 of 14 examples here have no impediment to laying down. the other one's obstruction is a useful table for food or a coffee. looks good to me.
yeah because a table is totally useless except to prevent homeless people from sleeping. 
seriously, of the many benches in this slideshow, the only one with a hostile design feature is the bench at the old point with a bar in the middle, and that's a space controlled by the federal government, not the city.
3 out of 14, what's your point?
have you noticed that benches are designed for people to sit on them? i understand the whole “the city hates the homeless” vibe, but why sacrifice sitting features (why the bench was designed and put there) for sleepability?
i mean we're also allowed to use benches as benches and shouldn't forbid ourselves from tasteful designs because of homelessness considering we collectively fund attempts to solve the problem of homelessness.
that table appears to be multi functional and looks like it would make laying down a challenge.
vancouver checking in. i don't remember the last time i saw a bench that didn't have bars running across the seats.
wow! that's amazing work!
beautiful painting !
available for sell?
great job pavel!
you’re very talented! keep it up this is amazing
beautiful! 
is it oil on canvas?
superb! the vegetation in particular.
do you sell your art in local markets?
love it. cinder blocks are a nice touch.
iconic.
very nice job!
this is so beautiful !
can i buy this?
fabulous work! although i always wondered why a lot of posts here consider this building iconic? i get that it is easily seen by everybody and it's pretty flashy, but is there anhthing else? does it have some interesting history?
do more.  do more.
awesome, pavel. this is really different from the things i remember you drawing in mrs. fanning's class in 6th grade :d
it's really well made! congrats! 👍
i like it also, i would be interested in buying it.  thanks
wow, are you ever good.
amazing job!  you have so much talent 🎨👌🏼
this is very good work! love your style! hope to see more of some montreal paintings.  it is such a beautiful city!  i live in alberta (born and raised in montreal) and i still love doing montreal sites!
bravo!!!
it really captures the feel of seeing it! i'm a montreal native but have been in exile for almost 20 years now, so love seeing stuff like this!
amazing. why don’t you sell it in bidgala
wow; great job!
outstanding job👌
whoa! your stuff should be in a gallery.
good job!
amazing!
incredible!! would love to buy a print of this!
what does something like this sell for by curiosity? beautiful painting!
🌹🌹🌹🌹🌹
i agree with poop break philosopher
thanks so much!
thank you!
sure, i will dm you.
thanks alex! alex was next to me making an inking drawing as i did this
thank you! i wont ever stop
yes, it is oil on linen. oil is superior as it allows me to add some 3d strokes here and there
no, i don't, montreal doesn't have a strong demand for the type of art i do. my stuff can be gotten from my website www.pavelsokov.com or print shop: 
i think it is better to sell prints on global markets with internet e-commerce. it can reach more people.
thanks so much!
thanks!
thanks!
thank you!
possibly, it might be taken already, not confirmed. il dm you the price
it’s a great question. i really don’t like this building myself so i’m curious
i've always seen it as an easy way to get karma on this sub. a simple picture of the five roses building wouldn't get as many upvotes anywhere else. it's not really an important landmark in montreal, even though the tourism/souvenir industry has tried really hard to make it into one to sell cheap tat. i think the pictures are lazy karmabait and that the subject is lame, but this is high effort and well executed, so props to op!
there is a lot of very interesting history behind 5 roses but i probably would butcher the history, here is a neat page that gives some insight: [
e: got this great quote that explains it for some people:
"represents childhood and coming home"
always and forever
oh man, you have a good memory! how have you been?
(its gaby btw)
wow, this one took a while. i've been off and on this model since before the world ended last year. mostly off, because  *holy crap this one was hard*. figuring out the math for the dual layer chiral dome took about 3 months alone. assembly was an equal challenge. i am so happy to be done with this one, i really feel like i put my heart into it. i hope you all enjoy it as much as i do. and if you don't like it, just say hi to my dog then. lol, the forced perspective in the first photo makes me look like a child. the dome is about 60cm across in any direction.
look forward to each of your posts. amazing work.
if i was a game studio i'd hire you
wow so cool!
what’s funny is that the biosphere as most of us know it, is already the remains of the biosphere
can't believe st-hubert is still around at this point.
so cool. gives me some creepy jurassic park vibes haha.
gaslands fuck yeah. love the st-hub cars too, wtf that's a cool idea!
you are my local r/terrainbuilding hero.
i take comfort in the knowledge that even in the mad max future apocalypse, i can still get a quart poitrine delivered!
incredible! would you ever exhibit these pieces?
nice work , even better dog
amazing work!! 👏
not bad at all , i would love to see an aftermath of the metro after a nuclear explosion , fallout style .
wow. i’d buy these just to play 40k. the emperor protects… even in montreal!
really love how you incorporated the modded st-hubert delivery cars - really adds to the density of the whole piece. cheers.
dude this is fucking amazing nice job!
very cool my dude!
uh, you mean the blood dome?
do you 3d print these? love your process and wonder what materials you use!
kudos!
i am sure there are plenty!  you have a gift and you put in loads of work. 
can someone from the art world chime in please?
really dope man! you’re a trooper for sticking with it, you must be proud sitting back and looking at it. keep it up, will be checking your profile in the future for more!
very nice model of the usa pavillion.
oh, man, i absolutely *love* your work! this is amazing!!
are you the same guy who did a miniature five roses? and do you have an instagram where we can follow you because that’s so cool!
such coolstuff really. dependinh what arrondissement you live in, contact the cultural centre or something! or maybe place des arts? or whoever was in charge of the art installations in the 'underground city' or during nuit blanche.
like someone said before, a metro station would be hella cool. i'd also like to throw in a suggestion for chinatown ;) or one of the major bridges.
doggo seems like such a good boi, not jumping on your art :)
looking forward to your future projects!
i'm a simple man, i see gaslands i upvote.
you do very nice work!  i was in the biosphere in 1967.  awesome place:)
amazing
you should make the olympic stadium a city
do you have instagram?
you wanna ride in valhalla with the immortan joe?!
doggo depressed looking at it lol
your dog is so cute!
and the model is very cool :)
this series would be a perfect fit for the mccord museum! after you're done playing with them, of course :)
great work...
where is the racing track near by, brother? :)
lol, i wrote a short story that took place in a post apocalyptic mtl. it won the 9th grade mcintyre.
very cool!
awesome work as always! do you post these anywhere else (an instagram page, for example?) or just on reddit? would love to share your work with others, but having them all in one place would be easier than a bunch of reddit links.
edit: nevermind, saw your post further down. will follow you!
can you make a landmark of the canadian tire de fabreville ? as seen on tetes a claques back in the day ? maybe add some aliens in there as well !!!
man if there is ever a post-apocalypse series set in montreal everything has fallen apart but the rickety-ass bridges are still standing
great work, maybe the champlain next lol
it's a good idea
are you going to sell it or display it?
great work! love the shades..
saw your mateo in another post. i had to see your biosphere. wow.
so cool! old champlain next?
great and awesome job! do you have an ig?
quite [smashing]( good chap
oh wow, thanks!
me too. they're always really cool!
hire me anyway? i need work, dog.
probably one of the most beautiful streets in montreal.
at the time of the construction of the tower that we see in the background (altoria), we were very enthusiastic in montreal, for fans of skyscrapers. from 120 meters!
now, i regret a bit that we did not have something more imposing and standing out to emphasize this perspective. more interesting towers of 200 meters are now being built.
great photo thank you :).
montreal only needs the orange cones and torn garbage bags on the streets to be removed to look good, but that doesn't happen often.
only our streets.
this street has undergone a lot of improvements in the last 20 years. finally, it is beautiful.
unfortunately, the streets are always left to perish before taking care of them.
a beautiful huge crackle in the street. typical montreal
not a cone in sight ... superb ...
my work building is in this picture and i'm getting nostalgic.
it's dumb, but i miss it. (it's under renovations right now, so i can't go even if i needed/wanted to)
toé, you don't need to wear clothes to look good
i know i'm late, but did you steal a guy's post a year ago?  after_34_bières_une_photo_au_milieu_de_la_rue/?utm_medium=android_app&utm_source=share
wow its beautiful with the sunset fading \^\_\^
(with the detours all over the place) i found myself driving through there last night, and the street and buildings were striking.  i haven't been in years (decades?) and i was noticing the detail in the stonework for the first time.  truly a jewel.
is that supposed to make you want? haha
where are the orange cones, the no parking spots and the detours? i find it more like science fiction.
beautiful city.
really beautiful the photo! ❤️
montreal is so beautiful yes, but i can no longer live there. too many people, too expensive, the price of rental accommodation has gone crazy, or able.
i used to live right on the left of that picture - 110 rue mcgill. what an incredible loft. this was 15 years ago, though, and the neighbourhood was pretty deserted after 5pm on weekdays.
years later i read some article in the paper that mentioned there was a really bad airbnb problem with a unit on the street over (des soeurs-grises) that had parties going several times a week, and i would have been able to see & hear all of that. kinda glad i got out before that became a problem.
still miss that loft, though.
ok now post a photo of mcgill station at 1:15 am before covid and without filter.
pi yet ... about 98% of the buildings that make montreal, "montreal", are all buildings that are made of bricks, but with a beautiful false facade adapted to the tastes of the time they were made.
received
my uni ❤️
sooo sad...
yup! vieux montreal / vieux port, always beautiful views.
the rue saint-paul at the end of the place jacques-cartier is not worse either.
my opinion: this section of rue saint-paul should be strictly pedestrianized
we could do like philadelphia and have 2 or 4 tower higher
just like the rocabellas occupy strategic grounds for 200m but they have no architectural appeal.
remove the orange cones?
unlike my face :(
the asphalt cracks with the freeze / thaw. and this cracks is just the junction between the two halves of the shoe that meet. to whine for the sake of whining
thanks hihi
no, i reposted my photo to brighten the hearts of montreal editors. thanks for checking out my photographer interests! 😎
like the vast majority of buildings in all non-millennial cities around the world.
le [mont palatin]( la [grande muraille de chine]( [toulouse]( [ayutthaya]( [albi]( le [ziggurat d'ur]( [babylone](  la [place rouge](
the red bricks of montreal are pretty.
mcgill street has something more. bordering the international district and old montreal, there is a very impressive mix of architectures, then the street is quite wide and the buildings are very well lit.
ah yes, so agree!
or we could do like paris or rome and stop thinking that it takes a lot of tricks to be cool.
the most beautiful of this lot is definitely the avenue, but you hardly see it despite its more or less 180 meters!
:( 
it's okay bud (o´･_･)っ
that doesn't change my comment ... typical montreal [because of the freeze / thaw]
or even the thousand-year-old cities. the romans plastered the facades with a small marble coating;).
the la défense district in paris has quite a few more towers than in downtown montreal.
what could be cool is having quality and not quantity
i have always found it to look like a trophy!
the longueuil in paris.
did you take the time to visit this place? not me. they put it far aside because they didn't want to make the city ugly like they did with the montparnasse tower.
i took the time to visit it and i can tell you that it is a very interesting neighborhood. by metro it is super fast and walking around the defense and going up to the top of the observatory was a good experience. there are beautiful buildings under construction and in planning in addition, it will become even more beautiful.
farine = french; five = english; roses = bilingual. perfect montreal.
a lot more beautiful on your drawing than in real life 😂
great work! 
coincidentally, it seems i sat on a neighbouring bench and [sketched nearly the same view]( almost exactly 10 years ago (my notes just say early june 2011).
out of curiosity, are the white areas gouache, or opaque markers?
edit: pic link
gorgeous!
great piece. the water is impressive. ❤
once again i see something like this and feel the need to expand my horizons and learn how to draw and capture life through my hand. just the way you were able express the ripples and reflection in your drawing amazes me. pleas sign it as jayjayfrench and mail it to me so i can pretend i'm creative too!
beautiful! the photo is definitely spring, while the sketch really does fall.
lovely drawing.
nice! is it available on your etsy page yet?
what! this is beautiful!!
you made that from a sketch? wow!
very nice
great work
incredible
good drawing
beautiful one lad
that must have been a very nice time sitting there, making some art!!
this is awesome!
nice dude
great spot! beautiful drawing
this is a lot like the gold medal flour building in minneapolis, i assumed it was at first glance
great drawing :)
your technique reminds me of early issues of the walking dead somehow...
lol thé irony in all this is that the place is called canada maltage i’ve worked there...
another loss of food autonomy ... 😥
it really makes me think of red dead redemption 2 when you discover certain places the character draws a picture that looks like your style. apart from that bravo you are extremely talented
perfectly agree. everybody are happy. beautiful drawing!
perfectly balanced, as all things should be.
a dose of spanish, arabic, italian or creole is missing.
i vote for “farine five woz”.
op made it into a scratch n sniff to capture the spring odour!
love it! thanks for sharing the link to your drawing!
i used posca marker for white.
thank you !
thanks!
just listed! thank you 
we had perfect weather for it, definitely helps to enjoy the process
thanks for the posca info. i'll check them out.
i would not be surprised if this was either done criminally,  or for insurance fraud. holy hell...220 trees cut down for this.
*click for hot content in your area now*
the saddest part is that you can't uncut [the mature trees] ( le-manoir-du-roi-de-la-porno.php) that were sacrificed for this monstrosity.
wtf? is that the same one i've seen multiple articles of about it being on sale?
2 days after putting it up for sale, he needed the money faster.
hot shingles in your area.
huh, what's a 20m$ for the pornhub ceo anyway? the real loss were these 220 trees cut off because of all this trashy dirty money mansion builkding #karma
shit, i passed by the place yesterday afternoon.
i hope the fire didn't dammage any of the surrounding houses.
what a bloody waste of resources.
good thing it didn't happen during a dry spell. sparks could have set bois de saraguay, across the street, alight. that would have been a real disaster.
having working for mindgeek for a number of years, all i can is good. fuck this guy.
as they say arson
the original founders live under private security protection because they pissed off the american mafia by running tube sites like pornhub (free, stolen, exclusive content) while doing exclusive content for brazzers and pretending to fight against it.
they sold because their lives were in danger. i guess the mob has a long memory because antoon is the brother in law of one of the original owners.
i used to work there and heard it from an employee that was there as this was all happening.
and nothing of value was lost....
i guess people got tired of that guy stealing land and knocking down trees for his monument to excess.
i would say this is revenge on the part of a victim and not the owner trying to make his money on insurance.
what a complete waste of resources. money laundering and insurance fraud at their finest i guess.
not an easy house to sell ...
it reminds me of the building next to my job in wellington which had been abandoned for several years. one day a promoter wanted to make condos and 2 years later, because of the exorbitant price because he had to keep the walls for the heritage, a magic fire destroyed the building. the next morning the bulldozers began to lay the foundations.
probably he wants to build a new mansion at the expense of the insurer. besides, she wasn't for sale? curious about someone who would take revenge to set it on fire ...
lol i blame the media for always talking about that mansion linked to pornhub's recent scandal, what a waste.
definitely torched it.
[deleted]
too much friction
pov when the camera man captured the most hottest thing ever seen
bacteria porn
a thought for the broker who sees his big commission literally go up in smoke.
i wonder why someone would build a huge house like that in montreal. not trying to diss montréal or anything i love my home buy why here??
this is going to make for great netflix movie.
should we question the media coverage of the sale of this house?
three hours later and the news has still not been released to the media. it surprises me a bit.
the housing market really is on fire right now
source?
incredible to see a home that size, which no doubt has a sprinkler system go up in flames like that.  could it be any more shady?
damn, the jeffery epstein tapes were in there. lol
so hot
insurance fraud or legit arson?
the montreal housing market is so hot right now.
looking for hot footage?
hot milf's in your area!  
mansions 
i would
like to
fire
fuck this asshole. mindgeek is a piece of shit company, he got what was coming to him.
i live on toupin and my parents told me they thought it was one of the apartment buildings, that’s crazy how i talked about this house with them recently
he’ll make it back in no time
it might be worth 20m. it might take 4-5m to build though.
he got organized crime problems? or is this blatant fraud?
they saw two people break into the house...
yeah, doesn't sound suspicious!
so...
two man savagely forcing their way into this young house only to leave burning marks?
it went for sale friday.
last nite it was torched.
save the porn!
oh i randomly found that house and was amazed at the size. just walking in a random park and bam super crazy massive house.
if you thought pornhubs content was hot, you should see the owners house
wasn't that house for sale?
oops, butterfingers ;-)
what will this mean for my porn?
very nice. sq saint-louis or av laval?
i absolutely love that painting, and all the artists who keep imaging the best city in na!
can i buy it? or a print?
i thought it was a pic lol
good work!
this fucking rules.
awesome work, i know the spot well, it’s especially beautiful in winter.
well done
charming subject, beautifully done.
by me?
wow...it's perfect 👌
too early
lol i know this house
excellent 😮
wow! i'm impressed!
beautiful!
love this
i love this!
man! people from montreal really love this. being from alberta i'm always jealous of culture.
this is amazing!!
4422 drolet! i lived there when i was a child. there used to be a large tree in front, but they had to cut it down a few years ago :(
not too sure, i painted this from a photograph.
yes, i am currently selling prints or canvas giclee's.  here is the link for you. thank you!
yeah, there are even small details like a compost bin
tks!!!
tks!
thank you!
tks!
me, the artist, dee
thank you!
selling prints if you're interest. tks!
thank you! i currently live in alberta!
thank you so very much! i am currently selling prints and giclee's of my montreal paintings.
ayup, i lived right next door. the top right corner of the painting (brickwall) was where my bedroom was.
i got a huge piece of that tree. was super sad.
can we see the source photo please? :)
these are fantastic. i love your use of such vivid colours.
i’m currently living in another country, is there an international shipping option?
do you take custom requests? like a specifc mtl scenery?
oh the ‘montreal memories’ one... gotta save up for it. i am really in love!
ah, so not me?
thank you!!!
hi, i can send at a one time fee of 24.00 by canada post.
hi! yes i do.
tks so much! selling prints and giclee's.
just read a similar post over on r/ottawa. restaurant owners complain of not having staff but when people apply, they expect 40 hours of available time with no guarantee of work, years of experience and availability during christmas and the summer.
i work at a pharmaprix, they are hiring new people at 14-15$ per hour and yet they refuse to match the wages of people who worked there for years to that same amount, so people are just quitting.
[deleted]
i remember going to the mall with 20 cvs at a time to hand out in every store and fast food place in the hopes that someone would give me a $6/hour job. i'm so glad that people don't have to do that now. we were treated like total crap and we had to put up with it.
i've been at this a long time and i'm going to throw a little insight out there. the restaurant industry is a bit of a hellscape for everyone right now.
the owners: the price of everything went up, food, labour, utilities. hell even the price of rags have almost doubled. in an industry where margins were already razor thin this is pretty disastrous. 30$-50$ for a main course in a decent restaurant is unfortunately just what things cost now. the crazy rise in prices on the menus isn't the owner getting richer, it's just covering rising costs.
service staff: this was already a rough job, then the pandemic started and it only got harder. the kind of people who kept going out at the beginning of the pandemic were exactly the kind of people you'd figure wouldn't be apprehensive about going out with a new virus raging through the world. it's gotten better but there has definitely been a bit of a shift in the general attitude of the clients. on top of this there's new rules to follow, extra cleaning to do, masks to wear and passports to check. 
kitchen staff: same as service, it was already a rough job. during the pandemic it only got harder. how do you taste things while wearing a mask? kitchens can already be unbearably hot and sweaty, add in masks (and for a little while visors) and nobody is having fun. the pay for working in a kitchen has always been shit as well. the average hourly salary for a server in the places i'm involved in was 35$, for cooks it's 17$, dishwashers 15$. a debate about salary inequality is a deep dive and a discussion all on it's own but there's a big disparity and that disparity is a driving factor.
overall: i don't know anyone in the industry that is still on the pcu. however i know a lot of "lifers" from both the service and kitchen that have left the industry and are never coming back. people who have been working all their life in the industry had time to look and realize that there are many jobs that offer a better work/life balance. for the kitchen side a lot of these jobs pay a lot better too. the people leaving tend to be the most experienced, i keep in contact with a lot of them hoping to scoop them up if they ever come back, after 6 months to a year of working outside the industry there's not a single one that has.
cost of living too expensive now to be working a minimum wage job
the tim hortons counter next to us is closing from 4pm to 5am now. so much the better! less waste in my alley!
i remember having to pass an interview to work at premiere moisson! in a store that sold f1 stuff in the old port, the guy gave me a background interview on the teams, the drivers etc ... before telling me that it would not work because i had "the air too intellectual "and no experience in inventory ..
i hope that the movement will spread to other industries and allow workers to negotiate a better salary or work / family balance ...
i see signs up like this occasionally and it baffles me how they expect to pay someone minimum wage and they want you to be available 24/7 regardless of anything else. you want me available 24/7, then pay me for 24/7. don’t like it then too bad lol.
[deleted]
i have 0 sympathy for them
when i was looking for my first job, i probably gave about 50-70 cvs. i went to mcdonald's "hire day" 4 times and they refused me 3 times and finally accepted the fourth time. getting that first job was awesome but wasn't easy at all. when i left the job a couple months ago, they begged me to stay because they were losing too much staff. the way they were treating staff was absolute garbage. they would scream at people and make 15 years old cry because they weren't fast/good enough. if you want a toxic environment to work at, mcdonald's is the place to go. 
look at them now, begging for more employees, doing "hire day" literally every week for the past 5 months. yea, fuck you.
i know many small business (including resto) owners and i have no sympathy for them regarding this issue.
if your business model cannot sustain living wages for your employees you simply should not be in operation. if your economic sector won't allow you to operate any other way then the government needs to bud in. this won't happen until there is a real crisis in the sector.
that bullshit view that retail jobs should not pay enough to sustain someone has got to go.
minimum wages should be raised so that someone working full time can live decently. (i.e. decent foods, shelter, clothing, healthcare and education).
the real shortage is livable wages not staff!
same situation in the usa. mcdonalds and other fastfood places are closing at like 7-8 pm where i live. places are all out of items on the menu.... 
but you know what? this isn't the worst thing in the world. we need to roll back a little bit imo. there's absolutely no reason to have all of these 24/7 places like we do in the usa. maybe we don't need these places opened every day.
the restaurant industry is hard work. people should be compensated for their work. it's a lot harder than sitting in my pajamas all day on a computer.
hopefully restaurants start paying proper wages to their employees and we eliminate tipping.
i went to gaspesie recently and mcdonald on my way there were hiring with starter salaries of 18$/h full time ... they sell less but can pay more ? doesn't make sense to me, seem like montréal franchise are just being greedy fucks.
off topic but i love how “how the turntables” is now just being used unironically
same couldnt get a dead end job to save my life, even when i graduated college the first time (went back to uni after 2 years of working below poverty level in my field). im pretty sure if i lost my  "good"job now tho the fast food place would still reject me and be like we cant find anyone!!!!
if they treated people better then they do/did, then they wouldn't have issues. do not treat staff like shit, we talk and we know who is good people and who isn't.
i’m thinking it’s not just the government checks. i have never worked in the front lines before, and i imagine it doesn’t pay enough so on your weekends you’re busy managing your life and pinching pennies, no time to reassess. so now that service employees had down time, they realize they want to do something else, or have more value. not the best comparison, but when people are in a bad relationship, it’s this cycle of low self esteem that’s hard to get out of and it lasts for years. but once you’re out, you suddenly have higher standards.
we’ll see what happens when the subsidies stop
one of the solution to this problem is to have more of those restaurents that only serve 2 or 3 types of very good and specialized food. places where the owner (usually the cook) and 1 or 2 more employees can make it work. small, highly specialized and efficient. forget about fancy service aux tables and 20 different items in the menu. 
same should happen to retail. no more huge wall mart where you need to underpay tones of people to make it work. more smaller, curated and specialized shops that can be maintained by owner and a few people only. anyway, big retail shops will all be killed by amazon so they better find a more human way for people to shop than to go in power centers.
those types of places are very common in countries like japan and makes for very lively, walkable and inviting neighborhoods. 
small and curated.
fast-food restaurants have historically always been hiring whoever postulates.
they have some of the highest turnaround numbers of any industry.
im surprised none of them wanted to hire you..
don't disparage kitchen workers because you have a grudge against owners. working in the kitchen doesn't require any education, but it's not easy work. it's fast paced, you're on your feet all day, you're in a small room with many other people, and kitchens are really damn hot workspaces.
on the bright side, given the competition, it's a good time to negotiate an increase or change companies, i decided to do that and i had a 15% increase by switching from company + insurance and unionized job. that i didn't have before.
literally the same. i was dead broke and used to beg my parents for money and they kept saying find a job. i literally gave my cv to every single resto chain (mcdo, tims) and none of them called back. i used to get hella sad thinking there’s something wrong with me and why no one would hire. now that they’re all begging for employees and i have my own business, i literally laugh out loud (lol) at them
well thankfully the world is changing. even mom and pop stores could have the money to pay better wages - it shouldn't be their employees faults if their employers don't have any business acumen. i mean its great that you scraped enough money together to start something and i totally support that but just in the same way you budget to say buy product, market, rent a store front, you should budget to pay a fair wage.
young and older people who both likewise might work smaller income jobs are starting to stand up for themselves and let it be done that they won't settle for wages that neither reflect accurately the difficulty of the work, their value as employees, or the cost of living.
yeah, the owner of the restaurant in my office building was complaining last week about how nobody wants to work because they're getting benefits from the federal government, and it's killing him, because he's working 12 hours a day, 7 days a week.
over the weekend, i found out they're closing on mondays from now on.  
huh.  maybe it wasn't worth the effort to remain open on mondays, because they weren't earning enough to cover their costs...
big businesses prefer to scorch the earth over paying a living wage, despite the fact that there's virtually no such thing as unskilled jobs, i've worked in academia the last 3-4 years and my time as a barista in an understaffed restaurant was way harder than this, they only want bullshit reasons to justify precarious wages. at least i can brew exquisite coffee i guess...
exactly how i feel. i worked for a pretty busy restaurant in the plateau, and because i desperately needed money for school, i put up with very long shifts and very short breaks (15 mins break for an almost 10 hours shift.) they ended up telling me i wasn’t efficient enough and i just quit after that. now they have to close for a day every week because they’re short staffed. oh well!
[ this happened in bc and i truly hate it
i know, when i want to edge, i go check the signs begging for employees on the local restaurants or any struggling customer service place. as a former customer service employee, it's the most satisfying thing in the world. power to the working class
maybe there wouldn't be a shortage of staff if they just paid decent wages. who knows, maybe once 2022 starts and the minimum wage is raised to $15 people will start wanting to work in minimum wage jobs again.
i think we the people should continue with this and turn it into a movement. we deserve better pay, better treatment, and better wages.
i once got fired from kfc because i wasn't good enough for their standards. (i was making chicken nuggets and fries)
today i'm a wealth manager making 6 figures.
never give up
the answer is easy. pay more. it so fucking stupid simple. people want to work for you if you pay a good wage. crazy right?
i'm leaving my current employer who's paying employee hiring bonuses for another employer who's paying double the starting salary i'm getting after 5 years of work. i've also noticed how language is no longer the barrier it used to be.
lol i find it funny because the service industry just cut loose all those people without a second thought, and wow! no one wants to come back because there is still the looming threat of being cut loose! how bizarre!! treat people as disposable, and they'll find other work.
i think you misspelled "cheer"
it’s crazy to think that this wasn’t long ago. i vividly remember dropping cvs at so many of these places and getting rejected by almost all of them. i don’t feel too bad for them. does anyone know if smaller businesses are being affected as much from the worker shortage?
working at tim hortons sucks, a lot of stores in my area are all scrambling for employees doing absolutely nothing to increase the abysmal quality of working for them.
there are 4 times too many restaurants / cafes / microbreweries in montreal. the coming economic crisis is going to clean things up.
i wonder what s the solution for these big chains.. it s not like there s an obvious solution or anything......... if only there was an easy answer that has proven effective..... hmmmmmmm
there is nothing good that comes from a customer service job, especially at minimum wage. putting aside employers cheating time and money out of their workers, just having to deal with bad clientele is too much for such a low wage. and people have gotten so much worse during the pandemic. the emotional toll of customer service is honestly just not worth it
but we totally need immigration to deal with this labour "shortage"!
/s
the mom and pop restaurants and cafes underpay their staff just the same. some may say it's because they can't afford to pay their staff more. my response to that is simple: declare bankruptcy and move on. this is the way of the world. same for any other business.
been in the industry for 10 years. the worst pay i've ever had was at the best establishments in our city(fine dining) that are not chains. i don't really feel for any of them. it's time for a change.
let them close until they give people better pay 💪
i have absolutely no sympathy for these restaurant chains.  if you can't afford to pay your employees a decent wage, then you should simply close.  exploiting your employees so you can stay in business is a terrible business model.  this is what happen during this pandemic.  the exploited workers simply found another job.
i do feel back for the small family restaurants.  i hope they survive the pandemic.
that and firing staff for covid passports. lol begging and choosing, all at the same time.
i remember back in the early 2000's when applying for my first job at 15, i handed out so many resumes and each place made mention of my lack of experience,  cause ya know, i was 15 - but then i went into super pet (taken over by pet smart since) and i went to customer service. the gal behind the counter took my resume and said "you've never had a job before?" and i looked at her and said "no, but i'm hoping someone will give me a chance." i got a call later that day and worked there until i graduated high-school. it was a great job, and i'm always grateful that jackie took a chance on me.
absolutely elite setup
i worked from my balcony most of last summer. 2 monitors even. a bunch of my neighbours were doing remote meetings from their own balconies. one guy is a reporter and used to shoot the news from his balcony or sidewalk sometimes too!  getting to know my neighbours better was one good thing that came out of the pandemic for me.
by the end of the summer he has a gamer chair, minifridge, a short throw projector and some led strips all over the edge of that balcony.
living the life
"go play outside esti" said the mother to her young teenager
and suddenly, rain.
this is montreal in tabarnak.
she sure sees nothing on her screen with the sun
[removed]
he aligned himself with the shrub below to avoid any potential fall damage. this guy knows what's up
lol, anything to escape the noise of kids!
it's funny in criss! does anyone have the google maps link?
we do what we can with what we have.
this is amazing, i really want to know what their job is
what if the wind knocks that thing over though
im no expert but i dont think long hours in the sunlight is good for the skin
what a tool...
also a picture of the world's most useless sign.  have you ever seen a cyclist give a fuck about a one-way sign?
one step ahead of the game
she's using 100% of her brain
i actualy spit my coffee! lol
nothing a cheap blue tarp from bmr couldn't fix.
shoutout [bmr]( fixing up us deep hood dweller's shit!
or watering the plants on third floor
with the right angle, it's really not that bad for black on white text. no dark mode on the other hand!
let's not make this about the person
certified hood classic
impossible, it’s one way the other way...
don’t worry, long hour in anything is generally not good for you...
kills the vid i'm told 🙄
well the sign specifically says that it is one way except for cyclists, which can go both ways
sunlight and a standing desk?! this person gets it.
this person living in 3030 while we stuck in 2021
big brain thinking right there
he*
> no dark mode
* triggered programs *
what?!
long consecutive hours lead to death. fact.
exactly.
non binary?
[deleted]
they're saying that, since the cyclists will ignore the one-way sign anyway, it's a waste of money and signage to add a sign explicitly granting them permission to do so. i'm not sure whether or not i agree, but it's definitely a position that makes sense.
yes, thank you.
looks like there's a delay on the orange line. i made this in about 6 days, not counting the time i took last year to model out the metro cars. couldn't find any blueprints for the mr-63 cars, but the ns-74 cars from santiago are pretty darn close i think. made with garbage, foam, hot glue, and a 4k resolution 3d printer. this is probably going to be my last model for a while; i'm not making any money doing this, and the tax man says i owe him for all that ei money last year, so i gotta go back to a real job. this project was so much fucking fun to do, i really hope you all like it too! if you want to see the in progress pictures, and all of my previously destroyed landmarks, you can check out my instagram, @apocalypse_montreal.
that looks like it could be a cake! nice job!
[deleted]
so what do you do with them once done? hope they are on display in your place or something
please make hall building, or any other concordia uni building. no reason why.
fallout 67
i've always felt that namur was one in the more apocalyptic metros to begin with. great work!
respect
nice dude, you should pop in some small battery powered led's in there to add effect. it'd be relatively cheap / easy thing to learn that would really add to these projects.
nice miniature model man! really goes into detail. also, this model reminds me of z’isle for some reason (comic-book series about a post zombie-apocalyptic montreal).
you should do some buildings from mcgill! your work is amazing
what do you mean by post-apocalyptic ... look close to what metro station look like: p
nicely done! but "post apocalyptic"? with the state of our bridges, i don't think we need an apocalypse for this! 😉
this is pretty cool
amazing! as long as there’s no consequences to the green line, i’m cool with this 😎
what is the second floor on that station used for? it wasn't always there and it has a fancy security gate.
i work right near this lol
b movie time: escape from ny iii: northern lights
wow!! you came up with it quickly !!! really nice !!
you are so good at these. i had an idea where you could do one of the rollercoasters at laronde.
"his neighbors described the suspect as a quiet man that kept to himself. they would have never thought of the shocking displays of violence and destruction found by the police in the suspects' appartment."
i like the arcade machine btw. did you build that one aswell?  
ouh! a post apocalyptic working arcade machine..... that sounds like a fun project....
plot twist: it's a normal day for namur station
sick!!
i'd love to see the big o  post apocalyptic 👏 good job on this one.
whats that cabinet behind ?
wanna have a few rounds of sf ? :o
i love all your models. are you the guy playing gaslands with those? i remember a long time ago seeing your (i think?) models here or on some other small model making sub.
a lot of those props would be fun for a cyberpunk red campaign too!
next; forum pepsi
i love this. it's amazing!!
resident evil 9: tabarnak
op, i love this, you have a great talent. looking forward to the next one.
/ u / banano_tipbot 15
haha i hope you do place des arts at some point and maybe hotel de ville
thanks! funny, i'm actually a trained pastry chef by trade. i approach these projects pretty similarly to how i'd approach a cake. lots of skill transference, i think.
you don't have to wait, i already did it. check my previous posts, or @apocalypse_montreal on insta.
they go on display in my apartment, i'm hoping to use them for tabletop gaming now that quarantine is over.
thanks! i especially like the lights inside, with the truncated octohedron frames. so i exploded them out onto the sidewalk. :p
thanks! i used that trick for my gibeau orange julip model, i may go and add a similar effect to this one.
thanks! i'm familiar with z'isle, the people behind it actually commissioned me to make their version of the five rose's sign last year.
my recommendation is that building on top of the hill that used to be an insane asylum, or the mctavish castle
i get that with a lot of my pieces. montreal is already a post-apocalyptic town.
lol, the challenge with this project is making things look more decrepit, busted, and forgotten than they've already become in real life. i've contended from the start of this project that montreal is already in a post-apocalyptic state, we just got used to it.
it's namur, you're missing like what, two stops? no biggie.
secret csis office, i imagine.
i'd watch that.
thanks! yeah, i went whoosh whoosh on this one .
thanks!
thanks! yeah, i probably got my own personal csis agent at this point. the arcade was my roommates quarantine project, he's got them hacked to play pretty much any pinball table or arcade game he wants.
in my head, this scene is on the 5 year anniversary of the explosion, and all the city did was throw up some cones and tell people to use the other sidewalk.
thanks!
lol, my biggest piece is the biosphere,  i'm not doing anything larger than that. where the heck would i put it?
my roommate built an arcade with a cabinet and a couple pinball tables, we throw down on street fighter to see who does the dishes. :p
thanks! yeah, that sounds like me. and yeah, the plan is gaslands and cyberpunk red once i cam can safely gather around a table again. so soon! probably going to have to slow down on the models unless i get an actual commission piece, time to get back to my day job.
valérie plante coderre 2: replantage
(comment i saw on another tread)
i wonder how much this last week has hurt her with her legendary transparency. more capable
as a wise man once said :
these peas
denis is like a big cockroach. could there be a 3rd world war with montreal totally destroyed and irradiated, that he would still come back and try to cross us with his beautiful white pallets by saying: "you are going to be stuck with me!"
when does he announce he is leaving politics now?
denis goes back to your hole !!
good, will leave us alone coderre there i hope.
what a relief!
it reminds me of ferrandez's mandates in the plateau. with each election, the same old-fashioned gang of bros announced that we would finally get rid of the much-hated mayor, but in the end he increased his lead.
turns out the people of the plateau liked the pedestrian streets and the reduced traffic on the small streets.
my gut feeling is that the same shower bros gang took this election for granted, for the same reasons.
especially happy to see such a felt rejection of coderre's old-fashioned "hussle city" vision.
don't care if i have more festivals, more corporate, more this or that that won't do anything in my everyday life. i just want a livable montreal living environment. my vote therefore went to plante, by default.
as for bala-blabla, i never remember his name ... his electoral performance corresponds a lot to my self-esteem. total clown.
it's a great night for women mayors in quebec in general!
get fukt mayor quimby
denis 2.0 was the same as before, so the result is the same.
i don't know what gives me the most pleasure: the victory and plante or the defeat of coderre.
we are almost 14% different.
he must not be happy, the guy.
well at least they'll be quiet about the return of the expos boondoggle for another few years.
bye bye coderre, good riddance.
i got legit scared during this election but i'm gonna sleep well tonight.
and stronger than the last time. at least at 22:21.
the coderre team called me for a poll last week and i told them that i did not want to vote for plante, but there i had no choice, because i was not for maybe re-entering the corruption at the town hall.
bye denis! stay home next time!
what a pleasure.
best moment of the evening: the plans for the coderre party empty at 8 p.m.
more bicycle lanes lets gooooo
~~ wtf rosemont with ensemble montreal in advance? the world took it for granted that the ground was secure, \ * sigh \ *. ~~
anyway, sayonara my coderre, you will go and listen to baseball in the states with your big dirty lobbyist salary!
lionel perez elected in cdn-ndg leaves me with a little taste of vomit in my mouth ...
na na na na, na na na na, hey hey hey, goodbye!
yes!
coderre 2.0 predicted it by calling itself coderre 2eme.
i’m quite happy that corrupt, arrogant buffoon didn’t get his old job back.
osti, i'm so happy that valérie is re-elected! coderre during his speech: "all the people who run for town hall are really courageous, i would like to be applauded" so humble ..
good riddance!
may he decalisse denis forever.
this means coderre's finally gone for good, right?
bye feliciaaaaaaaa
do you think denis will become transparent again and no longer be visible in the news?
fuck coderre's speech annoys me but has a point.
til that this sub is very pro-plante.
it will give coderre time to write a new book.
2 plant 2 furious!!
michel c auger: "(coderre) must find it tough".
fuck away denis, fuck away
hopefully that corrupt pos never appears again.
phew. very very happy.
the attitude of ensemble montreal towards some of their chosen one by showing him the right door by their age is a good revenge with their poor result.
what is sad what these elected officials this evening did not win and they were at the service of their citizens for a good number of years there they were replaced by elected officials that we do not really know who they are and who have won just by their banner being linked to ensemble montreal.
it's all well and good the town hall but our voice to be heard is our local elected officials most of the time.
celebration
it is done.
coderre: i tried the exact same game that lost me the town hall in the last elections and strangely, i didn't win!
go to hell coderre.
finally, everyone who complained against her in the quebecor empire do not really live in montreal and do not stand up to her who manages the city well for those who live there ?!
let the meme game begin
poor guy. very eager to see his speech of defeat.
coderre 2025 /s
sweet.
genre thank fuck lmao
according to rumor, it was denis villeneuve who produced the legendary uqam lip dub in 2009
i have kept this photo several times and i loved it. the governing goat of our time.
quebec universities seem embarrassed to show off their sports clubs, their academic achievements, their heroes.
as if wanting to be good was bad.
and there we have denis, the best goaler in the aces league on the ice.
* by the way, the profits go to the right place for your christmas shopping.
didn't realize this movie was directed by a quebecer. i might just go see it now.
denis, proud of his roots! 😎
there's more to the future than the girl from uqam.
proud of my alma mater, hehe
the simpsons and uqam:
represent!
too cool.
cool!
the most beautiful cegep in the world ❤
an internet bot picked this up since this morning's upvote count huh
to go to uquouam, do you have to get off at berri-de montigny?
i wonder if uqam will sue him for this like they did with that onlyfans chick
if he only spoke french he would never go to hollywood
that was his main project of that year if i'm not mistaken
the uqam lipdub is easily the best video produced in quebec and nothing will change my mind.
i don't know anything about that, can you share the video please?
for real? at the same time, there would just be villeneuve to do a school lip dub that can be picked up [more than 11m views] ( so that seems very plausible to me.
edith: got had, the description names two other people in the realization.
well done anyway. often imitated, never equaled®
denis has a goat!
it's just not in the canadian / quebecois culture i think. meanwhile in the us ...
he’s made a few great movies.
the guy from uqam
a troll sometimes is like a badly removed shrimp crust
have you heard him speak english? the dude has a translator on set lol
u / deadlychinchilla if you ask a uqam communications student at the time, they're the ones who inspired dune.
as soon as he finished _polytechnique_ he got on it.
um, not according to this article
[ahem...](
it's still funny! 
elvis gratton.
it was a meme, there is even a "lip dub" scene in the office.
who is edith?
beeehhhhhh
😋
> have you heard him speak english? the dude has a translator on set lol
i don't know if you are being serious but search for his interviews/videos if you didn't know that his english is pretty good.
the communism of uqam created denis villeneuve.
his priority, there is no other movie to do after
r/wooosh
fake news
:o
> he was a granny
meem? same? i never heard granny before, is it the french version of * meme *?
he is functional, but he also said several times in interviews that there is usually a translator on site in the sets (or someone more bilingual than him) to help him translate his vision of things. 'an artistic point of view, so just to know that it is not absolutely essential
* our * denis
*same
makes sense~!
my grandma loves me more than you do.
the 'no right turn on red' and 'lots of one way streets' are common features of lots of cities in the eastern half of the continent. new york city has both while chicago, boston, and lots of smaller new england cities are full of one-ways but allow right turns on red except where posted (and in some places around boston it's posted at like, every intersection). agree on the jay-walking thing though, compared to nyc y'all are a bunch of rule-following nerds.
>sidenote: i’ve never seen people respect cross walks so religiously. no one j-walks.
that's definitely a post-covid thing, because as a former downtown pedestrian, holy jay walking batman, it used to see it all the time.
there's a lot more archetypes you just haven't unlocked them yet
there are lots of cute old couples strolling around happily doing their errands because there is no right on red. relax at the red light and wait 30 seconds when you're in your car, then the rest of us can relax while we're crossing the road, and not have to worry you haven't seen us.
glad you like it here. i've lived in the city since 1989 except for 7 years spent elsewhere--and all the time i was elsewhere i was thinking "wait, why don't i live in montreal right now?"
hey i wear a chest fannypack i feel seen.
>i've never seen people respect cross walks so religiously. no one j-walks. 
lmao what?
i am from alberta, also anglo
1. okay, i don't know why the world is falling over bagels
2.in my opinion, the rules make sense for a big city ... but 100% agree, montrealers are neither better nor worse than albertans or british columbians on the road
3. haha
4. i like the stairs. but you should explore quebec, it's even better
5. 100% agree, the world treats me better in quebec than in alberta, seriously.
6. the customer is not always right, indeed.
7. hah, yeah. or the world who "don't speak english" but who can listen to a hollywood movie without problem
8. ...
i say that montreal is the best city in the country, even though i like quebec and vancouver, and that all the major cities in the country are really not bad.
so just to comment on your side note about jay-walking: montreal used to be notorious for its jay-walking, to the point that travelling to other canadian cities people would look at you like you literally just died if you do it. then about, idk, 6 or 7 years ago the city announced they decided to actually start enforcing jaywalking rules. within the first week i was given two warnings by passing cops, i got the message as i'm sure many did because it just kinda stopped.
>i’ve never seen people respect cross walks so religiously. no one j-walks.
i've been ticketed for jaywalking. i scan for cops before doing this now.
[deleted]
thanks for this post. as a 30 year old anglo-montrealer, it was interesting to read about your experiences here. you pointed out things that i take for granted, and made me appreciate what we have here more. it's always been home, and i hope it always will be. one point i have to disagree with you though: *bagels*. once you have montreal bagels, you can't go back. others bagels are just round bread.
my dude never had a bagel in the states. it 100% does not taste like the montreal bagel. they have bread in the shape of a donut.
1. yay for haitian food!
your post was such a delight to read thank you !
as a french guy from france living in montreal for a year now the "french people - from france" had me laughing hard for some reason
1. try fairmount bagel, they're better.
this remark...  
>why cant i turn right on a red? that makes no sense.
green = go
red = stop
suggesting that red should mean stop but also go in certain circumstances makes no sense.
great post. two comments
1) i'm from montréal, and i really don't care about st-viateur or fairmount bagels. i really never got the hype. i actually got some at st-viateur that were half-baked once. the friend i was with kept telling how great the bagels were. i was like "this is uncooked bread ". i'll get mine at the grocery store 6 for 2$. i'm probably a person of no culture. 
2) i also lived in the suburbs before and i can tell you that the turning on red is a problem for pedestrian and cyclists. well, it wouln't be so much of a problem if people actually stopped, looked and then turned. too many people just turn without stopping, had 2 closed calls like this. once biking, once, walking. 
3) i'm j-walking all the time. 
4) not sure about the reason for oudoor stairs. less interior space to heat during the winter? 
here is!
great post, totally agree about the alleged rudeness.  i live in vancouver now and people here are 100x more rude than anyone i met in montreal.
here's an explanation i read recently about the stairs:
>each unit in a plex has its own door, with its iconic exterior stairs. in europe, there is only one front door and the stairs are inside. the city wanted to avoid having buildings too close to the street, which reduced the amount of each lot that buildings could be built on. so to save space, the builders chose to use the stairs leading to the apartments outside the building. not having an internal staircase also reduces the amount of unnecessary space to be heated during the winter
as for the rudeness part, i have also heard that from many english canadians and it kinda baffles me. there are just so many presumptions about quebec from people who haven't set foot here since the last referendum 25 years ago. 
i've met many canadians travelling that thought québec was a third world hellscape where the language police hunted down anyone who mispronounced "bonjour". anyways, a large part of montrealers are english speakers, no one is surprised or angry at someone speaking english. although i'll admit i'll get pissed at at someone who works at a store and can't answer me in basic french.
the part about the guy from the prairie living laval and longueuil people was the best part. lmao.
now i have to go chill with prairie dudes to see the comparison. thanks!
>	what’s with the stairs?
>
>	the city really fell in love with outdoor staircases huh? kind of sketchy in the winter. looks cool for some reason.
this is because of the zoning/easement rules in the early 1900s. the lots were tiny, and required to be set a certain distance back from the curb. rather than waste valuable interior space for stairs, they opted to build them outside, and often required pretty crazy curves, etc, to keep them inside the bounds of the lot.
there wasn’t a template per-se, but the requirements basically created it.
i'm eastern european and was delighted to see that the foods montrealers brag most about (bagels and smoked meat) are from my neck of the woods. the first time i tasted a st-viateur poppy bagel, it reminded me of home (tho we do them just a bit denser and thinner).   
also, i love cycling too, but just like op i can't help but chuckle when i see the "tour de france" types all decked out in expensive performance gear for a 10 km/h stroll down the residential bike paths. i often wonder how much of a ritual and prep work they must be going thru every time they want to go for a bike ride. meanwhile, i just throw on a regular tshirt and some shorts, put my $50 helmet on, hop on my 12-year old $200 canadian tire clunker and hit the road in less than 5 minutes.
crazy drivers? have you ever been to literally any other city?!
same thing with being rude... compared to ny people here are angels!
> 4) what’s with the stairs?
[why montreal has outdoor staircases - mtl blog](
tl;dr rural building style, foundation setback required by law, landlords don't need to heat them, and possibly catholic morals
"sidenote: i’ve never seen people respect cross walks so religiously. no one j-walks." 
that's because the cops give j-walking tickets allot... got like 12 in 3 years.... once the guy was on horse, and once the guy pulled his minivan thing on the sidewalk to stop me... one time they made a freaking lineup to give like 6 of us tickets.
it's like a few times a year they have contests on who can give more j-walking tickets or something...
this one hits home on the off islanders.
hard disagree on the first two.
i'm from bc, so for me bagels were bland bread things from the grocery store, vehicles for cream cheese to go into my mouth and nothing more. montreal bagels are so flavourful with that little hint of sweetness, and when they're fresh or warm, they're so soft. i can eat one plain, and i would never eat a bagel plain anywhere else.
the driver thing... it sounds like you haven't ventured off-island much. the speeds are ridiculous and the following distances are nonexistent. if there were ever an accident up ahead where i had to brake suddenly, the guy behind me is going to come straight through my windshield. and what's with the "parking" by putting flashers on? are flashers just a "get out of ignoring the law free" card? can i rob a bank and use that as my defence? "yes, that's me on the security camera pointing the gun, but you can also clearly see that i have my hazard lights flashing"? city driving in montreal is the normal clusterfuck, but it's once you get on the highway that you really see the terrible quebec driving in full force.
thanks for a great post.
i moved to montreal from paris and had many similar observations. i fell in love with montrealers and much about the city… the length of the winter killer me though.  my last year there we got 1m of snow may 4th… i was done :)
i come back several times a year (except during covid) and it always feels like home.
i agree that some of our rules suck. av du parc has a fantastic straight stretch with a speed limit of 40km/h. obviously no one does 40, and people overtake you when you're doing 60. boul st joseph has a 30km/h part east of papineau which should clearly be a 50 zone. moreover they enforce the speed limit there so you have to do 30. similar story with highways.
no right turn on red is a good rule though. i feel like it would do more harm than good. 
imo the reason why some say we're crazy drivers is that you have to switch lanes quite often and quickly to go from any point a to point b in less than 45 minutes because of the turn lanes (or lack thereof)
in a regular city you have one or two lanes going straight and dedicated turn lanes. we mostly have 2 lane roads with no dedicated turn lanes. so you gotta figure out which lane to stay on to avoid getting stuck behind a bunch of people turning left to papineau.
taxis do pretty much whatever they want to do, buses can cut you off anytime because they have the "priority" and ubers can stop anywhere anytime. also now that students are back and bars are reopened, it's better to avoid st laurent between sherbrooke and rachel. i almost hit a car pulling out of a parking spot without checking their mirrors a couple of hours ago on st laurent
combine all this with horrible roads and never-ending construction, and you have montreal drivers. but surprisingly it still works, because at the end of the day people know what to do to get home as quickly as possible without getting a ticket.
i’d really like to ask my older brother who did the reverse how it’s like to be a winnipeger after being born and raised in montreal !
1. bagels are great they do taste better but i agree that it’s overhyped. if you want some à tomber par terre griot i highly suggest shandmas near métro frontenac
2. it’s precisely because it sucks for drivers that it ain’t so bad for other pedestrians and cyclists. portage avenue made me feel like walking on taschereau, great by car, super unwelcoming if you’re walking along 
3. i can only say that suburbanites are suburbanites everywhere!
4. mandatory setbacks plus less heating
5. yes. no one is rude if you try speaking french, au contraire.
mayonnaise on fries is a dutch/flemish thing. just ask vincent in pulp fiction
lol outdoor staircases are catholic holdovers, so everyone can see whose coming and going into your house (not sure if that true, but thats what my very catholic very mtl family always says)
great post...i’m a winnipegger who lived in montréal for 5 years and mostly concur...a couple of insights i never reached
i wish i'd known that the signs here make no sense, highway design and traffic planning is beyond a disaster, and that everyone is used to it and sees no real problem.  even though most people have seen actual good roads and traffic planning in the us.  i want to scream sometimes.
can you elaborate on "the beautiful women that wear no make-up"? what is your basis of comparison and how do montreal women rank?
thank you very much for the kind words, it's much appreciated :)
if i can add a note, montreal isn't that representative of the whole of quebec. a significant proportion of the population is bilingual, and we have large amount of anglophones too. this, plus immigration, leads to more openness, tolerance and flexibility. but once you leave montreal, you'll realise that the rest of the province isn't really like that. french is more entrenched, people are less tolerant of outsiders and i always get the "where are you from" and "your french is really good", something i never hear in montreal (i'm born in montreal of moroccan immigrants, and french is actually my second native language, while english is only a distant 3rd).
>why is the limit on decarie 70km? we are all going 100, these signs are not working.
that is why they are 70km. if they were 100km, the drivers would be going 130km. they work with the local mentality.
>no one j-walks
true in some boroughs, false in others. also winnipeggers j-walk like crazy downtown. that's just 'walking'.
>people from off the island – this might sound strange, but people from laval and longueil are basically winnipegger’s that speak french.
agreed, those areas are very much like st. boniface. (source: also from wpg)
>mayonnaise with french fries
yes, but you need to try mayo with harissa sauce at frites alors. even better. also, try the merguez (sausages) at the local arabic green grocer/butcher shop. bagels are nice but the merguez is pure magic.
> i was promised rudeness at every opportunity. really not the case at all. everyone is super helpful. 
same experience. everyone has been helpful,  friendly, often fun. never had a problem with language stuff, not even the switching to english thing - i just switch it back.
what's a chest fanny pack ?
*but its bread and sesame seeds, calme-toi. they exist in literally every grocery store across the country*
get. out. (this is where my rude side comes out!)
can i add something that surprised me? a group of friends tends to span different age groups in a way i've never seen before. elderly people out for a good time with much younger people even at night. this was shocking to me. 
montrealers are not at all rude when you're trying to learn french
montreal bagels are trash compared to new york bagels. fight me.
random: many dudes here have full heads of hair. i rarely see bald guys. am i crazy? is it the french genetics?
love watching french guys in the plateau smoke cigarettes. marry me
people here are a lot more open and down to earth about dating but a bit more mysogynistic/traditional
<3
> where i’m from if a restaurant says its open until 9 and you walk in at 8:55 you are getting served. here if its not busy and you show up at 8:30 they tell you “too bad.” 
yeah this one even as a native québécois who's supposed to know better fucking sucks
fucking loved this bro.
thank you.
i get what you're saying about the bagels, but at the same time it's probably the best bagel in the entire world, so even thought it's just "good", it's still the best and that's something big.
what a great summary :)
> why is the limit on decarie 70km? we are all going 100, these signs are not working.
if the limit was 100 yall going to do 120.  look at the 440
the women are quite simply gorgeous and down to earth
6. i walked into a restaurant at 8.15. closing time was 9. i wanted to sit down and eat. this fucker was eye rolling to everyone who walked in. i got annoyed and took to go instead.
the traffic laws are so true! kane filtering omg montreal what could you be!
moving there soon. this post makes me warm and fuzzy on the inside :)
really happy with how this one turned out. my favorite details are the trash bins, garbage bags, the wheat paste graffiti, and the montreal-accurate manhole covers. oh yeah, and the poutine plate the one dude is running off with makes me giggle. the bill w. posters and the wilding board. there's a lot that i like about this one i guess. not sure what else to say about this one really. it was a lot of fun to make. open to questions, i suppose. if you want to see the rest of my models, and some in-progress shots of my work, and previews of what i'm working on next, you can find me on instagram, @apocalypse_montreal. thanks!
looks like hochalega
totally fake! not a single tourist waiting in line!  /s
nice work, i really like the print on the east wall detail!
you're thriving in this medium! love seeing these posts
i would go to an exhibition with just this kind of work
nice, looks like how it felt to work there during pandemic lmao
that's how la banquise looks in the minds of some /r/quebec users.
what inspired this project? how long does one take? really cool!
haven't i seen the sake graf around?
you should post these on r/miniworlds
hey man ! so glad to see another piece from you. once again the details just fascinate me. on this one what held my attention the most were the graffiti and paint job on the walls. i mean, you managed to make it real af. i did smile too at the guy with the poutine. nice touch.
i miss monteal so much :(
i wonder what apocalyptic poutines are made of
where is the biggest landmark, orange cone?
is this a specific location or just a montreal-esque street?
edit: seen some of your others btw. i like
edit 2: just noticed banquise!
[deleted]
it's very beautiful! your works would be showcased in a museum.
for authenticity, i suggest adding a person in an ethyl coma situation in front of the entrance.
i'm kind of surprised you haven't done "les foufounes electriques" yet.
(or maybe it's not there anymore? i haven't been in a while)
lol i worked there for a year in my early 20s as a line cook… and this sums up my feeling about the place haha
the miss me art looks dope! is it actually there in real life? your minis are gorgeous btw!!
i share each of your posts with my friend who makes minis. you have talent and creativity! congratulation!
so cool. i wanna see place des arts!
i'd love to see a deflated orange julep.
freaking amazing !!
rare talent. keep it up!
that's very creative! nice!
wow! it looks amazing and now i'm craving poutine
the end of the world won’t be so bad. at least there won’t be any line at la banquise for once.
really great work again mate. do you film yourself doing these? i'd love to see the process. what happens to the models after you're finished with them? 
i'd love to see you do the ubisoft building in mile end
do you have a website or instagram? that's so amazing!
looks like a regular night circa 2am!
[deleted]
damn, this is super neat.
gonna check your insta for sure.
i'm impressed with your mini graffiti, super spot on.
i love the ice floe
gorgeous! such talent
i think it's your best to date!
really cool creation, love the attention to detail, specially the graffiti and the trash bins
yooo the art on the walls are on point! end of the world end of the month, same fight is my new motto as a struggling low wage employee!
i really like how big you made that poutine it's like a birthday cake, nice leavel a detail
love the old school kops (as well as the rest)
it looks really nice. i don't know how much it would cost to commission something like that but i'll definitely pay a few k for something like that if i had the money. 😅
what's the medium?
favourite one yet
i love what you’re doing , any chance i could buy one ?
this is the bomb !! excellent.
this is absolutely beautiful!
missing a zonek tag to be legit haha he's everywhere, in every timeline
i am trying to figure out how pm works but am too old right now. i commented  a couple months (?) about how awesome your work is and i would love to commission something for my fixer-upper in ndg.
super beautiful, i love your works! are you going to do the lantic sugar factory or is it already post-apocalyptic enough already? : d
do you sell these? maybe la banquise would be interested in buying it
this is quality montreal!
dangerous in this place. the last time i went, to access the "penthouse", you had to climb a ladder, suspended in the void, which was held by two small shoe laces.
you have to be reckless.
what is this house ?!
who needs a monolith when you have the canada malting pink house?
do you know if this building will ever be destroyed? seems shabby and unstable to me, right?
oh the malting! surprising that nobody died there esti it is cut throat like place!
they do it every year, being an old tagger from the south west. that building will always bring back memories.
there was also one last year when it went up.
haha i passed by this morning and i was wondering if i was hallucinating a christmas tree!
st henri near the lachine canal. does anyone know what is written on the tag?
i feel warm inside when ever i see that beautiful house it brings tears to my eyes to know that people are that awesome
it seems safe to me.
the gentrification of this once treasured body dump has made it really inconvenient for murder enthusiasts. speaking for a friend.
this puts me in the christmas spirit more than anything else lol
the tent on the lachine canal just across the road should also be dismantled. a kind of notre-dame campsite, but more cheap.
edit: the radical left still active on reddit.
[  
i know exactly what you are talking about 😆
i managed to get in there once a couple of years ago, but i stayed on the "safe" side, ie the most recent, where the stairs still hold (or hold?). i would have liked to have done the whole "visit" but i have neither the courage nor the physical shape to climb to the top. it was still really cool to see part of this behemoth from the inside, and i really understood that day why the malting is nicknamed "stinky".
[deleted]
i think it's right next to the saint-ambroise microbrewery.
edith:
i saw that this summer too ... also what i wonder: who squats / goes there? lol. in teka, we can see it very well from the saint-ambroise terrace indeed.
call your realtor!
[deleted]
it risks being destroyed, but if i remember what the heritage montreal site said, it is a private building whose state of decrepitude does not directly endanger the surrounding buildings, so as long as the private sector does not unlock no funds - to destroy or preserve - it will remain to be damaged until it becomes a municipal file and the taxpayer pays for it.
except that it is also one of the historical examples (and still standing) of concrete silos in canada (my memories are vague, clarifications welcome) and that it should be classified as industrial heritage to preserve it and not destroy it. ... me finally ... knowing the propensity of quebec to protect its buildings, it should be destroyed quickly -_-
i put the building sheet here, but i didn't read it again
[canada malting co. on the héritage montréal website] (
sure, but they were built at the start of the 20th century, so the demo is going to be difficult, especially if they are stuffed with asbestos and other nasty stuff. it may cost less to keep them rather than to demolish them. even if the land must cost a fortune.
there is a group of citizens who are campaigning for it to be rehabilitated and converted into social housing / service center similar to building 7. look up "à nous la malting"
there's a guy a year old who died falling.
wow so you know how it got up there? also it looks dangerously large, part of the structure seems to be hanging over the edge!
estyk on the left, gzus, semo, on the right.
you should take off your cell phone and put you in this camp for 2 weeks to increase your empathy
bin yes toé, documented apart from that.
worse filming until the evening, sick haha.
yeah, you sort the slang of the og.
stinky, haha.
for real, if i had to go back, i would take the "safe" side haha. but yeah, it's cool from the inside out
hey boy, 10m outside, it's already dizzying inside.
in this time you take the opportunity to do a little rollup.
yes i see her often but i wonder why she exists
who is edith?
saint-henri.
it is the silos covered with mauve ceramic that have historical value because it is the only example that remains in north america.
i believe that one of the issues in this story is the official responsibility for the decontamination of the site. given the real estate value of the land, it must be really disgusting what is buried there if the owners assess that it is not profitable to clean up to put condos there.
kinda old thread but the "house" was there since the place shut down. someone is just ballsy enough to paint it well
maybe he wants to send the homeless to a heated building where they will have hot meals and health care.
haha, i've been interested in urbex for a very long time (even before knowing that it had a name) even if i don't do as much as i would like ...
but even the "safe" edge of the malting is dangerous. when i went, i climbed a few floors and went to one of the windows facing downtown. it was only when i got out that i realized that i had passed right next to a big hole on the ground. fuck knows where i would have picked up if i had fallen in. possibly in the morgue. i still freake thinking about it sometimes!
it's art"
nobody, it's a "joke" that instead of writing "edit" in english, we write the first name. i believe it comes from r / quebec
most likely.
the government could take it over and make a profit from it, but it will not be an easy demo and it will depend on the negotiating capacity of the government. just getting adequate insurance is going to be expensive.
a private company could do it for example, but i'm afraid they'll end up doing the bare minimum, which could potentially be disastrous.
hahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha
valérie plant uses your taxes to send 200 cops and throw the tents. do you honestly think she's going to take this money to help the homeless? i wish but it is not the authorities who will do the service.
edit: i don't know why the downvotes. she literally sent 200 cops to dislodge people and they have no other places.
to be honest, you teach me a good one, i didn't even know what urbex was haha.
if i went to stinky it's pcq i gravitated into the world of graffiti then it was nearby.
it's cool that he has a craze, but shit, similar stories like yours, but that's fatally ended, it's pretty common.
glad you're still alive.
and tell yourself that the police would not be against not having to intervene there.
pretty sure they understand the plant move. all the lightning will fall on the spvm, plant does nothing to help meanwhile.
are you serious about defending the police on an eviction in the middle of winter in a pandemic? 200 police officers and one social worker do you justify that? at $ 40 an hour and tear gas guns and the bike squad? the message is pretty clear. who do you think has the power to tell the cop to go or not? the one that finances 20 million to the spvm in 2021.
that’s what i’m saying. it wasn't the police who decided to do this.
ah the good old excuse 'we just listen to the orders'
lol
kk
in any case, i find it fucking beautiful your photo.
my new wallpaper 🙌
beautiful, what’s the view from?
yea that's a sick pic
love this picture!
montreal is one beautiful city. ❤️
poster for the promotion of the film "a werewolf in montreal"
definitely need a higher resolution version of this beautiful pic
amazing
moontreal ?
woooow, excellent framing. amazing shot, nice work!
it's magical !.
wow this is so beautiful. do you have a high res version?
nicely done.
stunning! i would totally buy a print of this! you making any for sale?
nice shot!
that's a really cool picture.  montreal looks like a little island of city life in the middle of wilderness and mountains.  almost like a fortress.  it's really interesting.  hopefully i can visit one day.
and the bridge is still standing.  for now.
soo good!
beautiful!
found my new lockscreen
thanks, that's nice!
thank you! i was a small stretch of land that was not submerged by water near pratt and whitney in longueuil.
thank you!
thank you! that's really appreciated!
yes indeed!
i keep the high definition for my clients but i take it as a compliment! thank you!
thank you!
thanks, it was a couple hours of waiting to get the moon centered on montreal.
thank you!
thank you! 
i keep the high resolution for the prints.
thank you!
thank you! yes sure, i'll dm you in the morning.
thank you!
thank you! but not to disappoint, there's not much mountains near montreal. still a beautiful city with a lot to see and to taste!
thank you!
do you have a website?
we get it, you vape... 
but more seriously, whereabouts was this taken on the canal? it's a bit hard to tell, but it looks like the area by the abandoned canada malting plant looking eastward (st-ambroise at st-rémi).
i think it was smog...according to the air quality advisory
\*smog
where is all that smog coming from?
i really wish they'd clear the path....
reminds me of the movie "the mist".
queue silent hill theme
amazing, thankyou for sharing! i looove fog\~  
(there is a smog warning today mind you)
r/mistborn
apparently...if you get a fog in january, it means you'll have a rainy spring.
oh wow
we had a ton of fog in the burlington vt area this morning as well.
gorgeous.
fog (again)
haha you're exactly right, i was just before the canada malting plant
a mix. however, it was mainly the fog that blocked the view. the smog layer was not that much worse and stayed all day.
there was hardly a rush hour..
* smaug
no it's fog
that was my question too. there is not so much freight then, there must not be so many fireplaces burning. we are in confinement therefore, there must not be so many cars moving around. so where did it come from?
it is mostly fog in the photo, the entire st. lawrence valley was immersed in it.
that movie had a great ending
may or may not have breathed in a bunch of smog
as an avid road cyclist, i ride past there a few hundred times a year. i'm just not used to seeing that stretch in the snow and fog.
[montrealers will wake up to smog friday and snow on saturday as winter weekend of wet weather begins](
* shmog
no it was smog
[smog](
roadie here, i call it "the smell of yeast that comes from the east" if the wind comes from that direction.
where the heck is it coming from?
*smogh
i didn’t know the canal ran through outremont 🤔
yes, there was smog, but what reduced visibility was fog. the reason there was smog is the same as why there was fog, a thermal inversion. there was a warmer layer of air at altitude (about 100m) which blocked the convective movements coming from the ground, in addition to an absent wind.
thus, a cooler air mass remained "trapped" under the warmer air cover, but the humidity was high, the dew point was almost the same as the temperature, so the humidity condensed. creating a thick fog. later in the morning, when the sun was successful in piercing the fog, warming the ground and allowing stronger convective motions, which allowed the air on the ground to pierce the cover the fog dispersed. that's why the fog disappeared soon enough. even though the smog reduced visibility, it didn't have such a big effect, the air would be unbreathable if it did. when the lid was pierced, the smog may have dispersed and raised the alert, but the lack of wind still allowed it to stay in the game. in the evening, i had been on the riverside on the south shore, and i saw a small layer of smog over the city which reduced visibility, but nothing compared to the morning fog.
to prove yourself, the entire st. lawrence valley was plunged into a fog, while the smog was confined to greater montreal. low visibility was measured in areas such as howick, venise-en-québec and burlington. [here] ( an image taken by a geostationary satellite, i have circled the areas in red. dives in a fog.
wood burning and transportation + light wind and cold temperatures. winter is actually our worst air quality period in quebec.
looks like this year isn't 2021, but 2020+1, so i don't expect much.
tl; dr
that's a shame. such a beautiful place.
barely anyone burns wood anymore...
tl; dr if the smog were that big, it would be unbreathable and extremely dangerous. it's mostly fog.
the schools quit too...
not pictured: loud snow removal machines with blaring sirens. 
all jokes aside. great picture.
looks great. this is why i love winter
[rue hutchison!](
i moved here in the summer and a few snow days later, i still can't get over how beautiful the city looks under a blanket of snow.
coming soon - 
i don't know if this is borough-specific:
when a side of the street indicates no parking for a couple hours for snow clearing, can you park your car immediately after the side is cleared or do you still have to wait until the time the signage indicates?
verdun is really tricky since we have no permit parking and so many people are working from home right now.
calm and quit. just how i like it.
don't quit. believe in yourself.
it's really pretty right now, the backyard is filled with snow, it all looks like everything is coated with white frosting or sprinkled with icing sugar.
i don't mind a big snowstorm as long as i don't have to go anywhere...also, we haven't really had a terrible winter so far, we had like zero snow in december. better than freezing rain!
it also looks like the snow conditions this weekend are going to be fantastic. fresh snow, not too cold! enjoy!
*quiet
experiences may vary.
never gonna get sick of seeing this city in the snow 😍
i had forgotten how lovely montreal could be... from trois-rivières, i miss you guys!
i love it so much right now 🙏🏻
very beautiful.
ye man, i’ve quit outside too
i love summer but dislike that there are too many loud people outside who are inconsiderate.
i wish for a place that has all four seasons but with introverts mostly. 
beautiful picture!
if my teachers would have told me to stay quit in class, i would have left.  i hope yours told you to stay quiet instead, like mine did.
waiting for it here in nova scotia.... commung soon
yooooo tupper street, i used to live there
downtown quit or is quiet??
that was such a gift this morning -- i haven't had a proper day off since christmas break. every one of us in education are overworked and exhausted too.
it's nothing.. we got alot more in the past (i live in mtl too). did you mean quit or quiet?
[deleted]
> not pictured: loud snow removal machines with blaring sirens.
my hometown (minneapolis) also gets tons of snow and while *in general* i think montreal does a better job of handling snow removal, i do appreciate that minneapolis manages to get it done without those stupid fucking sirens.
they have fixed rules that everyone's expected to know for where you can/can't park when the city declares a snow emergency ("the first day, park on this side, then on the other side the next day," that kind of thing). when the rules need to come into effect, it gets announced at least a few hours in advance, and they announce it on the website, on social media, in the news, on tv, on radio, etc, and you can sign up for alerts by text/phone call/email/app. 
it's slightly more complicated to keep track of than "oh shit oh fuck i hear a horn, better move it now," but still effective and *significantly* quieter. i wish montreal would adopt a system like that.
oh god they are so noisy late in the night and in the morning !!! sometimes i just assume they are noisy on purpose so everyone notices they are here and get the job done
i agree, whether it's winter or summer, montreal's sceneries are so pleasant and restful.
i was hurting my geography. thanks mvp!
right on it!! good job for recognizing it 👊
you’re pretty lucky! don’t know where you were living before but this is the most beautiful winter we’ve had in a long time!
lmao so true
yes you can!! if you make suuuure there's not gonna be another snow machine coming. i have few friends who told me these kind of stories.
i am more of a quit inside type of person.
maybe finland would be up your alley
quiet\* my man
man if there's people i sympathize with these days it's the healthcare workers and education workers. i hope you get the best of days off today and that many more are to come once this is over.
[deleted]
yes. (it was a play on the typo)
grrrrriiinnnnnn.. (even if no snow to plow on april 29th)...nnnnnndddddddiggugugugddddd...
all jokes aside. great pothole.
me: hear the move your car beep-boop.
also me: look out the window to judge the people who didn't move their cars.
cars: none.
as far as i can tell, the plow order algorithm is the same each time. today i moved my car to the other side of the street ("plowing round 3") since i had it parked on the "plowing round 2" side. the unknown is how long it takes them to get to rounds 2 and 3, hence the placards/chaos/sirens.
the sirens are actually a last minute notice for people to move their cars and not be towed/ticketed.... something that took me three years to figure out....🤣🤣
to a point - it's nice when it's just snowed, but they the plows and the cars and the dogs and the weather conspire to make it a disgusting brown mess.
:(
winter or summer? autumn is the best montreal season of all due to mount royal being a blazing red, yellow, and orange backdrop to downtown. 
but i certainly also miss how montreal looks in winter during and after a snowfall, not that ottawa, where i live now, is all that different.
thanks. i can't help it, whenever i see a picture, i have to find where it is...
[deleted]
hi more of a quit inside type of person, i'm dad! :)
reinventing your entire curriculum for hybrid delivery (multi-level classes), alternating distance/school (sec 3-4-5), and in person for some classes takes a lot of prep time.
(yeah, i guess i was too drunk to post this on the original post, you had the essence of what i meant ;) )
i know i shouldn't say this but... i miss montreal in the winter (currently living in toronto).
i know maybe i shouldn't say this, but i miss montreal in the winter (i live in toronto right now).
can you come and pick up your snow please
* émile nelligan is stepping up *
it's still snowing!
the tray?
wow beautiful
they should shovel only between 5am-8pm lol, nature helping out the curfew
you could transplant to r / winterporn.
lovely early morning photo!
ultimately!
when there is a storm like that i always listen to the funeral album from arcade fire and there is no better vibe.
i would love to live in montreal. i've never felt so comfortable anywhere else. i live in america now, so yeah...
wow cute
and it’s the best kind of snow for snowman sculpting and snowball fight.
i like wide sidewalks like that
it seems to have slowed down...i wonder if we're going to get as much as they predicted.
the ski hills are going to be super this weekend.
**wl**
i live north of montreal, near mont-tremblant, i had snow higher than my knees. i had to go to work, my car got stucked everywhere 🤣
beautiful photo !
my snow covered sidewalk*
pretty
such a beautiful shot!!
i lived in nova scotia for a couple years and i missed the montreal winters too!
i've heard people say that, they miss the real anarchy of a montreal winter...less snow and milder in to but just endlessly gray.
spent 5 years in to. their winter is just sad. but a great city. i wish more quebecers could experience it.
it's understandable, winter is miserable but then theres snow days like today and its peaceful and magical
i just moved to montreal from toronto and it’s my first winter here. it’s beautiful! toronto seems to get more.. ice storms that breaks everything lol
why shouldn't you be saying that
* my window is an increasingly frosty garden *
impossible. look at the space.
thanks! ☺️
good idea!! it's done 😉
thanks!! it was a perfect quiet morning for a walk
too bad we did not have this beautiful snow at christmas!
super sticky perfect snowball fight snow!!
it’s still coming down so we’ll see!!
thank you!
this ain't a sidewalk, it has to be a two-way street!
– someone in the plateau
i definitely missed the snow and cold. nova scotia winters are mostly rainy and windy with some snow here and there. not as beautiful as montreal winters
i usually take a summer trip to toronto, it's great and the food too!
it was a tongue in cheek comment as i know a lot of people complain about the winter conditions in montreal and i myself did complain out loud about the occasional - 40c weather. i did appreciate the milder winters when i moved to toronto but i miss the scenery of montreal in the winter.
it’s ville-emard on briand ☺️
i would be totally down for a city wide snowball fight if there’s no pandemic.
yes, still snowing a bit but the warnings are dropped, so we probably won't see a lot more. it's just too mild! 
it looks like we got about what, 10 cm?
snow i don't mind. it's normal and we need it, and there hasn't been a lot of snow this winter. we even had a green christmas. i guess if it had been cold enough, that rain would have been a snowstorm. i would definitely rather have snow than ice or freezing rain. at least you can shovel snow and it's a lot less dangerous. 
i think the average per winter is 9 snowstorms.
yea, to has pretty good food. favorite place was lee and their perfect 20 ingredients slaw.
...we don't get -40 in montréal lol. also if you complain about the cold that means you just don't know how to dress properly. people take heavy winters for granted and when they don't have them anymore they complain that they're gone
definitely at least 10cm, if not a bit more. it’s been consistent all day
i’d definitely always prefer snow not only for the ease of shovelling and getting it out of the way but because it’s just prettier and fun
oooh never tried. i loved the variety of asian places and super tradition korean restos. and there was this excellent syrian place last time i went called fat pasha
welcome to silent hill montreal edition.
looks like a montreal version of the day after tomorrow.
when this was taken?
looks like an end of the world image in cgi, i expect them to remove the layers of compositing to show us how it's done.
spoopy
im considering moving to montreal from southern europe. will i die from hypothermia within 24 hours of arrival?
i miss mont royal... my favorite park in the world.
silent hill.
neato. that's one strange looking cloud.
[here's my take on your photo.](
gorgeous.
i like
/r/cityporn
damn ghost ships, always clouding up the place.
and then came the ringwraiths...
queue eerie groaning sound with discordant random clicks before creepy monster/alien/ giant mech walks into frame and is ambushed by duo of kong and godzilla.
*"oh, so that's where winter is"*  
\-vancouver
wait a minute did you by chance meet another guy taking pictures in that exact same spot too, like a week or two ago? i wonder if that’s you here haha
ooooooh !! spooky!
when was that? this morning?
its downtown’s backside :p
silent hill
blade runner : montreal
it’s wave three coming to lick my balls
look at all that covid circulating..
that’s voldemort’s soul
amazing.
superb cemetery!
you walked all the way up there to take a picture?
looking good 👌
the city skyline was used for one of the new resident evil games actually!
the pyramid head mask would pass as a face cover, you think?
this weekend!
the first thing i thought of.
we have congolese, colombians, mexicans, cubans, haitians who live here and who survive!
if you go naked outside, yes - significantly faster, in fact. rip you
not if you arrive in summer
no but you might find the summers oppressive. it's hot and humid in montreal during the summer months. at least you can bundle up in wintertime.
as a dog owner parc la fontaine is better lol
it's a snow shower, a sleet. this is typical of march and april, as the weather warms up and small convective clouds appear. they are often the cause of very dangerous snow squalls.
he walked all the way up there, and then took a picture
re2 remake! you can clearly see the 1000 de la gauchetière and place ville-marie there!
the length would help for the distancing, anyway
pyramid head in silent hill montreal = orange cone head with the text "rue barrée use the other sidewalk"
yesterday morning right? i have that view from my apartment and yeah we couldn't see anything outside.
pretty cool! thanks for sharing!
the cold is not that bad. people tend to overrated it. everywhere is heated, if you can avoid staying outdoors it is fine.
as someone who doesn’t like it when there’s too many people around, parc maisonneuve is best
care to elaborate?
say what?
2km instead of 2m, it seems likely to me. 😂
came to say this. and if you're going to be outdoors, dress properly.
love it! how much?
very nice!! this is my favourite view coming down the mountain on my bike - really captures the serenity of the scenery scrolling by you at twilight (as long as nobody is u-turning in front of you in a giant suv) ;)
this feels magical
very very nice work!
this better gets as much if not much more upvote than the typical observatoire picture that we see every week...  
great oc / u / sarahafskoven
i really love it
wow! i didn't even have to read the title or the subreddit it was on and i instantly recognized the view from the first belvedere of the mountain! it's awesome man!
very nice !
gorgeous!
amazing painting!
beautiful :)
this is beautiful, but i think you forgot to add the traffic cones...
and you've got 514 upvotes yay!
this is just beautiful. so talented
this is incredible!
it's beautiful, well done
gorgeous!!!
stunning work!
i immediately recognized the area, even before seeing the description! very beautiful painting!
vvg , very van gogh
wow i would buy that
reminders! looking forward to the green & pavement to return!!
[deleted]
it's gorgeous!  ville st-laurent and laval never looked so pretty before hahaha
school
i love it amazing job!
hold on to that nft ;)
gorgeous!
really nice
thanks! hahaha, it's on my website [here](
hahaha, that bend is treacherous for anyone not in a motor vehicle!
thank you! those nights were pretty magical!
thank you! (as much as i do love the observatoire)
same. it’s stunning!
thank you!
there were actually no traffic cones the night i took the photo i used as reference for this, but you're right, that was the truly unusual experience!
thank you!
thank you so much!
thank you! sorry to hear you have to leave - i also sadly parted with the city in january. it's on my website [here]( you want to take a look! where's the next home for you?
😂
thanks for this
i miss this city do much
was at mont royal yesterday the sunset was stunning! love this city
stunning! can't wait to visit montreal again!
you can feel the cold through the picture!
"i said get me pictures of araignée pierre!!!" - j. jonah jameson
cool pic (literally!), i love the feeling it gives.
[i cropped it]( to 16:9 and adjusted contrast to use as desktop background.
which phone did you use for taking the picture? it's a nice one.
must have been a little chilly.
beautiful photo. i would have liked it to be horizontal though: \\
it would have made a beautiful screen.
montreal’s skyline is growing
after all this covid situation please!
taken on the iphone 11! :)
oh yeah! a solid -12, but no wind!
sure!
yep, that's the farine five rose building
i wish montréal had more cool signage like this. great picture.
i love that building. it’d be downright awful if that sign was ever taken down.
hi mods: would like to change the title to farine five roses! realized i missed the s!
you did.
do they still make flour or is it just decorative?
i think your photo of the peel basin and the bonaventure expressway was cooler.
cool article about the history of the sign and what it means to some in montréal
beautiful picture. what camera / setting were you using ?
wow, that's really a beautiful photograph. it perfectly captures it, nice!
boy do i miss life before pandemic.
nice hdr
i like it alot. something special about this shot. angle, backdrop? not sure but its very nice to look at.
costco is there if you turn right 😂
you have a nice start of sign reflection in the water at the bottom, maybe you have a way to compose around it
thanks bro amazing this is now my background 💚😉👍
i don’t see any letters burnt out i’m calling this a fake!!! 😂haha. nice shot !
it's my white wale. i spend so many nights trying to take "the picture" from it and it just never happened. sometimes close, but never "it"
i’ve seen this in montreal somewhere
that sign just reminds me of getting killed at the cas.
correction, photo of the new baseball stadium 😀
do you have an instagram?
great shot!
urban beacon of my tormented loves ❤️
in the hood. nice shot
great shot
look at this photograph
you and 15356745777446 other people in montreal.... 💩
are you sure of that?
would like to change the title to farine five roses! realized i missed the s!
well, if we're going to be pedantic, it's the five roses sign, but it's no longer the five roses building.
oh nice! which city is that in, boston?
it’s because not many people bend neon lights like that anymore. i’d be ok if they made signs with led light in a similar style, as long as they weren’t too bright
it’s in the farine dude, you can’t change it.
the building is owned by adm, and they still make flour there. but the five roses brand was sold to smuckers several years ago. the sign had been extinguished, and it had caused a stir at the time.
canon t7i . iso is prob around 200, and shutter speed was around 4 seconds.
thank you. its not an hdr, i just increased the highlights in some parts of the photo.
it’s in the city of england i think
intersection 9 3/4
“yer a montrealer, harry”
it acts as a kind of cul the sac in tmr.
it’s on my run route.
these streets should all be considered cul de sac for the most part between rockland and acadie.
just need a u-turn forbidden sign and it would be perfect.
that cul de sac is one pain in the cul
the only thing left to do is set your car on fire with poutine oil to not leave any marks.
you've reached the end of montreal, congrats.
bruh...... thats the best picture ive seen so far in montreal
i assume a u-turn is mandatory and the left turn sign was knocked by a snowplow truck. good luck if you are driving anything bigger than a car
ahh tmr the land of being lost in suburbia
yousse in morial?
the only explanation i can see is that the obligatory left turn sign got picked up by the scraper, and is supposed to face our right. cars coming from there cannot continue straight ahead and must turn left.
then you get ticket for being confused by signage lol
intersection avenue brookfield and chemin selwood, mont-royal.
[
but it's not even in montreal! town of mount-royal. we can't blame ferrandez for that one.
haha, i know exactly where this is. i cut across here on my bike to get to cheap indian food and/or cross the tracks in parc jarry.
i knew this gave me vibes of acadie/outremont. corner of selwood and brookfield.
it's a pile-up of self-driving cars in the making.
brookfield ave in tmr
this is also how montreal puts detours for construction
i guess you’re meant to u-turn. weird setup though. 
it would make more sense if this were a one way itself away from the intersection.
whoever put the signs up was very much /r/notmyjob
this almost like fine art.
it looks like you are on the wrong way lol
tmr? looks familiar..so classic haha
only in quebec
i just noticed a right arrow on the left. i thought the problem here was the contradictory signs « turn left », and « no left or right turn », lol. either way this intersection is super confusing
just backup. 😜
hmm looks like tmr? most of montréal has “permitted” signs (green circle) instead of “forbidden” signs (red circle). only a handful of boroughs (tmr and westmount come to mind) have these (and anglo stop signs).
go straight, obviously.
"what are you doing? it's a one-way street"
"uh, ok but uhhhhh....."
why would this only be in montreal?
the must be a two drink minimum at the city planner's office.
getting there with a delivery truck warming up shouldn't be fun.
😲🧐🤔
stop!
lol
turn left? i think the don’t turn left or right sign with the red circle cancels out the two black and white arrows saying turn left and right. thus, leaving the left arrow in the green circle. 
or it’s just a confusing perspective and makes since closer to the arrete sign.
🙈😂😂😂😂🙈 that’s so stupid ! i live in montreal as well and you’re totally right.
had some business meetings in montreal. i was about to go under the 520 and saw a works vehicle ahead. it was a cherry picker with a guy with a hammer in hand. i slowed down to see the guy start hammering away and pieces of concrete showering the road in front of me. no signs, no warning, just a guy hammering away making a mess of the road. i learned this is typical for montreal as i have never seen this anywhere else. they didn't even see me. i just waited until he was done and they just drove away. no cleanup, nothing.
also, whats up with neighborhoods with nothing more than 2 floors high, with the exception of one ugly 12 floor brown block ?
only in tmr.
selwood is fun, longest street in tmr without an address
that's ogilvy corner l'acadie on the other side of the fence. my dog groomer is right across the big building. guys been there forever, like 40 years at least.
haha tmr
ha! take a drive on pine avenue where the lanes shift not once, but twice, and for no apparent reason other than the line painters employed by the city are incompetent. at each "switch", they move about 4 feet. happens twice. if you are trying to stay in the lanes, there's a good chance you'll sideswipe someone.
it’s in tmr and it’s because of a fence between park extension and tmr. it acts as a cul de sac and it’s quite nice. there are never any cars there so ill often just go down the wrong way and its fine
["well what street are you on?"](
oh my lord 🤔🤣🤣🤣
u / ihatekinghenrivii
only in montreal..oh really...have you visited all the cities in the world to back this ?
probably a one-way street. the stop is there for pedestrians (or bikes) who want to cross ... so that they don't assume that the cars will stop.
op probably missed the one way sign...
i even read it with the voice!! 🤣
got my upvote
i always thought this was anthony bourdain
the leonard cohen exhibit is one of the best museum experiences i've ever had and i didn't really know anything about him before going into it.
so is it a rule that this mural has to be posted at least one a week on this sub?
i thought this was anthony bourdain when i first saw it
no, but can we come back to this mural?
jazzy mr spock!
wow! belle photo
very beautiful photo ! thanks for sharing!
beautiful pic
great @elmac mural even better the closer you get
very nice picture!
very clean shot! thanks for sharing :)
my cousin took that exact same picture on the same day... i’m not sure if you’re my cousin or you stole that picture haha
love this.
i always wanted to take that picture! with the snow it’s so montreal.
very pretty!
i don't know if this is an unpopular opinion, but i vastly prefer the other cohen mural that is on napoleon st. near saint-laurent boulevard. i find the other one is more visually striking.
the heart ❤️ of downtown!!!! mtl ❤️❤️❤️
so the same post that has been done 50 other times but this time its in french so we have to be nice about it? 
this picture is shown all the time on this sub
montréal looks half decent from this height
that's a freemason sign he's making *just saying*
who is that?
turned his back on the city. overrated performer and he gets idolized ?
[deleted]
is it showing anywhere in the city now?
a lot of people started to care only once he died
every two weeks. the other week it was someone who discovered the belvedere on mont-royal
they actually do share quite a resemblance
so let's let the new mcgill students have their fun;)
ok sorry.
anthony bourdain probably
so edgy
yeah, considering he was not a singer. he was a poet and a songwriter. do you go tell people dylan’s not a good singer? everybody knows that, even dylan.
that's because he was more of a songwriter/poet than a singer. he was closer to a bob dylan than say, a robert plant. not the best voice, but but had a real way with words.
singer is a stretch.  poet who reads to music is more on target.
better late than never. he was pretty talented. it's nice to know his work will be enjoyed long after his death too.
that's not true at all. has he been talked about more after his death? yes. but he was still a huge name and a highly-revered artist when he was still alive. foreign artists doing live renditions of hallelujah as a tribute to him when they play in montreal is a tradition that goes way back when he was still alive.
leonard cohen
[deleted]
shit, i just saw your post and wrote pretty much exactly the same thing!
i bet dylan wouldn't even win "america's got talent".../s.
[deleted]
what are you saying is not true in my statement exactly? you just said yourself he has been talked about more after his death. he was still very known before and still making albums, that doesn't remove that fact.
i was mostly bringing up that when an artist dies, they gain in popularity which i find a bit sad but it's been like this ever since artists exists probably. like expensive famous paintings.
the guy got a mural after he dies only and now we see it on reddit every 2 weeks(probably exaggerating here)
this mural must be new, i've never seen it posted on the sub here
every time... that's leonard nimoy!
edgelord
my favorite prt is you downvoting me for saying literally the same thing as you. you really are edgy.
i think denis coderre painted it a few days ago
a'ec un [shadow dog puppet](
is this his way of announcing his candidacy for mayor?
when i go to the butterfly 🦋event, i put shorts and a thin top on under my winter apparel. i check my clothes with my coat and enjoy a tropical vacation for a few hours. wonderful
what?!? le biodome semble tjrs full book. good to know!!!
i can vouch for this! went a few days ago with my family, it was very relaxing. barely anyone inside.
also, the outside grounds (which are free) made for a great walk, albeit there's not much greenery to see just yet.
i haven't been there in a while, this is a good idea
i miss my late-winter pilgrimage there this year. i hope the border opens up this spring.
it seems to be sold out for a whole month
wow, thanks for that!
i have fond memories of easter week visits with my grandparents back in the 1960s. the profundity of color at the bleak end of winter was the tonic we all sorely needed
always respectable to go and relax with nature ... in town!
[relevant](
humid is never good.
i guess you needed to wear a mask?
[deleted]
it will take them forever to put tiny masks on all those butterfles...
it will be now
it's always full because it's just 25 tickets per half hour. there's a little buffer for those who have the biodôme friends card or other such card, but it goes fast anyway.
yes! the cultural garden was sweet to explore (free). there was a lot of beauty seeing the chinese buildings covered in snow :)
it would be nice to go back to social normalcy.
in the meantime mask up, stay clean and be conscious of your outings. we got this :)
where did you check? they allow 25 people in, every 30 mins. i just checked the site, and it looks 100% open for the next few days.
yeah i just went it was also empty, you can just buy tickets at the door. 16$ each for residents and depending how much you want to read about all the plants it takes around an hour.
my visit was a walk in with no reservation :)
they seem to be a little disorganized when it comes to number control and where the waiting areas are, so if you do go please bear with them, be patient with their system, respect your distance with others, stay polite and please please please know others are waiting outside to get in.
the biodôme looks fully booked, but not the botanical garden!
i went yesterday and booked tickets friday night but the time wasn’t ideal at 4 pm.
god dammit english lol
curly hair? oily skin? easy to sweat? worth it! 😆
yes. i wore the cute one :)
..they still only allow 25 people in every 30m, it's not a fucking church.
username checks out.
that's ridiculous.
the butterflies were vaccinated.
that's the cutest mental image i've gotten all month ♥
support local, responsibly :)
amen. i hope that on a warm afternoon in august, i'll be enjoying a cold beer in front of a cafe while people watching in old montreal.
nah, not enough orange cones.
pretty much highway 15 everyday
it's going to look like this at the corner of 15 south and 40. when the royal mount is going to be built, forget about crossing the metropolitan in less than a day.
riding the metro and stepping into your lane has always been a special moment ... yeah i get the vibe. on the other hand it looks more like laval when the highways end in a country lane lol.
that's jean-talon near décarie, right?
tell her it's not that easy. xd
where’s the lie?
more lanes would solve the problem!
the feeling i had when the exit for the 15, when it joined the 40, was on the left before tabar ***
again the feeling that i sometimes have when i take the 15 and i join the 40 for less than 5 km ...
12 lane's, 5 and 6th cars are the assholes you met in montreal trying to go faster by skipping people. tell me i'm wrong. :p
obviously guys it's a joke. people are driving like shit everywhere. :d
ha ha!  if it was only that easy.  no anti-vax parade, no detours into one lane one way streets with bike paths on each side with no cyclist on them, no detours into detours that lead to a closed highway, no orange cone forest with absolutely no visible work being done for the last month, no lanes closed with an officer directing traffic and somehow making everything worse than if everyone just did whatever they wanted.
on weekends, in the plateau, rosemont, the center-sud and hochelaga, it is quite the case yes.
since the tunnel is closed everything is blocked. everyone tries to take the jacques cartier bridge and things get really hot.
well she's not wrong..
you don't need so much tank and path. cones of abandoned construction sites, no parking at the destination but the vision will be great from 2036!
she is right!
rue jean talon or rue saint catherine everyday during construction baby
used to be! thank god i can bypass montreal now on my way to maritimes. autoroute 30 for the win!
probably still get home faster.
ah! so this is the real life, insane mode of the game “let me out”
y’all got a 450 gf..  enjoy ;)
pretty sure that's decarie
exactly like that but with less lanes.
the roads here are nowhere near that nice.
that’s what it is like to drive in montreal!
ok, but i don't see any potholes.
but it is tho....
when the 15 and 40 converge to leave the city:
lol, will be better in a few years 
the rock, montréal, is among the best places to live :) i’m biased
décarie be like
no, you can see the lines on the road in that pic.
she is not wrong.
it's very extraodinare
🤣👌
pretty accurate lol
another project for coderre?
a perfect example of why building more roads is pointless. public transport>
if you add a second direction it's what lionel-groulx station looks like when 2 opposing trains stop at the same time.
dame is that true bc i'm in hakesbery and i naver de this
this is the 15 south
i mean, she's not wrong.
she's not wrong.
*no lie detected*
so true !!!
i can’t think of a worse hell than this
china
agreed!
isn't that los angeles ca 26 lane freeway?
she's not wrong
let's not encourage wfh and businesses to open later, let's just keep staring at the problem.
ctrl-f5, no one mentioned there's a giant mountain in the middle of the city. of course there's going to be congestion.
very pretty, there an atmosphere in it.
what's your process? this is amazing :)
not to be that guy, but is this for sale? leonard was my dude.
very nice!
beautiful!
i used to live in that building when i lived in canada, seeing this filled me with sweet and wonderful memories.
thank you :)
nicely done!:) one of my fav streets!
love ur username too lol
man i miss going out now. last time i did was near there with my gf, good times just us two
that’s a beautiful mood
very nice!  i like how you captured the leonard cohen mural.
lived at de la montagne-sherbrooke, just moved out of mtl. had this view all the time, thanks for this.
love it!
i stayed in an air bnb in that building last time i visited. lovely spot to spend two weeks.
this is beautiful!!!
it’s so beautiful
excellent.
this is the building that made me want to move here.
favorite street in mtl!
very nice but you’re just missing the hundreds of “à louer” signs...
thanks !
thanks! i sketched the outline in pencil, filled in a few layers of watercolor, and the cohen mural is in pencil then washed with water to make a litte more muted - i still wasn't sure if the styles clashed too much but was overall happy with the outcome.
edit: i also use ink pen for outlines and writing
i was wondering the same thing. great piece!
he's my dude too, i loved him since i was a teen. i wasn't planning on selling it but i can run a few prints. feel free to pm me.
thanks :)
thanks! it's a lively section of town when we're not locked down!
thanks <3
thank you!
i love this mural so much! also so nice to look down on it from the lookout on mont-royal.
thank you!!
thanks !  montreal is so beautiful....
thanks !
it's the building that makes me feel the most emotion in montreal!
that mural really tied the street together!
that's so sad..
very true. for me, there were so many late night runs to boustan on crescent street as a mcgill student (luckily stayed in shape ha). can’t wait to come back to visit. i’ve had this as my wallpaper for a month.
ahhhhhh boustan and their roasted potatoes with garlic sauce!!!!  <3
now i'm really craving a huge plate of boustan
happy ^^ gohabsgo saint - ^^ gohabsgo jean! ^^^ gohabsgo
anyways, go habs go
it's my first fete nationale! so far i'm planning to grab a beaver tail, some poutine, and find somewhere to watch the game tonight-  anything else on your must-do list?
it is also the sao joao in portugal.
my portuguese-speaking colleagues in portugal are on leave today itou.
happy st-jean tabarnak
to quote the great plume latraverse, good st-han, my ciborium gang !!
happy saint john tabarnak
[deleted]
happy saint john!
happy saint-jean!
happy st-jean everyone!
criss that the city is beautiful worse that quebec is beautiful! long live quebec!
happy st-heeen de chibougamau !! 🍻
happy saint-jean friends!
tokebec icitte
bonne st-jean, happy st-jean!
long live new france, then seal the scales!
happy saint-jean!
also happy birthday to me! fireworks on my birthday every year!
happy st-jean! i'm in rawdon bathing in the sun—
happy saint-jean! go habs go !!!
shouldn't this post be removed for the same reason the canada day posts are removed every year? the reason i was given is that the canada day posts have nothing to do with montreal, but canada. just like this.. i'm not trying to be a dick, i just think both st jean and canada day posts should be allowed.. to remove one because of a certain rule and not the other seems silly to me. edit: i was told the canada day posts were removed because they violated rule 1, and kinda rule 4. both of which this post "technically" violates.
**not sure why i'm getting downvoted.. i'm a proud quebecois... i'm just saying if someone's going to quote a rule as a reason to do something, they should also have to follow it.. moderators shouldn't be above the very rules they've established..
happy st-jean!
any fireworks going on tonight?
happy day!
happy st-jean! long live montreal! and long live free quebec!
joyeux st. john the baptist!
come to maisonneuve park to party lol,
sa and the wasteland near viau
it's not the same thing?
[removed]
happy saint-jean to you too!
going to see an outdoor show in a neighborhood park is fun!
ps the beaver tail is from ottawa and not from quebec if i'm not mistaken!
recite a i-you-hi-mary full of fat after the pout and the beaver tail and finish it with a small fret on the edge of the fire / water.
>grab a beaver tail
this is canadian filth, please! that quebecois for the national holiday!
learn about how quebec treated and continues to treat the indigenous peoples whose land they illeagally built a "nation" on :)
interesting, i had no idea that these two parties were at the same time!
italy also san giovanni.
it is celebrated everywhere but it is not the same context here indeed.
in brazil as well. not only that, it's a massive thing in part of the country.
congratulations very well coordinated!
[does this count?](
happy birthday lestère
happy birthday!
it's moving day anyways....
you’re exactly right, no reason to be downvoted.
i've been looking for the same answer.  
after scouring the web, apparently yes, but there is no precise indicator as to when they'll take place. you can see them at the old-port/parc jean drapeau.  
[  
can anyone else help here?
officially, the national day is for all quebecers and saint-jean-baptiste for francophones outside quebec.
not for a few years, but it's the same day and for the same people quite a bit.
buddy, just don't comment then, we don't need your negativity. 
i find it ironic that you don't like the holiday but are happy to cheer for "les habitants".
>than pretending to give a shit about this holiday.
exactly like us on july 1st;)
thank you, friend !
are you having face-to-face shows tonight? i didn't find anything on the official national day website (but i was ripping it off with the search engine filter when i looked, so i might have missed some stuff.
thanks we need more pictures of this mural.
is this mural new? i've never noticed her before.
rip anthony bourdain
they have nevertheless distorted the beautiful old architectural style of the street with this huge building without windows.
the glowing red heart is a nice touch. used to walk by this all the time when going to work was a thing. it's fun as you don't see it from all angles. gotta find some good spots!
wow that's amazing! this pandemic really made us do great things. thank you to the team painting it this weekend.
whenever the cohen mural is not posted on this sub, all the other members should be asking, "where's the cohen mural?"
rip lennie
r/montreal: "we like this mural."
anyone remember that mini club called exotica that lasted like six weeks? what a shit hole that was.
aww rue des saoul at 3 am. :)
is that bon jovi ?  i love metallica. especially their album the bright side of the crescent.
i will be back here soon ! love montreal.
miss my city! when will it end!
my friends and me we call him the fedorable man
i miss thursdays tbh🥺
definitely someone named leonard hmm, [yeah nimoy](
you guys are idiots.  it's leonard cohen
[deleted]
i'm subscribed to your youtube channel, happy to see you here
fresh...
[deleted]
if i don't see that mural every three days it's like "where do i live again?"
clearly, anthony bourdain is the beacon of this town
[removed]
there's a picture of this mural being posted here at least once every two/three weeks. are you being sarcastic?
i think it's been there for more than 2-3 years (first time i saw it was 3 years ago iirc)
this made me laugh, thank you. 
but also, yes.
i unironically thought it was him when i first saw it. in my defence, it was like a couple months after he died.
it represents his passion for food and travel
thanks for trolling. been up since 2017
rip prime cougar-hunting grounds
no day of the week has been cancelled because of the pandemic.
🤗✌👍🧡
lol
maybe you're mixing it with the one of anthony bourdain that we see regularly? it's the first time i see this mural of leonard nimoy.
i thought the sarcasm was obvious.
it's rrsp season so posting a mural of an accountant makes sense.
are you sure? we never saw a picture of that mural on this subreddit before.
i've convinced friends from outside montréal that it's him and his it was painted because he loved our city/food
yes, i believe he was vegetarian and he did love traveling on the enterprise
actually, it’s been up since [2017](
i subscribed to your youtube channel. i liked and commented on a bunch of your videos. i even shared your channel on all my social medias.
may the force be with you
lmao this isn't leonard nimoy but now i can only see him.
he is correct, it was inaugurated in 2017. here’s the [proof](
edit: sarcasm is not something easily readable, especially when it’s an inside joke about this subreddit which i visit like three times a year. use /s next time.
there is an episode of “parts unknown” where he goes to montreal/quebec, and he says it is his favorite place in canada. so there is some truth here.
funny cuz my middle name is legit jean-luc
non-amp link: [2017](
i'm a bot. [why?]( | [code]( | [report issues](
happy moving day to those who are observing the tradition! don't forget to provide pizza and plenty of water to your helpers.
canada is perhaps one of the most advanced countries in the world in terms of respect for individual rights and freedoms, let us remember that this has not and does not apply to everyone.
we cannot choose to celebrate only the parts that suit us, in an exercise of selective pride.
i believe that the reasonable and sensible thing to do this year is to keep a little embarrassment, to lower the flag for a moment, to observe a big minute of silence, and to think about making canada a better country, including and especially for its indigenous peoples.
ps: [honour indigenous children. denounce genocide. demand justice. july 1st montreal gathering](
idk this year canada day doesn’t feel celebratory to me. might have something to do with our not so hidden past.
[deleted]
yeah but no. there is nothing to celebrate. good move for some.
happy thursday
moving day \ *
or commemorative day for the murder of first nations children.
happy moving day to all quebecers, and happy "national" holiday to our canadian neighbors.
happy canada day!
happy genocide day
not gonna celebrate something that doesn’t mention the near genocide of my people
this year, canada day must be a terrible heartbreak for mathieu bock-côté. on the one hand, cancel canada day, on the other hand, do not give in to "woke leftists" who want to cancel canada day in a "war against whites".
happy canada day! let's have a nice drink in memory of the thousands of indigenous children killed by the canadian state.
happy canada day from your neighbor to the south!
no pride in genocide
it's calis
i do not understand why we blame canada .... i understand that in those days politics and religion were inter-related, but precisely. how can you be against bill 21 and then want to ban canada day?
maybe someone could explain to me why it's not an almost direct link.
edit: clarification, i blame churches and religion for massacres like this ... not the canadian government.
i'm proud to be canadian but i'm also ashamed. i don't feel like celebrating in light of recent events. yes, i knew about residential schools before, but indigenous communities are in a state of mourning right now and they need our support. i'm not saying 'fuck canada," i'm saying that we need to learn to celebrate in a different way. learning about indigenous history sounds like a way of doing that. it pains me to think how people don't consider indigenous peoples when they think of the canadian identity. they're more canadian than the rest of us. i grew up in an indigenous community and most canadians have idea what it's like for them. there were kids in my grade 6 class who were alcoholics. they struggled in school, had trauma, and bullied other kids. they also faced constant segregation and racism. this was in the 90s. these problems aren't "history". this shit is happening now and it's shameful to ignore it or pretend that canada is more important while ignoring actual canadians who need our support.
abolish this false federation already. nothing to celebrate, st jean was last week
it's moving day here, and lucky for the people who did move today because it's not very warm. i've seen people moving over the past few days when it's been so hot and sticky, that's the worst. and yesterday it was pouring on and off, and i felt bad for anyone dealing with that. ugh. but so far i've been lucky on moving day in terms of weather and fortunately, i'm not moving this year. i did have two guys come to pick up my old gross tv and haul it away and gave them an extra 20 bucks for canada day!
we don't do that here
sad canada day
long live quebec
nope
i don’t think canada is all that happy right now
the canada!
happy canada day everyone!
now
happy canada day!! amazing country despite people who try to bring it down like our terrible pm. thank goodness his fascist anti free speech policy didn’t pass, there is still hope!
no.
🇨🇦 canada is the best country in the world!! i'm proud to be a canadian today!! 🇨🇦
wait.. did the city of montreal just troll us super hard?!
what the actual fuck people. we are in the midst of digging up hundreds (if not thousands) of children's bodies. does this seem like a time to celebrate?? 
some of you are extremely lacking in any sort of empathy and it shows.
canada has always sucks. people only start openning their eyes now that obvious shady things are revealed, but there's plenty no one is talking about.
o canada, to the depths of the woods.
no
i don't celebrate the invader.
no pride in genocide.
[removed]
long live the free quebec.
not this year. in light of what's happening it's quite uncanadian to celebrate canada day.
[deleted]
get that flag down.
edit: getting downvoted because it should’ve been at half mast lol gg
yeah good idea to celebrte a country build on genocide. we shouldn't celebrate kkkanada today but mourn and stay silent to reaspect indigenous peoples of kkkanada.
i just wish i could get my son's medication today, but the doctor has decided to go on vacation until next tuesday. they really should have back-ups in place for things like that.
man i get that we made mistakes in the past but it's not like that anymore why wouldn't we celebrate what we have become instead of being upset with what we were.
it's easy for french canadians to be up in arms with canada since they literally tried to leave our country. they were never proud to be canadian.
i posted the exact same thing in /r/quebec and the hate i am getting is crazy. 
happy canada day !! proud to be canadian!!
its cancel.
[removed]
i feel oppressed now
kind of a spaceships vibe!
beautiful!
whoa, that's a great shot indeed. 
quite the challenge for sure. 
and had to stay up pretty much all night, it was cloudy that night.
stunning shot! edmond chung is legit 👌
r/evilbuildings
that’s a great photo. also, i love how the stadium looks low-poly.
nice 👍
very nice
woah thats a very cool shot
beautiful. it really shows off the shoddy workmanship of the stadium.
looks like a sandcrawler
oh wow! thanks for the feature u/stamatgeorge!
nice!
so beautiful, well done to the photographer ♥ ️
they should print and sell these!
wow. very nice. great catch!
wow that's a crazy picture
dune 2 - the big "o"
amazing photo, love it!
this looks like a shot of those destroyers in star wars!
amazing shot!
…damn the big o is just a concrete monstrosity
my pleasure 😀 it's f. incredible!
the top of the tower (so the entire portion we see in the photo and more) is metal and not concrete as was planned.
yup. steel
i don't know much about photography, but the color saturation makes it look like a photo that would have been taken in the 70s or 80s.
wow. nice picture.
your photo is sexy. you have the eye!
one of the rare awesome shots in this sub. beautiful.
the sky and the tree is making this shot so beautiful, love from pakistan, huge fan.
wow!
really a nice photo & cool processing
wow, that's beautiful! great composition and colour!
sweet jesus, you have things to teach me. nice shot!
excellent looks like a photo on r / japanpics
wow!
beautiful ❤️
nice framing, really good composition
love the japan showcase there, if you read some of the information you realize just how authentic it really is. beautiful
very nice. what did you shoot with?
i was there 6 weeks ago. incredible experience.
nice color
great pic! tried to get a similar angle when i was there and botched it terribly :)
where?
ok
has a uqam student who has too much free time complained that this place is cultural appropriation or not yet?
haha yes, the majority of my photos have an old school vybe, i'm a big fan of old cinema
i like the saturation, personally.
thank you very much <3 i appreciate
thank you so much :) i'm glad you liked it
thank you :d <3
 i didn't know it was that rare
♥️♥️
thank you bcp :) i like hearing that you like it
thank you so much <3 it makes me so happy hearing such kind words
hahaha thank you bcp :) i wouldn't mind showing you how to do it if one day you need
<3 thank you and yes hahaha
<3
<3
thank you so much :)
omg i wasnt able to go to the japan one because i walked all day in many places and didnt have time to go, im so sad to hear the japan one is is also that good :(
i wanted to take pictures there so bad as well
thank you <3 :) with a fuji xt-200 and a 56mm f1.4 viltrox
we can both agree on that, such an experience to feel another country while remaining in your own
thank you very much :)
you probably didnt botched it dont worry :)
, it was probably the lens you were using , you need a 80mm or higher for the effect to work
the chinese section of the botanical garden
the botanical garden.
no, it's from concordia this time!
perfect timing with the light 👌
thank you!
other side of the same coin. one in french, the other in english.
welcome :) would highly recommend you to go if you like beautiful places, specially during winter because they sometimes host lights show and it looks so unreal
[deleted]
nice attention to detail. even the number of the sticker area is correct.
as someone who grew up as a hassidic jew ... i both laughed and cried ... edt* also can i buy this ?
pretty solid the same. beware of the haters, they will call you a nazi or an anti-semite if they are more sophisticated
you cheeky bastard! great work.
[deleted]
lollllll
the guy on the phone = spot on
sooo good. i lived nearby while in montreal and already miss the glorious headwear!
i'm not a big art person, but this is amazing, hilarious, and clever as hell. well done, op, i love it!
add some cops and you're on it.
best thing ive ever seen
ill never say it enough religious dogma is cancer.
well done!
[deleted]
[deleted]
have you been inspired by a mustached 30's person by any chance?
this is a great painting. reminds me of my time living in outremont. if you ever decide to part with it, i'd be really interested. feel free to pm me!
beautiful
[deleted]
what is your favorite drug?
bahahaha
i love this!!
nice painting, but are you trying to get sued ?
another great one! thanks for sharing them!
imagine showing this to someone who has never seen a hasidic in their life
he would be wondering why each person in the picture has a black rectangle on his head.
why are people disguised as hammers? oo
looks like a minyan to me....
beautiful
do you have an instagram account where you post your art? would love to see more
i can't wait to see the final version! the lamppost, the street poster, it's really good hahaha
love it
be careful, they will call you an anti-semite and / or a nazi.
inb4 thread locked
bruh 😅 should have had the po-po in the back maybe as pigs bacon strips (get it lol it's funny both ways ) ether way hopefully no one get offended..
not saying you are hitler, but wasn't he a failed artist? /s
* addition: the government's double standard which gives religious communities an exception to gatherings while the rest of the population has not been allowed to see a friend or a member of his family for the last 4 months, that c is another imbecility of the pandemic.
wow imagine criticizing the group that you are not allowed to criticize.
you're yienk a defacto neo-anti-semhitleronazi responsible for the six million.
thank you! you must also be from the neighborhood to notice the thumbnail!
are you still a hassidic jew? what was your experience like
<3 sending you a dm
jew here, we are as embarrassed as you are by their behavior ... we live in a free world, those who do not respect the rules deserve our generalized mockery ... even in israel we can not be more of their behavior, [they have set a bus on fire this week] ( out of control ... we can criticize the behavior of an ethnic group without being racist, at the moment they deserve nothing less than our complete disdain ...
[deleted]
thanks :p
inspired by friday/saturday's events...
came here to say this
hahaha i had fun with it!
also, once again, let me buy this.
lol thanks for noticing !
i have been living in the neighbourhood for a few years and i am still amazed every friday/saturday by the shtreimels :)
thanks! i loved making it!
it could become the new municipal logo
beautiful, everything about montréal summarized in one picture.
it's a shame it's true - and it's certainly a big mark of incivility - but if only there were more public trash cans !!
this should be the subreddit photo
without poop bags on the sidewalk it's hard to believe it's in montreal.
tbnk the fucking cones
should be the habs logo
chaotic neutral.
better than anywhere on land i guess?
it lacks guns ...
i mean, that's any major city though. at least montrealers put their garbage *in* something!
nature abhors a vacuum .... a box, a bin or any empty container turns into a trash can in the city. it is the same.
i like the illustration of tim's 2l cafe
the big booty chicks in leggings that we have here help me put up with this
at least they tried to put the trash inside the cone
at least it's serving a purpose, unlike 99% of cones just sitting on the side of the street.
very good for tourism! yay!
j'pu capab
it perfectly represents montreal!
is it on rue barré, by chance?
is this a banksy?
ladies and gentlemen, here are the bins for the new generation! you might need the old gray bins that you see everywhere! : p
everyone is pissed off now...
even the mayoress is absent
i mean… in fairness here… people are using the provided cans. they just need to be emptied more often.
edit: i just realized that’s a cone lol
but… it’s ok. seriously in that image the sidewalk is pretty clean…
i promise it's not just montreal. all the big cities i lived in, it was the same
clean citizens, dirty af officials
clearly a trash can is needed.
i love how people are trained to think that garbage is their problem when it is a systemic issue. 
we the people are led to believe that the excessive amounts of garbage generated from our consumption culture is our fault and that it is up to us to do something about it. no. it is not just up to us. we need to stop bitching about photos like this and pretending like our individual efforts are what is needed (i'm doing my part bullshit) start collectively doing something, pressuring our municipal, provincial, and federal governments to fukn to enact laws and bring the hammer down on the asshole companies that keep producing waste packaged as products. 
oh, and some real psas that respond to this shit, like the importance of reducing, re-using,  and then recycling, not to litter, not to use bottled water, etc etc etc.
maybe even teach our kids these things like it matters, because it really does.
looks like the city needs a trash can there. it's like the desire path but for trash.
we still love it montreal lol
crisscrossed in the middle of a cycle path, this image wins the municipal elections hands down.
and we wonder why the pandemic goes on and on.
it's clear! that or a guessing game "does the city fix, where this is a well-established trash can?"
it’s missing the sidewalk dog shit to be complete.
lack of guns
montreal has way more public trash bins than most cities. that's not the problem.
it wouldn't change anything ...
i second, wouahahaha!
there was some inside and on the other side ... i should have taken the photo on the other side, we would have seen pie-ix under construction behind!
that's why i love this photo :,)
bof ... i left 2 years ago and it was my best decision ever. montrealers are conditioned to think that they are the center of the universe but the truth is, it's a pretty overrated city. it's fun for the party but other than that it's a city that is falling apart
r / fifty-fifty
... what the city '' fixes '' ... it quickly becomes trash, right?
no it kind of is. there are never enough trash bins or public toilets. still, doesn't excuse this kind of incivility.
they don't empty them on a regular basis and their distribution is uneven.
the problem is that they don't get emptied
the only thing we have too many in montreal are comedians.
but at least there would be more public trash cans and no one would be able to say "well, what am i doing with my butt / broken mask / empty container? there are no trash cans in this city!" as for us, we can continue to tell them that they are stupid and disrespectful.
seriously, what is this sad defeatism?
ah yes, there for example with pie-ix in the frame one can not go wrong.
there is a registration schedule (edit: for [clic santé]( that is on that page:
> the schedule is as follows:
    april 30 - age 50 to 59 
    may 3 - age 45 to 49
    may 5 - age 40 to 44
    may 7 - age 35 to 39
    may 10 - age 30 to 34
    may 12 - age 25 to 29
    may 14 - age 18 to 24
it makes me way too happy.
jab me christian
"alone, the doses of pfizer will be in sufficient quantity to reach the legault government's target of having vaccinated 75% of quebecers (aged 18 and over) who so wish by june 24"
on the press website
another detail is that they are considering creating a digital evidence of vaccination, such as a qr code that one can keep on their phone.
has anyone heard anything about the possibility of moving up the 2nd dose to a delay of less than 4 months if there is more frequent and regular provision of doses?
now is the perfect time to open a good bottle and celebrate!
i almost doesn’t feel real 🙌🏼🙌🏼🙌🏼
does anyone know at what time clic santé opens up registration on those dates?
i didn't realize how much of a morale booster this news would be until it hit me like a brick wall. i legit want to jump up and down in happiness. i just want my f*****g vaccine!
does anyone know if this is only limited to citizens/pr holders? i’m an international student and want to know if i will be eligible
fyi, spots for 50+ are now (5pm thu) available on the platform.
hallelujah! i can’t wait!
we will all be vaccinated ben before june 24, mark my words.
this is great news ! but as an essential worker i feel a little angry . all of us had to work through out this whole pandemic no time off no free money from the government and what we can’t even get vaccinated before the general public ? i know some essential workers like teachers cops and what not have been able to get an appointment but what grocery store workers, warehouse workers etc we aren’t essential enough even tho we are at greater risk than everyone that get to work from home . i know this will probably get downvoted but oh well just had to say it ...
i’m 17 and not in school how the hell am i supposed to get mine?
cum yes !!!!
fina fucking lly
there is light at the end of the tunnel friends.e.sssssss
finally some good fucking news.
finally be !!!
and yet nothing will change .
50+ can book appointments right now btw don’t wait until tomorrow
i have created a website to easily search for tweets from vaccine hunters twitter account by your province, age group and postal code. please have a look and comment if you have any feeback: [
does anyone know if the people who previously had covid still only need 1 dose of the vaccine, or if it will be the standard 2 doses?
i wonder if they will open to 16-17 year olds as it has in the us or if they will have to wait until all adolescents /kids can get it.
at last!
sucks for people turning 40 on may 6 or 7...
i'm joking, i'm stoked we're finally going to get back to some version of normal.
any confirmation on the vaccine brand? i assume it is az for general public?
[deleted]
hmmm, i wonder when there will be a drop-in for the vaccines?
can i register at 00:00 of the day?
any idea on the type of vaccine they'll be offering to the general public? will it be astra zeneca?
yaaaaas, finally
woahhh
so to try book an appointment, if i just say 'yes' to "are you in a priority group?" and book an appointment for the dates matching my age group, would that be fine? saying 'no' just says you cant book an appointment.
the thought process here is to just get a booking asap but still within the correct dates for my age group.
saying 'yes' doesn't prompt any additional questions or validation of this claim. would they ask for proof when arriving at the appointment? would i get turned away?
is sputnik v one of the choices ?
anyone else have a sinking feeling that many are gaming the system? by claiming to have a disease, etc?
yet my mother in her 60’s is having her long pre-scheduled vaccination date pushed/delayed? umm, okay.
i'm guessing tomorrow that the 50-59 ppl will book all the spots for the next two months... the actual time you will get vaccinated if you are say 30 will probably be end of summer... if you want to get your vaccine on the day of booking you will have to cheat the system and book in advance and lie about it... i'm not saying you should do it but i bet plenty of people will be confused and book too early for a vaccine slot on the day of eligibility of booking and they wont be turned down at the door...
does that mean we can get the vaccine on those dates or that we can only schedule on those dates for future appointments?
amazing news!!
so i literally just moved to montreal from alberta like two days ago. 
what are the vaccination things i need to know?
responding in french is dac.
edit: see u/psykomatt’s comment below
[deleted]
14 mai let's gooo
so what time do they open at?
such. every day i waited for news and finally the time has arrived!
moin too, i'm half vaxxed and i want to visit this fall
jab me daddy
rainbow road
pcmr is leaking
wow! i didn't even know he could light up like that!
i’ve run it over the last couple of weekends. very quiet and quite beautiful.
damn, we can see the [superpoutre] ( so well with these lights!
^^^^^^^/s
the bridge will collapse in all splendor !!
super photo, good job!
ngl the city got a lot of hate for wasting money on this, but i've driven through it a few times and it was very pleasant.
*ok google, change the champlain lights to pink!*
the amount of rgb proves that it is faster to cross than the jacques cartier bridge.
looks like my gaming pc.
rgb light for faster speeds. i love it.
great shot.
tbh i find it looks nicer when it's less rainbow-ish and more toned down - sometimes it's just blue&greenish and looks so stylish running across the river.
needs more rgb. you know, for more fps
very pretty
'marvellous'
also featured: the old one right behind it! lol
when do they plan to tear it down?
fuck it  
gaming bridge
the reflection off the water is what's really beautiful in person
bifröst. 🌈🌉
rgb the world
the rgb ye no worse above
original picture somewhere in higher resolution?
the best memory i have had this summer, tripping like crazy with pats pi checking the bridge.
in all fairness, i find it way too bright and bright ... it's rude and rowdy. it literally has as much subtlety as a 2005 saint eustachian tawouin underside, a gigantic version that costs several million. how many more years are we stuck with this? it will already have aged badly in 10 years, mark my words.
/ end of rant of chronicler of duty. thank you
so cheesy!
don't take the shortcut my damn!
in addition it is water-cooled
pont champlain master race?
^ (i know the pcmr sub;))
asus rog pont champlain ti strix oc 16gb gddr6
with that many rgbs, it can run cyberpunk 4 times.
and imagine in addition you paid for !!!
in the marvel universe, it would be called bifrost.
and it's also pretty cool to get to the highest observation point at the foot of the pylons by bike.
fake news, the bulbs will fart before
the city didn't spend a dime on this. this bridge was entirely financed by the federal government.
> i've driven through it a few times and it was very pleasant
exactly.
so tired of people complaining about the slightest amount of money spent on quality of life. honestly the complaints usually seem to be from people who don't understand the actual projects, but more importantly, life doesn't have to be a fucking drag all the time.
the best part is that the expansion joints are smooth af and 4 lanes
it gonna clear traffic lol.
i'm sure the option to turn the lights off is there, so if it gets to the point no one likes it anymore, they'd probably just do that.
besides, it's quite lovely to see when you're driving down the bonaventure.
> kétaine ou quétaine is an adjective specific to popular quebec language and means "lacking in refinement"
what is the lack of refinement? from a technical point of view, this photo is refined to a point where even the color of the night is impeccable.
fully agree! at least the pjc has a lighting concept, not like this bridge or the montreal ferris wheel which is also lit in rgb mode.
cable management 10/10
i have been on a pc since the 90s and it still pisses me off the nomenclature of computer equipment.
4 times the crashes!
if i remember correctly, all of canada paid for it, including people who never set foot east of calgary.
do you mean i can go and change the colors myself ?! : d
> at the highest observation point
is there an observation point in the towers?
i hope yon put leds, otherwise its expensive to electricity!
unlike the old one bridge the expansion joints were annoying fuck i hated that bridge
it's good to know. many have used as an argument against the ban on horse drawn carriages that these wonderful beings would end up being slaughtered for dog food. i wish them a happy retirement!
they look majestic and happy.
they’re so so beautiful. i wish i had $$ to give you an award. thank you for taking care of these precious creatures.
what are the personalities of the calèche horses like?
thank you ... i live in the old port and watched the "drivers" go down our one way for years. the small street from which our garage exits is a one way as the exit is essentially a completely blind corner. i was dreading the day one of these horses got hit from someone coming out too fast, or the horse coming down the on e-way too fast. honestly, if someone wants to use horses in our city and not follow basic rules of the road, they should be forced to walk in front of the horse. i would have liked to see if these drivers would still turn head-on into traffic down mcgill, or go the wrong way down one ways when forced to be in front of the horse.
\*yay\* i'm so happy they got the retirement they deserve ❤️   are these belgian horses?
this warms my heart. thank you so much for what you do. also, i'm in the area and been around horses for most of my life...is there any way i can help?
gorgeous! congrats!
amazing. well done. is there a way to help out?
funny i was just talking about the former calèche horses you care for today! thanks for the update, happy these two found a home with you!
this is really beautiful to see. these guys are lined up for a gorgeous retirement. 
it was really infuriating when the interest groups threatened to kill all the horses if montreal banned them. that kind of politics is disgusting. 
you’re a wonderful person. have a great life, zach and maya.
beautiful.  they look so happy.
this makes me so happy! thank you for the work that you do for these horses.
thank you!!!!!!!!!!
they look happy.
they’re beautiful 🥰😍
they're both really friendly and are slowly being integrated into the herd. they get to run in the pasture but for now it's limited because they just aren't used to it!
my reward is being able to interact with these beautiful animals and share their world. when these covid measures are over i will definitely post about our open houses that are free. if you're a frontline worker in any capacity, dm me and i'll you info on how to get a visit now.
for the most part they're approachable and really affectionate. right now these guys are still adjusting to open spaces and get really excited and try to run and buck as soon as we let them into the pasture, and it's not easy controlling them from their paddock to the fields. 2000 lbs of pent up energy takes experience to deal with. and like the others we've rescued they'll get used to the rythm of retirement and more open space to be horses.
these guys no longer have to worry about working or living in that environment! despite being close to the highway, we're surrounded by trees and other natural noise barriers and the horses don't notice. rest assured that these guys are living a life that they didn't even know was possible.
yep. belgian drafts. we now have 3 belgian drafts and 3 percherons! if you ever want to feel humble and small, just stand beside one of these guys and realize how lucky we are that they're gentle giants and trust us.
you can become a volunteer! ahtrescue.org 
awesome!
i'll send you a dm. i post these pictures for pleasure and to  inform montrealers about something they helped to do and where some of the industry horses ended up and let them know their efforts paid off. thank you for your kind words.
thank you. and it's a priveledge for me to work with them and enjoy their company.
thank you. and they're looking even better now!
please do post after restrictions are lifted. i would love to come see these beauties.
is this near rigaud by any chance?
thank you!!
how long have you had them???
i most certainly will! you can always do a sneak walk by at 27 chemin murphy. just don't feed them!
not far. just on the edge of hudson in vaudreiul.
they came to us about 5 or 6 weeks ago. they're now being fed appropriate food and being groomed regularly. farrier was in 3 weeks ago and hoof treatment is under way.
a perfect place for them to retire then. 
great work!
they’re in good hands with you 🥰
it's nice to be able to walk and cantor them as we're on a very rural hidden road. 
thanks!
a concrete example of the ideal of living in society. i love this establishment.
love spending time at our beautiful banq grande bibliothèque (library) in montreal. ❤️ i encourage each and every one of you to visit it & experience its services  (if you haven't). the best part? joining is **free** of charge for québec residents.
a library is an essential “third place”, between work and home. libraries serve society. a library is deliberately and wonderfully open. a  library is a calm and peaceful place.  the library is the only place where you don’t have to buy anything. you can nourish your mind and revitalize the soul. isn’t this amazing? 😀
they provide a comfortable place to read, 📚📚 surf the web for free 🌐, listen to music 🎶 , other services and they also have a coffee shop. you can also bring your coffee too (as long you have a cover on top of it).
you can also have access online to electronic reading from hundreds of weekly magazines in french and english from the comfort of your home or wherever you are:
>the grande bibliothèque's collection consists of some 4 million works, including 1.2 million books, 1.2 million other documents, and 1.66 million microfiches. the majority of the works are in french; about 30% are in english, and a dozen other languages are also represented. the library has some 80 kilometers of shelf space.  
>  
>besides written works, there is also a large multimedia collection including 70,000 music cds, 5,000 music scores, 16,000 films on dvd and blu-ray, and 500 software programs, available for loan. the library's adapted book service holds more than 50,000 documents for the visually impaired, including braille and audiobooks.  
>  
>the library has 1300 reading armchairs, 850 study seats and carrels, and 350 computer stations, and plenty of space to relax.the basement contains a children's library with special audio-visual equipment, the espace jeunes.  
>  
>its extensive multimedia facilities include 44 audio stations and 50 video stations, as well as multimedia computer terminals and two music rooms with facilities for composing electronic music.  
>  
>other specialized services include a job and career centre, a business connection centre, a special service centre for newcomers to québec, and a language laboratory.  
>  
>in addition to its collections, reading rooms, and audio-visual facilities, the grande bibliothèque also contains exhibition spaces, conference rooms, theatres, and auditoriums."
libraries have always been more than just books. get to know your public library:
website of the grande bibliothèque: [
services: of the grande bibliothèque [ marge(
wikipedia of the grande bibliothèque: [ © @(
pamphlet on the grande bibliothèque:
[
[
be mindful of bedbugs though, i think there aren't any soft fabric couches anymore because of that.
this beautiful establishment filled with bedbugs ❤️
its fantastic, its unfortunate how much noise travels within the library however. conversations had at the reception can be heard as clearly as if theyre right next to you on the third floor.
beautiful photo
i love the grande bibliothèque! ❤️
a beautiful establishment, brimming with bedbugs. i got them from there once, and it was 5 months of hell. finally worked up the nerve to return and witnessed a woman finding herself crawling with them while sitting in the cafe area. i would doubt they've solved the problem even now. the soft chairs are gone, but they can hide anywhere, even in books, so...
is it open yet?
also, did they get rid of the bedbugs?
my favourite sundays in montréal involved taking the metro to this library and browse different books and then take a walk around the neighbourhood. i miss montréal. (ps my commute didn’t include public transportation so i used to enjoy taking the metro on a sunday)
frankly, it's beautiful as a library
sadly after the bed bugs plague they changed the comfy couches for plastic chairs.
yeah this place is an absolute gem. you can rent dvds, read any magazine, go through archives and it’s quiet. underrated spot
[deleted]
i love this place!
i find her so beautiful.
i studied here when i was an exchange student with hec montréal! loved it!
it is open now? cuz with the pandemic i don’t know what is open and what is closed and if we are allowed to sit or just to borrow books
is it free access for everyone and do i need to have a card of some sort? i would love to go spend some time there to read and chill.
do they really have an extensive collection of euro-comics there? i've heard rumors
i know it's not a photography sub, but the / * tilt * to the right / of the photo is a bit disturbing. small rotation of a few degrees and possibly 'lens correction' that would be great! ||
[deleted]
i really hope they took the opportunity fumigate for bedbugs while the library was empty.
not enough homeless
zaha hadid submitted a design for this building and quebec wasn’t smart enough to go with having a building by one of the worlds foremost architects. good job!!!! (not)
[deleted]
with children, on winter days when you don't really know where to go, the library is perfect. free, heated, lots of things to see. 👍
this library person.
can i just go there and study? i imagine i can. is there free wifi, or do i have first have to subscribe to the library?
is it open again?
this place gave me a banq card, even though i was not canadian / pr at that time, just a temp resident, a pvt. even a vehicle registration card was enough for that.
but still. there is something cool with libraries and canada. if it was  the meadowvale library or the hazel mccallion central library in  mississauga or the big reference library in toronto. places, where you could spend an eternity a day. in sauga city, you could also do sports in the same building where the library was located for example. these libraries were my second home in canada!
what's the kids section like?
i live so close to it now! thanks for posting this info. i downloaded the app to get a self-guided tour, and will go soon 
: )
[deleted]
\>**there is currently no bedbug problem at the grande bibliothèque**. 
\> since the opening of the grande bibliothèque in 2005, banq has worked with highly qualified pest control firms, ensuring that the latest methods are always used.  
\>**furniture and the areas most at risk at the grande bibliothèque are inspected weekly** by maheu pest management to make sure there is no infestation.  
\>measures are in place to monitor luggage at the entrance.  
\>**every evening, cleaning services carry out a steam treatment of cloth-covered seats and chairs. in all, over 2,000 seats and chairs are treated preventively every month**.  
\> all members of the grande bibliothèque staff have been given information and advice about prevention and are able to act when the presence of insects is suspected.
see: [
i’m always stressed when i go there because of that… and seems like they didn’t removed all fabric chairs.
thank you 😀
\>**there is currently no bedbug problem at the grande bibliothèque**.
\>since the opening of the grande bibliothèque in 2005, banq has worked with highly qualified pest control firms, ensuring that the latest methods are always used
.>**furniture and the areas most at risk at the grande bibliothèque are inspected weekl**y by maheu pest management to make sure there is no infestation.>measures are in place to monitor luggage at the entrance.
\>**every evening, cleaning services carry out a steam treatment of cloth-covered seats and chairs. in all, over 2,000 seats and chairs are treated preventively every month**.
\> all members of the grande bibliothèque staff have been given information and advice about prevention and are able to act when the presence of insects is suspected.
see: [
good question
the plastic chairs date from before the pandemic. all the chairs have since been changed ... they are apparently made from a bedbug resistant fabric.
great movie.
the grande bibliothèque is open
joining is free of charge for québec residents.
read more here: 
[
[
 [
i am not familiar with the term euro comics but their comic book / graphic novel section is huge. never had any trouble finding one. 
in the rare case you can't find a book, you can request them to buy it and most of the time they do, unless it's not available in canada. there is a form on their website.
joining is **free** of charge for québec residents.
read more here:  
sir... this is a library
i miss my love for literature. when i was a kid, i loved to read. i have lost that over the years, unfortunately.
you have to have your card since you access the wifi with your id. it's  a great place to study, i used to go there to study after work.
yes you can. there is the free mtlwifi, but there is also the wifi of the library itself, you will need to subscribe, but having a card is free so why not
yes indeed.
[
[
is it taken with a camera or a mobile phone?
yeah my neighborhood.
in which street / avenue de rosemont was the photo taken, please?
the street is cool and all but that picture is sharp af! well done mate!
rtx on
nice picture!
there's a certain serenity in this pic, i love it.
great shot, thanks for posting! i have been living in california for more than 2 years but i miss montreal even during winter!
the composition is superb.
me it is in these moments there that i regret not having my good device with me. phones apply a bunch of denoising and sharpening ... and with a shot like that it's always the perfectionist in me wondering "what would it look like if ..."
it is still a very beautiful image.
ouais vraiment, très nice photo, bravo. soon, maybe, i will walk masson again going to baptiste, or elsewhere, to delight myself with some local beer. i miss that for sure.
better than reality!
nice shot!
nice picture, when was this ?
was this taken with an slr camera or with a smartphone? it looks slick af!
man, ray tracing just looks better and better everyday!  
is your camera equipped with 3080ti focus lens?
it's so beautiful when the potholes are hidden like this
the graphics mod is impressive.
surely on mobile, based on the hdr effect which is now by default on some models.
> surely on mobile, based on the hdr effect which is now by default on some models
it was taken with a samsung s10 + adobe lightroom
i hope not too many of us uncool people move there and ruin the awesome thing you have going on. great restaurants, bars (one day again) and walks/rides.
> in which street / avenue de rosemont was the photo taken, please?
i think avenue de chateaubriand.
i just punch in a lightroom preset while on the metro and i'm done for the day.
thank you!
it was last wednesday, feb 3rd when temperatures had climbed back to 0.
thanks. taken with a galaxy s10 and some heavy lightroom presets applied. "overkill is underrated".
just whatever samsung's s10 phone is equipped with.
i never leave home without my lightroom presets.
pretty neat thanks for the answer
that was my first guess! i live nearby and take that street to get to the metro. well done it's beautiful.
thanks a lot ! :)
though it's pretty impressive for a quick touch-up. i already heard some great comments about this app so there's no surprise about its result.  
once again well done and next time you post a picture count on me for an upvote!
cheers! i grew up in ndg but i always liked the vibe around plateau/mile end/rosemont
thanks, i was wondering because of the snowbanks melting.
i have the tune of the little life that plays in my head when i look at this beautiful drawing!
you should publish a mtl coloring book, i'd buy it.
that is truly amazing!!! clearly that is a street in the plateau. bloody great work!!!
bro i'm going to print this and give it to my son to color. heck im even going to print me one.
again with the subtle cone! i love it. i look at this and your other work and admire it. i ask myself why i don't do this. you know the answer? i can't! it's a bunch of lines put into certain places...why can't i just do that? my mind just won't allow me to translate a real image onto paper (or any other medium) despite the fact that it's literally sitting in front of me and not moving. i really appreciate the people like yourself who do this. and adding a certain flair/style is great. thanks for sharing!
did you sneak onto my front porch and draw this while i wasn't home?
i have real nightmares where i have to leave the
city, for one reason or another.
as soon as i saw this, i looked for the traffic cone! your drawings are so full of life.  love the bike behind the bannister and the cat in the window. 🌷
i love!
really great drawing!
i love the concept and the lines.
will you make a coloring book out of those?
i feel like printing this and coloring during boring zooms.
i'm going to print this and colour it in. amazing work!
this is so beautiful, reminds me so much of the montréal apartments i miss seeing
i love this! do you do commission work? i am so interested!!!
why you drawing my front porch?
saw the pic and immediately thought "this must be montreal," then saw what sub it was. well done!
colour by numbers - montreal edition!
chat
do you sell those in paper so i can put it up my wall?
this is great! ever think of making a montreal colouring book? i'd buy one if you did.
very beautiful, but with all the different projection points, it gives me a headache to visualize the whole.
[deleted]
small (hopefully constructive) criticism: i am not sure if this is done on purpose to give a surreal look but there are multiple inconsistent perspectives in this drawing. the right of the image obeys a single-point perspective, but the sidewalk, cars, and buildings on the other side of the street have a completely different perspective. you have one vanishing point just off-center, and then another one  way up and to the right.  
a similar thing can be seen in your previous drawing, where some objects appear to follow a vanishing point perspective (balconies, railings) while other look like an isometric projections (bay-windows).  
anyway, i don't want to be too negative; these are some really cool drawings. imo if you are going for realism, readimng up a little more on perspective theory would help. if you already know about that but are going for a slightly surreal feel, then well done!
wow so beautiful so montreal !
[deleted]
the crooked perspectives bring a cool dreamy vibe to the drawing! love it
nice one, those circular staircases get really messy and dangerous in the winter with ice and freezing rain. slipped on one occasion on them.
always love seeing inkwork (digital and traditional) in this sub! ink work always makes for great coloring pages, but i got some little critiques and its more about clarity and line weights. line weight and the differences in size really helps with depth of a pucture as making all the lines 1 size makes it feel quite flat, and when adding in perspective, makes it confusing on the scale of objects.
im gonna assume this was drawn on a tablet (ipad/surface/android) and then pen you're using might not have line and pressure sensitivity, which is huge in ink drawings. try seeing if its a settings issue in the drawing app or if its a pen issue (as cheap styluses do not have pressure sensitivity) along with checking out if the drawing app has line corrective settings like a **stabilizer**. clip studio has this feature and it helps out a ton when i do lineart as i have shaky hands. 
the size of the lines as well gives it a bit more depth when it comes to perspective as you work with the foreground (which would be the condo window on the left) and working your way to the midground then background. the closer it is, the thicker the lines, the farther it is, the smaller the lines. 
and my last one (if the program you se has this feature), make the lineart layer a vector layer. it makes the line smooth, solid and they can be resized without losing its smoothness or pixelating when its shrunk and then blown back up. plus it looks good when printed on paper to color over. 
just my little tips and critique, hope it helps a bit in future art!
is this rotoscoping?
popa has already released the slack!
thank you
thanks so much!
100% agree!
came here to say exactly this. cannot upvote enough. i would love to gift a colouring book about montreal to my friends’ kids abroad.
i was thinking verdun.
cheers!
villeray
haha! super fun idea.
thanks! cones, cats and no parking signs...
there was a guy who did much better drawings of famous places here (atwater market etc) last year.
that was me stealing your amazon delivery. nice choice in charging cables!
haha, i didn't steal the amazon package...
malhareuse, me too ..
stage
thnx!
thanks ~
thanks a lot, someone else just suggested giving his son a print to colour!
ive done about 30 black and white drawings with pandemic themes but these were the first montreal-specific ones with an attempt at loose realism. 
i've taken a few hundred photos of the architecture around here and can use some of those as reference for future ones, i guess!
fun!
i'm reliving fond memories of living on the plateau in the 90s..
wow i'm flattered! 
i just draw for fun, really, to cope with lockdown life.
if i were to sell art, my sense of professionalism would demand a higher quality... send me a dm?
my neighbours probably thought that yesterday. ..
brownstones of canada!
not yet. seems like people are already printing them at home though!
[from the left](
[from ahuntsic] (
new ?
nice 👍
i think we may be neighbours lol
awesome shot!
amazing picture.
rad photo
damn i miss living there :(
drone?
just moved from this apartment building in may. miss the view but not those elevators!
look at that bicycle lane, there's no bikes lol! good job valerie plante!
yeah
yeah, damn the fact that there’s no bikes in this split second exposure, which is also very early in the morning!
now it’s your duty to pay it forward and explain why you are doing so
use the 50$ he refused in a donation to your favorite cause, that would be a great way to continue the good deed chain!
that's great.
one time on a motorcycle ride, i found a drivers license on the ground in a park. adress was from the west coast so i figured it would be pointless to ship it there. found the guy on facebook and xpresspost it to his place out here.
he wanted to e-transfer me some cash. asked him to pay it forward instead.
what a very touching story :’)
i actually lost my wallet back in march, just as covid was taking over. i remember being so stressed and anxious as everything was closing and wasn’t sure if i would be able to get everything replaced. my wallet contained all my credit cards as well as my ramq health card, so i was super worried as i wasn’t ready to enter a pandemic without any type of identification nor be able to pay for necessary items online. but in the midsts of all this, i got a knock on my door and was shocked to see my wallet being returned! definitely had tears in my eyes and thanked this kind stranger. i tried offering a cash reward for his generosity but he refused. 
though this pandemic has not been easy, i still think about that moment and realize what a great city we live in
had a similar good samaritan save me this summer. the true sir (also an off-duty cop) refused any reward, and simply wanted to save a stranger from the headache of replacing all id and cards while away from home. belief in the common good is still alive! his pro-tip if you ever find a wallet: call the number on the back of a bank or credit card: their lost card departments are super responsive, and were able to coordinate a meetup for us within minutes. (edit: typo)
at least you're grateful for the gesture.
a couple of years ago one of my kids found a wallet. 
we drove to ile des soeurs to return it to the owner.
get to this big ass house and ring the doorbell. 
a young woman answers the door. we ask if wallet owner lives at this address.
she answers yeah, it's my brother. 
so we hand her his wallet letting her know he had lost it.
she grabs it, says *what, he lost his wallet again*, goes back inside and shuts the door. no thank you or anything.
we were still happy we brought it back. losing a wallet has to be one of the worse pains ever.
this is another reason why i immigrated here; quebecois are awesome!
hoping there was no shenanigans done with your personal identity infos...
i'ts hard not to be wary of wrongdoings these days.
but there are still some charitable and helpful people in these times.
terrebonne power !
great story, thanks for sharing :)
it always feels good to help a stranger and sometimes it's the smallest things that makes a difference. a smile can literally change a person's mood for the day.
so, just to understand, you are leaving brossard in a tank, to go for walks in terrebonne ...?
i lost my wallet once downtown. called my bank to freeze my accounts, and they told me that someone tried to use my credit card in eight different stores. only had 5$ on my card, so it could have been worse. 
not sure why they tried more than one stopped working though, like i was gonna magically load it with more money or something.
this was the the first time i was happy to be poor, because the only thing they got away with was getting 3$ worth of mcdonald's. hope you enjoyed your cheeseburger, thief.
in before someone calls you a  "banlieusard"
i’m lowkey jealous because i lost/someone stole my wallet a few months ago. i looked everywhere i had been and found nothing. for weeks i hoped someone would find it and return it but nothing. i looked at statistics for how often people return wallets and it was pretty rare. i pretty much lost hope. i’m happy to see that some people do go out of their way to return it. losing your wallet is the worst.
i found someone's phone in las vegas, i can see why they forgot it, it sort of melded on the blank black panel of the slot machine. i started calling the last contacts on the phone and i was able to reach the husband of the person who lost it and by coincidence, they were also from canada! i told them i'd ship it to them once i got home and i did, they were so happy. 
it's nice doing good deeds.
it's up to you to pass the baton!
in your case i understand. he cannot communicate with you. my brother once found a cell phone. the guy calls him and my brother tells him ok come and take him. the guy didn't want to, he wanted my brother to deliver him hahahaa.
what a warm feeling. i wish him the best!
now he knows where to pick all those ps5s he ordered on your credit cards.
[deleted]
there's is always more good than bad..ignore the news, all they show us is bad news all the time. it's good for there ratings
i would've forced him to take the money, otherwise i would feel guilty, but it's probably just me
should asked his phone number. people like that are worth keeping around. if only to send them a birthday card or something.
oh man, this actually brings back some bad memories. 
a couple of years ago, i found a wallet near a playground close to my home. it was filled with ids and cards but no money, and there were different addresses on the government ids, but one of them was in my city just a couple streets away. as i was walking my dog i figured he wouldn’t mind exploring a little more, so i decided to be a good neighbour and bring it back.
i reach the house, it was sometime after noon on a summer day, and a 50 something year old woman opens the door. i explain that i found the wallet and i’m returning it. she tells me to wait, goes back inside and  comes back with her husband. 
the ids were all of a woman that was 30ish years old, so i figured they’re the parents and want to thank me or something. very wrong!
so i tell them again that i found it near that specific playground and i’m returning it. well, the father starts asking me some pretty weird questions in a very antagonistic way, pretty much like in an interrogation. he didn’t believe that there was no money, he didn’t believe i just found laying there, etc. 
it seems the woman whose wallet i was returning was indeed their daughter but she had “run from home” (not really since she was in her thirties), and was also an alcoholic that had taken a very large amount of money from her parents in cash before leaving; and these people were convinced i was in cahoots with her and i was trying to get more money from them or something. tbh now thinking back on it i’m not really sure what they thought i was trying to pull or how i would’ve taken more money from them. 
so as i’m getting interrogated i definitely lost my cool during the conversation. i decided to bail, threw the wallet towards them and started to walk away. well fat chance of that. the man grabbed me and as i was wrestling his hands away the ducking woman had grabbed the leash and was trying to take my dog. 
at some point one of their neighbours came out, intervened and we all waited for the cops to come, with them constantly accusing me of the most insane shit about their daughter, and just generally trying to instigate.
the cops came, i had to give a statement explain everything again. at some point they tell me about the situation with the daughter and let me go home. basically an hour of my life lost for trying to be a good guy.
remarkable.
wait were you the one that put up that sign at like,, cote st luc and (whatever street is across from clanranald)? i saw that sign a while ago but never thought anything of it qwq
lifeprotip: never do this if you found somebody's wallet or phone. i read plenty of stories when people got accused of taking some money from the wallet or cracking phone's screen before returning it. next thing you know you have to deal with someone angry at you who might be willing to contact the police and ruin your day.
r/thathapened
who named you karma police?
thanks for the tip.
and what a pain it is! i lost my wallet back in 2007. idiot me being a new canadian carried all of my important cards in it (yes, my new sin card included). never recovered anything. i felt like a dumbass filing the police report because i didn't know any of the numbers. i only filed a police report in case anyone tried to get a credit card under my name.   
anyway, live and learn!
wtf is wrong with people
i believe he is honest but thanks for your warning.
but well thanks to desjardins i have identity theft alert now, and thanks to canada post they only deliver mails to community mailbox so nobody can steal my credit card.... lol
yeah i do that once in a while, usually in the morning, because that park has a special place in my heart (ile des moulins) and i like driving on the 440 and 132...
it is possible though i believe he is honest.
regardless, the credit cards were cancelled before he came over. well my amex in my drawer can finally stop hibernate...
they will do it for health insurance cards and drivers liscence but not for a full wallet
yes.  my son got his lost wallet back that way, minus all cash, weeks after he'd already replaced all his cards.
never happened to me, i'll keep taking the risk
force yourself at least not to make mistakes
arrest this man.
nobody but why not ??the person that returned the wallet didn’t take the 50 dollars so pay it forward in another way by helping someone else
he was personally appointed by thom yorke.
do you know that you can put notifications in your bank account and credit cards when an amount is withdrawn?  i have notifications for 50$ minimum but you can put for 5$.  that’s another way to protect your bank and credit cards.
it is necessary to say "not to make mistakes"
he talks in maths
he buzzes like a fridge
he's like a detuned radio
he'd put after 8pm ! ticket this man !
i 100% agree with the idea to pay it forward.  i was more commenting on your tone which sounded more like an order than a suggestion: do this and explain yourself.
hey, op, i'm right here if you want to pay forward... just saying ... :p
yeah thanks for your reminder... will definitely do it too.
gorgeous. i knew it was montreal before i even saw where it was posted.
amazing detail on the brickwork!
is that a fresh coat of rust reformer on the handrail? amazing.
superb! really captures the plateau's beauty!
beautiful! do you sell your artwork?
do you sell prints?
will any prints be available for sale soon?
i love this! you brought back a lot of good summer vibes for me. much love
you really captured the essence of le plateau! beautiful work! :)
do you have an instagram?
holy sh*t, i thought it was a photograph.  😱
ahhhh! we’re facebook friends :)
exceptional. imo your best.
it's wonderful bravo !!
thank you!!!
unbelievable.
amazing! you have great talent!
???
amazing !!! 
i live in the plateau and i feel like i saw those stairs a thousand times after my walks at la fontaine park! but that’s the point! beautiful stuff
merci!  prints will be available soon for sale!
thank you! prints will be available soon for sale!
tks!  prints will be available soon!
thank you! prints will be available soon!
hi, yes i do. prints will be available soon for sale!
hi! prints are now ready for sale! here is the link to order if you wish:
yeah it’s not really clear.
yes i do! will be selling prints very soon! tks!
i will be selling prints very soon! tks!
hi! prints are now ready! here is the link for ordering:
hi! i will be selling limited prints soon.
thank you!
👍🎨🎨🎨
hi! prints are now ready for sale!  here is the link to order:
thank you! prints will be available soon for sale!
thank you so very much! i will be selling prints if this one soon!
yes i do it is
underwood.deb22
thank you!  i will be selling limited edition prints of this one soon!
thank you!!!
thank you!
thank you!
thank you so very much!
thank you so very much!
stay safe!
👍🙏🎨🎨🎨
available yet?
but i am not sure i understand. are you going to sell some soon?
>underwood.deb22
just checked out your insta, love your landscapes too!
hi! i am just waiting for my special canvas roll to come in so i can reproduce them.  should be here within the next two weeks. thank you so much for your interest and support!
👍👍🎨🎨🎨
prints are now available! here is the ordering info:
not too sure i understand, but, yes i will be selling prints soon.
thank you 👍😀
yes i am selling my art, see my instagram at
underwood.deb22
thank you so much!
i want to get it for my girlfriends room and her birthday is february 4th. do you think it will be in time?
we fool you a little because you repeat the same thing with each comment from people! i will do a test to find out if you read the comments: do you sell your art?
sadly, you missed the tag that says “i want to eat your ass like piri piri chicken”
you only saw an orange cone! luck!
the epicenter of murals is st laurent, between sherbrooke & mount royal. the two streets parallel to st laurent (clark & st dominique) are also very good. enjoy your stay!
i'm honestly glad you liked it, but this is the absolute worst montreal's been in 50 years.  everything's closed, construction everywhere, nobody downtown :(
montreal is a terrific city. mile end and the plateau are filled with amazing street art.
montreal is the most underrated city in the country. all my friends go to the other side of the world for vacation, i go 6 hours away to montreal and fall in love with it more everytime
that's why what you have to do right now is stopping montreal from becoming like toronto!
you forgot to mention you can pay a years rent for what it would cost you for 1 month in toronto.🤣 did i mention there's a ton of work here too?
only one cone? i don't think you had the full experience.
question. why do torontonians have such a high regard for toronto? everyone i've met including my step brother who lives there claims it's the greatest place on earth. i've been a few times and its crap. no offense
[deleted]
oh i know just where you were and yeah it's pretty awesome
i think montreal might be among the most chaotic cities in the developed world. but after a few weeks you realize the chaos is peaceful and part of a creative mindset.
it's true. on almost every corner there's some beautiful mural. i loved it as well. toronto is a dumpster fire lol.
unfortunately, one of the mayoral candidates (denis coderre) wants to turn montreal into a kind of toronto. he must not win the municipal elections ...
montreal still has a lot of character compared to toronto which is mostly glass and steel these days.   i remember moving from montreal to calgary years ago and people saying “welcome to canada” and as far as i was concerned montreal was far more canadian than alberta was as most of their stores and business are american chains compared to montreal that still have so many local restaurants and such.
i agree, the street art here is quite impressive.
reminds me, if i visit toronto again i have to spend time in a more interesting area, maybe where the artists live and i'll find cafes or bars to hang out.
i waited for an appointment around bloor st (where many european consulates are) and apart from one very nice old church and its small garden i only spotted brand shops and tall high rises i already could spot from the airplane when flying in. :p
if you're still in town there's the mural fest still going on.
here's a map of urban art from the festival 
ah you yet to see our life version of mario kart with all these cones.
visiting any city from toronto is likely going to be mind-blowing lol
yepp. came here 2 months ago for a week vacay and ended up getting an apartment and a job. do not miss toronto at all! there is culture here. toronto is where you go to try and “fit in” lol
welcome brother, hope you have a great time!
there's a lot more ,so come again!!!
is that centre street   near charlevoix metro?
but how do you find the roads and the construction
always and forever 
glad that you like it :) there's normally an art fest every summer that is called "murales" where a whole bunch of artists make those huge beautiful graffitis all week long! looks great indeed! there are a lot of them all over the place
are you still in montreal? if you are and you’re i to these kind of murals, i have a couple good locations worth visiting :)
do they still have the massive anthony bourdain on the side of a building downtown? that was incredible.
if you loved that stuff, then next time try going to some cool places instead... it'll rock your world.
can you speak french tho
you didn't visit montreal. you visited the plateau and mile-end. it's like going to ny and only visiting hipster brooklyn
wow wait  , which corner lmao ?
lmao i can't recall if i came across that tag. where was it?
brahahaha
wait piri-piri chicken is a thing? i thought it was just a marketting word st-hubert made up for their burger with waaaaaay too much slaw on it. 
i gotta get me some.
\+1
it's also an art: in the third photo the compost bins have been neatly put away after being emptied.
in fact ... in my street they sometimes manage to creatively distribute the large bins and lids.
indeed. i particularly enjoyed walking. gives you a lot more time to absorb the scenery around you.
walking around the plateau is amazing. i like that it's not so busy.
i'm not sure if everything got closed again but i was there in early august and all the restaurants/pubs near old port were buzzing with people. it was amazing to watch as i haven't seen this much crowd in toronto for a long time.
i also visited for the first time recently, and constant construction is an issue in many cities around the world but damn, in montreal shit is on another level
i'm so used to the worse that i haven't noticed it was already worse.
i guess that goes for any city in the world, the longer time you spent somewhere the more boring it gets.
but i've heard the buildings are so old n bad in quality, filled with bedbugs and shit - any experience of that?
i mean… mtl literally has a reputation as a party city all over the world. i wouldn’t call it underrated.
a couple years ago i was on a trip with a dozen other canadians from all over the country (all in our mid-20s), and every one of them thought of montreal as a fun party city with great culture, food, fashion, etc.
and do not let coderre win. all he wants is more roads and glass towers.
i wish the shootings would stop! every time i read about a shooting i feel like we are becoming toronto
prospective recruiter, is that you?
the trauma is where the experience is at
"sick audience", poor choice of words lol
if i come over with a date will she leave me after the show ? 😂
yep. good show.
i got a far, far better comedy show than i expected.
sorry i'm out of the loop.  what is this about?
just to be clear, tmw night is now tonight? saturday july 31st? i got the 8pm in girourd/ndg parc part 😆
this looks cosy! next time we're in montreal hopefully you'll still being doing this and we will for sure come!
so, saturday night in girouard park at 8pm?
yo spit comedy in 2 languages or?
much better than the reddit meetup a few years ago at the shisha place lol
it was a good show.
how long do they last? just so happens i'll be in the area for a show but it ends at 9 :s
is there any parking around the park? if there is i'll definitely come!
is this happening today as in saturday? or is it sunday?
so cool for you all.
i had to move so i couldnt come hopefully next time !
aw im busy tomorrow, will this be a recurring thing?
yoooo i'm in ndg....maybe i might pass by
what's happening?
awh. wish i was in town for this.
wait what!? did i miss a post here about the show :( le sad.
this show is amazing. highly recommend.   
see you guys tonight
you guys were great! good job organizing the show
see you there tomorrow
watch out for the balls in the right center field!
dang missed it im from west island lol...
away from mtl rn which sucks... hope you'll have other representations in mtl before the end of summer
i'm taking a trip there from the 6th - 14th, any shows that week?
i'll check this out. my neighborhood!!
so it was a comedy show???? hahahaha i was biking by and that was my guess. cool!!!
man if only i wasn't 2 hours away from that park aarhrhh
i'm sure it's fine and all, but what is the current government restriction on this kind of event? wouldn't want you to get 500+ people and be shut down...
i'm really not trying to be a dick or anything but i'd really like to know why the cops are okay with this, but sooner or later they show up to break up the dj sets in the park every single time.
it was so much fun thank you for being in ndg ❤
wait, redditors actually exist?
its  not tmr its ndg. big difference, but still mtl. looks like a nice night out!
are you guys associated with the comedy show in verdun by chance?
!remindme 6 days
lmao i thought the same thing
you a cop?
dr. arruda has entered the chat
kids nowadays
i'm really sorry for your upcoming loss
me too!
last week, i posted about the stand up comedy show i host in park girouard. we had a good turn out and a few people came because they saw my post here.
yeah it's tonight
i believe so
only english
thank you!
until 9:30 ish
you'll find parking on the streets nearby for sure
reminds me of the nights i had at annies pub… oh boy
kudos to you on this beautiful picture on this beaitiful evening ❤️😀
when i attended mcgill, i had my friend at service point give me a mac campus shuttle sticker just so i could visit ste. anne easier. beautiful shot.
holy donkey of bellevue, as they say
grew up there, now living in vancouver. this brings back so may memories.
love biking over there. nothing quite like sneaking over the bridge to smoked meat pete's for some very awesome smoked meat.
really beautiful
the view is beautiful at bellevue
the aptly named.
so pretty
great picture!
spectacular sunset, last night was my first time at the spot you're at, beautiful lookout
fun story, the little house on the left (not pictured) is where my grandfather grew up. his father was the canal operator.
[deleted]
i lived at the top of the cousineau bucket in 2016-2017!
infp? : p
stop upvoting! 514!!
blurry pic of a slab of cement with a mediocre sunset? i mean, it’s ok but not post worthy.
thirsty thursdays
followed by friday night downtown and saturday night at clyde's.
thanks 5 minute walk from the apartment. gotta go.
why?
the bikers add to the experience of smoke meat pete’s!
i live 5 minute walk. here several times a day. sweet chill area.
oh wow cool.
595 seem to like it. just a pic from phone. you do not needto view it if you don't want too.  if you thought it was not post worthy why comment ?
exactly! no shortage of girls there on thursday’s xd
you mean pioneer :p not that it matters since they tore that place down
pass' c funny lol
i would love to know; my ears curl every time i hear that
[here]( this is my angle of that same sunset
ah it's in montreal! i did not know. thank you.
i deleted my comment before seeing your answer. i told myself that the person found it more appropriate to post this on the montreal page, since there is probably no forum for the village of ste-anne de bellevue. i actually thought it was ste-anne de la pérade, which is far from montreal.
i moved to vancouver, so i'm way out of the loop!
nice i walked over there too. i need get out my door sooner i wake early enough for a sunrise.
if we're all posting our angles.. here's mine 
upon his death, james mcgill, a scottish fur trader, entrepreneur, and member of montreal's elite society, bequeathed 10,000 pounds and his 46 acre burnside estate to the royal institution for the advancement of learning (rial) with one simple condition: that they use these gifts to found a college in his name within ten years of his death. today, mcgill university stands as quebec's first english language university, and one of canada's most respected educational institutions.
i love to see how the very tiny trees have managed to become really beautiful! i had to go through this every day to go to class, for six years in total (bac + master's degree), always a good path to take.
would those be the same trees on both pics?
nice! i studied at mcgill between 2015 and 2020, it's a great university :)
the quality of roads haven't changed a lot 😂
[deleted]
for some reason this picture haunts me
back in the day when only anglos were allowed....
very cool and very well done
thanks for putting both pictures up. 👍
it would be interesting to see that same view in fall or spring, without snow and without leaves.
it's the modern news reporting mullet - social media slacktivists in the front, oppressive genocidal patriarchy in the back
this is great. although just to nitpick a little bit, the "today" photo is a couple of years out of date, because the road leading into campus has been replaced by a pedestrian walkway with nice stone paving and new benches. it's a really nice place to sit on a sunny day.
still get anxiety looking at this 🥲
something something about how mcgill was evil and oppressed quebecers
where is the mass grave?
fun fact that's still the name that shows up on some official stuff like business registry, taxes for mcgill: royal institution for the advancement of learning
james mcgill, a scottish fur trader, entrepreneur, and member of montreal's elite society and a slave owner*
actually the part that surprised me the most is that the current trees must be ~ 50 years old big max .... which means they have been planted and have sprouted probably 3 times since the photo of 1859.
i was wondering the same thing, but i doubt it -- pretty sure 150+ year old trees would be a lot bigger
i doubt it. they're about the size of the tree at my parent's house, which is like 20 years old.
there's one in one of the libraries iirc.
lmfao
give legault another mandate and he'll make it that way again. *sigh*
the mcgill royal institution for kids who can't read good and wanna learn how to do other stuff good too
he was also a scummy lawyer in new mexico
oh shut up
that's exactly what i was about to say..  lol 🤣
and would urban trees manage to live this long too? i recall someone posted a really great article about city trees on this sub a couple of years ago, they have a tough life.
why do you prefer that we hide the slavery past of certain individuals?
i am not sure i understand the connection. domination and exploitation was essential for men like mcgill to become so rich and powerful in the 19th century; slavery was only one facet of this domination. it seems kinda weird to me not to mention it actually.
hell yeah baby, what a win tonight !! 
go habs go!
i've been here for less than 6 months, i don't understand the scope of what happened tonight, but i'm happy that people are happy.
fleury played so good for canadiens, they named a street after him!
it’s too bad that we’re still in the late stages of the pandemic. some people have no idea how hard this town rocks when we’re in the playoffs. 
it’s a great time to visit as the ambiance is peak and the girls and boys are all in good moods.
blue white red
what building are you taking this awesome picture from?
its
i've never been, but having seen the photos and vids from the city over the past month, i really wanna visit montreal.
i should work on learning french.
*your access to lgbtq prime has ended. please renew your subscribtion for more lgbtq+ content.*
a big thank you to fleury;)
i've only been here for less than 2 months, but having come from somewhere else in canada, i can put it into context for you:
soccer is the most popular sport in the world, but in canada, it takes a back seat to hockey.  it's our national sport, and most of the best players in the world are from here.
even though there are many canadian players who have been on world championship teams, the last canadian team to win the stanley cup was the montreal canadiens - in 1992-1993.  vancouver came close in 2010-2011, but couldn't seal the deal.  so we have arguably the biggest hockey country in the world, with several hockey teams in it, that have not had a championship in almost 30 years.
the 2021 stanley cup playoffs started with the montreal canadiens facing their most enduring rival, the toronto maple leafs.  i am not big enough of a soccer fan to really draw a parallel you might understand, but then again, there may not be one like it.  the leafs vs. the habs is a rivalry older than the nhl itself, but it's more than that; it was a rivalry among canada's two largest cities - one almost exclusively anglophone, and the other francophone.  (yeah, montreal is bilingual, but to most outsiders this point is lost.)  it was almost a culture war, particularly in the early years of the nhl, where most of the players for the canadiens were from quebec.
the canadiens, in a word, were not supposed to win.  the top-ranked team in their division, the toronto maple leafs were supposed to slaughter the habs.  all of the sports writers predicted it.  vegas odds favoured the leafs heavily.  however, if there's one thing living in toronto for 30+ years taught me, it's that the leafs can and will choke given the opportunity.  and that's exactly what happened.  the habs came back from a 3-1 deficit in the best-of-7 series, and won in game 7.  then they went on to handily defeat winnipeg in the 2nd round, 4 games to none.
that brought them to this series, against vegas.  the vegas golden knights are a recent expansion team, but they have been strong playoff contenders since day one.  they are consistently one of the better teams in the nhl.  the "smart money" is on them.  yet once again, the habs have defied the odds and with tonight's win, they are up in the series 2-1.  this was the first home game of the series, and there were fans in attendance.
it's not a series win; that won't happen until the final buzzer rings and the winning team has won 4 games.  however, this is a great leap forward for the habs, who weren't even supposed to have made it this far.  (they barely made it into the playoffs!)
so now you have the only canadian team in the playoffs, taking a series lead against a tough opponent, with the entire country's eyes watching.  french, english, or anything else - it doesn't matter now.  the montreal canadiens are canada's team now, and you're going to see a lot of strong emotions surrounding these games, win or lose.  it's an exciting time to be in this city, although i really hope the fans don't go all vancouver on the city, should things not go the way we are all hoping.
go habs go!
dude i live nearby i've been considering going but i just can't risk it since i'm only 1 dose vaccinated
without covid the bell center would be full both for home games and away games and there would still be a huge crowd outside
tour des canadiens 2 ! from the sky lounge , the picture does not do any justice at all to how it looks
i’m confused what are you even trying to say?
pride is in august here.
everyone say “thank you marc-andré!” 🥳
another thing to add is that the canadiens reven have a contentious history in montreal itself as up until i think a decade after the nhls creation, the canadiens were a uniquely francophone team to be the rival of the anglophone montreal marroons. the canadiens now have 24 cups, the most of the league. 
the equivalent of this would be the yankees winning after a 30 year drought
very well explained!!! kudos to you!!
 but it seems you forgot to mention an additional very important point, the canadiens (habs) not only defeated the golden knights, but the refs as well who are obviously being bribed to favour vegas this playoff run.
>  hope the fans don't go all vancouver 
actually the vancouver fans went all montreal. we have a longer history of destroying downtown after winning a series (or having a star and hero of the people suspended, [the richard riot]( actually met my wife as a result of the '08 riot after the canadiens beat the bruins.
>vancouver came close in 2010-2011
calgary came even closer in 2004, being up 3-2 in the final series and the game being 2-2 late in the third period when this play happened:
the play was not reviewed and the goal was not allowed, but it is still one of the most debated play in modern hockey history. calgary ended up losing the game and the series
wait, let me get my free award for you.
edit: there we go. :)
it was in 2011 for vancouver.
i don’t think there’s a real risk of a riot. there’s more a sense of « we’re just happy to be here » than anything else. 
of course, we all have our idiots, but i doubt there will be enough to do more than break a few windows and overturn a couple of cars.
[deleted]
i cried reading this.
and you’re doing the right thing. i fully expect montreal’s case count to slightly increase due to the crowds.
as a photographer i understand your agony
he's prolly attempting comedy
you could hear them "cheering him on" the entire game. ;)
it's funny you mention the drought; every other canadian team has waited longer, though! ;)
i used to tease canucks fans when i lived in vancouver; i'd tell them that they named a movie after the canucks - they called it the 40 year-old virgin.
funny [article]( about the event.
haha, well, i didn't want to jinx it by bringing that up, but you're correct.  :)
it was in
thanks, i should have said "2010-2011"
if we lose because of a late move from the referees like last night, there will be no worse riot.
whenever enough people gather in montreal and there is enough time to organize to take advantage of it, anarchists will show up.
huge crowds are gathering outside the bell centre to watch the games (home games at least i think) if you’re comfortable with that
of course, but what i mean by that is that the habs and the yankees are the best of their respective leagues by far in number of championships, sorry i wasnt clearer  :p
yes. i did not think of such an event. i hope after last night the referees were notified that it will not work.
caliss. like we needed that downtown right now.
i would hope us normies keep that shit in check. there’s nothing political for them in a habs win and would win them nothing but disdain from the public at large.
great shot.
always feel like a tourist in my own city, and i've lived here my whole life.
i love the photo (and the place is cool too!)
i used to shop there, back when my studio was on st francois-xavier.
i once bumped into most of radiohead, right in front of there.
my actual neighbourhood dep. shelton beers, good eggs, good milk, bread ... and got my "street closed" and "farine five roses" pillows there.
i miss that shop since i left town!! used to pop in every few days for coffee and a pastry. great vibe!
holly god!!!! i super would like to live at that place. i have been in montreal in 2012 and i’m fall in love yet. 🥰
i love this shop. it's genuinely charming with great products, compared to the sea of kitschy souvenir shops in the area. one of my favourite stops when i hit the vieux port
had many a great creative burst sat along that window during my study exchange last year. an absolutely stunning spot. à la prochaine fois!
my friend manage this place, nice spot!
i love this place
nice pic :)
what gear do you use?
like this place. it would be great if vieux montreal could instead of horrible overpriced restaurants t shirt and souvenirs to be somewhere good and affordable where locals would like to go
great little shop...... a bit overpriced.....
[deleted]
is that place the one ran by 2 women? close to the clubs?
if it is then i enjoyed it. they couldn't have been nicer. :d
montreal; the portland of canada. <3
to prove you are right, the little depot is located on a fairly touristy street!
thanks.
pentax k50d + 50-200mm lens
there are plenty of good non-touristy restaurants in the old town that are worth it!
wait salmon and lox?
portland wishes. ;-)
do you have any suggestions? :)
in the more "fancy": fishing or pastel hunting club
good, inexpensive dinner option: marusan or stash
with beer: brewskey
portuguese with a little old school decor: helena
at first, i thought this was a photo. great execution.
[deleted]
great work!
the textures are so fantastically executed and so montreal. well done!! 👏👏
wow! you have talent!
this is very nice,  you have talent.
a true masterpiece !
wow, really lovely! that's bocata, if i remember correctly, love their lobster roll
incredible!
this is magnificent
sandwich?
really very beautiful 👍
hey, no way! that’s bocata. i used to work there!
do you sell some of them?
at first i thought it was a picture!
[deleted]
you're welcome.
wow, beautiful!
gorgeous! i loved staying in the olde port during the grand prix. such a fun town!
as an american where bocata was the last place i ate in montreal pre-pandemic, this makes me miss montreal deeply.
amazing!
oh c magnifiqueeer
so cool! i thought it was a photo with a funky colour filter. totally did a double take!
[deleted]
they do some decent cocktails there. i think i had some pretty good duck, too.
thank you!
thank you!
thank you so much!
thank you so very much!
thank you!
thank you so much!
thank you! ❤️👍🎨🎨🎨
thank you!
thank you!
thats what i thought. seems it, save for the door being different. good eats there.
baroque
thank you!
thanks!
hi! yes i certainly do. i have an etsy site that you can visit. i have not included this one yet but i will tomorrow! here is the link and thank you!
thank you so much!
thank you so much !
thanks!
thank you!
thank you so much!
thank you!
thank you!!!
thank you!
thank you so much!
delicious!
same here! i had to zoom in just to be sure, very nicely done
forte de ̶̫̹̊͋l̶̹̪̋'̷̢̩̉̍e̷͇̩͎̒̆͑n̷̞̘̗̏̆͋g̴͕͐a̶̗̰͖͗͝g̷͆e̷̖͖͙͊̐m̴̠̤̓ẹ̸͉͑̐ņ̶͑̾ẗ̵̰ de ses ̷̙͈ḛ̷̑m̷͓̈̐p̵͍̙̈͜l̸̛̯̈ǫ̶̥̥̓̓̚y̵͈͙̐é̵̙͙̙̿̋s̸̰͊̇͑ et de ses ̶̡̮̅p̶̨̳̣̈a̸̡͖͆̇̊ȓ̸͙̖t̵̟͎͛e̸̦̘̺n̸͈̦̓ȧ̵͍ì̴͉ȓ̷͎̝͋é̵͈̋s̶̥̔, ̶̺̟̓ la sep ̶̘͓̩a̷̤̓̋ş̵͉̔s̵͕̿͐͆͜u̶̧͚̓͝ȑ̶̩͍̳͌e̴̟͍͌͊ ses clients un service ̸͉̗̍̔̚s̷̡̖͊ȩ̸͓̄͌c̷̫͔̳̿͠ű̵̊r̸̺͙͗͌̉ḯ̸̳͖t̴̛̳̉å̸͙̈i̶̞̭͗r̶̦̼͆̏͝e̵͙̣͔͊̉, ̵̛̯̅̕ ̷̼̿͜f̸̜̽̄i̸͔͉̅̕̚a̸͖͌̆̓b̶̳̤̮͌̓͝l̸̺̖̉̅̿e̷̞̜̊, ̴̤͓̕ rapide, ̷͕͠͝ convivial et ̸̡̛͓͙̐ȧ̴̪͔̚c̶̟̠͉̅̓c̸̦̝̠̈̊e̷̻̠̙͠š̸̼̪͉̔s̶̭͔̾̅͠i̴͈͈̔b̷̳͔͕̈̄͑l̸͙͒͑̑ë̶͎.̴̮̰̑̋̐
next stop: hell
ah the bus to r'lyeh!
finally, a bus taking me to shadow realm
you have to solve a captcha to board the correct bus
have you changed a street name yet?
rue barré
b̷͎̯̳̽͋̿͘i̶̮̋̾͒̏e̵͍͑̈́n̴͙̘̆͊̂͠v̶̢̢̘͍́͝ë̵͙́̒̊̒n̸̮̪̜̘͛͆̄͗ù̵̺̍͒ë̵̮́̔͐ ̴͎̭̞͉̋͝a̴̮͉̔̂ų̸̛͕̩̍͗ ̵̡̢̛̗̇̂̏m̷̢̬̟͗̅o̷̧̺͉͛̚n̷͍̜̩̾̈t̴͉̀̊̒͠ ̴̻͒̃̈́r̷̬̪̤̳̊ơ̵̢͚̼̭̌ỷ̵̰̦̬̍ȧ̷͙͆l̴̡̰̇͑͝
i think i'm lost, i was supposed to get off after the waterfall of blood but before the giant woman made of crickets.
poor bus is traumatized by all the mile-end hipsters. ;)
ah fuck, a short line
r/surrealmemes
can anyone else hear the scramble sound this is making in their head?
you should send this to [@fucknomtl](
this is for pokémon go players who want to catch missingno
even the bus has had enough de covid asti
same
take all the lines
/r/softwaregore
ah, the mystery bus!
you never know where you're going;)
this is the bus that drops off the raelians at the tam-tams.
wow! i thought this was a post on the r / srilanka subreddit! i am an expat in this asian country and i didn't see anything unusual on the bus sign!
he was going to eeby deeby
this bus will take you directly into the matrix
what's that number 0031 at the left bottom corner for? i have always wanted to know
the bus to myanmar.
destination unknown, you board and the destination is anywhere. :)
sqdc express shuttle?
a glitch in the matrix
it's the bus to everywhere!
for those interested, it is the bus stop at the corner of mont-royal and parc streets, in front of jeanne-mance park.
😂
this bus is an scp i bet
🤔matrix bound bus!
"don't go wrong! take the 980, not the 918 or the 978."
typical village bus !
desmond forgot to enter the code!!
when he asks you what you want to eat
t h e  f o r b i d d e n  r o u t e
oof
stm.jpeg
congratulations on becoming shazam!
montreal in a nutshell
yeah, the ront moyal station
i'm going to be crucified
next stop: auswitch *
already better than being in montreal
if there is an incident, the fhtagn slows down.
estite phtagn du necronominac!
i put my monster in defense position.
obviously 👀
they must have a deal with the police, since they have been impersonating montreal police officers for almost as long as jfl gags have existed.
impersonating a police officer is a crime isnt it? you have all the rights to be angry imo. might be even dangerous if a situation is going out of control particulary for the actors, you never know on whom you prank.
i see quite often passing gags with police officers (always the same actors besides!), i am curious to have a legal point of view on this.
edit: if you have legal / lawyer / judge friends ask them!
they should definitely not do police sketches.
these fake cop gags have always made me uncomfortable. and it's even worse if it's in a neighborhood where there is a large black population. 100% agree with you!
i don't know if this is the right number to contact for a complaint in this case, since it concerns gags and not shows, but: 
i'd be pissed too. it's one thing to mess around with people hanging around at the mall or something and another entirely to stop people on the road while impersonating a cop. somehow i don't think they'd point a fake gun at someone during a prank, but i bet they wore one on their hip without thinking about it.
you have every right to be mad.
impersonating a police officer is a crime.
you should file a complaint with the police.
this is so fucked up.
they can impersonate police officers and make you late but can’t give you a number to call to complain if anything. fuck them. where exactly was that? will try to avoid the place.
impersonating law officials, including police, border control, etc is illegal.  you can call the montreal police and make an official complaint.  
i believe that the loophole is that their "uniform" is not that of the spvm and nothing is indicated which could lead to believe that they are really of the police force. the history of op proves the contrary somewhat. and i'm a little (a lot) shocked that they took the time to stop the car and get op out ... i already had to deal with them and although zero was so traumatic, i was in good shape. ordeal too.
you're not over-reacting. it's fucked up that they would think something like that is acceptable (let alone legal).
you're not overreacting. fuck them! they used to run their stupid pranks on my street non stop. it's either shit like that or poking fun at people with disabilities. i don't know how they sleep at night.
[deleted]
ben agree with you. maybe it was funny back in the days when we didn't talk about racism and police brutality so often in our society, but today it's really bad taste.
call the non-emergency police number and report them, impersonating a police officer is a crime.
i hope it hasn't disrupted your day too much.
i imagine someone who goes to his job interview or other event with sensitive timing and who misses his shot because the fake police officers made him waste all the time to arrive early. ark.
you do really good to be angry, if everybody just smile and wave they will keep doing it.
no matter anybody's personal opinion on that specific subject, there's something really clear for me here:
**you asked to talk to someone to complain, and they didn't let you.** 
it doesn't matter here if you were right or wrong about why you were upset, *they are 100% wrong to not have let you voice your concerns to a designated person*.
that is plain and simply wrong, and talks a lot more of their arrogance than anything else - anything else could have been an "honest mistake" as far as my humble judgement can go. not letting complaints in? there's no "honest" mistake here.
it's not like recently a man went a shooting spree dressed as a cop.
let's not add any confusion. cops are cops. let's leave it that way.
you have every right to be mad, i’m so sorry this happened!
seriously their gags esti like the cringe worst thing ever.
sue them. going around in a police officer outfit is walking on legal eggshells. but they plain out used their perceived authority to stop your car, they even pretended to give you a ticket.
this is unnacceptable because it harms the trust between citizens and the police.
it's the same reason why a security agent can't pretend to have the same power as a police officer, if he does, he can loose his right to practice as a security agent.
sue, they will most likely agree to some kind of reparations.
this is a great post because most of us have watched jfl gags with the police officers and had a good laugh, yet everyone wonders how they get away with impersonating them. it's crazy that you actually experienced it and had exactly the bad experience we all wondered about. it sucks that you had to go through that, and it's perhaps time for them to finally retire that gag.
who here watches gags?i thought humor upgraded in the last 20 years. most of those jokes are just lame and fake.
either the "lighten up" crowd is the 0,01% of population priviledged enough to not know how it feels to waste time when you have to get somewhere, or you guys are huge hypocrites who would probably have a much worse reaction to this kind of thing than op did. 
personnally, there's one thing i really hate: wasting time for no good reason. i don't think jfl gags are funny, but if someone tries to burden me with their dog before they dissapear, i can refuse to engage and keep going. if police officers pull me over, i have to engage. i'd bet most of the "lighten up" crowd has been in a hurry before, and would absolutely lose it if stopped in these circumstances by fake officers for a fake reason, while wasting real time without any form of consent or knowledge of the situation at hand.
you are not overreacting. you are totally justified.
knowing myself, i would be just as pissed as you.
cops terrify me. i am a white female citizen who abides by the law. once, many years ago, i was driving on the 40 and, unbeknownst by me, the air in the tire was low. a man in an unmarked car kept following me and signalling me to pull over. this went on for a while because i did not know who this man was and did not want to obey him. finally i pulled over, he informed me about the tire, escorted me off the highway, and we went to the nearest gas station so i could fill the tire with air. he asked me why i wasn’t cooperating on the highway. i said i have no idea who you are. you do not have a uniform of any kind on your person and your car tells me nothing. everything was fine in the end, but i really don’t understand why the cop (highway patrol) who looked like he just got out a bed thinks that he can stop women in an unmarked car. the arrogance of this astounds me. if the cops don’t know it yet, a lot of people here just don’t have confidence that these guys aren’t just a bunch of cowboys. in fact, for years, because of labour negotiations, they used the pressure tactic of not wearing their uniforms properly. cops should behave professionally with the public. this means identifying themselves properly and treating people of all colours and genders with respect. that is not what i see here. if i had been the op in this situation, i too would be upset. i don’t even know how it is legal to impersonate a cop and then use that assumed authority to pull people over. this gag should be stopped because it is way too insensitive to the people of this province who are literally afraid of the police here and for good reason.
i would like to congratulate everyone who tells op to "lighten up, it's just a joke" on providing succinct examples of [gaslighting](
i think it's reasonable you talk with a lawyer in regards to filing a criminal complaint and a civil suit in this regards.
where did this happen?
i'm pretty sure that on the legal side of the impersonations, the lawyers of just for laugh already got on the story, made sure that it is legal, what they actually is that they already tell the spvm ahead of the filming day, and the spvm sends real officers near the set in case of a real emergency. now i'm not saying it is okay to do it, but when it comes to a production, there is a loophole in the law that makes it ok to do. still stupid
not really related to the post, but when they're filming, since it's in public, are you allowed to just hang around and make noise while they're filming? where to spend on the set?
it would be fun to piss them off and put themselves in front of their camera while they are filming.
i do think gags are funny, but only when the people are ok with it. the question should not be if you’re overreacting or not. if you found it offensive, the joke isn’t funny anymore to watch and therefore it shouldn’t really be. and i completely agree with you that impersonating an officer is very touchy, they should explore other contexts
you're 100% right and it's illegal to impersonate a police officer.
i was gagged on jfl but no police were involved.
you're not overreacting. it's a terrible prank and i'm pretty sure it's actually illegal to impersonate a cop.
i remember one where they switched out free ice cream last minute for margarine. stick to those gags la police ce n'est pas un joke. wait actually...
preach. this shit has always been unacceptable. these days it's so insensitive that hopefully it will finally get shut down.
good on you for complaining. i'd love to have an opportunity to tell them how boring they are.
the case in there that surprises me the most is that it still works, it's the show there. it's cringe at the end, it hasn't made anyone laugh since 93. who is the target audience? people who can't change jobs? like waiting room, airport, torture chamber?
me, who thought i had a bad day. hey boy. not easy life.
i always found it strange that they were allowed to approach people in the street dressed exactly like the spvm and even sometimes with police cars ...
i've always had this situation where someone in need runs up to them thinking they're real police. and it's clearly not like a shoot where it's demarcated and with all the equipment and staff. in this case, they are hiding.
yeah, i always wondered how many pissed off people they get before the funny ones.
impersonating the police is not ok. it's insensitive in this era of increased awareness.
i would also be screaming mad if i was pulled over by a joke film crew in the middle of a busy day.
i remember a girl who made a post on facebook about the jpr gags, she felt really bad because the joke was downright sexual harassment. in short, i would write an email to all these beautiful people here: 
wow fuck that, i'd have been really stressed in your position. you're totally within your right to be angry and you should (in my opinion) try to open a file with the police because you felt detained by \*fake police officers with fake guns\*
sorry to hear you had a bad experience. maybe jfl need to rethink which gags are appropriate.
if anyone has a problem with these jfl gags i think it's important to know who to complain to. it's the city and the spvm, not jfl. if it's allowed, a private entity will do it.
it's ridiculous how many people here think that an organization as big and old as jfl is openly doing something illegal. obviously there is some agreement between them and the city. lots of armchair lawyers here feeling smart because they can google and copy paste. lots.
i've always been disgusted with jpr gags because of their love of impersonating cops (frightening and intimidating people as a prank while also perpetuating the myth that cops are our friends? get fucked.) but i had no idea they went so far as to pull people over. that's fucking despicable. i'm so sorry you experienced this, and i'm glad you complained.
fuck "gags" and oh, fuck cops while we're at it.
great post thank you
hey, i'd hate to be "that person" but are you positive this was just for laughs and not some sort of scam/robbery attempt? i've been "pranked" by just for laughs before and they had me sign a waiver before recording and gave me a copy with phone numbers of the director on set that day.
plus, i've worked in the film industry and always was required to get consent from every individual who's face was on camera even if it was just a passerby. what they did sounds super illegal to me.
i've worked on set for jfl once (but not on a gag) and frankly they are cunts. never worked for them again and never will.  
i'd looooooove for this story to hit the media !
someone asked: how is the neighbourhood relevant? the neighbourhood is one with a concentration of a visible minority. my guess is the gag is much more funny when you do it with a visible minority. you get to see the whole range of emotions from terror to extreme relief. this makes the audience laugh more. in other words, jfl deliberately chooses an area like this because they will get a better result with the gag when doing it in an area with visible minorities because, due to this community’s fear of the police, the emotional reactions are likely to be more extreme.
about 5 years ago i was minding my business shopping at rona in brossard when some lady walked in front of me, took something from a shelf and put it in her purse, and told me if i said anything she'd say i touched her... so i obviously get very uncomfortable, i tell a rona rep who was helping me out and just just returned after stepping away for a second. she said it was for some tv show. a few minutes later some morons run out trying to get me to sign a waiver. it was for les destestable i think. i told them no. so a few minutes again another moron comes out pleading me to sign cuz my reaction was so funny. i said no again but he wouldn't stop so i just signed it to make him go away (i regret that). i came close to getting the manager out asking them why the fuck they let this stupid tv show pull this stupid prank but i would have caused quite the scene so i just walked out. fuck that stupid tv show and whatever idiots thought a sexual harassment prank would be funny.
ndg best hood!
nice!!! love to see my neighbourhood!
thanks for the great photo, can i guess taken from walkley looking down sherbrooke?
love my ndg!
magnificent and wonderful!
great picture i really like the contrast and the flow
looks like florida but obese
you can head down to cafe 92 after for a coffee and croissant! love that place. nice pic!
stunning! 
bad weather coming!
it seriously is the best hood i find. comparing it to other parts of town, its just refreshing to see that it is not getting as gentrified as the other neighbourhoods.
thank you that's really nice. it was on mariette looking east on sherbrooke.
yeah, was going to say a couple of blocks west of cavendish. recognized that big apartment building from a couple of years living right around there years back.
thanks so much, that's really nice.
came here to say something like this.
maybe not as gentrified cause of the lack of space and history but sure is cleaned up a whole lot more than other neighborhoods.
you sure its not montclair looking east on sherbrooke ?
same! actually lived in that building on 7th floor. view is great but dont make the mistake of taking an appartment on sherbrooke or cavendish side. there is so much noise, its insane. people are honking like it is new york (not sure why tbh), police, ambulance and firetrucks sirens feel like they're inside your appartment, and also the fire alarm just keeps going off for no reason. as someone who experienced a real fire situation, it baffled me to see people casually walking up the stairs with a fire alarm blaring. but when alarm rings 5 times in the same week, in the middle of the night, i start to get it (always went outside myself though, just in case).
anyway, view is great and lots of great places to go walk nearby. loved it despite the noise !
same here. fond memories as all my years in no damm good were some of the best years of my life.
absoutely
quite sure. i was at a buddy's who lives on mariette and we were walking to the couche-tard at the corner of the street. it looks like its a couple of streets up in the photo cause i zoomed in quite a bit so that the colors of the sky take up most of the frame.
we have in the past received submissions from this area with sensationalist titles, editorial content, and biased content. we invite you to do some research to confirm the information of the article. you can help improve this discussion thread by submitting links to media that verify or challenge the claims in this article. your link could help readers better understand this issue. if you find any evidence that this article or its title is false or misleading, contact the moderators who will review it.
thank you, the / r / montreal moderation team
we have in the past received submissions from this domain containing sensationalized titles, editorialized content and biased content. you are encouraged to research and confirm the information in this article. you can help improve this thread by linking to media that verifies or questions this article's claims. your link could help readers better understand this issue. if you do find evidence that this article or its title are false or misleading, contact the moderators who will review it.
thanks, /r/montreal moderation team
*i am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/montreal) if you have any questions or concerns.*
hairdressing schools are often the victims of "which volunteers will show up at the front desk".
i remember volunteering to sit on the chair for one of my friend's exam. i have to admit i was quite nervous i'd end up balled).
we have to invite black quebecois to volunteer so student hairstylists can build experience.
most of the time when a hairstylist tell you "sorry i don't do that cut", it is because they are afraid of fucking up, having an angry customer and hurting the salon's image.
so they need the practice.
great idea! expending one's knowledge is always the way to go.
there's a lot of money to be made if you have the skills to do black hair. my best friend does black hair and her services are in great demand. at one point, she had so many clients that she had to refer them to other hairdressers. she now divides her time between montreal and vancouver and works with wealthy executive types, athletes, and hollywood celebrities that are in town to shoot movies. sometimes the celebrities fly her out to their location, all-expenses paid.
hmmm on the one hand i agree but on the other isn't having black hair stylists good for the community in the sense that black hairdressers (who study black hair) have stable jobs because the others won't do it? it kind of keeps black dollars within the black community organically. but i'm not black, i'm just curious if other black people might feel that way as well.
i mean this should have been done a long time ago but this is great and should be mandatory.
most of them can barely deal with curly hair, let alone black hair🙄
they should include asian hair as well. it's usually thicker hair, very hard to find a hairdresser that knows how to handle them in mtl.
why not ...
it must be cool to learn new techniques ....
if we're talking about schools that are publicly funded then fine, but where will all these black hair teachers come from, especially in the rural areas where white people are 98% of the population?
probably the better solution is to have government assistance available to help establish schools that specialise in black hair in places that make economic sense. 
what about asian hair?
this is wonderful! i hope they do it.
you know who might not like this?  owners of barbershops and salons that exclusively cater to this type of hair.  if every place can do it, the niche barbershops might go under.
try going to a black hairdresser as a white person and you will see quickly that discrimination goes both way. i truly wish it wasn't like that but i'm not gonna lie just to get upvotes.
the important word here is "required", why? your only hurting small businesses. if there is demand for something someone will fill it no need for regulation.
working towards equality, one fade at a time!
i have nothing to contribute on this one but this comment section is considerably more polarized than i expected.
what about aborigines hair skills ? and balds ?
wouldn’t it be great business to have a skill in high demand instead?
absolutely!!
[deleted]
putting aside the valid social issue, the owner of a hair salon went to another hair salon where she was frustrated when she was told they were unable to style her hair. what?   
(it reads like she was refused service, but maybe she was just asking hypothetically...)
cue the people claiming it's cultural appropriation.
nha i'm a super friendly guy. you dont know my background. i'm talking from experience. you clearly never went to cass-croute chez rosie back in da days in the hood. i had to "fight" and get reckonized before she decided to serve me. same shit chez raoul design. when i wasnt ignore i would get higher prices. just to dissuade me to go there. caus ya know, its for black. not for unapproved whitey. racism is real. and it doesnt only go one way. this is the point of my post. i call bullshit on one sided racism. to think it actually is, for me, means you havent been/lived with them enough. or else you'd know i aint bullshitting.
i still love ya'll! just stop being naive and taking all the bs.
p.s. in the end she loved me so much that she would feed me for free. but i had to fight for it.
p.p.s. downvote me back to china. idk. i'm still speaking the truth.
hairdressing is a business. people are in the business to make money. if it was profitable they would already offer the service. if it's not then it's unethical to tell these people that they must do something just to please a certain group of people. in the other hand unsatisfied demand is a wet dream of every businessman so if it's really the case then they should go and open that business to make some sweet $$ instead of telling others what to do.
then i also expect black barber shop to welcome me in open arms and not look at me like i dont belong and pass 3 newer client before me. and know what to do with my hair. aight??
this isn’t entirely true. most of hairdressing school is practicing on mannequins and learning hair cutting, colouring and styling techniques. practicing on real people happens only for exams and at the very end of the program. 
unfortunately, hairdressing schools don’t cover curly hair in any form, except rolling a perm, which very few people do anymore. the only thing we were taught to do with curly hair was straighten it and then cut. cutting and styling black hair is completely ignored. if we’d had a black woman show up to have her hair done at my school, i’m not even sure my teacher would have known what to do.
wigs made of real hair are a good way to practice too
true, plus it's not only black people who have very curly hair so no matter where you plan to open your salon this is knowledge that will come in handy.
put a smile on me face, it's a win for everyone except the salty.
yes but that can be their choice to seek out black hairstylists to support them. we should also make sure that black hairstylists aren't being discriminated against in being able to own hair salons or get jobs. but other than that, every stylist should know how to do this so that it gives black people the option to choose, especially if they live in an area where they can't get to a black hairdresser in the first place. they shouldn't be forced every time to specifically have to seek out black people that specialize in black hair.
you’re not wrong, but there aren’t any specialized black hairdressing schools, at least not in mtl. this means that black hairstylists go to school and  learn nothing about their future clientele. there’s a meme going around the curly hair community that says “why do i know how to do your hair, but you don’t know how to do mine.” it’s an unequal situation. additionally, because more black people than ever are wearing their hair natural instead of in extensions or chemically straightened, the black hairdressers who learn by apprenticing don’t have the education on how to cut, style and care for their natural curls. this is why nancy’s petition is so important. 
another fact is that there are so many more hair salons that cater to a white people than black people. additionally, there are very few high end salons that cater to natural curls, meaning black
people aren’t able to pamper themselves in the same way white people are. 
introducing curly hair education will encourage black stylists to go to hairdressing school and open luxurious spaces that cater to black people.
many black hairstylists do it as a side job as black hair, in general, depending on your hairstyle and so forth, does not have to be done often. individuals are now utilizing youtube videos and their self-thought knowledge to do their hair.
the main reason montreal or quebec may be lacking in this department is that the black community is shrinking in the province, and now cities like edmonton are becoming the new hub. of course, toronto is so much better at finding black hairstylists, so there are many play variables here.
in general, quebec is very much a province where there isn't a lot of cultural knowledge mixed in among people, and i do not mean the individuals that say they have one jamaican or nigerian friend or grew up around haitians.
i mean people who genuinely have cultural knowledge and are open to exchanging knowledge between various ethnic communities as people live within enclaves here, so no surprise that there isn't a mix of people with practical experience in different hair.
so there are so many variables at play here that i have observed throughout the years.
[deleted]
yes! you’re absolutely right. that’s not what this petition is about, but i agree with what you’re saying.
so we have to wait until there are enough of us that someone will open up a shop that can handle our hair? and how many is enough? i live in a town with 20,000 people and there is one lady who i trust to do my hair and it took me 8 years to find her.
how do you define indigenous hair?
the market balances itself. no demand, no supply.
wait ... what? hairdressing schools at dep should teach students cooking skills? i really don't see the connection you're trying to make.
also, it's a bit insulting to all the people for whom macaroni is the favorite meal :(
this happens. stylists who are unfamiliar with black hair will refuse to style it. there's stories of black actresses told to show up on set with their hair already styled, because they don't have a hair or makeup person who knows black hair well enough.
yeah lol that's weird
thats two seperate issues though. lack of knowing how to do it vs actively discriminating against customers. no one is saying its right to discriminate, just that students should be learning all relevant skills
by experience i know you speak the truth right here
downvoting facts you dont like to make it go away, reddit's favorite circle jerk. feel sorry for you.
my best friend does black hair and her services are in great demand. at one point she had so many clients that she had to refer them to other hairdressers. now she mainly focuses on wealthy clients, athletes, and celebrities. some of the celebrities even fly her out to their film locations, all-expenses paid. there's a lot of money to be made if you have the skills to do black hair.
won’t they make more money if they can give a service to more clients?
the goal here would be to teach the skill to students in the first place. your argument is moot
as someone who does curly hair (white and black) i assure you that’s it’s profitable. montreal is just behind the times.
white guy here, i get my hair cut at a black barber shop, maybe you just have a bad attitude.
preach
you have so many more options to go somewhere else. 
why in the world would a white guy walk into a black barber shop?
is this on cartier, north of masson before the track?  if so i use to live in one of those appartment appartment 30 years ago!
[
i miss montreal. saw this and instantly knew it was montreal. thank you for this
i like the subtle cones!
without seeing any description, knew it was montreal
looks so much like my old place on saint urbain
i wish that we were able to build new neighborhoods in this style.
i like it. 
nice work
nice drawing! i work in montréal for the stm so i drive with these buildings every day as my scenery. very nice indeed!
this drawing made me smile. ♥️ montreal
love montréal. miss it. would love to go back and live there for a summer. it's just magique
beautiful! i can't wait to be back after the summer. i miss the buildings just something that vancouver will never have.
i saw this and thought, oh, this looks like my place! then i remembered it vaguely looks like a thousand places in montreal. very good capturing of the essence of the city
love the drawing! ❤️montreal
is it on pie-ix ?
the orange traffic cone should be the official symbol of my montreal.
wow. exactly.!!!!
an orange cat named moustache lives there now, i believe..
a true montrealer.
impressive!
wow that’s some vivid memories!
the traffic cones were a dead giveaway.
they have a life of their own!
thanks! 
there was a guy here last year doing better renderings of all sorts of spots beside their front porch...
thanks!
moved back here from vancouver and feel the same!
it is someone's old place!
no but purplx recognized the exact building!
have you seen #fcknomtll on instagram?
i love this small world situation, and i love moustache paying his own rent
there was an older man named  monsieur gallant living on the ground floor on the building on the left beside the commercial building. we spent three good years there. good memories.
i did live there for three years. it sticks with you.  as i said i have very fond memory of that place and that time in my life.
montreal's spiritual animal
yes, mine!
i met some people randomly at the cambie in nanaimo who once lived in my east van apartment....
why we can do that, but not invite in friends in his backyard?
why are people still pretending like outdoor transmission is a significant driver of the pandemic??
you know covid and other season viruses don't look at the calendar and decide to be less dangerous in the summer, they spread less precisely bc of factors like spending more time outside
because there's legit nothing else to do yo
it was the same at laurier park, etc.
the curfews not gonna last after st jean
not surprised anymore... i can't blame them, all of this is hard for mental health.
amazing! happy to see everyone getting some vitamin d and socializing outside!
with the blue bécosses which overflow from noon! pro tip: you have to go to the bathroom behind the police station!
i've been staying in villeray not far from the park for almost twenty years, it's not the first time that the park is full, but this year it's the first time that there is such a movement of crowds on rue villeray between 8:30 am and 9:30 am. the tennis tournament brings hundreds of commuters by car stressing one-way parking, covid and curfew turns my street into an "exit from the bars"; lots of drunk people yelling as they walk towards the metro. it's like being in saint-laurent or in the mcgill ghetto during frosh week.
good for them! get out and enjoy the weather.
the amount of oil changes this morning was absurd, too. children's cibolus, i swear.
it's fine being at the park, but do people really have like 50 friends to all get together in a giant moshpit-like vibe? 
i was there yesterday and op's pic doesn't do it justice. felt like a bunch of cegep groups getting together. c'est ridicule, genre c'est normale d'etre en groupe, mais genre 30-50?
what do you expect? people to keep locking themselves up just because we have 2 deaths from covid? are you for real?
someone never went to a coachella party lol
like the weather is nice, toulemonde is outside, the world is being vaccinated, so why was there another anti mask parade creak? (i know he had a protest of support for the palestinians, but i saw that he also had an anti mask demonstration).
life is pretty good now in considering the year we've had, why are these people still banging on about the regulations. like these people will go to see their friends in the park to do a bbq and then in the same breath complain that their rights are being infringed lmfao fucking losers.
what is the gathering of 100 people that we see at the top of the photo?
what are all these people doing together? what activity?
jeanne-mance was even crazier! the city is waking up!
oh man, if only i had friends
i came by last night around 9 p.m. garbage everywhere, loud music and drunk people. it was not beautiful beautiful ...
wouldn’t it be nice if mtl took this as an opportunity to divert some festival activities to the parks... i know this wouldn’t drive people to businesses but man do i love a concert on the grass!
westmount park today as well. but you can’t catch it easily outdoors and most people have at least 1 shot.
lol, do you even know what coachella is?
but mr. doug ford's slaughterhouses and factories that make the little distancing stickers that you find in stores, have to stay open.
piss off people in a park, unless it's a herd of youngsters and their grandparents, that's not where the transmission is happening.
i've got a feeling it's only a matter of time before the cricket players lose their field just like the softball players at jeanne-mance.
the park at the prairie river was also full.
and i stay at home to limit contacts by telling myself that it improves the situation… useless
those are longggg shadows.
not worthy of it's own post because i can't take a none-blurry panorama. this friday at park lafontaine: 
jeanne mance was worst yesterday...so much so that the popos had to come and run their siren for 15-20 min to disperse the crowds.
i dunno about covid, but at least one person caught an sti (aka std) that evening.
it's been the same for almost a month. the police come and say hi without doing anything more. the other beautiful moments are the long lines in front of the park's worksite toilets. we are in the last straight line and these gatherings promise us 3 more laps of the track
daaamn i used to live there
we were the three guys with binoculars, a chocolate blanket just to the right of your frame, you should have put us in the big picture. if i trust the sun, we were there when you took the picture
awesome.
are you complaining about groups of friends minding their own business in a public outdoor space?
also, have you ever been to a festival? i don't see the problem with any of this picture. let people enjoy themselves without judging.
i was there about 3 weeks ago and people were drinking alcohol straight from the bottle. it’s scary
idiots
[deleted]
it is known, the coronavirus is held in the backyards.
you can invite a friend to your yard, just "not get caught".
everyone is already doing it. don't wait for legault's permission.
you're not supposed to do that either, unless you follow these guidelines:
contact-free sports and recreational activities are permitted outdoors in public places with members of the same household or in groups of up to 8 people from different households.  
face covers are always mandatory during outdoor activities, except when:  
the occupants of the same residence engage in the activity, in addition to a single individual with the latter’s children, thereby forming a stable group, such as a couple that does not reside at the same address;  
the participants from different residences remain a minimum of 2 metres apart throughout the activity;  
the individuals are seated more than 2 metres apart;  
the individuals engage in swimming or water sports.  
individuals from different residences must always remain 2 metres apart.
the argument was that it starts in the yard, with all good intentions, then some come back and we no longer pay attention. in any case, as the other redditor says, everyone does it, just don't be noticed / denounced by your neighbors.
when your friend enters shitting for 20 minutes browses his cell, your toilet becomes a super spreader
because people are probably less careful about distancing when they're all at a friend's house at the same table passing ketchup and mustard for their hot dogs.
that group of people in the middle should all get ticketed
because you have people who don’t understand risk. the chance of getting it from outdoors is negligible. some people see the outdoors as a threat with virus particules circling endlessly through the air.
...the sunlight and the heat decrease its lifespan and the more humid air saturates it, winter it may persist outdoors although this is just based on studies of indoor hockey rinks where there is much less light exposure.
also the virus likes the cold. 
i think outdoors is better but it's not magically amazing. i mean someone sneezes or coughs and a gust of wind can take that bad boy for sure. 
it's just that outdoors is better than indoors. it's not covid proof by any means. 
gatherings like these could very well increase transmission, and curfew may get lowered again if hospitals fill up.
we'll see i guess.
🐑 that’s why
i biked passed jeanne-mance earlier this week, at about 8pm, looked like miami beach, i couldn't 'understand it, so many kids out. i've never seen that before.   
and then i realized it's because normally, these crowds would have be spread out over about a half dozen bars across the city. and not in a parc. and it was surreal.  
there literally is nothing else to do.
what's with the english signs?
big moment in my childhood was going to the paramount cinema (now scotia bank) and passing by that place. i couldn't believe such a thing was allowed to exist in plain sight.
now that's fine art, love it!
you took a little liberty with the signage 😉
the saddest thing for me is that the five guys are also on fire :(
you are officially awesome.
woow handsome work
the real tragedy is the five guys being closed...
good picture,  good job. truly a sad day part of my youth went up in flames. 🔥🔥
super sex
great job!
[neighbours are all restos but the sexe was too hot!! rip 5guys](
gotta have cones.
i'm not from montreal, can someone explain it to me?
cool drawing! do you do custom work?
where's the 5 guys? the real tragedy! /jk
i think i was, there maybe thirty five years ago. 
its a shame 😔
i need that supersex sign for my room!
disappointed i never bought a shirt from there lol
awesome!
wait when did it burn down and how?
loved supersex strip club when i was 18. been closed for so long and now it’s burnt as well!
i have such a cool story behind that fire, not related to the fire, but right before it happened
the montreal police department
spvm
i chuckled
this is the tragedy
i guess im still a bit nostalgic for st cath in the 60s lol
of course, *of course*, that is what would be focused on in this sub.
same thing and i loved it
thank you!
in real life, there would never be an ad in montreal with a number 450!
there are others
mr. steer right next door bruh. local beats chains every time.
i think 5 guys just had water damage. hard to tell with it all boarded up though. even if it were not damaged at all, the stink from next door would be terrible for business.
damn, they went down as well? i loved ubering food from them before i moved outside their delivery radius.
thank you :)
a famous strip club went up in flames. 😔
thank you! yes i do :)
it was abandoned for a while and it was probably arson :/
ooh what is it?
"lol what can i say i just miss the good old days back when the french knew their place lol"
don't you think that's a comment? kind: time that the building creaked on the ground, if you want the place, therefore call the company which sponsored the useful crime and incidentally it's a big filth with offices in the ten thirty?
for the world looking for a new place to wait 45 minutes for a fret burger, i highly recommend the mcdo de st-henri.
accessible by public transport and next to a cinema?
it is still a 10 minute walk. if you want to go there for dinner and you're east of five guys, the round trip cuts you off quite a bit.
that said, mr steer is a very good burger.
tragic :(
hahaha it's more about the neons for me
will you shut up man
gotta be honest, i really love place des festivals... without the festivals. it’s been fun to have it as a normal plaza with the water fountains running all the time, kids playing, people hanging out, no fences or security or big stages with boxes of equipment everywhere.
but i also really miss seeing live music outdoors so i guess i’ll just enjoy this special period while it lasts!
from the title i expected two thousand people stacked or some kind of hockey riot ...
amazing i miss living at place des arts
*sax plays some jazz notes in the distance*
who else has had lasik surgery on their eyes and sees the same kind of rays emanating from light sources at night all the time?
it's still quiet like that ???
honestly i should've named this place des arts rtx on 😂
that's great pic of **place des festivals**
*place des arts* is on the right, behind the *musée d’art contemporain (mac)*.  
beautiful photo!!!
this cannot be *"right now"* because right now the sun is up and everything is bathed in sunshine. this was clearly taken at night, right around the time that you posted it.
man i miss living near there. it made my summers magical!
i miss that place
i miss seeing all the smiling faces in this place. it was such a jovial atmosphere when it was happening. it’s so barren and quite now :(
what a buzz kill...
[
hope this helps :)
me i had pi i did not notice a difference ... best money i ever spent
did you take the personality or standard option?
shit bro my french sucks 😂
i live a block away from the fountains and it’s pretty busy every day now !
only one reflective light would be on, not enough videocards out there till 2024. great post btw.
😂😂😂
i guess you missed the last part of my message. it's possible to like two different things at the same time. imagine that.
it's not so much the rainbow glare. it's more the effect of "starburst" rays coming out of all light sources and the halo is much bigger around the sources too.
it will be almost a year since i had the operation.
i went to laservue. i can't remember which option i took.
lol it’s still this quiet? even on a thursday night ?
oh yeah if you want to improve your french date someone french lol
dude wtf?!
wow that seems like a serious side effect. did you speak with lasik? what did they say?
lol i did 😂 learning french with a learning disability is impossible
underrated comment. i was told this for years and thought it was a joke. dated a french person and i definitely improved!
what?
yeah i mentioned to them and they told me it's supposed to go. but it has not changed for several months.
it's made it very difficult to drive at night.
i also have slightly double vision in my right eye. just enough to make it look weird. but i was told that we had to wait a while.
i took the lifetime warranty. so if there's anything i can go back and get treated for free, but hey. it's a bit disappointing though.
i consider my french to suck, but it's unimaginable that you can't read that comment... like do you never read french news or signs or communicate at all? if so are you here short term? it seems unbelievable.
yeah, who wants to do that again? the recovery process is not bad, but it's annoying, and i understand you don't want to do it again if you don't have to.
born and raised here, i grew up in parc ex and was diagnosed with borderline intellectual functioning so no matter how much i want to learn french i legitimately can't
exactly.
it’s easy as a procedure, but it’s really scary. and recovery afterwards is stressful too. you're afraid of hurting your eyes and fucking your sight.
named after edward snowden
looks like snowdon to me. where is this snowden station?
this is one of my favourite feelings - going down an escalator on an stm station to see the architectural design.
i have often wondered how much these lights weigh. they are huge
they have spy stations down there.
majestic!
my station!
i can't stop imagining the installation of planets there.
nice shot!
beautiful photo!
this is not how i remember it at all. i remember all the trash under the stairs at the exit.
lol thats a way nicer photo than how it actually looks
wooahh.
snowdon’s deli was a few blocks from this place. out of the way when i was visiting but totally worth it.
such a striking photo!
r/liminalspace
wicked pic
one of my favorite stations in the system !!!!
slowest escalators ever
i'm always mixed up when i go to this metro station.
til that the name of the station and the name of the whistleblower are spelt differently
fun fact: the station is actually named after james snadon ([pictured here (on the left)]( who started misspelling his name on purpose to make it sound more english.
it is snowdon. they just misspelled it.
except this particular station is so dingy and dirty you notice more the things that need fixing than the architecture. op is a talented photographer - he managed to make snowdon look interesting
i just like pizza shapes alot
5 pounds minimum
edit: each
i've been wondering for years if they'll change the two that don't work anymore
mine too! fellow snowdonian!
how's snowden? is it a good neighborhood? i'm looking for an appartment and saw some interesting ones on macdonald ave
what's good at snowden deli? it's still there i believe
what's your favorite?
if in doubt it's written a lot all over the walls
jean nadon
* le sigh *
r/woooosh
thank you brotha!
/r/technicallythetruth
uh ... is that a joke? that's at least 5 kilos each.
one day, sigh, one day ...
i imagine the scaffolding to go up there, it's not something to do in a night.
sno do nian
snowdonians strong together
it’s a great neighbourhood. it’s quiet and noisy at the same time. i used to live on macdonald. great area to live in honestly. you’re not so far away from anything you need. do you drive?
decarie pollution galore, cockroaches in every other apartment...
what's not to like?
old fashioned smoked meat, club roll is pretty good. best kreplach soup in town.
i have many favorites. along with this one, i like radisson, honore-beaugrand, peel, lucien l’allier and bonaventure. among others.
no one asked me but my fav is namur! like snowdon it has massive light structures.
i think villa maria and de la concorde also look nice.
good good, yeah it seems like a family little corner, i just heard so much bad stuff about north (or west) of queen mary haha. i do drive but i won't have a car there, metro won't be a problem, we're students from hec coming from outside of montreal
lol idc abt the pollution but hopefully cockroaches aren't a problem... yikes
nice! i was at radisson for the first time in forever, and was impressed by the brutalism and the huge spaces. i'll be keeping those in mind while doing my metro photo hunt!
i left montreal two and a half years ago. i had a 4-1 / 2 at $ 990 direct next to metro place saint-henri. when i put my lease to transfer online, i had 50 requests in less than 24 hours. i spoke with two people and the others told them it was already taken. it's ridiculous to move so many people. let's see.
it especially seems to me a very poor management of visits by an owner. there are currently 50-120 +++ visitors for each condo for sale on the south shore .... it's just that the agents don't make everyone come at the same time, otherwise this kind of photo would be frequent every time. day.
fyi: this photo is not of me, i saw it pass on facebook!
[lien direct vers la publication facebook.](
for $ 975, 4 and a half in verdun.
after 10 serious visit requests i no longer take visits or else i remove the announcements to avoid this kind of situation.
i saw the exact same scene on st-urbain and mile end/plateau in 2000, everyone paying voir newspaper to get access to the weekly availability list of apartments to rent. if you showed up and weren't 3rd in line, your chances of getting the place were zero. the first three people in line would have bidding wars out in the open.
this scene is shocking if you've never seen something like this but i find it sad that this problem still exists. look at what speculation had done to mile end, plateau, st-henri and you can predict where verdun is headed. every neighborhood that made montreal unique is losing its personality. good luck to all of you looking for a place, i really do hope things work out for you.
wonder how much difference in the price between the first visit and the last
i don't understand how rentals are not going down in price. the vacancy rate is at least double what it was last year and possibly even 4 times it was. at what point will some of these landlords drop rents a bit to make the more expensive places affordable?
i wanted to find something cleaner and more renovated and drop my 4 1/2 in villeray at $ 820, i may be patient in fact.
even with the terrible prices, it's still a rat race to get a decent place. i found a  large 4 1/2 near place des arts for 1400$, and the number of views and people contacting the people after me were nuts. like 300 people i think she mentioned.
sad.
oh fuck, montreal is really in trouble ....
can we pour out a bull max for ma ville ? 
rip montreal 1979-2021 
was nice knowing you   time to head out to smaller towns/repopulate trois rivières
[deleted]
a 4 1/2 for $975 in a great neighborhood is not "affordable" as much as it is "wildly below the market rate." i know rent prices have gone up a lot in the last few years, but damn - sometimes this stuff just seems alarmist to me 🤷‍♂️
affordable is how much?
wow if that gets that crowd for 975$ for a 4/12 , my 5/12 for 940$ in ndg (villa/monkland) would probably get half the town
this is what happens when the population of a city grows faster than the number of available places. the only solution is more supply. it’s frustrating. the city directly controls, or at least strongly influences, the number of places available for rent and purchase through zoning laws.
i wish that next to every metro, we had a high density condo unit being built, whose units sizes reflect the demand, so like lots of three-bedroom apartments for example.
so many people in the comments are mentioning that the rent is at the same price as a mortgage and i'm so confused by that comment.
why would someone buy property and then put it up for rent if they were not going to make back their cost in mortgage, taxes and other fees + a profit? it's literally a business and landlords need to be in the positive after all their costs are paid for it to make any sense..
do you think any local shop would stay in business if they weren't making any profit at the end of the month? landlords are just another local business!
support local businesses and pay your rent!
and i get to stay in my shitty olympic village apartment which should be a cooperative. and i can't afford any where else. fuck this economy in the asshole.
the next time you are told that wealth outcome * exists, think about this picture.
when i posted my 4 1/2 in verdun at $ 775 / month for lease transfer, it was three months ... if i had not refused after 4 visits it would have given that too.
congrats montreal, you have reached [berlin status](
i just left a 4 1/2 with yard in the village at $ 775 and i think it was the worst decision i have ever made ... i just could not have been alone in montreal in a pandemic.
i learned that the owner increased it to $ 975 per month while i was the one who did each of the small repairs. (i stayed there for 5 years without getting raised)
montreal going to end up like toronto people will be living 1hrs 2hrs away from the city the rem and trains will be packed
wow, that’s not even to buy, but to rent? tabarnak!
i was given the famous take-back notice for this july, it worried me so much that i started visiting drette in december and i jumped on the first apartment that i liked in my budget (after a few applications rejected) . i moved in february, screeching stressed, but i avoided the madness of july 1, 2021 and that i regret so much. what a good move, myself. all landlords are bastards !!!!
think about staying with my 3 1/2 at $ 655 for another year
it’s all young people who want the urban experience. i don’t blame them.
my 1 and a half next to berri uquam returned to 580 next april smh
what a joke.
fyi there’s a pandemic  so wearing mask is good idea.
rent control pi seizure of empty housing by the city to provide for the lack of social housing. who does that displease as a solution to the problem?
landlord will raise the price. or, they should at least.
don't bother coming to the plateau then lol. everything is minimum $1900...
insane!
shotgun!
we are talking about verdun ...
in my opinion, part of the problem is the lack of rental housing. in the mid-90s, they started turning lots of apartments into condos (remember that the condo market collapsed before the pandemic, and it will continue to collapse afterwards), and 9 times out of 10, they were building condos instead of new apartments.
so too many condos, not enough housing (and too many poodles)
ridicule
it's crazy these days.. moved last year and one lady who was renting quite a few places in the west island said if we wanted to look we needed to come with a cheque for first month's rent in hand, even then it wasn't a guarantee we'd get the place.
define affordable ... i'm curious.
4 and a half, quiet full house in my block is $ 800, with snow-covered parking space.
why is there a shortage of apartments in this city if construction never ends and air bnb is dead in the water?  we should have an over supply if anything.
also, consider the population of montreal has been largely flat since 2005.
come to mtl nord
hey, there's nothing there: i live in the suburbs in a house, and my neighbor is one of the neighborhood dealers, sometimes there are worse line-ups than that in front of his bungalow on thursday and friday night
that looks like the avenues. 3rd or 4th i think.
when i left verdun i was paying 1150 for a ground floor 6.5 on lasalle blvd. 
i miss v-town, those were good days.
is it for rent or a purchase?
wtf that's the market price? my mom rents 4 1/2 for not more than 750 in verdun (the current tenant is late for rent by 3 months or so i've heard but she doesn't know how to kick them out lol).
gotta hike those rents up! that’s a steal
975$ for a 4 1/2 in verdun, verdun, is good for people? i lived in verdun, 1987 until 1989 as a child. i hated verdun. my worst childhood memories were in verdun. 
being the only immigrant kid in a school full of quebecois, who’s parents told all of them that immigrants are baaaad, was such a great experience. so loving and welcoming and accepting. worst from the teachers too. 
but i digress. verdun was the ghetto of montreal. now people want to pay 975$ for a 4 1/2 there? for verdun? the ass crack of montreal? 
that’s just insane. if this does not show you montreal prices are out of whack, nothing will.
my orange cone
king of the streets of montreal
i prefer when you are not on my way ...
a ponto of nowel!
[deleted]
where is the star with "crossed out street" written on it?
rental: $ 30 / day? lol
he should sell this as a keychain piece in souvenir shops..extra cost for those that lights up.
[deleted]
omg i miss the fries so much then!
stealing this idea with my 100% not stolen cone.
to pass a tree?
perfect. merry christmas.
please zero virus for all
big brain
i love it
are you on etsy?
really beautiful ...!
*laughs in boomer*
little foreman
when you get off the truck
with your studs by the thousands
don't forget to put the “barred street” post
and before leaving
it will never end
the job you were going to do
it's a bit because of montreal
festivus for the rest of us!
or earrings. i've been looking for the effigy of orange cones for a while. i scoured a good number of downtown and plateau stores, without success to date.
it is in the classification of coniferophyta.
this is not a ponto.
the one at cote des neiges?
here is the door
it's the frites so on rachel at the corner of rivard.
just in general. i live far from those in the city center so, by the time i get home, the poutine is cold.
so i'm waiting for the dining rooms to reopen in 2034
ah ok, i'm more from the west so i went to the restaurants in the area of the mtl university more
edict: it's not too far from the ice floe that?
a tip for the poutine delivered / transported: sauce on the side in a container, and if the fries are cold put them in the oven at 425 for 2-3 mins (this may vary) and put the sauce on top. the baked cheese with the fries depends on how you prefer your ti quick, i like it fresh so i would isolate the fries
for those who don't know, “au pied de cochon” is one of montreal's most famous (and among the most expensive) restaurants, which have fun paying their staff the minimum for very demanding conditions.
edit 1: yes i know front of house staff tips out to the kitchen, but it’s very small.
edit 2: i also know it isn’t the *most expensive* culinary destination in montreal, but it’s considered expensive for the average quebecois, and it’s unfortunate that with such a high average cheque that the staff is paid so poorly.
i made the post to highlight that the food service industry, which i grew up in and love so much, unfortunately continues to cling on to a broken business model. the idea is to stimulate discussion, that’s it.
i am very surprised ... i would never have imagined this kind of salary in this category of restaurant! it's a bit scandalous ...
just for context ... vices & versa, a beer bar with a fairly limited menu, pays its cooks $ 18 / hr with a percentage of service tips on top.
[
if a bar that serves fries and burgers can afford $ 18 / hr, it's a shame that a restaurant as famous as apdc is so stingy.
mcdo literally pays better than that.
wtf?!
it's not a labor shortage, it's a wage shortage!
it's as rich as cresus, this gang there. shame on you big hairy.
edit: gros lol, la presse which reads us. hello press
13$hr was crap when i was a cook 20 years ago. so glad i left that industry. is feeding a bunch of assholes worth evenings wkds holidays and stress? no thanks i cook at home now ....
so much of a bad working condition there too. they are also cocked to the maximum to be able to run. their sugar shack is practically run by slaves who have no life because they make them work 18 hours a day, 6 days a week.
i mean mcdonald’s offering $17+h. you have an abundance of choice to work wherever
it looks like the video game industry, the more famous the company, the less it pays. in the end saying, "it's a privilege to work here, and people line up ~~ girl ~~ to get your place."
at this price it deserves to be bombarded with false cvs.
i’ve been working in this industry for over 20 years. it doesn’t pay for experience it pays for the position needed. don’t dedicate your time to this industry unless you open your own place, it’s not worth it.
“i don’t understand why you don’t put the company above your life! we give you 13.50!!!???”
basically them.
treats you like shit, pays you like shit.
“yeah we need 25 000 more immigrants in the country each year because the population doesn’t buy in our bullshit”
nothing against immigrants as i am one. problem is their solution doesn’t fix anything rather they prey on desperate immigrants.
for the cherry on top, note that full time is not even guaranteed! they don't want to risk giving you blessings.
labor in the year 2021 is basically indentured servitude if ur not making at least 50,000 a year. things have gotten so expensive , and companies have not paid the average worker enough money in decades. companies are greeedy fucks. i dont dream of labour. employment is death
eurk. let's say 35 hours a week, that's roughly 24k per year. we are talking about $ 2000 per month in a corner where the 1 and a half rent $ 1200 per month. worse, i don't even think about taxes.
issshhh.
omg, i saw this this morning. downright insulting. i'm looking for myself better, as we always should, but i'm more grateful to do substantially more like line cook / grillman. it is absurd as a salary, doubly for the establishment.
and how much the tip of the waiters who probably don't want to share it.
there is no shortage of employees, just a shortage of work that pays enough to live on. unfortunately, small businesses that exploit workers still have more influence over politicians than workers.
tse when your salary doesn't even allow you to eat where you work.
if the cooks have their share of tips left by customers: ok, not crazy but it can get interesting on some days.
except that if you pay your employees so little, i doubt that you are the type to set up tip distribution systems ...
ah well, the big chalice!
looks like to get on tv, you really have to be a bunch of mardes.
what pisses off is that they are going to pay a lot of money to recruit underpaid employees. recruiting an employee is a lot of time and often money too. linkedin charges $ 100 per month just for having an active account. it's complete rubbish
edit: bad recruiting brand named
$ 13.50 an hour ??? are they mentally ill ???
this is one of the reasons why i quit the industry. it was all fine and well while living with my parents, but at a certain point i wanted to move out and wouldn't be able to live off 14$/hr.
aye, went to this place twice with my wife, my check has not once been below $350.
pay up, ya, tight-fisted fucks!
who are the owners?
i'm going to stop going there, let's boycott companies that exploit workers.
literally people have been bombing all their posts on facebook this morning with this picture as comment. they are getting heavy backlash, this is great.
and that's without counting the toxic environment and the psychological harassment on the part of the managers! vincent is the most narcissistic person i have known in my life, he takes unhealthy pleasure in putting someone down in front of others. and the martin nephews roll on their power trip. and the women managers say nothing, enable their sexist (and sometimes racist) comments and sometimes go so far as to increase the price.
as for the salary, it's even worse at the sugar shack. work from 9 a.m. to 2-3 a.m. (with a 15-minute break before the service is 5 p.m.) ... and start again the next day at 9 a.m. i had the chance to work on the service side, i wouldn't have been able to do that from thursday to sunday. and the salary of people in the kitchen is fixed. so they are paid ex. 40 per week but work 60.
and when it comes to * tip distribution *, no one knows how many tips were collected since everyone pays a single cash register. so there management adds an amount to your pay and you're supposed to believe them (but strangely the paid hardly varied ...).
note that i'm mainly talking about the cabane, but i did a few shifts at the restaurant in duluth and the environment is just as toxic.
i am currently looking for a job (not in this field) and these just getting more and more awful. it's been 4 months i'm looking for more shitty interviews that ghost you. the shortage, i don't really have the impression that there really is one, honestly. i have a high school diploma and most jobs cost $ 18- $ 19 an hour.
wow $ 13.50. i hope they pay their pigs better
you can make more doing delivery. wtf
they like to laugh at people. unbelievable! how can we offer this salary in 2021?
i have a friend who’s a chef and they’re always torn between wanting to go to these restaurants to be able to learn and grow as a chef and other less creative places like catering/hotels where the pay is more equitable. they were telling me it’s hard to bank on tip outs.  
i used to tip in cash, but now i tip by card, i don’t know if that makes a difference. i like the idea of gratuity included restos but only if the extra dollars actually go towards salary and not profit margin
i'm a cook, and most restaurants open the $ 18 ball these days.
with belocum, an app like a head finder agency that sends cooks to restaurants that need help, you can fetch $ 25-30.
at pig's foot, it's shameful in tbnk that he pays his employees so low and i won't hide from saying it: it's not a good place to work.
nice find @op!
ciborium ... the busboy is paid with the leftover food ??
damn my restaurant starts at $16 and i thought that was low. this is insulting.
the entire business model of almost all restaurants is based on paying most of their staff at minimum wages.
either the model needs to change or the minimum wage needs to go up significantly.
i have always been amazed that min. wage doesn't increase annually to keep with inflation.
french requirement? that's brutal.
my girlfriend worked at h4c place saint-henri for a long time, yes, the salary was not high and the hours much higher than 30-40h per week. it was 50, or even 60, or even 70, without overtime pay.
fak yeah, i'm not surprised.
i like the fact that there are 5 vacancies (it must not be for nothing) but no they will continue to offer the bare minimum.
i worked in the kitchen at the pdc one summer for a similar salary, paid 40h / week to work 60h / week. in an environment that is actually quite toxic. i've never been there since, fuck mp and his obsession with human exploitation and foie gras.
it's pretty crazy to see the salary offered in a restaurant like this.
unrelated but restaurants like kumamoto ramen in the city center are even worse.
the kitchen staff are paid the salary of the waiter because they walk in the corridors to bring the food, but the tips them? direct to the boss.
so you can be a cook declared below minimum wage too, somehow.
not only is it restaurants like this, but often you'll see job postings on indeed that state the following:
pay 13.50$ - 19.00$ / hour
tips.
what they tell you when you get to the interview and ask them is that the salary is 13.50$/hour but you'll make 19.00$/hour with tips.
falsely advertising the wages on indeed has become extremely common for montreal employers.
the owner's defense ... over here: 
no sense! the employer cannot pay a cook at minimum wage, sorry. unless the tips are very generous, and then again. the pressure, knowledge required and variable hours are aspects to consider and this employer will find it difficult to recruit good staff at this salary.
and during the months of january and february you're lucky if you have 20 hours a week
beautiful shot. i've taken a couple of pics from that exact spot. the mount royal in the back really makes the shot.
the new manulife building exactly where our good 'ol ben's stood.
love the colours.
great pic. 
[
really nice shot. i remember the sky being really beautiful yesterday!
the sky was stunning last night!
nice!  very nice picture!
this makes me remember how much i love montreal.
it threw me off, seeing manuvie instead of manulife
edit : (typo correction)
thank you to our greek friends for managing our belle province / petit québec restaurants like champions. we love you solid!
[deleted]
hats off to our helleno-montrealer siblings.
happy birthday to zeus and all his inbred olympian family.
yeah fuck the ottoman empire 👌🏽👌🏽👌🏽 hellas.
long live greek quebec! :)
happy birthday! long live greece!
wow the same color from quebec what a coincidence :)))))))
thanks to all the malakas on the site rn!
oohhhhh i was wondering why i saw so many cars with greek flags out and about yesterday
finally i am quite turkophile but well done guys !!!
hella ! this is neat.
i think the bridge should always be this colour. it looks incredible
maybe it was just a test for midsummer's day.
you suuuuure thats the motivation of the blue an white bridge?
we love you solid too ❤️
the best all dressed "quebecois" pizza that i often ate when i was little, it was greek newcomers who made it in the st-michel district. i still salivate. i don't know what they put in it, but holy shit.
popcorn in preparation!
[deleted]
especially if the flag is blue and white.
when is our turn?
syrian checking in, fuck the ottoman empire and anyone that wants to bring it back
romanian checking in.  fuck it, indeed! 
(strictly speaking about the empire. i got nothing against modern day turkey and its awesome people).
bunch of feminists, already, greece, more lost than that, you die, even the albanians don't want to stay there anymore.
and syria, like the rest of the middle east countries, out of the good dustbin, turkey should never have welcomed the syrians, we can see the result that it has done in scandinavia (rapist gang).
well, hoping that erdogan gets stripped off and that the republic returns to secular foundations. help the arabs ... the good joke, a traitor if you want.
fortunately, israel will swallow it all up soon, insha'allah.
happy birthday!! long live greece! long live canada! 💙🇬🇷🇨🇦❤️
if i am to believe my physics and math lessons, it is pronounced:
kronia polla! nuto ellada.
i have good?
lmfaoo they're always on
fortunately, it is not forbidden to be turkophile and to love greece at the same time!
[
[
[
[
"the ville-marie tower projects a light in the sky to celebrate the 84 years of batman"
the bridge is lit up pretty much every day
i get this sarcasm. i think the items didn't.
greek food is so baller
despite the bna act of 1867, the statute of westminster of 1931 and the patriation of the constitution in 1982, canada still remains in a sense under the authority of the english crown especially with the post of governor general which represents the english crown ( and therefore is head of the armed forces) and can dissolve parliament.
i'm curious why so many canadians (mainly outside quebec) still have this attachment to the queen.
i agree, it would be wonderful to be independent from canada
a bit like the turks, who invaded northern syria, and our politicians talk too loudly or whine about that. not too much diplomatic reaction from our side ...
erdogan is a fucking asshole
heeey! this is my first time encountering greek characters on reddit! hi guys!
hronia polla zito i ellada.
it's good that you provided sources, but none of these are actually confirmation from an official source that this is why the lights are white and blue.
it's just that we really like greece.
😅
is this really an attachment to the queen or do they understand that opening the constitution to change it risks causing more harm when each province threatens to vote no if she does not get her request for modification?
i don’t care for the queen, i just don’t want to open that constitutional can of worms, so i tolerate her.
[according to a poll in february 2021, more than 55% of canadians think the crown is not valid today.] ( -of-canadians-think-royal-family-no-longer-relevant)
not bad yes. i mean our government has good relations with saudi arabia, so i'm really not surprised that they don't say anything about the turkish invasion of syria. to be honest, anything that screws over the syrian people, the international community will endorse it
as a turk i can't agree more! :)
characters? they're actual real people like you and me.
it's the closest i'm getting as a source. she's a member of parliament : 
here's an article to see what other places around the world are doing today:: 
i was thinking of going for a walk today or tomorrow in the old port to clear my mind, i lost my best friend yesterday😭
so, christmas eve?
i really like the old port, but i am unable to see this photo without terrible memories of the bar school ...
very beautiful photo! in my opinion, it was taken on the 2nd floor of mcdonald's in old montreal or one of the offices above.
the sunrise was simply beautiful this morning!
thank you, let's see how it's going 🥺 i appreciate it a lot
more old montreal with a mini view of the old port! vieux-port stops in the town!
i miss montreal so much, the snow, the chill, the poutime, the supermarkets lol. i was there during my college time and it was one of the most stress-free times i have had in the past decade.
is this from where you live? or did you go out to take this beautiful shot?
beautiful shot
gorgeous. not far from me.
🥰
i miss montreal...rip snow and orange cones! 😂
thought montreal would be fully covered in snow, what is this
i’ve walked down this block!
people are living in old port while i’m trying to survive in the ghetto (:
brutal. flat concrete center of frame. if the aesthetic comes from the art deco building, why not focus in on 'er bud? if you are taking a photo of the horizon sunrise, why not take a horizontal shot?
my condolences 💔
oh no! i'm so sorry. please stay strong.
yep, corner of st-laurent / notre drama ouest.
pretty sure this photo was taken from mcdonald's lol
we still had a few non-white christmases in the last few years
this is the mcdonalds hahaha
there is no art deco building in this shot.
thank you
thank you
bad sight for a mcdonald's!
did i just get a taste of the rumored stories about how if you speak english in montreal quite a lot of people will speak french back to you
it seems to me that it is closed for the winter season?
oh shit
if you need to empty your bag, you can send me a pm if you want. i send you a virtual hug.
the sub is bilingual ...
people on this sub reply in both languages.
yes but i see you spoke english
and i see you speak french!
you must be new here. people post on french and get comments in english or post in english and people respond on french.
in addition, you clearly know that montreal is a french-speaking city!
once i replied in english to someone who spoke french and he suggested it was some kind of oppression haha
i can smell this picture.
montreal : become human
it’s a spring en transit
very nice photography skills 👌
which street is this?
filter is too mush
love it, if only there was less traffic
pretty :) i love rainy days
damn, this really makes me miss downtown. great picture by the way!
love it thank you!
nice picture
it's so gray.
more like rainy month! amirite!
sorry to be that guy, but what's the deal with all the ben ordinary photos on the sub all of a sudden?
smells like kicked up polluants in the form of petrichor?
hard to tell if sarcastic lol
wondering that as well.
ho! my god!!! how could you nail it so accurately! i almost miss that smell!
oh that fresh smell of worms!
> petrichor
that's a new word for me! interesting
that, or maybe thawing shit and fresh exhaust.
naw no sarcasm, it's very nice 😁
ouch
i’d say saint-antoine
[you're right](
yup, right at about st-francois-x looking north west
edit: or is it west north
kemin duh la kote dess nayjess
boulevard renay luhvaysqueue 😍
the reverse problem of google maps pronouncing every street name like some tourist who's never heard of the existence of french drives me up the wall too.
just pay an intern to tag those streets with "fr" or something, jeez.
“i have lived a life full of leisure and lingerie”
make a right onto cruh-mazzy boulevard
you can find them walking on sherbrooke street. good hourly rates.
i wish google could pick up two languages.
take the exit to autoroute 15 sods 😑😑😑😑
once my gps gave me directions to "emcee masterville". i guess it's the dj doing the beats for lil 'bizzard ...
this might be answering the wrong question but i'm pretty sure the corner of leisure and lingerie is a bralette.
so...st laurent and ste catherine?
that being said, is there anyone that speech recognition works for?
that, the fingerprint and face sensors, never really work with me. am i human answer me machine!
my google maps keeps calling the "montreal centre ville" exit off the champlain bridge "montreal central valley".
put your phone in french it makes it way easier. plus it gives you little opportunities to practice if you're still learning.
jean-talon always makes me laugh. i have to say is like you would if you knew zero french whatsoever
i took the vaudreuil train into town the other day. the nice exo lady on the pa system announced that the next train for "looshyen lallyer" would be arriving on platform 2 instead of platform 1. i shit you not.
better luck next time, madame.
layooness = lajeunesse
terra bonny = terrebonne
this reads like steely dan lyrics.
worst pronunciation i heard was querbes.  it just broke the speech synthesis.
got "pont j minus cartier established", a few years back
has anyone figured out how to set up google maps to respond to french, without changing the whole os language?
i once put my old man's gps in spanish. he kept yelling at it because he was technologically impaired. i also put his home address a few houses down and he kept saying 'i don't fookin live dere ya bollocks."
*anglo montrealer
all you have to do is put your phone in french canadian and start living really here, rather than in ontario!
roo gene tallen west
renai is free
roo hokelaga
beaubien estate
roo day carey
tehr uh bone ay
perfect clearance.
boul. rené levesque e. -> boulle renay lu-vesque-you eeeee
every road marked "chemin" gets pronounced as "kemmin"
i purposely put the language of my gps wrong to hear the crazy pronunciations. it cracks me up.
was in mexico and it does the same terrible thing with spanish.
i use to put the english language just to hear turn lef on hokelaga. now, i just follow the line with my eyes.
the best is the auto route directions  nord/sud. the way she pronounces them is hilarious
if only
but is that east or west ?
yeah like alexa… whatever you can tell about amazon, but they have it when it comes to voice assistant. 
just the way you pronounce alexa tells her the language to come.
seriously...
i think you might be right
haha in english it works most of the time ... in french, almost never. that's why i use it in english.
you won't catch me dead saying "ok google play de lèsse ai knô de betteur by tame impaluh" so that french google can understand me
i speak french, i just thought it was hilarious. i know the directions too. i just like trying to stump english google.
hahah
bilingual works too
i live in italy. what am i doing here ??
and i thought it was renaï leeves-q
i used to live there years ago.
i still call it hokelagah because it makes me smile
don’t live in those areas and don’t need a pizza, just wanted to say that you and your girlfriend are amazing people! mtl is lucky to have you two!
don’t need anything but if you guys are able to gain traction on this i will match an additional 5 pizzas for people who would need it.
you're doing a great thing. if for some reason you can't figure out a french message, ping me and i'll translate.
you and your partner are amazing human beings. thank you for lighting up someone’s darkness with your kindness.
love it!  
ill extend the offer to the south-west (verdun, lasalle,  lachine, griffintown)  
pick a place, pick a pizza, message me.
first 5 get a pizza
<3 tifosi, thanks for doing this, it warms my cold heart :)
this is the montreal i like to see! luckily i’m not in desperate need either. thank you strangers !
maybe a womans shelter? i\`m sure they could use the good cheer. or a homeless shelter.   
i like this idea, kudos to you for having a ginormous heart.. we need more of those xo
simply awesome people..
that’s great! if i was in the financial capability of doing something like this, i would jump on the opportunity! nothing but the best for you guys!
i don't live in these corners and i don't need a pizza. i just wanted to say that you and your partner are amazing people. montreal is lucky to have you with us!
i'm okay, but thank you for doing this. much love.
thank you for doing this! i sent you a pm.
**big thank you** to u/blackbomber, his gf and anyone else who contributed.
just received my pizza and it was delicious! 
really really really appreciate this!
thank you, this is very kind and considered from both of you
great initiative! 
if ever you don't get enough request, may i suggest sending some to a chsld for the workers there?
that’s an awesome gesture bro
still some good people in the world 🌎
nice initiative. the world needs more people like you. everyone should be able to eat pizza on friday!
i live in homa and just wanted to say that you are absolutely top shelf human beings, and people like you make me hope that karma (real life karma not the worthless reddit kind) is real <3 
keep being amazing
bravo!
[deleted]
u is a dope dude blackbomber
amazing!!! love this. you rock op!!!!! 🙌🏽🙌🏽🙌🏽🙌🏽
so did you get your 5 requests?  good on you for doing this, very nice of you.
very cool of you, op!
for anyone else who wants to do this on a larger scale or anyone else who might need a pizza, there's /r/random_acts_of_pizza
this is the spirit of the season right here ❤️ bravo, vous-êtes de si petits anges! we're not food scarce here, but you're gesture is admirable and inspiring.
bless you both - lovely gesture
you guys are amazing!
just the gesture brought a smile to my face, good people.
this redditor is a true g
this is awesome man, i've been trying to think of nice things to do as well, i was planning on making a ton of soup but i need to find somewhere to bring it.
this is a fun idea
edit: screw it i'm in pm me i'm in for a few pizzas amigo
you guys are so nice! i would sure eat a pizza but ill pass, cause someone else need it more than i do.
if there any left im in montreal and could use the help
just want comment to say what a nice gesture! i say we should do a random pizza exchange. we only ask for allergy but then we send to each other pizzas without telling them what resto/chain or what flavour we chose. could be fun!
it's so kind of you to do that! kudos to you!
i was reading your post and it reminded me of this woman in brooklyn who gave up her posh day job to bake pizzas at home and give them to the needy. 
i've seen lots of videos on vice about people selling food from home and it seems that it was mostly all short lived. i wonder how long you could keep it going before the authorities shut you down. i'm an avid pizza maker myself and the only extra investment (that i can provide for myself) i would need would be some big proofing trays/extra tupperwear and maybe a steel so i can keep the conduction cooking temperature somewhat constant in between taking in/out pies from the oven.
this is really kind and thoughtful!
you're a good man.
sidebar: i had the tifosi in rosemont and i thought it was quite bad. is the one in the plateau any different?
love this!
this is awesome
tifosi is dope! good choice!
damn, i’m hungry, at the same time never been richer(not really), thanks covid for taking away from me everything i love to throw money at! if i can recommenc you something, pizza is great but was is better is dry food for food bank ino, this way you’ll know you reach people in distress! thanks!
i love pizza and i have been very sad all day. pizza please pizzzzzza
*virtue signaling: *the reddit post
since nobody wants the pizza , can i have one ? :))
dont buy from fugazzi , it’s overpriced
what a kind offer. i think we might be able to take you up on it. i'll pm you with information for the next 5 and we'll coordinate. thanks so much for being a very cool random guy.
i could use the help
aurora montreal.
taken last wednesday from the bridge side of île aux pies. it wasn't the lights of the desjardins tower for once!
it's subtle. was it more visible in person?
at this time of year, at this time of day, in this part of the country, localized entirely within your kitchen?
i just pretend that the green lights beaming into the clouds from dt are the auroras.
whaat. i want to see one too! i have to go and post myself or for that?
woowwwww! it's very rare!
[deleted]
wow. was it by chance or did you plan it? and if so, how?
it's very subtle because most of the aurora got stuck in traffic coming into montreal.
i have already seen a superb one on the 15 near blainville, it was a sunday evening in winter.
the 2nd most beautiful thing i have seen in my life, i had to stop on the edge of the highway because the beauty had entered me so much.
wow, do you think there'll be more activity soon? was it visible by the naked eye?
there have been quite a few reports of solar flares lately, wonder if that's why we'd see these so far south from the poles :o
/edit: seems like it! 
there will be more and more :). to be magically beautiful
oh yes, the beautiful dawn of the gardens
ho wow when was that?
you're lucky. i always wanted to see him.
i hope this isnt bad news
nah it's desjardins
aliens
i love you, but i hate you.
for those who do not know, monique proulx's collection of short stories “les aurores montreal” is excellent.
hey i wanted to do it
hahahaha what i was thinking about when i first saw the pic.
is it from montreal to the west or from vaudreuil or even from île perrot? i don't recognize the angle .... (and i live in the area, can't believe how lucky you were !!)
do you have a link on google maps of the exact place where you observed the dawn? i am so jealous!
indeed, very subtle! i was just seeing the flare on the right with the naked eye, the rest showed up via the photo taken from my phone
yes
my version of the aurores boréales are the lights coming from the complexe desjardins 💀💀
preferably outside of montreal! as far north as possible and as far from sources of light pollution.
i had the chance to see a rather spectacular one lying in the snow and the frozen ice of the taureau reservoir in st-michel-des-saints. it filled 3/4 of the sky. i wish you to see one.
yeah but you saw a turkey in verdun
can't get em all
i got an alert through the aurora app. it was saying there is 8% chance of seeing them where i am in montreal. that was the first time i got this percentage since i downloaded the app 5 years ago. usually it's around 1-2%. 
then i look for some live pics on facebook and i saw the whole québec was getting the auroras (gatineau, quebec, gaspé etc). so i started to search for an area where to look north without too much light pollution. i didn't know much what to expect. i arrived there after driving 30mn and the auroras show was finished. so i waited for one hour and it happened again and this is when i took the pic. it lasted a few minutes..
not op, but i know there are sites that monitor solar activity and predict at what latitude the northern lights are visible. by monitoring this kind of site you can predict when to go out ... or lose patience because it is really rare so far south.
also wondering this
the right flare was visible to the naked eye. you have to download app about aurora and they will send you notifications. waited for 5 years to get that notification btw lol
this! ☝🏼 hopefully, we won’t get our satellites fried.
why?
?
thanks for nothing!
you should have woken up earlier.
may i see?
and you have to be lucky too! at this latitude it is rare that there are visible auroras, and even going further north there is never a certainty. [see here as an example] ( even in the polar circle the probability is something like 20-40%.
[deleted]
wow so cool! i respect your commitment. 
what is the name of the app you mentioned?
the sun has already started to give off more magnetic storms. it is storm creating the aurora when it hits against the magnetic shield of the planet.
i mean it like an omen
...no
you have the great turkey flair of '19 so you must have been involved
"my aurora forecast and alerts"
lovely. i really need to get up early in the morning again. feels like my days are too short otherwise.
i love the colors, great picture !
i love it. this photo makes me sad that i moved out of town.
i think doing the whole ''watching the sunrise on mont royal'' after a really good night out with friends is a rite of passage for montrealers lol. absolutely love doing it, such good memories associated with this picture!
cue lion king music
wow! love love love montreal
do there s any free or roadside parking?
just look at the wether and go to the belvedere during sunrise, the sunlight and colors are gorgeous ♥️
look for lac aux castors in mont-royal on google map, there is a parking nearby but you will need to do the rest on foot like 30-20min on foot
[deleted]
asking cause there are no stupid questions, how is the walk from up there at night? are there lights or is it still quite dark?
40
from the walked from lac au castor, there was no light whatsoever, i tried to use my phone's flashlight but i could only see 4 feet away , also the bushes were moving a lot (probably racoon and foxes)
sorry i was tired. it says mont royal ok
i work as a blue collar worker in montreal and i swear to you since i worked in the parks i have lost hope in humanity. last summer, the day after canada day, just the two of us and my colleague filled 90 garbage bags in one before noon. and that is only the garbage lying around in the park and not in the garbage cans of the park. summer in general at lafontaine park is simply disgusting. people have no respect.
so disgusting. unacceptable.
since covid it's even worse. i live next to angrignon park and it's littered with trash every weekend. more people are spending so much more time in the parks, but there doesn't seem to be more garbage cans or collection. and of course, people have no respect.
fuck these ppl . leave no trace how hard is that
people saying we need more public garbage cans have never considered how things are done in other countries, like japan. 
we need better people.
people fucking suck
imagine if we didn't have a deposit on bottle cans ... it would be even worse.
what we see in the parks ... i have already seen a man lower his child's panties in jarry park and hold him in the air so that he can poop next to (but not in) a trash can.
it is a mixture of quebec culture where we expect the government to pick us up and other cultures where they expect no one to pick up.
i noticed most people doing this are really young people.. like 16-20 year olds. last year there was like 5-6 guys eating their chicken sandwich next to the coco rico and one threw the bag and wrapper to the ground. i picked it up and told him off. i really tried not to say anything but it really just pissed me off. no shame. streets were packed and he didn't care.
i think it's clear we need more garbage/recycling cans in our parks. this has been an issue for years, but covid has exasperated this greatly since its basically one of the few places people can get together.
honestly disgusting.
with the good weather returning, the government has almost no more excuses to at least reopen the terraces. this weekend it was full of people from different homes having dinner / having dinner / drinking in the parks.
montreal has become a huge open-air littering trash can over the years, first the cigarettes butts every where, and now masks and whatnot.
edit: thanks for the downvote, i know the truth hurts, but yeah, maybe you should pick up your own trash so you don't hear these kind of comments.
this reminds me when last summer people went to gaspésie and destroyed the beaches with trash and shit (litteraly shit, as in they shat on the beach). locals just  put them all under the "514 people" category, and anywhere i went last aummer people made comments in the "you better clean after yourself" type.
just makes me desperate to see that some poeple even don't care about trashing their own city.
if you litter you should have to do a day of community service picking up trash.
every time you get caught doing it you get 1+2x days of community service, x being the number of times you've been caught.
i was excited and then caught on to the sarcasm.
i come from a small town and i had to defend the city a lot back when i moved, because people from home thought that because it's a big city people don't have a sense of community, which i feel is very untrue because we associate with our neighbors, and have borough pride and are generally very community-oriented. 
seeing stuff like this makes me so so sad, because i had and still have to have montréal's back when it comes to solidarity and i guess i like to imagine that we're better than this.
look at it positively...the seagulls are no longer confined to kfc parking lots and can now hang out in nature!
these people are pigs.
its quite the shit show
nothing can excuse this absolutely wild behavior, on the other hand i live at the corner of parc jeanne-mance and i believe that there are at most 5 garbage cans in all the immensity of this park. this is completely ridiculous!
i bet the people who did that are sharing pro-environment stuff on their instagram.
jesus. imo it belongs to the other citizens to educate them where their parents failed. see someone throwing trash or not cleaning mess? give them trouble! i did that twice already to people not picking up their dog shite, and just by seeing their face full of shame and discomfort, i can tell you it works! if they're still assholes even at this point , start following them.
don't ever live in la. this is the only version of parks that exists there.
source: from la
covid isnt the problem nor is it needed more trash bins. it's the people. it takes 30 seconds to put all that garbage in the pabst carton and walk it over to a garbage can. just think about others and not that someone else will do it
edit: i literally see a garbage can in the background to the left!
a real shame.
compare montreal and toronto, the difference is shocking.
1. we need a public campaign in order to change the culture. many of us would love a cleaner city and our taxes should pay for it. 
2. we need way more garbage cans, including those special closed ones that break down waste such as dog shit. 
3. the pubic campaign should include fine givers for a period of time until the behaviour changes. 
4. we need public washrooms in parks with attendants as in paris. interesting, outremont’s parks have washrooms and student attendants in the summer. you rarely see much garbage there on a sunday afternoon despite all the picnickers.
5. the public needs to call people out if they can safely do so. same goes for people who leave dog shit around.
6. in some countries, they hire neighbourhood (local) people to clean up the alleys etc. some neighborhood groups now do this voluntarily. 
believe it or not, i can remember times when the garbage situation was way worse in montreal. it has been embarrassing to take my european relatives, who live in pristine cities, around montreal at some points back in time. 
while we are at it, another kind of garbage is the pollution from cars. why do i never see people get tickets for idling their motors while they pop in for tale-out, or whatever?
thanks for the positive spin, i love it!
the chicken bones is a dog waiting to die!
trash is reason #439 why i moved out of montreal!
personally i like how every trashcan is in a constant state of overflow just as a reminder that that is where trash should go
the worst part is you can see garbage cans in the picture. absolutely lazy and disgusting.
my hypothesis is that the covid situation is contributing heavily to general nihilistic and anti-social behavior. 
don't take this as a removal of culpability or a statement of cause. it's definitely a plausible contributing factor.
this picture kinda made me laugh bcuz its savage and the people had a big night of drinking and eating fried chicken while being huge fucktards. i bet it was cartman
why is toronto clean and montreal isn't?
lets not forget about kids, this is mostly kids.
even if theyre 40 yrs old living in the plateau.
back in the days when our distant ancestors were tree apes, leftover food, piss, and poop naturally fell under the tree. when it smelled too much, when there were too many flies, we changed trees.
not everyone was ready to come down from the tree.
this is why there is a fence around verdun beach :(
a decade ago i went to innsbruck and was shocked how quiet the bars were. my friends and i went by a park and saw ppl were gathering for drinks, smoking etc. thought wow this would be so cool in montreal. then i came to the realization this works in innsbruck because at the end of the night everyone works together to clean up their mess and leave the park like it was the day before. it’s unfortunate people suck so hard here when it comes to picking up after themselves and the idea of “someone gets paid to do this” mentality
of all the fines i would personally be okay with the police giving out, it would be fines for those who litter. people who don't pick up after themselves need to grow the fuck up
degueulasse!
that’s awful. 
meanwhile, here i am chasing a wrapper down sidewalks, through street traffic, or all other obstacles—eyeing that piece of trash like it was a million dollar lottery ticket—if it just so happens to blow out of my stroller’s cup holder. 
and then there’s these people... geez.
so sad people don't know how to pick up after themselves..specially if it is as basic as this!
disgusting pigs. pick up your shit!
very disappointed there's no actual cool, revolutionary, bleeding-edge waste system to hold over toronto's head.
what kind of world class scum does this?
we're fortunate enough that we can drink wine and beer in parks and these assholes are going to ruin it.
to be fair, they probably couldn't walk or see straight after having that much to drink, so asking them to clean up after themselves would be asking a bit much. (/s)
wow, i didn't even know that we could leave that at the tables! i will start to do it more often, thank you !!
as a past automatic trash collector at jeanne mance parc i did my best. people don't realize how much work goes into trying to make the area welcoming. also if you bring bottles of beer or wine into the children section you are an ass. i used to spend so much time every morning cleaning shattered glass from the sand pits before the kids arrive
scum.
hen? or the automated collection systems ?? it's new? it's really cool, we will be able to go to the parks and live like red neck pigs without feeling guilty !!!
lol “stewards of the land”.
yeah i was one of those assholes when i was 18 ... sorry. it was 'cool' to be a bit delinquent i guess ... tse drunk, you trash the place, you play hard, you stupid what ...
fortunately for me and my friends, this phase didn't last too long and it's been a while since it's really cooler to respect the place.
smoke from forest fires?
smoke from wildfires in ontario is obscuring the sun (and moon), as well as contributing to today's smog warning.
our sun is collapsing into a red dwarf. it’s the end for us
i thought i was high lol. it was wonderful.
the moon is red as well tonight.
prick your fingers. it is done.
the moon has now eclipsed the sun. 
the angel has spread its wings.
the time has come for bitter things.
a red sun rises. blood has been spilled this night.
info crime i found your moon ...
just endless clouds.
yes it was a beaut. ❤️
yup my mom was super amazed by it she kept getting me to come out and see. we took pictures. the moon was also nice tonight.
when i was a kid i remember a summer qc had a lot of big wildfires, and there were a few days when the sky was hazy and orange, it reminded me of that
black hole sun, won't you come
it seems we both saw it from the same place lol
yup. i'm kicking myself over it. i happen to have a tripod and phone mount in the trunk of my car for just such occasions, but i hadn't charged my phone overnight and it shut off right as i was about to snap a photo.
does that mean we're all going to die?
got it sun
the moon was the same last night. it was eerie.
no, but yesterday the moon was orange. wish i took a picture.
the moon a couple of days ago was also deep red (crescent over the horizon)
the blood moon rises once again
i did too and i’m in the dc area way south, but it looked exactly like this
[ :-d
i thought that madara uchiha was here xd
is that jeff petry's eye?
yes i did, mississuga, ont
i remember seeing that once, when smoke from forest fires in james bay drifted down here...it smelled like a barbecue and the sun looked like mars.
and the moon last night!
ontario fires, i think
ayt, i do like three bowls in a row in a park, i go out into the street listening to apocalyptic country, pi i have the blood moon (christian profecie of theocalypse) which comes out in my face, bad trip my race.
the moon was also red/orange
câlice, my boyfriend and me, we stopped like caves on saint-denis to stare at it a little longer than our retinas would have liked, telling ourselves that it was the strawberry moon.
in addition, a quick search reveals to me that said strawberry moon, it was beautiful in host this year, and worse that i missed it.
what camera did you use?
i'd know that view anywhere! how're old berthe and rene?
[removed]
yeah, it means blood has been spilt. some dud taught me that
smoke from forest fires.
you are right.
it's not from fire in ontario, it's from the california wild fires
it's better to burn out than to fade away
it would actually need to expand in a red giant first. not the same sequence.
our sun will end up a white dwarf.
nahhh, we got like 10 minutes before the shit hits us.
ah best comment so far
good.
it's beautiful the end of the world, eh?
oh! didn't notice it. also, it was usually foggy today.
the ship of charity will set sail
with all its children’s credit. 
the ship of lies has arrived
the pig inside, we’ve fed it.
you believe that this has failed.
don’t deny you’ve said it.
our lives will become such cautionary tales
that people read on reddit.
nice reference..me and my wife use it anytime the sky is tad bit pinkish...
not if you're vaccinated.
yes.
real question is when.
very iconic indeed
post traumatic shock
yes, i love it! i want to open a store similar to the ampelmännchen store in berlin, but instead of the little guy in the pedestrian signals, its a store with different object in the shape of orange cones
please tell my you have a hat!
whoever wears that, can i ask you to stand somewhere for a while?
ponto would wear that for sure!
bonus: it can also serve as a costume for "the most fucking fat salmon sashimi in the atlantic": d
it is really successful.
took me a second... but what you did there...i see it.
lmfao nice one :p
whoever wears this and gets his ass ran over is for sure not getting a dime from the insurance. :p
nice idea, but it looks more like salmon when viewed up close.
i didn't realize this was r/montreal so i was zooming in to see if there was a city skyline or something to figure out this "landmark" 🤦‍♀️
a lot of people are correctly pointing out that it looks like salmon sashimi. any advice on making it look more like the cones?
if montreal had a sports team, this design would have to be that of their uniform.
vlc
i love it! how did you tie it for the pattern? i'd like to make one too.
great for saving a parking spot for a friend, just wear and stand.
camouflage
bravo!
“ferb, i know what we’re gonna do today”
phineas and ferb
remind me of those construction cones. tbh it’s awesome though don’t take me wrong.
if i had an award to give…
loving it. bravo!
haha, this made no sense at all until i looked at the sub. then it made all the sense.
i think it’d be cute with a graphic of the very hungry caterpillar on it or of vultures sitting on the white perched on the orange  lines for a creepy look 
or maybe a wild goose chase happening up and down the shirt
it's perfect lmao
the orange line?
what are you using as a fixer?  every time i try tie die, the colours all wash out practically immediately.
it took me awhile to figure out which landmark. lol
i died laughing omg good one
love the leopard blanket too lol
love the joke but for real could i buy that shirt, i’m dressing up as phineas and ferb for halloween and i really need that shirt
i saw the title before i saw the subreddit and was trying to figure out what city it was....
next, make a pothole.
awesome! now we just need a solid orange shirt with "détour ➡️"  in huge black letters to complete
the set.
haha that’s genius!
honestly...if you hang onto this until next years "wear orange day" you can sell it for a huge profit.   
source: am mother who scoured the city looking for an orange shirt and ended up tie-dying a white one.  i know for sure i was not the only one.
i-cone-ic indeed
i saw a car parked in mile end with an air freshener in the shape of a traffic barricade. i wanted *so bad* for the driver to emerge so they could tell me where they got it.
two years agi, the noël éternel store downtown had little christmas tree orange cones with montreal on them. unfortunately they sold out before i could get one.
for those wondering its a cute webcomic about an anthropomorphic orange cone. 
ponto for mayor! we have more cones than humans anyhow, right?
right?
thanks very much
we are not the only ones.
add the ponto face.
the stripes need to be horizontal and maybe a bit wider? i mean if you pair it with orange pants and a construction/détour sign tacked on somewhere now, people will get the message :p
montreal has 3 professional sports teams, what are you talking about?
i could explain it but i'm a visual learner so [this]( is the video reference i used to make the shirt.
i live there since 2017 (close to the marché maisonneuve) and really we love this neighborhood as a place to grow a family. the people are nice and lots of other families in the parcs every day. yes we have our share of problems but i think like you said, it's underrated... however the price here is jacking real time and it'll soon be as expensive as rosemont or verdun.
i have lived in hochelaga since i arrived in canada. there has always been a negative connotation about this neighborhood which is understandable since i have seen weird asf cases. prostitutes who told me that she charged me cheap because i was a pretty little boy, old msieur who talks to himself, screams, fights, of the world which furnishes in the bushes. now, there are still these specimens which lag all over the place but we see the people who move there brings a nice atmosphere, on the other hand, there are also the loool price increases
wait until its nighttime
i've been is this neighborhood for almost 20 years now and i agree 100%
when i first moved to montreal in 2001 i had an apartment by station radisson and one of the first movies my friend made me watch was hochelaga and i remember telling myself that i would never live there.  year later i found an apartment corner prefontaine and ontario, fell in love with a co worker who's lived in hochelaga her whole life at the local radio shack on ontario where i worked, bought a duplex and accepted that it will be the place i will grow old. this was a proud middle class industrial neighborhood way before its downturn in the 70s and its a pleasure to see it flourish once again.
it has so much history, a huge attitude, and it just a great example of a french montreal neighborhood, the kind of place i dreamed of living as a franco ontarien raised byt french media from quebec and montreal, i will die here, it is my home.  
also i don't believe it's under rated.
morgan street is in my opinion one of the most beautiful streets in montreal.
i have been there since 2015, i had lived there before, for 5 years at the beginning of 2000. i have always loved the area, with its "ups" and "downs". the buildings are magnificent, especially in the old house, with the market, the baths, the old stone buildings on adam ... it's unpretentious, the "splitting" world will live elsewhere;) there's a lot of poké people , true, i imagine that it leaves us more sensitive to the fate of the less fortunate than us and more human. the cool trashy activities of promenade ontario, the punks who play bluegrass at lalancette park, those who practice their circus at hochelaga park, the play modules and alleys full of kids, food truck evenings at the stadium, the biodome, the botanical garden, all within walking distance from us.
hochelaga was the working-class neighborhood of french canadians. the rents were affordable. what greatly damaged its reputation was the presence in large numbers of different motorcycle clubs. especially their wars of the 90s and early 2000.
like all other neighborhoods in montreal, the bobos have gentrified it. except that in hochelaga they are surprised and worried that there is a pick-up shop around the corner. worse, junkies are just as surprised to see a bistro that sells $ 7 lattes on the other side of the street.
don't know if i would say it's underrated, feels like a majority of of the french speaking montrealers that i know have chosen hochelaga (or rosemont est) as their hood. they moved there while they were studying because the rent was super low and all the services are there. and also because they liked the vibe.
but it also really varies a lot depending where you are in the neighborhood. my brother lived on adam close to davidson so one corner away from st. catherine east and you cross a lot of... let's say strange people. eventually his place was robbed and that convinced him to move away.
probably underrated architecturally speaking, otherwise, not so sure!
+ great pics!!
it's a secret, shutuuup
[deleted]
the photos are crazy
i want to upvote this post, but i can't because there are 514 likes 🤓
i love going there,m it's a really nice place
did the 650,000$ condos with 600$/month fees give you a hint?
greedy real estate brokers and developers won't stop until most of us can't afford to live anywhere.
i dont know man. i've been walking around montreal all summer. we're doing the inventory of all the ash trees on the island. i've walk all over hochelaga, in people's backyard, in alleys etc. hochelaga is by far the worst place i've been and i'm glad i don't have to go there anymore. 
it smells of garage everywhere you go no matter what day it is, theres trash everywhere. alley are in bad conditions, its either a jungle or a dump. 
i've never seen a pregnant woman smoke cigarette before i went to hochelaga. i wish i could tell you that i saw only one but you know...
oh yeah...i saw i fucking kitten fell from the 4th floor of an appartment and hit the pavement so fucking hard... only in hochelag
it's not cheap because it's a well kept secret.
op did you shoot with a film or is it just the edit ?  if film, what did you use ?
that's my hood
that picture could literally be any montreal neighborhood.
my first apartment in montreal, when i was a student, was in hochelaga, 2 blocks from the stade. the day i moved, the neighboring building was surrounded by a police cordon, there had just been a murder. the next day, i had to catch up with a homeless man on the run, he had just stolen my bike, luckily he was too stoned to go very fast or to fight too hard. and the day of the garbage in summer ... it was before the bins. you couldn't open the windows.
for a guy from the region, it was rather brutal as he arrived in town.
we just moved here and love it... aside from not being able to find daycare! but the area, people, and scenery is lovely.
our city is so damn beautiful.
i just bought from desjardins x adam and before moving, i had a lot of preconceptions. it turns out that the neighborhood is very pleasant to live in. happy with my choice. nice shots btw
my old stomping grounds! i used to live close by prefontaine station back in 2012... so many memories and i miss everything about it! now i'm back visiting mtl this week and i am making plans to walk around the area again :)
moved to homa in the beginning of 2020 from westmount and love it... there's certainly an element of sketch in some areas (the shlag is huge,) but it's a great community, and probably one of the last bastions of pre-gentrification mtl, although it's creeping in here, too.
it is really great!
what saddens me is the project for rem aerien which will put a scar in the neigborhood with so much potential for beauty
what are the locations on these pics? planning to make a trip at montreal soon!
it’s a charming neighborhood, some of the local fauna notwithstanding
i’ve been in that abandoned church, it’s wild in there, such a shame that it’s being left to decay.
nice shots domenico!
what about all the other places
been living here for two years and i love it! it has its own experiences.
then there’s those snowy days in february with -20 degrees and trying to get to your second floor unit with your shopping bags…give me ndg with indoor staircases, thanks!
literally nothing in montreal is under-rated, except how bad the traffic is and how rude the people are.
breaking news: local anglo finds out the city goes beyond saint-laurent.
its a really good proximity to downtown and has access to the green line. kind of surprised the prices weren't already expensive.
that's quite a coincidence since i go to sophie barat actually
hey oh, we want to keep the neighborhood affordable, don't bring in more tabarnak anglos!
what happens at nighttime?
that movie is hilarious, especially since some of the scenes were actually shot in mile-end. :-)
does anyone know that the buddha hippy shop on ontario and that dollar plus used to be an english language movie theatre back when
avenue * morgan. i don't want to be my toponazi but to ask a question through that; what is the fundamental difference between a street, an avenue, a place, a boulevard. looks like it's chosen a bit randomly.
i find that hochelag 'is a bit like the plateau / petite-patrie / villeray vibe in the 90s. this life, you had it almost everywhere before.
this district has a special charm, it is quite unique compared to the plateau mont royal or villeray for example.
good points! also thank you!
hey i’m always down for free pizza!
my memories of hochelag include riding a taxi & the poor taxi driver being harassed by prostitutes at red lights. last time i visited hochelag it definitely looked like it was getting gentrified, hopefully the neighborhood has gotten better.
thank you very much, with all the positivity i get in this subreddit i will post again :)
unfortunately, i really hope it stays underrated, but doubt it.
the neighborhood is really not for everyone. i live there and love it, but i've never seen such a dirty neighborhood in my life.
very beautiful photo and it's rare that i say that
fafrettekouliss
around the corner from benelux?
the only thing uncovered was about an inch between my scarf and hat for my little eyes to poke out 👀
well done! captures the bitter cold well!
wow cool pic x
wtf is that the air freezing? lol
osti that i love my city. but osti that i hate winter. am i a young boomer?
pshaw! it was -51c with the wind yesterday in sk
this looks like a still from a would-be urban rendition of the thing!
and today is my birthday
summer
it is true that it was not hot in the morning
god i miss this coty... i hope one day to return
this is a day that nose hairs stick together when you breathe
oh god this is my street !!
nice picture!
i'm bored of summer ...
-27 this morning in val-d'or...
-36 windchill
better than 30c and above.
lol why am i seeing this? to make me wish? it’s -38 with no windchill in regina saskatchewan
aha! thank you so much!!
it's quite rare that a beautiful photo is published here, indeed!
kawliss *
yes !
thank you ! nearly lost my hand taking this but definitely worth it aha
looks like a division (the game) photo 😵
thank you !!
it was taken at - 25...
>wow cool pic x
that’s warm air from either a car or a vent dying
it's obviously the 5g, the waves do that when it's freight
we don't admit it, we want it!
happy birthday!
in packages
what's wrong with the 5 rose logo, the belvedere, the hipster spots in the southwest and the hdr?
i knew this was familiar! i walk by every morning.
it’s great. also the empty street, struggling pedestrian shrouded in a cloud of steam...captures it well. we need not see the face of the person as we understand their struggle well from afar. thanks for sharing it! cheers from parc laurier :-)
yup ! looks more dramatic than it was - makes for a good photo though aha
no, you don't like the fret!
hehehe i'm not that picky but the pics people share don't even have an interesting element, neither a beautiful composition, nor a unique scene, nor of technical quality lol
i like the layering in the photo.  it's just sad that all the nice elements in the photo are definitely not griffintown.
it’s a bougie, never ending construction, developing area where everyone dresses like they’re trying to be in a fashion magazine or going to new city gas. the drugs must be potent in this area.
well if you gonna repost, you're going to have to take a new pic from the same spot, show us how that building's coming along.
wow! really nice pic!
that's a great pic :)
poverty leaves its mark in the lower part of the city, with its color and its little life as an ephemeral butterfly.
the tdc3 is under construction so the photo is from 2019?
i remember this sunset
sake beast crops cons (rip)
are there any nice elements of griffin town?
good idea
if you're talking about tags, it's not necessarily poverty. anecdote, but all the people i knew who tagged came from wealthy families.
this is the tdc2. the photo is much older. i will say 2017.
yo the tos vs vc beef tho 😂
what is the benefit of griffin town? are all condos connected underground to the metro system even? if not, then really, what is the appeal.
no, the rich have climbed high. you don't see the homeless, junkies and misery when you're far away.
anyway.
you're right, i'm wrong all the time between the two.
frl
there is zero metro access.  zero good transit options.  just people living on top of each other wondering what the fuck to do with themselves.
i live in griffintown, very close to this picture in fact. what i like is the proximity with downtown without being as expensive. everything i need is walking distance. there is a bus across the street that brings you to the metro, but i’d rather just walk there, it’s really not that far.
thank god i’m not the only one wondering. i worked a few weeks in griffintown and hated it. bad transit access and never ending traffic. i’m curious too
world gym is the only gym i could find with squat racks and deadlift platforms so i am forced to find a way into griffintown now. every other gym in montreal near me seems to be just a series of treadmills
[give it time](
in fact it probably dates from july 2018 the photo if i am relying on:
rem peel basin?
bonaventure metro is literally a 5-10 minute walk from griffintown?
i always hated driving through griffintown. it's just a bunch of twisty roads between empty lots and overpriced condos. it just had this dull, sterile feel about the place, and the people looked just as hollow.
i honestly thought all these new condos were connected to the metro. if not, then it’s an infrastructure nightmare.
what gym have you been visiting? every gym i've been to had a squat rack and deadlift platform.
even then, what a shit location.  you've already walked to the bonaventure at that point.  people on the guy/montagne side of griffintown will just walk all the way to the orange line or just up the hill.
they aren't. it's a sardine tin for people who want to live close to downtown. 
i see the appeal if your whole life is downtown and you want to live there. at least you can get a semi nice (if tiny) condo over a student apartment. but i can't imagine living there long term or raising kids there.
yea, some of them have *one*
clearance - everything must go!
quite a godsend!
from the pressure cooker.
give this man *marketer of the year 2021*
hah!  i live a couple of houses down!
hurry up :) .
i dare someone to tear off the "s" at the end...
no price is turned down!
good way to save on landscaping fees!
speaking of weeds - some madman pulled out almost all of the huge ragweed plants near me, that were along the sidewalk.
what a hero.
i actually live near that house lmaoo
"seen at gnd".
going out of business !
i’m so allergic to ragweed its not even funny.
my theory is that construction work is so poorly managed that, they have a crew that goes out and "prepares" the area before the actual construction crew comes to do the work, and they time it out poorly so the preparation is done many days before the construction begins. just general mismanagement.
companies used to get paid once they "started"   work.  l guess it is still the case.
[deleted]
you just dont ask questions like that... kinda like how you shouldn't ask why the f⁰k they are taking up a lane with the tanker for watering the plants during peak rush hour
i think the corrupt private sector takes on more than they can actually finish without hiring more people, obviously don't hire more people, but keep all sorts of "sites" blocked off despite not working on them to justify continuing to charge the public. nationalize the construction industry under democratic workers' control.
yeah, i went tot he office today for the first time since march 2020. unfortunately the train shut down until 2024, so no choice but car. 0 traffic until i got downtown and then so much construction. learned my lesson, not going back to the office every again (i don't have to).
there has to be corruption in this. montreal “road works” is insane. it’s so clear that i can imagine the amount of money they spend on bribes to keep this up for years
have any news reports / investigative journalists ever covered the montreal construction topic? i've heard so many people say it's this way because of corruption, but like... has anyone tried to get to the bottom of it and solve the issue? or does asking that question get you thrown to the bottom of the st lawrence 👀
i work in roads in the big montreal area. i regularly ask permits to municipalities for closing of either entire roads or specific lanes and also suggest alternatives for re-direction of traffic. i do not work in "construction" but rather in a firm that require some people to go on the field.
there are some case, pretty often, where the roads are closed, and we aren't working at that place at the moment. all of the times, it's just logistics. for ex: we can close several portions but only work inside them one at the time. when work is over inside one section, we re-open it right away and go inside the next. so we aren't all the time on site, but we might be coming in 2-3 hours, and re-open before sunrise.
i'm frustrated to know that so many people assume, without having any clue, that corruption or politic is involved.
is it your first day in montreal?
why do they do it? because fuck you that’s why.
montreal is the kingdom of orange barrels. all praise the god of construction and road closures! “barré, barré, barré, barré, barré, barré! »
old news put still apply today
the classic of blocking 2 entire street corners to make a parking lot for the guys on the site
they’re just setting up for next month
it’s just so you don’t lose the habit 🤣 one day i saw a bunch of intersections closed like that on rene-levesque, and they made different cone patterns at each intersection, original patterns like triangles, zig zags and spirals, as if they were having fun trying to be creative. but there was not a single worker nor machinery anywhere! then a few days later it was all gone, without any apparent work been done.
welcome to mtl. its part of the charm.
>is construction company’s goal to make people’s day more miserable and create traffic ?
yes.
it is a never-ending side quest.
i live there and it's been like this for about ten years between atwater and vinet. 
the work was first to do some maintenance work on the pipes and the connections to the buildings (one time they didn't do any clean up when they reconnected the main water line to the buildings, the dirt got in to everything and damaged and clogged the pipes, the city had to pay for the repairs.) they also been working on pipes breaking during winter. a few years back some of people on the other side of the building didn't water for a month due to construction.
one of the city's main water line is under the street and when they found out that it was 80% damaged they rushed to get it fixed and have been working in the area for three years now on it. the street drops to one lane on and off.
from the papers the city left on the building's door, they are supposed to work from atwater to rose de lima this summer. still didn't stop them to make some holes in the road east of atwater last week and now have put those cones.
i think they are blocking from this spot to not create traffic jams when they get to the intersection and only have one lane west of atwater. hopefully they don't start working in front of my place, the noise is awesome when working from home.
ive done this for 10 years and still have many friend still doing this with their own company. there is a lot of reason why... maybe the job was over and the contractor push the material on the sides of the road to allow acces even if hes not supposed to because he dont have the qualification or inssured to do so... there is a specific process to instal and remove material and yoh got to take a small class to do it.
maybe they are actually waiting for the contractors to be ready to close and allowing acces in the mean time...
there are many reason possible
edit* i got home and took the time to check up the work they doing, op just dont see the work farther ahead.
i’ve always heard it’s this:
a company is working on project a while bidding on project b.  the city says they have to start work on project b on august 10th and the company says no problem.
the problem is the company can’t move their crew to project b until august 17th so to “fulfill” their obligation to the city to start on the required date, the company puts up all the cones on august 10th.
technically they’ve started work, the road is closed, but the crew isn’t actually going to start on project b until project a is finished.
a construction company‘s main goal is to make people miserable period.
source: am civil engineer
it’s possible the work got called for rain
i don't think i've ever come across one construction site with workers on it in my entire life.
my god montreal never ceases to amaze me with its incompetent city management
it's gotta be something to do with the fact that orange cones are rented for a dollar a day.
dude on god i’ve seen so many construction areas where there’s just no equipment or anyone there. same place has been like that for months
some people here are explaining why we have so much construction -- fair enough, the city is full of decrepit infrastructure, the water pipes and sewers are rotting apart and they can't even keep up with replacing / servicing them. and at the height of the construction corruption the jobs were done in such a pitiful way, they wouldn't last through the winter.
but op asked about why are the road closures done in such a fuckwitted way. i'd attribute it mostly to incompetence and not giving a fuck. it's a multi-layered system of companies and sub-contractors, and nobody fully knows (or gives a shit) what's going on. everybody just "does their job". 
for example, it's not usual to see groups of orange vest bros standing around doing fuck all - you'd thing they're lazy, but often it turns out they're waiting for whatever truck with whatever tool to show up and spend 20 minutes wrangling whatever thing before they can continue.
the real cold, indifferent incompetence is in the offices, where the cockroaches who plan these things are shielded from consequences. i've lived here long enough to see roads get fully resurfaced only to get cut up two weeks later for some other works & patched in the most half-assed way after. cones closing off streets for days and days before construction starts? par for the course, really.
one little anecdote really sums it up for me. i saw a pothole-fixing machine one day -- it's a weird little truck with various attachments. it had rained, so the potholes were full of water. the thing pulls up, extends a blower thingy, blows compressed air into the puddle.. the hole empties momentarily, then the water flows right back in. the operator proceeds to extrude asphalt into the "dried" hole, then another attachment comes out to press it down. and it continued down the road like that. the potholes were back within a week, the new asphalt chunked out of there real quick. but hey, union guy did his job, whatever was on the schedule, office guy did his job, whatever was in the plan. not a spare fuck was given. and so she goes.
crime
maybe you are right? it seems it has been like that since forever : montréal les cônes. it has become a symbol for the city. you can buy pins, cushions, magnets, postal cards, etc. to their effigy.
welcome to mtl
scaffolding erection delayed by rain?
1. construction companies are getting paid when they start a contract amd most of them rent the damn orange cones.
2. urban planners are basically dumb f tards that i wouldn't trust to build even a house for a dog. i saw one can't even figure out how to setup his garden to be able to walk through it in order to harvest his raspberries.
3. watch commission charbonneau then cry.
4. if you are not drown in tears, well you must be working for the mafia or live in a different province
happens all the time it’s really annoying they don’t even do shit except block the road half the time
the construction cone cartel
tbh its just poorly managed i think, during the covid lockdowns all the construction work sat there with empty roads, nothing being done, the second lockdown lifted they were back to blocking off streets.. like why not take advantage of there being no people to interrupt the work and get it done? makes no sense
[removed]
the reason for the cones is simple to protect workers from aggressive drivers. the reason they are set up with no apparent work is so that you have a mindset that you’re in a construction zone and therefore drive slowly. the main reason why cones are frustrating is that it appears that there is no central control over when one borough starts construction and another ends. they all pick the same time frame which affects the total commute time. so if you live in lachine and work in montréal-nord. you could encounter 4-5 construction zones and this reduces travel time due to the fact that 3 lanes become 2 become 1 yet we have the same number of vehicles in the road. we need to find a way of fixing the problems when we have less vehicles on the road from 10 pm till 5am. and not all issues at the same time
in quebec, either they block the road and no one is working or they have 6 workers standing around staring at one of them working, aka poutine paralysis syndrome (pps). and the charbonneau commission was a huge waste of time and money. these quebec construction companies have been pilfering our tax dollars for decades, basically untouched by well-greased politicians at *all* levels.
not in alberta, those guys work from sunrise to sundown, they pave a 20 km highway in 2 weeks, never saw that elsewhere... i do not regret leaving mtl for this reason, not missing the no reason traffic they create.
meanwhile when i lived in south korea, they redid the asphalt on my street while i was at the bar. i once saw the work on another nearby road another day and it was like a team of 20 people. 
i remember when i would see 2-3 workers on chemin chambly on longueuil when they redid the road a few years ago (one side per summer). not the same scale, but the fact that it was empty for 90% of the summer was a big waste of time for everyone. 
that's how other places get whole metro lines  in the time and price of 2-3 stations.
hi!   
for this intersection (atwater and saint-antoine), the reason is because there is major waterworks happening on the other side of atwater and the cones are meant to guide traffic in such a way as to not cause an accident.   
people fly down saint-antoine (many from outside of the neighbourhood) and are used to blasting through that light at all speeds, so we need to guide them before they arrive at the intersection.   
in this case, the number of lanes along saint-antoine will go from 3 to 1.   
(this construction is a continuation westward of the recent reconstruction of the very same pipeline which was completed east of atwater and which is a major source of clean water for the city).   
hope this helps!
of course, the plante vision is to prevent us from returning home… 45 minutes more in a chariot every day to save the environment…
welcome to montreal 😁
on the photo we see that the street is blocked at the intersection (orange sign with right-left arrow) and that the cones are there to separate those who go to the right from those who go to the left like that nobody enters like crazy in the site. if people drove normally, and saw normally, unlike op, we would be entitled to less orange cones and especially less death on the roads.
it's really / r / montreal that complains about montreal, but it's because they're blind.
or is it because of google law 101?
yes exactly
surveyors often need repeated access to the road surface with data processing required each time new measurements are taken... not much happens in between sometimes.
the real conspiracy is that they ordered too many cones to store in their warehouse so they have to leave a couple thousand laying around
it's part of the scenery, they're like modern trees for tourists and the population. they even added a bunch of pretty colours such as : blue, green, purple, another another shade of orange . tell me if you catch a new colour.
it's part of mayor plante's strategy to discourage people from using their car. so many streets have been blocked for no reason in the last few years, and then when they remove the road blocks months later, the asphalt hasn't even been touched.
drivers on st-antoine: how does this city expect me to get around with only two lanes on this street plus eight lanes on the highway parallel to here plus three more on st-jacques and six more on rene-levesque all 500 metres apart?
me, biking home on st-antoine: i hope i don’t get killed in the dooring zone today.
a reminder, the sub rules still apply.
i was downtown near the bell center yesterday and due to the habs game the police presence was absurd. no joke, close to one cop per pedestrian. 
i noticed about a third of the cops were wearing a thin blue line badge on their uniforms. i asked a police officer if it represented the same thing to them as the “thin blue line” in the states and got the nice reply; “si tu sais déjà c’est quoi pourquoi tu me demande, fais moi pas perdre mon temps”. 
am i the only one feeling icky about these cops thinking they’re the line holding back civilization from descent into chaos?
absolutely not! i know at my work i'm not permitted to wear any politically charged clothing, masks, or patches. seeing how they are supposed to be public servants being paid with our tax dollars i don't really understand how this isn't being shut down by leadership.
no, it's divisive and they should know better.
"if the police don't want to be viewed as an occupying army, maybe they shouldn't be flying their own separate flag"
for the exact same reason we want to ban religious symbol from public institution, we should also ban any political sign. 
obviously the fact that the sign is an extremist one makes the thing even worse.
do not.
it is disgusting.
be very very careful around these people, they are not here to protect you.
a gang wearing gang insignia? not surprising.
i had a rcmp officer come into my connivence store with the thin blue line canada flag posted not just on their uniform, but over the canada flag. i was not happy that day after seeing that.
don't forget to @spvm on twitter to pressure them. they need to feel that it's not acceptable.
the police in montreal have no respect for the uniform ... they wore clown pants during the last union negotiations ...
i don't care because... i don't expect much better of police. if anything it makes it easier for me to identify the problematic ones. in fact, i wish all the ones who really resonate with this message had the guts to wear them so we can all see just how big of a problem it is.
yikes.
where can i get one to display on my dash when i get pulled over?
they like to cosplay american cops.
what a bunch of trash.
no. 
first of all, its american bs. them wearing it shows they have been fully colonized/americanized and have lost all connection to their cultural origins.
number 2: a large number of criminal and terrorist organization wear the same symbol. by wearing these, agents show they don't believe in the rule of law. wish they swore to protect.
firable offense, no pension.
no it’s a gang sign
fuck non. acab.
they don't even wear blue anymore, they went black to feel more * bad ass * in 2013. so the blue line there ...
funny thing: if you try to report a racial attack on the spvm website, you get a 404 error...
we cannot have a veil in a position of authority but the police can dress as a clown in union protest or wear a police gang borderline sign showing their political allegiances 🤡
did you file a complaint? 
they should be wearing their official duty uniform and not a thing more, not a thing less! especially no controversy symbols defending brutality and racism or that adds to their overpowering feeling....
if they can’t respect simple authority rules such as an official, neutral uniform, then who will? they are supposed to represent law and rules, not break them.
not surprised. few years back they were wearing camo pants in protest regarding their pension reforms. we all know what they were saying with that. they could've worn fedoras or armbands. they instead chose to wear camo to remind us that they're kind of like the military in that they have guns, are organized, and will use force as their primary tool.
they also plastered their vehicles with stickers. those eventually needed to be removed. not sure who paid the bill on that. probably the tax payers.
and then there was that time when their union did the traditional protest, signs and marching. only difference was they eventually entered a government building and trashed the place while the cops just looked on. i'm a bit fuzzy on the details with that one. as you can imagine, searching that topic - cops, protest, storming government building - gets a lot of results, but not the results i'm looking for.
this is a gang sign.
pardon my ignorance but what does a thin blue line means?
reminds me off the douchebags wearing punisher skulls.  
i work at a bar, it's normal to see cops coming over to regulate how many people you have in your bar. a good portion of them had that flag on them
acab, never forget it
1312
no. fucking cops.
gross. these people make themselves out to be heroes when fishermen, loggers, miners work more dangerous jobs. these are suburbanites that "suit up" and come into montreal like they're going to war. they're bullies looking for a fight.
looks like an overt religious symbol to me.
u/craigsauve is this acceptable for our police force?
they chose to be cops. so really it's no fault but their own. 
you can't choose your skin colour.
hard no. it's basically a statement that one wrong move justifies any degree of escalation they deem necessary.
an argument for bill 21 is often that people in these positions need to show neutrality or unbias, and that wearing symbols like a hijab or a kippah, and not being able to remove it to work in these positions, makes them biased. they often use the analogy that wearing political symbols in a public setting will just infuriate people for no reason and so don't wear it in public or when working. this cop is in public, working, and some are often openly aggressive when questioned about the thin blue line flag, so i just want to know if others have heard this hypocritical crap.
i wonder how many men they have to screw and suck-off or how many bodies they dumped in the saint lawrence river to earn that patch.
no it shouldn’t be allowed
what does a thin blue line badge mean tho?
police officers are disgusting people.  and really, really stupid by design.
no and it probably means they have other problematic ideas also.
fuck no
of course not.
the real question is who do we need to contact to put an end to this absurdity?
no, they shouldn't and they know they shouldn't.  the city does not have full control of it's police force and this is a prime example bc plante will say all the right things but some cops won't give a shit about what their boss thinks.
svpm are wildly incompetent at the best of times.
it’s absolutely unacceptable.  this badge just shows that they are more loyal to themselves than to justice.  it’s just a badge to pridefully show that they’re gang just like the dudes they arrest.
these things are a gigantic red flag to me at this point.
they make the dozen or so good cops look bad...
the idea of the alert is fine but the sound itself is way too intense and doesn't match how you're supposed to react. the sound implies imminent danger if you don't react immediately this second. in reality it's more of a heads up, keep an eye out for this. the sound should reflect that. no need to trigger an adrenaline rush and fight / flight response. plus if you're at home the alert means basically nothing, it's only useful when you're out. 
a good idea implemented badly, bureaucracy at its finest.
the kid is now safe.
i’m not mad that we get these alerts, i just can’t believe canada bungled the implementation of this system so poorly that domestic disputes nearly an entire province away are treated with the same severity and urgency as an incoming nuclear missile. 
i just ignore them now. that’s not a good thing.
it happened at 6:15 last night in fucking val dor...
why the fuck did they wake me the fuck up in montreal at 1:15 am? the chances i have a fucking mazda in my fucking bed is about 0.
i though we were getting nuked, it scared the fuck out of me
ikr thank god my phone is always on vibrate
i hope they had a good reason not to wait before dawn as this contributes to people disabling the alert
triggered my ptsd bad. i was in a really large earthquake and heard the exact same noise before seeing a lot of catastrophe. took me hours to calm down last night.
i would have much preferred a text with all necessary information and pictures of the person/car. could have checked in the morning and actually looked out for the vehicle.
imagine how bad it sounds when your high as fuck
how are we even supposed to read them? it makes that noise until you swipe it away. are they expecting me to listen to that horrible sound?
i’m complaining lol. do they do any studies on excess heart attacks the day after amber alerts sent during the night?
a few million people got that. they already found just the clock shift of daylight savings kills people every year. you gotta figure using an air raid siren would have a similar effect.
**edit:** according to this study you’d expect a 20% daily boost in heart attacks from an hour of lost sleep. that amounts to an excess four deaths in the montreal area at the prevailing canadian rate! check my comment below for the math. no way this alert was justifiable on a population level. 
this sounds extreme but the math checks out. 
the fact that the sound used for amber alerts is the same one used in japan for tsunami warnings is so ridiculous. especially when it’s past midnight.
yeah this is the same sound they use when there’s a severe storm warning, which is the first instance i heard it. whenever i hear it i always think i’ll have to go find shelter. amber alerts are useful, but the sound is not proportional to the action citizens should take. maybe a different beeping would be actually more effective.
my immediate reaction was to close the message to stop the sound. i didn't even read the message
i program for a living and i was deeply, deeply, deeply concentrating on some complicated code. at that moment, this was my entire universe, nothing else existed. and that fricking alarm goes off. i swear to god i almost fell out of my chair -- and i mean this literally not figuratively -- i almost fell out of my chair. 
mark my words, this thing is going to kill somebody one day.
yeah, i am done trusting the government with how to use it best. this shot gave my father some "malaises cardiaques". is anybody know how to uninstall this.
this is fucked up. my wife jumped off the bed screaming from fear and my one year of woke up crying. i am fuming right now… there is no way this is right way to go about things.
tip of the night: do not disturb and vibration off, when you plan to sleep…
i was in a bar and the place lit up with that noise. it was surreal.
god forbid this happens to a loved one of yours, just quit complaining lol
they need to rethink this idea. waking people up because a big tornado is coming is a good idea. but how can a person (~ 70 years old) sleeping in his bed find a kidnapped child. excellent intention that requires a better, more efficient idea.
agree, they are very important but god i wish they could change it to a less jarring sound
i wish there was a way to ‘opt out’ of the audio signal. people with disabilities and seniors, people in hospital, with severe mental health issues, are all people who can’t help anyway. yet they are startled and confused by these alerts. even if i am asleep, i am not available to search for anything. i’ll see the alerts the minute i’m awake and will certainly do what i can to help. but there is no need to blast out whole schools, hospitals, and nursing homes with these things.
i was on the phone with somebody else both were stunned. i don't mind it but let's have it silent at this hour.
there was a second one? or my phone decided to just play it twice
when your little comfort is more important than the alert. ridiculous.
depends the phone, 
i wish i could easily either lower the sound, change the sound to something more friendly or mute it when i am in 'do not disturb mode'. 
as said these are useful stuff, but we definitely need a sleep mode at least for amber alert as you are unlikely to go for hunt. plane mode is not an acceptable solution (think about on call people for example).
enforcing users to have no way to tune things a little (on my s9 everything is grayed out) is only going to make them do bypass it or shutdown all alerts of this kind while i am sure, no one would complain on daytime hours.
just make it more user friendly, people are still going to help.
my 2cts.
both my phone and my gfs phone rang at the same tome lol we panicked. we thought the building was on fire or something.
didn't hear it. my phone is in dnd mode at night and i didn't hear it
did you guys also get 4 of them or was that just me
we should be allowed to have an 8 hour period where  alerts can be disabled.
lol i was sleeping then i get fucked by the alarm😭
i don't know why, i did not heard it. it's not the first time the phone never rang.
guess i’m going to start turning my phone off when i go to bed.
it should definitely be a calmer alert sound… anyone who is awake and able to help wouldn’t need a terrifying alert to hear it and anyone asleep is no help anyway so it could be calmer…
man i had to laugh at that last sentence because i felt the same thing!!! jumped out of bed and was ready to rumble.
yes, totally agree. i don't think the amber alerts are wrong, but i have anxiety and one amber alert i heard sent me into a full panic attack. it was the one a few months ago about the water situation in nova scotia or something.
especially with the pandemic and shit. for all you know, there could be flaming balls hitting the earth.
i was watching true crime videos, imagine how i felt lol
my phone was on do not disturb, and no sound happened! i was surprised!
someone made a comment in another post a while back that the phone aleert are misused, something about using maximum level of urgency instead of putting the level way lower than it should be
me too!! i couldn’t sleep all night i thought about her and it woke me up so violently
i sleepily googled information from the text (name, place, amber alert) and there was literally no news, at least in english. the message isn't in my texts, so unless i memorized the details i wouldn't have been able to help, even if i saw the car. 
it seems very poorly implemented.
mine didn't ring, i saw the alert in the morning when i woke up, try setting up your phone on "do not disturb" between midnight and 6 am
it makes sense if there is some imminent danger to life like a tornado or an asteroid.  bad for just about anything else.  random child abductions somewhere within a few hundred miles or whatever should not be treated the same as that.  that should maybe just be an advisory that pops up on your phone with default ringtone.
i work in the security and 5 cell phone just rang. i thought there was a goddamm fire in the building. i had to disable this before it rang more during my night shift.
if you don't want to be disturbed when sleeping put your phone in airplane mode and open the wifi
you know. i hated the 3:00 am amber alerts before i had kids. 
now that i have kids, i hate them even more. 
i ain’t getting out of bed to organize a search party. they can wait until 8.
that sounds it makes is awful but the concept is great. i am a nurse and every hair on my body stands on it’s end when it makes that noise. it’s the sound of a code from hell or something. i immediately feel someone is dying and i have no clue where they are.
lol i was thinking the same thing. that first beep damn near gave me a heart attack
great work! but maybe complete the bridge so that it doesn’t look like people would just drive off it?
you need one with just an orange cone... >\_<
do you sell those? if yes where can i find these?
they'd make awesome coasters, i'd buy a set!
what is the orange one?
do you sell those? if yes where can i find these?
great work! but maybe complete the bridge so that it doesn’t look like people would just drive off it?
i love this. are you selling prints?
i like it. got more?
very nice!
pretty much nailed it. keep up the nice work!
looks great
what about mount royal, and the cross?
great work
nice and old school. thanks for the memories.
.... what's the middle top row one
amazing work! i would consider adding an orange cone!
would make great pins! good job!
you need to make one with rue barree; then its truly montreal :)
nice work mate
what does the middle one represent?
mint them as nfts and sell them
these are awesome!! i could definitely picture these on hoodies or tshirts
if you haven't already, definitely look into nfts
see if you can get a shot of the old port with the grande roue, a terrifying big wheel 20 storeys high. half as high as the london eye. and place jacques-cartier is amazing in summer and early fall.
i don't know what the basket ball thing is, but for me personally, the most obvious landmarks are the 1000 de la gauchetiere tower and the biosphere.
i like how you've let the olympic stadium stick outside of the circle!
so.. the big o, habitat, and farine five roses are bathing in toxic sludge?
on the other hand, it captures the perpetual state of construction we find ourselves in
i thought it was old champlain mid demolition for a second, then i saw la ronde in the background.
omg i was like what orange cone. then i realized you mean pilons
send me a dm, i’m happy to custom create a print for you!
send me a dm, i’m open to making coasters!
orange julep :)
gibeau orange julep(fast food joint)
dm me, i can definitely look into prints.
dm me, i’m happy to create a custom print for you!
i did oratory st. joseph and mt. royal, but they were a bit too detailed and didn’t really fit this series.
• 1250 rené levesque: 
• horlodge tour: 
• turcot interchange: 
olympic stadium: 
habitat 67
just got the joke. 😆
thanks!
habitat 67
it’s gibeau orange julep. kinda like dairy queen.
grass. :)
oh thats the whole of canada, come to a construction site in toronto tomorrow to talk more
construction cones lol
great work, thanks.
hey! i'm down to buy the full res copies for these :) i want to dye them onto golf discs. lmk if you're selling the digital copies and how much.
thanks! that's a crazy complex.
ottawa as well haha
this just looks like normal verdun.
[here's the obligatory instagram link.]( and fuck it, here's a song, to the tune of gilbert and sullivan's modern major general.
i am the very model of a model-making general, the dioramas i create: improba-buh-ly minuscule, 
i obsess over details that are practically invisible, and replicate my town in a dystopia infeasible.
the biosphere is crumbling, but something's happening underground, 
the metro cars at namur crashed, and no survivors have been found,
from schwartz's to the gibeau d'orange, and the cross on mount royale, i recreate my city (small) and proceed to destroy it all.
i customize my tiny guys with plates of gravy, cheese, and fries, and squint my eyes to paint them all at such an inconvenient size.
then place them in a tableau with precision that is surgical, to satirize the effects of capitalism: terminal.
i'll terrorize my city with imagination most savage, i'll slam a bus into your home and get paid for the privilege. in matters post-apocalyptic, cyberpunk, and montreal, i am the very model of a model-making general.
i really love how you incorporate tags we already see around the city! i’ve seen monet and the wild world itself is holy a couple of times. amazing work
this is amazing, great detail… love this city and your interpretation of it.
is that the office de la langue française enforcement team because of non-bilingual graffiti? :)
jokes aside, this looks amazing!
do people still get swatted after the apocalypse?
i like the smile at the top left. nice touch!
it must be possible for you to find a store front window to set all these models you made in to compete against olgivy's christmas display.
maybe even consider reaching out to the nuit blanche people.
these deserve to be displayed in public some how
i want to see the whole plateau form you. or st cath street. merge your mode into a city and shoot it with a mini cam
post-apocalyptic ? you mean hochelaga ?
the details are amazing!
really cool man.
thats fucking awesome
ha. the october crisis!
these are great but i don't think you need to call these portrayals as post apocalyptic.  you could call it verdun on saturday etc...
🔥
coool
i have to say, i've seen all of your posts here and i have to admit you do a great job of never going overboard. everything always seems so believable. those plastic chairs just sells it all perfectly.
oh my god the tiny stikki peaches sinatra!!! this is sooo sick
are those ripleys boots you're wearing? tight!
cute!!
i love this. i used to live in rosemont, my mother still resides there. great work.
is that a make noize smiley face?
édith: never mind, saw the answer further down!
not from montreal, in this sub because i'm considering moving there, and your works happens to be a really good advertisement. it looks amazing!
visited montreal for the first time a couple weeks ago and fell in love with the city !
wow the little touches of rust on the stairs, bravo
what do you make these out of? i’ve always wanted to learn to make miniatures.
looks like we might be neighbours
you should open an art gallery/studio. so talented!!
this is so cool!
is the golden guy supposed to be you?
i absolutely love your art!
hulk the police ! -tmn
omggggggg haha
🙌🙌
thanks!
thanks, i had an especially fun time making this one.
actually, all the swat models were pulled from ubisoft montreal's rainbow six seige, for a little more hometown flavor.
i don't know if this is a longer answer than you're looking for, but i'm trying to explore different "flavors" of the apocalypse, and how they might work together. climate change denial and alt-right politics seem to go hand in hand, so yeah, i can definitely see the rise of facism as directly relating to the apocalypse. i think of it as kind of like an apocalyptic singularity that we're working towards, politically, economically, etc.
that comes courtesy of makenoize, they've been putting smiles around town for over a decade now. we've chatted a bit, super nice dude. :)
nuit blanche isn't a bad idea.
that's not a bad idea.
everyone knows a neighborhood shittier than anything i could come up with. :p
thanks! yeah, i get that a lot. if i'm being honest,  when i say post-apocalyptic, i really mean cyberpunk, but i don't know if that would confuse some people.
really nice of you to say,  thanks!
i didn't realize it when i was making the character,  but the shoes totally look like reebok stompers. must have been a subconscious thing.
thanks! i'm just a few blocks away in little italy. beautiful neighborhoods both.
thanks! that is hands down the funniest compliment to my work that i've ever gotten. imagine seeing these models in the tourist brochures. :p
thank you!
this model used reclaimed foam, drinking straws, some floral wire, an empty pack of cookies, and a 4k resolution 3d printer.
hey my grandfather helped build this! i have a chunk of that material in my basement. it’s heavy
fall is my favorite season to witness in mtl🥰
i really like how you did this!
i visited there last fall and i remember that there was a fountain next to the entrance to the biosphere?
out of the picture maybe.
that's a beautiful place!! i'll stop by this week for sure
what is this?
are you sure it's in montreal? i don't see leonard cohen's mrale.
where is this, u feel like ive seen it before but i just don’t remember lol
a picture
the biosphere
it’s the montreal biosphère
you can find it at the jean drapeau métro station on the yellow line!
you're wrong, it's léonard lemoy we should see. will need more photos of this wall for us to remember it more!
this is in part to move _up_ pre-scheduled 2nd doses, right? i already have an appointment for my 2nd dose scheduled for september, so this is simply an opportunity to move things up, and help compress the schedule for qc-wide vaccination that much more?
great, i don't have to wait until august.
so this is when you can start booking the appointments? i went to clic sante but there was nothing yet.
looks like they want to bump that pretty fast. my elderly parents who live in the laurentians were called last saturday and received their 2nd dose on monday after 7 weeks.
getting closer to the 3 week recommended wait time between doses :)
i wonder if these spots will open up the day before like the first shot appointements
is anybody aware of the new timetable for immunocompromised people? for the first dose we received it earlier than our age groups because of health conditions. i wonder where we fit in now or should i just wait until my age group this time around?
i already have an appointment for the month of august.
i imagine that i will have to go to clic-santé to cancel it and resume a new appointment, hoping not to be "shaved"?
i got my first dose back in april, but my age group is only allowed to rebook 2nd appointments on the 22nd... for me that will already be passed the 8 week mark. does anyone know if it's possible to book the 8 weeks even if your age group isn't allowed yet? my time will end up being 11-13 weeks instead of 16 which is not a big dif...
thanks. does this apply to mix and match doses too?
where do those of us who got in early as essential workers fall in this?
isn't there an earlier option for people with health issues? it's a bit weird if my girlfriend will have to wait later than most for her second shot just because she is younger, despite being chronically ill.
so no dates for the at risk & immunocompromised?
yay! so happy!
i had my second dose last wednesday, i am 38 years old. i am a teacher and it was vaccination day for the students, they decided to offer the second dose to all the staff who had waited long enough since the first one (i was just over 6 weeks away) . my original date was august 8th.
it’s incredible watching all the people in this comment section be nothing but helpful, supportive and insightful. this pandemic has brought us closer and made us stronger. montreal together ♥️
do the appointments go by birth year or actual age?
for az 12 weeks in between doses is still the ideal for max protection.
my second appointment is on 3rd september. it was a company my brother works for and they vaccinated relatives as well.
wonder if that could be moved as well.
if i have to move to toronto, can i take my second dose in there ?
do walk-in accept 2nd dose people?
this is awesome.  watch all the dummies come up some some fucked up conspiracy.
8 weeks = 56 days.
pfizer recommends 21 days between doses, so why 8 weeks?
so, you must have 8 week minimum between both doses? i wonder if it will let me book even it's less than 8.
thank you.
any word on the under 12 approval?  sure my daughter isn't high risk but it would be nice to have the peace of mind.
so they're asking people to wait 8 weeks between doses?
i got mine on may 21st can i schedule on june 21st for an appointment on july 21st?
thanks for sharing. my boyfriend and i have recently moved to montreal. we got our first shot in toronto. do you think we'll be able to get our second dose in montreal? or will we have to travel back for it? thanks!
so it will check the 8 weeks and allow to take a date after, is that right?
in my case the 8 weeks is the day before my age group, so i hope to be able to run and find a cancellation!
does anyone know if its okay to take our 2nd shot appointment at a different clinic than our 1rst one?
are people still having success with just showing up to a major vaccination site late in the day or extra doses? i never bothered trying for the 1st dose, but my 8 weeks is up next week and i'm curious. might try a drive thru site?
gene therapy shot
[deleted]
i still didn't find a reason to do vaccine don't get me wrong i am not anti vaxx but i am taking my time non of my friends took it or taking it, maybe if its mandatory ill take it but for now ill wait worst case ill die from covid meh ill just see my parents
correct.
yup. you can keep your september appointment if you want to.
correct, this is when rebooking opens.
my mom got her first dose in april and second dose was schedule for august too lol
for what it's worth waiting 2~3 months gets you better immunity overall, so yeah it's cool to be saying "i'm double vaxxed", but taking your time isn't inherently bad.
holy shit folks you need to learn a little french lol
at the mega clinic in montreal north (place bourassa) there is now a no-appointment section.
2 of my clients had their 2nd dose yesterday "through the" they stopped to inquire, and since their first was in debt march, they had their 2nd on the spot!
id prefer the 8-12 week gap as it seems to provide better protection. 
three week recommendation as that is how they were tested. generally a four month booster for a vaccine is better (more spaced out is better) so we seem to be getting the best of both worlds with this.
clicsanté will only offer you appointments that are >8 weeks after your first dose however.
i'll be keeping an eye on it 48hrs before my age comes up ;)
4:20 pm booking time is best time 💉
i'm gonna be checking here the day before so mes chers fellow redditors can alert me if that is the case
"people who are highly immunosuppressed or who are on dialysis are considered to have a very high risk of complications from covid-19. these people will be able to get the 2nd dose of vaccine 28 days after the 1st dose. the people concerned will be contacted to schedule their appointment."
source: [
you are allowed to get your 2nd dose after 4 or 6 weeks i believe. friend of mine who has a an immune disorder got his pretty soon after his 1st.
i have a patient who is immunocompromised and he already got his second dose. you should be able to go get one i would guess. try one of the places that has walk in appointments
you should be able to get it sooner, like 4 weeks, call your doctor or pharmacist.
this was so obvious to predict. force every store to close at 7:30 and create a new rush-hour. brilliant. did they add more buses to accommodate the extra load? nope.
i used to shop in an empty provigo at 9pm. i really don't understand the logic of making me shop in a packed provigo at 6:30
interesting.  at my job there are some people that work 11am till 7:30pm and take public transportation.  last week i heard them talking about how the bus is so much more crowded at 7:45pm.  knowing the route they were talking about i'm guessing the new passengers were workers from the nearby adonis and iga.
i've also noticed that capacity in stores like walmart and dollarama has stayed the same pre and post " cirquit breaker" lockdown despite many sections in both stores being closed to the public.
they had all summer to prepare teachers for remote teaching.  but no, they send kids, known superspreaders, to schools.  what does closing grocery stores early accomplish?  it is a fucking joke.  they might be clinically retarded.
it's insane. this friday, between the curfew and the snowstorm coming, i went to grocery shop at maxi and the line to get in went around the building. once inside, the line to the registers went around the store all the way back to the frozen section. insane!!!! what's the point???
cest fucking cave all i gotta say. ive been super scared of public transit since last march and i can’t imagjne how it must be stressful for essential workers who have to take it during those hours. ugh!!! im sorry
[deleted]
can you please put some pictures up at some point? media traction might help build some pressure against extending it when the time comes.
folks, don't believe the news saying this is all spread in homes and by irresponsible travelers. it is definitely being spread in public places, transport and stores, and very much underreported because of lack of contact tracing. if you can't stay >3 (yes three) meters away and wear a tight fitting mask stay away from crowded spaces. the curfew is just going to exacerbate this situation
take through the transmitter as a siding committee!
yup. used to commute to work since march.   
thankfully, since july i've had the opportunity to often drive to and from work.
but, i hate the days where i have to take public transport. none of this makes sense.   
and there's always some moron with their mask off. and yes, everyone will passively glare at them while not batting an eye at the person who absolutely must sip their tim horton's on the fucking train/bus. then bonaventure...the homeless...yes, the homelessness issue is a complex matter on its own and i don't place the blame on them, but their gathering in that metro is an absolute shitshow. 
i've spent so much time keeping occupied, ignoring the way i'm getting absolute assfucked as an "essential worker", ignoring how none of the procedures in place make sense. but, as this goes on, i want to scream at someone, i want to drive my heel into the nose bridge of the next person i see without a mask in the metro, i just want to lose it. but, i'm a reasonable person. i hate having misplaced anger with barely any outlets left.
obviously the guy directly responsible for 5000+ deaths in long term health care homes will try to scapegoat everything and everybody else before he admits his incompetence.
i feel the curfew doesnt do anything. the issue is that with metro and school, like you said metro is packed.
i havent been to the metro since lockdown, but from your post, it seems tight, no wonder there are still lot of cases.
i always see at least one person in every metro car pulling down their mask to eat, pulling it down to talk, having their nose sticking out the whole time, etc etc. with that person spewing their aerosols all over the metro car.
for example, i was on the bus last week, and 2 people came in without wearing masks, talking, yawning and shouting. aerosols spreading all over the entire bus. moving away only works so much when you're in a bus with windows that don't open.
the bus drivers don't care at all...although you'd think they would care more, since most don't wear masks and their plexiglass shield doesn't extend to the ground all the way, therefore they're sharing our air space. i guess the stm hasn't acknowledged aerosol spread?
at this point i take the bus or metro twice a day every day as an essential worker, and despite wearing eye protection and pm 2.5 filters in a 4 layer mask, constantly moving between metro cars to avoid people and choose the least crowded one...i've resigned myself to the fact that i'll get covid.
i'm waiting for a news article saying a cop stopped a bus driver or a snow clearing person to ask why they were out after 8. at this point i'm not being sarcastic, i can reasonably see them being stopped after work. the curfew is illogical and in my opinion cruel to everyone who followed the regulations properly. at the same time it does not address the facts in the system which are the most dangerous transmitters of the virus.
just going to lay this out here: one of my teachers grew up in a war-torn country and didn’t really go to elementary school at all. he had two phds and a uni admin job. if the kiddos had to miss a year of going to school in person (and i know it would be inconvenient for parents but you know what’s also inconvenient? a full icu. overworked hospitals.) anyway that’s my two cents. i’m not an expert, i can just count and use common sense to know that 20 ppl in a bus or 40 ppl in a classroom is kind of nuts right now.
yes, public transport is absurd. i haven't been on a bus since curfew, but last month when i was going back home, the green line was down so we had to take a shuttlebus. i thought surely they would restrict the number of people getting on. nope! packed like sardines. smh
[deleted]
> it is literally plugging a hole while drilling another elsewhere.
no, it's literally drilling a hole without plugging another hole: p
if you remember, in the evenings before curfew the streets were empty anyway. even grocery stores around 8-9 were almost totally empty. occasionally you'd get a few people in deps grabbing beers before 11pm.   
the idea is to limit gatherings but frankly, there is nothing stopping people from staying overnight. the gatherings won't stop, they'll just go on longer. for people with vehicles, if they sign up to be uber eats etc drivers they can come and go freely anyway.   
what is happening, though, is that more people are being laid off from fast food places (due to no drive-through) and grocery stores (due to cut hours). basically, those people who can't afford to be laid off. and more homeless are being crammed into small shelters.  
we're basically increasing the spread, giving people anxiety - my gf was heading home the other night and there was a metro outage about an hour before curfew...fun - and getting more people laid off. for no benefit.  
with the first lockdown, absolutely everything was closed. i thought it was overkill and could have been handled better, but at least it *worked.* by summer we were sitting pretty. this? this is a shitshow.
take some photos, post them to a few politician / talking heads twitter accounts
it's so frustrating, i can't believe we're gonna do another 3 weeks of this shit. and that will have absolutely nothing solved !!
[deleted]
you should see parc lafontaine at any given weekend
usually i do my grocery shopping after 8 p.m. the place is empty, it's less stressful, it gives me an evening walk and i buy less junk when i go after supper so i'm not hungry.
for 2 weeks i have had to hit rush hour. the queue for checkouts in the frozen aisle goes to the bottom of the grocery store, the world is rushing in.
there is another line before entering the sidewalk, we freeze our asses and the snot flows freely, the world sniffs and has their hands in the face.
we are forced to pick up and handle a basket which is only decontaminated in appearance, 'because it is the procedure'.
it takes me 45 minutes instead of 15 minutes normally.
so, i must be a conspirator too because i think that makes no sense.
i hope the curfew is the final straw before people start to wake up.
ish, i'm gonna take the bus tomorrow morning, is it the same in the morning according to your observations? i keep my fingers crossed to be early enough to avoid this.
edit: not too many people on the bus this morning, quite relaxed
i do think that certain elements could have been thought of better, but the point is to reduce the chance of it spreading. people need public transit, you can't stop public transit, but people don't need to be clumped together in starbucks. so you are reducing the risk at starbucks' (and other stores). 
but yes, the transport bottlenecks in the evening should have been thought of better.
i am lucky to have the possibility to work from home. for groceries i now take a break in the middle of my work day to go because orherwise it's not safe at all. i understand the reason for curfew but honestly it creates more problems than it solves. sucks that we got to this point. (looking at you covidiots and anti-maskers)
this is so absurd, this is the sort of bullshit that makes me not mad at the anti-maskers, because this jarring crap that results in people already faced with a glut of good information leads them to reject it more when it is so visibly nonsensical. 
it was pretty bad with the sealed off buses in the summer too and i had to take it for some very essential reasons, very frequently. 
this is after the fact that it is pretty well known how ventilation helps, how low income countries with concrete frame structures and no hvac (no sealed buildings) were actually able to combat it better.
one needs n95 masks which are still impossible to find. the kn95 ones have good filtration but are terrible at fitting the face and let air leak.
this would go a good way to protecting the public
governments must have the courage of their convictions at this time.
they just don't have it.
they should’ve put the curfew during the holidays when it’s the time most people would feel to meet family/friends, especially on nye, no point now..,
met someone who's been partying every weekend like 20+ ppl - the curfew definitely helps to curb things like that from happening i think.
preach
agreed... every time i go by a bus stop with my car, my heart jumps when i see people in the bus so close to each other and so many people waiting to get on... : (
it isn't just at night.
i take the 115 down pare from namur to work in the morning, it was shoulder to shoulder people today and most mornings.. the evening home (4:30 pm) isn't any better....
[deleted]
density made all the sense in the world until a pandemic hit the city.
now, airborne pandemics should never not be a consideration when deciding to live in 900 sqr feet in 40 storey towers all while relying on sitting like sardines in crowded underground tubes to get around the city.
i have no idea what this means for the future of dense city development but trying to find work where you are 100% at home is probably a good place to start.  then maybe the people who have no choice but to use transit have a bit more space.
i am genuinely sorry and fucking sucks.
i have the luck and privilege to wfh, despite being considered a "nom team player" by my boss now. i am really lucky.
i agree with a lot of the sentiments here and i think it would be interesting to check out more data.
it would be exciting and interesying to see propositions by people in this sub. if not to send as an official proposal, but to see how we, the reddit mtl population, vary in thoughts, philosophy and ideas and if we get any good and actionable ideas. personally i would close businesses also for a full month, but i am aware how much that would cost and have no solution to the economic consequences.
i feel like i'm playing democracy but with real consequences. actually... it would be interesting is all citizens who intend to go into politics had to play democracy a minimum of 60 hours.
100% spot on, there's very little research or data being used to inform any of this.
i haven't taken public transit in a while exactly because of this. we were probably 25+ people in a bus in december and it gave me paranoia.
we have to do something. the curfew is something. therefore we need a curfew... /s
i understand, but didn't science and everyone agree that wearing masks and staying 2 meters apart are the best fight against the spread? the biggest activity that was supposedly spreading the virus was home gatherings where people weren't wearing masks. 
with the curfew, as much as i hate it, this activity is stopped. it stops people from gathering in homes, or it at least makes it much more difficult to go to someone's house illegally. 
before the curfew, it was legal for me to get into my car, and drive all the way to a friend's house. so long as i didn't get out of my car and enter their home. as long as i entered the house discretely, nothing would be done. the cops weren't doing random house calls, if nobody saw me enter their house, nobody would call the cops. 
now, with the curfew, i'm not even allowed to get that far. i'm not even allowed to get into my car after 8pm. if i'm caught even being outside i could get in trouble. this makes it much more difficult to have indoor gatherings, which were apparently the biggest cause for the spike in cases. this is the best way to stop the activity that is supposedly the biggest spreading threat. 
think about it. if you're not an essential worker, and you're not in your house from 8pm to 5am, you're probably: on your way to, on your way back from, or currently at an gathering. which are already all illegal in the first place. 
the curcew sucks, but if you were following the rules already, your day to day life probably hasn't changedall that much..
[deleted]
it's like that.
transportation is a bit more vital than starbucks. measurements are still mitigation. the purpose of the curfew is to give people a cold shoulder and remind them of the seriousness of the matter because there was a hell of a looseness. i see a big difference, the world is paying much more attention.
thats how transit works... lol and how are you not allowed to open windows?
public transit is not as risky as other closed space because is fully renewed every 10ish minutes or less because doors are often open. there is no accumulation of the virus overtime and people don't stay as long (in average) in public transport than they would in a restaurant. the duration of exposure is important. in general, they consider 15 minutes of close contact with someone infected to be at risk. in general public transit are not the problem for transmission and in particular because people wear masks. there is a risk but it is not the main one. it is not where the government will and should put their energy on. i don't have an article to link, but if you look on internet from reliable ressources such as mit they will confirm it is not as risky as it appears.
if you dont like it, then you can geeet oout
i stopped reading when he said starbucks
that curfew was to reduce the amount of covidiots that meet other people in the evening. and it, without a doubt, works.
the negative it brings is prolly calculated and estimated by experts.
you cannot judge this whole situation just by pointing out one drawback.
by curiosity, you have any better idea of how to reduce evening meets?
> i cannot go into a starbucks if there is three (3) people inside
you can't? did they get stricter? because end of november i went by one and it was *packed* with 6+ people not counting the employees and i noped the fuck away.
looks like they're filming a movie in the area.
not bad sure it's normal haze my boyfriend
ok what is weird about fog on a cold and humid morning? looks like normal run-of-the-mill fog to me my man! :p
it hasn't rendered yet, you have chunks set to medium
weird fog, aka normal fog
the 1000 is not blurred. it's that weird fog this morning.
i want to clean my glasses after looking at this
you need to increase the drawing distance in the advance graphics settings.
i work on the 12th floor of my building, today i only see white!
it's not that rare in the middle of autumn
looks like the building is being censored
sad to see that we are so much more used to smog than when there is fog, we call it weird fog!
the sight of a building disappearing in the mist systematically reminds me of [city 17] (
communauto gang rise up
for a second i thought the building was a policeman in france.
will understand who can 😉
i too was taken aback by the site of this fog rolling in today. the sky was clear save for a few white clouds at a mid level, and quickly rolling in underneath that light cloud cover was a wall of dark grey fog.
so eerie
evil building, ita giving me ninja gaiden vibes
montreal, buried under the clouds - 2020
it’s 2020, what did i expect
when your not a good pc to play minecraft
you got a giant smudge on your lens. can barely see the building ;)
david copperfield is in town!
isn't that smog?
all over the eastern part of the d-town. have seen 3 sets already in just 6 weeks
they are! just completely unrelated to the fog
came to say this.
they always do
during a pandemic?
yeah, this shot doesn’t capture it. it’s just too sunny for it to be this foggy.
looks a bit brown, so smog.
blurred = blurred? til. what a weird word! (according to me)
or the oldest house in control
[deleted]
i'm curious if they took advantage of the fog or had to halt production.
lol yup. working on one now 💁‍♂️
yeah. why? there are a lot of shows and movies in production right now. lots of precautions and procedures in place. a few have halted production due to positive cases but have resumed again.
oh that's true! there were weird bright patches of sunlight while the skyscrapers are shrouded. good noticing!
in hochelag' it's completely overcast, no sun here!
it really was! felt like being in the clouds honestly.
ythere was a hole in the cloud letting in the sunin a very narrow area at any one time. you could see it in the satellite images.
the fog looked kinda dusty in petite-patrie this morning. 
can it be smog?
it was just fog, though...
glad to see that there is one that speaks to 😅
lol i just noticed the trailers. usually they have no parking signs around, too...
moonfall?
nah, it was just fog
just specify that the man was known to the police. i know that doesn't take away the fact that it's something you don't want to happen in your alleyway, but i still don't want us to make the neighborhood look like a war zone. yes it's a neighborhood where poverty affects the image of the area a lot, but i don't think people should be afraid to go there.
hoping that the neighborhood will recover quickly.
why keep rents stable for a little while
high altitude osti
just grab a couple of elastics and turn them into covid masks. 2 birds stoned at once.
for people who shit on hochelaga-maisonneuve or who have a limited vision of the neighborhood, take a walk from rue moreau to viauville, you will see a whole world; the ugly and the beautiful, the poor and the rich. but hey, prejudices are hard to undo sometimes!
it seems like every time hochelaga is mentioned in this sub there is a cohort ready to come to the defence of the neighborhood's reputation. the usual arguments are that it is not as bad as it used to be, it is rapidly gentrifying, and that there are worse areas in montreal. all of those are true but it is also true that hochelaga is still a shithole filled with poverty, crime, and drug use. i have friends who live there and i spend a lot of time there. the only reason people live in the schlag is because it is cheap. it is not a nice neighbourhood.
sorry to hear about a tragedy so close to your home.  it sucks to feel unsafe.
hochelaga was my favorite neighbourhood to live in during my time in montreal (between ndg, hochelaga, east plateau, and mile end).  i can't explain exactly why but i loved it there.
force yourself: /
i often hear about hochelaga, the fact that it sucks ... etc
but in the end, it's great hochelaga, it's in which corner of the latter that this kind of thing happens?
not everywhere anyway?
seriously, the hochelaga district is not the place where there is the most crime in the year.
compare to other neighborhoods like montreal-north, ahuntsick, ndg, grinfintown, saint-henri, or even downtown. above all, if you put% of population into the equation, it has to be one of the safest neighborhoods in montreal.
to add to all the garbage lying around on the sidewalks of the neighborhood. i'm about to start a blog with daily photos of all the trash i see lying around. people take out their garbage 3 days in advance and the least that a garbage is not in a black bag, the garbage collectors ignore it. hochelag ..
it is almost imperceptible given all the mard that there is already in ste alley there.
i can't find anything in the papers, more info?
is hochelaga really that bad? i'm honestly not familiar. i live in chicago. montreal is just one of the cities i'm considering moving to in the future so that's why i joined this subreddit. i once talked to someone who lived near hochelaga and he seemed to like it there.
i don't live in montreal anymore, but when i did i worked night shifts near cremazie metro station. one night i was listening to the radio while working and heard the news about a motorcycle having gone full speed into the ftq bullding and died soon after.
when i finished my shift i went to the metro to go back home and when i approached the ftq building i saw a huge black stain on a wall. when i approached it, nobody was there anymore but still there was literally a puddle of blood on the sidewalk. was freak as hell.
chalice! i'd like to ask you near which intersection, but i don't want you to reveal where you live.
i live in the same neighborhood.
what time did it happen?
well i guess the new spin on ruelle vert is ruelle rouge in this case :(
call the city to clean that shit up.  disgusting and a child could touch it.
do you know if it was a planned murder or just an innocent bystander?
that's horrible! stay safe!!!
i would think they would have a cleaning crew after a murder
lol you live in hochelaga in 2020 it's not any more dangerous than le plateau this point
i lived near there on chambly between sherbrooke and hochelaga. i called it “upper-hochelaga”. it was quieter than when i lived between adam and ste-catherine anyway ...
this is why as a child who grew up in english machine i start having panic attacks to come to homa.
like the first murder in hochelaga in years lol stop complaining
i found hochelaga to be the verdun of the east. until the city sold out and started making this place for the rich. i'm poor, so f*ck off please valerie/denis and soraya.
op sounds like a karma whore
what sector is this? in hochelaga
at least they didn't die of covid.
i’m planning on going on an exchange travel to montreal this year. should i be worried? is it that dangerous in that neighborhood? what’s the safest area in the city?
my old stomping ground!
delicious
that's why i came out of this rat hole for another rat hole
how do you want them to remove the frozen tape, with a pickaxe ? the paper on the ground doesnt even seem related, you and your neighborhood should clean up your trash.
shit happens. move on.
rip my nigga wawa, insha'allah le paradis. 🤲
you sound like a really terrible person.
it's simple, if anything happens, it's always: "the individual was known to the police."
[deleted]
that’s one way to fight gentrification
yes!
it wouldn't be worse, i just want to move to hochelaga within a few months 👍🏼
i hope that the scooter races will not be canceled this year.
keep it up
alias * the 'schlag *.
this is a man of science.
after that it's all water under the fridge
frig off, rick.
that's right. sometimes she goes, sometimes she doesn't. this time she didn't. might as well reuse it, saving a whole dollar bubs.
you got it wrong ricky
to be honest, this is certainly the neighborhood in montreal with the most personality, for better or for worse. we are far from griffintown.
for more photos of my work, you can [check out my instagram.](  all photos here were taken by the talented and geeky [the.tinn.matt.](
i guess all that toxic waste has turned the squirrels into something fierce. look out kids! this latest piece came at the request of u/haggardhousewife, an ndg mother of three, who wanted to see her town home destroyed and "grotesque squirrels dragging her children away". okay! i pulled out all the stops on this one, i feel. inspirations for this piece range from kent monkman, the simpsons, american gothic, kc greene's "this is fine" dog, and others i'm sure. i love the carnage, the absolute bedlam, the dynamic poses of the children, the visual density of the piece, everything. it's my new favorite. this took me nearly 40 hours of foam, cardboard, craft paint, crayons, sharpies, hot glue and glitter, plus all the custom modelling work for 3d printing.  some of the graffiti on this piece has a bit of international flair, at the request of the homeowner. she's a huge street art fan, so i included works from banksy, shepard fairy, and os gemeos. also included are wheat pastes from lost.claws, as well as my own tiny memorial to tony koulakis.
right down to the shitty 'sake' tag, well done.
post apocalyptic ndg look a lot like current ndg a day before the trash are collected.
yooo i've been lurking around here seeing more and more of your posts, your work is absolutely stunning and makes me feel so proud be a montrealer. it's like you have this essence of nerdy badassitude in your work, and now, you're hitting me with a piece dedicated to the hood i've been calling home for most of my life!! so much attention to detail! i love the cosmos memorial too (rip), damn damn damn...
i worked with someone once who i could see getting great value from your work. i will shoot you a dm!
one of my favourite things to do with your posts is find all the funny or great details. this one tops the cake! love the skeleton just chillin' :p
i… wow. this is beyond fucking coolio. congrats on being disgustingly talented!
sake !
i’ve been seeing a few of your posts lately and i must say that your work is absolutely stunning. the details are insane!
and it would probably still be listed at $1.2 million, haha.
amazing work!
i just rewatched one of my favourite childhood movies the other day, "wallace and gromit a grand day out". the mice in the basement wearing the 3d glasses as the ship takes off is hilarious. didn't know those mice made it to ndg !! :d
is the apocalypse squirrel-based?
this has dethroned your expo 67 as a personal favorite!
thats just how it is now to me
@lost.claws ?
i'm loving your work man i recognize a lot of the scenery you base your work on. i would love to see an apocalyptic version of the berri-uqam area or the place des arts outdoor area.
idk looks like a regular house in ndg
so funny to see my friends tags replicated on there
this is so cool. i love that you put sake on the side of the building loll
it reminds me of one of these old horror movies that were both gore and funny at the same time. it looks like this one could be called something like apocalypse : invasion of the mutant squirrels. i can picture it in my mind with the little rock funky music and the title in black and white. awesome work, the details are really mesmerizing.
it’s amazing!  love the farine five roses sign. 
i love the instagram posts. expected to see electric jackets
super cool art concept.
please tell me about sake so i can appreciate an easter egg the artist added for the piece.
this is genius!
yeah those squirrels is nasty on trash day.
thanks dude! i used to live in ndg myself, mish-mash every sunday, so i was really excited about this project.
please do, i'm happy to talk about commissions. :)
i remember old episodes of the simpsons where shots would pan up from below the ground and there was a bunch of stuff buried in the cross-section of earth. i wanted to try something like that for this piece.
thanks, this one was a lot of fun!
lol, the details are *because* i'm insane, probably. thanks!
i mean, i assume that you've seen other properties in the neighborhood and you understand how competitively priced it is. :p thanks!
classic movie, i can only imagine how intense the set design must have been.
in this instance, yes! in a sense, i see us as being at an apocalyptic singularly, where any one factor could push us over the edge. sometimes it's important to explore the serious aspects of that; wealth inequality, global warming, corporate governance, etc. sometimes it's important to have fun, and imagine if mutant squirrels collapsed society.
my latest shit is my greatest shit, yo. thanks!
on instagram, yes.
thanks! i've gotten a few requests for those locations. right now i'm starting work on my next commission piece, then after that who knows?
nothing to see here. :p
there's definitely a b-movie horror vibe going on. thanks!
he's a prolific montreal street artist with a now decades-long career. there's a bit of a write-up of him here. 
walk around the city for a few hours, you'll see that the loser has tagged many things.
sake repeatetly tagged "covid is fake" around town in 2020 and posted wild dumb shit on his insta
we're lucky if it's just the squirrels
looks great dude i think this is my fave one so far !!
i, for one, am looking forward to our squirrel overlords.
i'll be checking the gram to see!
somebody ought to punch that guy in the face for architecture defacement. what a fucktard.
it's a pity that someone with such an extraordinary ability to get about was a chucklehead.
same here!
don't blame me, i voted skippy/deez nuts 2020.
i see graffiti and tags as a barometer for civic disregard, that takes on it's own aesthetic once it reaches a critical mass.
"chucklehead". oh i like that.
ah yes, the famous st-cum
rip, mirror. i miss reading rantline on the toilet.
my dad still says the canadiens play at the molson center. i tell myself that it is an evolution to say "to the forum".
i still call it the metropolis. fuck telus!
cool! now do steinbergs
[here's]( my last logo post, for those who missed it.  i tried to  do a bunch of suggestions that people made from my last post...some of them were really difficult to find & recreate ...so still working on many of them.  keep the suggestions coming!
[deleted]
really cool! i'm not that old, but i still say club price.
some suggestions: orange julep, musique plus, francofolies, jazz festival, logos of political parties, logos of yes and no (referendums.air canada, via rail,
in memory there is a jean coutu on mont-royal avenue who still has this poster
good thing the stm did some acronym "cleanup"
nice! how about tqs, la belle province, nickels, dic ann's, zellers? 
cheers man
lovers. it was a small chain of clothes from the 80s with a suggestive logo.
suggestion: les terrasses.
bonus, a bunch of logos in the video; [les terrasses ad on youtube](
rossy, wise, pitt, crotteau .... there are some in bateje ...
miracle mart (later m store)
toyville
cumberland
consumers distributing
jardin tiki
u/drit76 have you thought about making stickers from your files on redbubble?
omg, hmv. i worked for the channel for a few years. i met some really sweet people there
i loved reading hour!
original cotton, i thought it was vintage, but it seems that it still exists!
perettes
the household
discus
a&m (record store)
i saw so many movies at palace 6 as a kid. perfect when you couldn't afford a chain cinéma, but also couldn't wait like a year or more for the vhs release.
it took me so long when i was young to realize that the weird business look in the bay logo was just a stylized "b" ...
metropolis 😔
aldo's logo is swag as fuck!
😭 r.i.p. the palace
rip see it
man i miss those free newspapers. and st-cum. and super club vidéotron. i just just the 90’s.
i don't miss the super club that much (they charge you a lot for news), in general, but the video stores do.
is mac's montrealer? i thought it was the couche-tards in ontario.
[deleted]
[here’s a fun one for you 😉](
its funny how age affects what we see as "old" i saw a few of these logos born (im 40) ones that i would consider old: bonimart (sold to zellers in 1990), sears (the block letter logo), the original olympic park logo (green circle of flags), ctcum vs stcum, the old logo of the cibc that acutally was still on top of the cibc tower many years after they changed it, the original leo the lion for rbc (facing left) the cp multimark,
aah hmv, i loved going shopping with a security guard who followed me a few inches behind me
zellers
nostalgia in the carpet, thank you op
oh man the nostalgia 😢
stcum will always get a giggle out of me
croteau!
oh videotron :(
you have to do the expos!
thanks :d 
the only one i don't recognize this time is mac's.
when i was young i had no idea what that meant, but club price sounded really cool and when they switched to costco i found the new name so ugly!
ah! and when bmo was still proud to have montreal in its name!
some of these are quite recent but there are some gems in there 
steinbergs, dominion, pascal hardware come to mind as good ones.
very cool. we really see the evolution of graphics.
holy time machine !! it does not make me younger!
i went to see the matrix at the palace ...
eaton’s
did you distribute to the consumer?
which solidifies my theory of several years: in every city of quebec there has already been a bar called (the) palace
so because i finish work at 7, means i get home at 7:30-45 and what, i can’t buy groceries? i can’t walk my dogs when i get home from work? you reopen high schools and think giving them 2 masks a day will help prevent the spread? incompetence at its finest. grosse blague notre gouvernement
during the winter i don't go out at night much, but this feels bad. animal trapped in a shrinking cage kind of feeling. closing down things is one thing, but having your freedom of movement restricted is on another level. 8 pm is very early as well.
curfew doesn’t affect me much since i have been following guidelines because i want to get back to normal as fast as possible, but how will this exactly do anything if schools are open and there’s no severe lockdown? it seems like it’ll just anger people even more, make people travel more than before, and just be plain counterproductive. 
also at one point you can only take so much and legault brought up how they care about mental health but they make it so difficult to find any sort of help that most people just give up, and it feels like they know that. not only is it difficult to find therapy it’s also difficult to find it cheap because of waiting lists. i have people around me completely losing their minds and i don’t even know what to say anymore to make them feel better. 
many ppl, including myself, are really starting to lose hope in our government and the people. it feels like it’s only a downwards spiral from here. it feels like this’ll never end, and will continue in a vicious circle. even the political drama happening to our neighbours down below is not helping people mentally at all. i guess you could call this a rant, it’s almost been a year and after losing my job due to covid and having a difficult time to find jobs, mental help, and basic entertainment to fulfil me, i feel like i’m slowly losing my sanity. 
anyways, i hope everyone is well.
all this while primary and secondary schools being wide open. master stroke! 👏
itt: angry night joggers
lockdown seems a lot like the construction here...
#absolutely ridiculous!!!
restricting my solo, late night walks around my super quiet, empty neighborhood to clear my head for my mental health is not going to curb the spread of covid19.
and now their big plan is to force everyone to pack into the grocery stores and go for walks after work before 8:00pm?!  the line-ups for groceries on the weekend are going to be crazy.
so what’s next when this doesn’t work?
if we look at the stats, the summer months (july-september) had the lowest case # and i believe that during this time, the shops and restaurants were open (even with consideration of the two week delay).
i’m no expert, but the hike in cases awefully coincides with the opening of schools (september+), thanksgiving and christmas.
maybe instead of packing people into stores for a smaller time frame, try to actually crackdown on gatherings and close schools?
fuck that. schools ok but night jogs not? reduced grocery hours? profoundly idiotic shit, this
so i can't go outside, but can i run around the underground parking lot in my complex?
this government is a big fucking joke. it's complete rubbish
[deleted]
i’m all for a strict curfew, but not closing down the majority of businesses and keeping schools open is literally helping nobody. 
all these half assed attempts is just making a very thing worse. 
legault is not helping here
what about food delivery after 8?  what about taking dogs out for a walk after 8?
because it is insane, it’s litteraly taking away your personal freedom.
this makes very little sense to keep schools open supposedly to keep the economics running but impose a curfew?
[deleted]
any curfew is an extreme measure, justifiable in a democracy only if a clear and demonstrable case can be made that it will have the predicted beneficial impact on the public good.
this is something we absolutely should not tolerate because of handwaves towards “private gatherings”.  show us the stats.
mental health? never heard of it. suicide? who cares. small business owners? fuck em.
-legault, presumably.
confused. curfew and electroshock, but schools remain open.
also did i see something where legault said he expects all homeless people to be inside during curfew and that there’s “enough room”? like wtf.
i fully agree. the curfew is ridiculous and likely to make things worse at least on two aspects:
* transmissions at supermarkets due to a compressed schedule that poorly fits many working people.
* psychological suffering and even potentially suicides (the president of french urgentologist doctors said he observed an increase in suicides with the curfew in an interview with radio-canada)
and all that for what? to prevent evening meetings after the holiday period is over? when we don't even know how big the problem is?
but what gets to me the most is that this government is doing nothing on its own to help with the crisis. they keep asking us to solve the problem with them. let's be clear, these health guidelines, these lockdowns, these curfews, this isn't them doing anything, it's them asking us to deal with it ourselves, telling us what to do and blaming us when infections increase. we're paying the bill on everything the government is "doing".
what about them?
what do they do to help?
fuck all.
do they attempt therapeutic treatments (ivermectin is being heavily promoted by many experts based on many prophylactic studies showing 70-90% reductions in cases when used preventively)? i'm not saying it's sure it works, but it's sure as hell worth a try, when they're willing to implement a curfew they even admit they have no evidence will even help!
no.
do they use the millions of rapid tests they bought 4 months ago to initiate large-scale systematic testing to find early cases and prevent them from spreading?
no.
do they organize large-scale systematic pcr testing of the population in heavily hit areas to try to find and treat cases early on?
no.
how about just recommending people take supplements that are known to boost the immune system like vitamin d and zinc? 95+% of people who get the virus get over it without the need for medical care, doesn't that mean that just giving an edge to one's immune system might help?
no.
they're not doing anything that requires that they do anything or take any professional risk at all. anything that might give them responsibility for what happens, for successes or failures. they choose to exclusively do things that involves them telling us what to do, so that if cases go down, they can claim credit, and if cases go up... they can blame us. we're led by incompetent cowardice.
if they had attempted everything and nothing worked, and then said "a curfew's the only thing we haven't tried", that might be tolerable. but given the absolute lack of action from them on any initiative by the government to curb the epidemic, this is intolerable. this feels like just a punishment, even arruda admitted he had no evidence this would work. they're just experimenting on us, as long as we're the ones paying the price and that it requires no work and involves no personal or professional responsibility on their side, they don't seem to give a fuck.
worst thing is, most people are just ok with that approach. i've literally had someone i've known all my life, closer than my cousins, block me on social media because i dared criticize the government and expressed my frustration with this measure.
this is an unacceptable breach of personal liberty so no good reason. make it so that you can only walk alone, but not being able to go outside, there is no evidence behind this, all while keeping schools open. this is unacceptable.
arruda who says who doesn't have the flu in quebec right now, if you have symptoms it's covid ...
 like wtf is that ? how do you want us to trust you after saying bs like that ?
does anyone know if the rules for people who live alone go back to only being able to receive one visitor and not to visit one family anymore? i couldn't find anywhere that was clear on this
so “cases didn’t go down for three weeks when schools were closed” but also december is the busiest shopping season and every time i drove past the mall the parking lot was pretty much completely full just like any other year. also there were ads this year actively asking people to shop in-store (looking at you, winners) which i thought was in poor taste.
not to mention the curfew will disproportionately impact homeless people. after they raided and dispersed the campground on st jacques the way they did i have a hard time believing they will be bringing them out to shelters... all the shit this city is going through is fucking sad. then the ruling class still let foreign investors buy real estate here because ‘it’s good for the economy’ but who is the economy for if the cost of living outstrips the bottom 70% of wage earners? 
excuse the rant. like you, i am disturbed and annoyed by this news.
legault and everyone around him need to resign as soon as we start seeing the light at the end of this tunnel. they’re incompetent, it’s done. all these optic-driven, poke in the dark tactics don’t work. restrictions go up, and numbers go up more exponentially. fuck this anecdotal “people aren’t obeying the rules” shit. i’m sure a lot aren’t, but to feed into this feeds into their narrative of blame delegation. they don’t want you to ask the fundamental questions like how the fuck does our hc system collapse at 1300 hospitalizations and 200 icus when they had 8 months to prepare for the wave 2 they’ve been warning us about? the system needs to be rebuilt from the ground up; and a new leadership needs to drive that.
what is the scientific explanation between a curfew and slowing the spread?
while i agreed and complied with the measures put in place, the curfew is over the limit for me. legault says "by 8 pm people have to be in their houses" and brushes it off as being not so bad. if i lived in a house as big as legault, i wouldn't mind the curfew at all. it's like if people living in small apartments in montreal aren't his main voters and he doesn't care about them.
this kind of measure isn’t about actually impacting anything. it’s designed to distract the population, take their focus away from the decades of state incompetence that have left us completely unprepared for this pandemic.
they want you to focus on the small fraction of the population that breaks the rules, so you’ll ignore the fact that them keeping schools open has had much more of an impact than anything we might do.
[deleted]
when the curfew that makes no sense sets in is when you start wondering if the conspiracies are true and our liberties are being intentionally eroded. the politicians can say "it's not me. it's the virus" and do whatever the hell they want (including vacationing, what they told us not to do btw).
when is the next protest
curfew is too far... they’ve crossed a line.
i just can't imagine this wont be challenged in court. they said it themselves, it's not meant to prevent the spread, it's just meant to scare people.
not a big fan of this because it will just end up meaning people do things in mad dashes, put a downer on everyone, etc...  
but... when i look at my instagram feed and see lots of people in qc having very active social lives (i mean literally showing parties/groups with different people every day) i fully understand why numbers are going up.  
i'll also mention that there are a lot of old people who have trouble understanding social distancing, wearing a mask correctly (or at all). these are the same people who absolutely need to go to their provigo daily to buy their milk. the same people who will end up in hospital plugged in for 3 months and end up crashing the economy and lives of the majority of the population who follow the rules but now have even less to do because of a few selfish people.
i think what is happening is revolting. i’m all for taking safe precautions (using a mask, social distancing, limiting the amount of people in a store, and generally being safe). but to use the police as a means to suppress people’s personal freedoms at the expense of “national security” or “emergencies” is egregious. our rights are being trampled on and it is really taking a toll on people’s mental health. suicide ideation has skyrocketed over the last 3 months, depression and anxiety, substance abuse are steadily increasing. 
when are we, the people going to stand together and not allow for all of our freedoms to be taken away. the problem with the government controlling our mindsets is that they can extend these measures for literally however long they want under the guise of national security. this is just enabling government to overstep their boundaries. 
if sensible measures were taken to reduce the spread, schools would be closed also... i see people mentioning “have you ever seen how hard it is to have kids that aren’t in school (for the parents)” is not a good excuse to have schools open. we have seen time and time again that politicians make these rules but then fly all around the world because it’s rules for thee and not for me. 
as benjamin franklin said “those who would give up essential liberty, to purchase a little temporary safety, deserve neither liberty nor safety”. 
why can’t we be told the risks, and assess things for ourselves... this curfew is turning canada into the communist party of china, or worse north korea. this isn’t a joke anymore. and no i’m not out to kill your grandma, but keeping people inside forever is no longer the solution, the ramifications of these lockdowns will show in the next couple of years and will be decisively some of the worst decisions made in history. 
thanks for coming to my tedtalk and let the downvotes begin.
what they are doing is inhumane... it's a crime against humanity... 
that said i'm a night time person too. i need to go outside. it's wrong to prevent people from getting into contact with nature. also think about all the cops who will be outside in the name is protecting the peace... pisses me off.
to read all the comments..j "i mourned when they closed the gyms ... it didn't make sense since the govt kept the climbing gyms open ... so, i already blew my mark there a few months ago for this injustice and agreed that the gym would come back this summer i started jogging and finding pc games the fun that keeps me busy until this summer.
you just have to let go and accept that it's going to be july / august / september / october that we'll get back to normal. until then, let the govt do nonsensical non-stop stupidities and vote for them ... that's all we can do is vote.
one thing is clear, they don't care about people's mental health, they care about overwhelmed hospitals and i can't say i ultimately blame him unfortunately as much as i find all this absurd.
the curfew is insane. i have no idea how it’s supposed to do anything to combat the spread of covid, but it’s a serious blow to mental health and just general qol
data has already shown us that 19,279 cases have been directly linked to students and staff from 2,341 schools across the province since the onset of the pandemic. we do not have adequate ventilation in our schools. we determined this with air quality tests. 
students under 5th grade still don't have to wear masks in class. children are often asymptomatic spreaders of the virus. they need to close the schools if they can't manage them during the pandemic. not doing so is counterproductive to curbing the spread. the kids will still spread it amongst themselves and school staff, and they can all potentially spread it to their family members at home. 
legault also said he expects the homeless to abide by the curfew while our shelters are chronically under stress, and stretched even more thin due to covid spreading within the homeless population but where is the aid for these people and shelters? we just cram them in at max capacity? legault said this curfew is about saving lives. i kinda feel like he's pissing on our leg.
visiting from the toronto subreddit, i feel for you guys over this complete bs. i hope all the people in the toronto sub who are constantly complaining about how “its not a real lockdown1!1!” would react to news like this. 
because we all know the virus doesn’t transmit at night.
didn't legault say something to the effect of: "if you really need to walk after 8pm, you can walk, just know that we are asking everyone to stay home"  
i'm not fluent in french so i may have misunderstood. but i thought he was implying that it's not recommended but you won't be in trouble for a late night walk.
and to think all we needed to do to avoid this was use the last 8 months of prep time to develop a functional healthcare system.
stupid all the way around. theres no logical argument for this. i used to like legault. fuck this piece of shit now. i cant believe this is a thing lol what the fuck
it's clear decisions are being made for economic reasons and not health reasons. you can't just keep tightening every bolt and hope it fixes the leaky one. 
i can only lock down so hard. my wife and i work from home, we don't see anybody unless it's a walk outside when the weather is -5 or better because we have a newborn and it's hard to take her out. so what are we supposed to do, see nobody *extra* hard?
article 13, subsection 1 of the universal declaration of human rights goes as follows,
“everyone has the right to freedom of movement and residence within the borders of each state.” therefore that curfew is a violation of human rights and should be abolished immediately.
the measure if obviously to discourage people from congregating or visiting others late in the day. will it be affective? who knows but we know for sure but many people will follow these instructions so less people around the better it is. we will never really contain this with these half-assed measures... oh yeah schools are opening as predicted so what's the point?
we have a peaceful protest on the very first day of this curfew at 8pm? everyone sits/stands outside in front of the homes on their property, with a mask and distancing from others.
that's no moon...
may the 4th be with you.
👍 nice
wow!
great pictures!
lighting up the bridge was one of coderre's worst ideas. waste of public funds and daily electricity. and it's ugly.
edit: okay clearly no one agrees with me.
but we can't hide because electricity is extremely expensive ... in the pandemic, it could have been closed all year ...
i'm 36 minutes too late.
it’s a space station...
nice
i don't know, i find it beautiful, me ... of all coco's vanity projects, this is the one i found the most digestible.
considering how often it gets posted around here, the updoots it gets, and how much prettier it has made our city. you’re the clear minority.
i love our lightbrite bridge
it's been 300x that i pass on the bridge since and i still find it so magnificent
the idea came from richard bergeron, not coderre. worse, the federal government paid for it. energy consumption is insignificant. the annual electricity consumption is the equivalent of a dozen homes.
yeah i was pissed by the time it happened ... but god damn it grew on me!
it's a beauty that fills me with pride. worse waste of electricity, seriously?
for me, especially because it legitimizes montreal's excessive light pollution.
on the contrary, it is really beautiful.
> waste of electricity
lol
> but we can't hide the fact that electricity is extremely expensive ...
are you aware that we are in quebec and that electricity costs practically nothing hin?
nice
bridges*. don't forget champlain!
same
> threw pissed as it happened
why?
nice
paske are montrealers who die in the streets in winter, there is so much better to do with our money !!! everything that is happening with the housing at the moment with the homeless who are being chased by the police is not confined, the camps which are being closed, it could have been avoided with affordable housing!
nice
i wish i had a place like this in mtl damn
thanks bro i was asleep for the sunrise this morning.
this looks a lot like the view from my building lol
edit: no it's not my building
this image is sponsored by desjardins and marriott
i miss montreal. taking those 2am walks prior to the pandemic.   
really clears the mind before bed.
good morning everyone . ☕
always appreciated the bit of green in any photos.
demonbalcon?
beautiful view.
i love it! when i would travel to montreal in june, i always made sure there was one night when i stayed up to see morning twilight before going to sleep.
beautiful... was it at 5am sharp or minutes ago (i am looking for accurate time please)? thanks
montreal is my favorite city; i can't wait to go back once the border reopen.
wow i thought everything at the bottom of the picture was water on a roof reflecting the city, with the handrail as the edge of the roof.
just beautiful! :)
our city has it's problems  and fats,but it is still a wonderful place !
that's the back of st. patrick's bottom left. regardless, beautiful photo. miss montreal so much.
what is there to enjoy?
i don't mean to be boring, but it's dawn, not sunrise.
yall rich af
[deleted]
this image is sponsored by an articling student who ends his day
👀
i see what you did there
it was 5.06am
bad poutine. only good one you can get is at costco.
back
a 1 bedroom in a brand new “luxury build” next to old port costs the same as a 1970’s built grungy building with shared laundry rooms in the “ghetto” of toronto.
my balcony looks very similar tho
what about dem salaries then?
i ugly laughed. well done.
i like it but i don't like it.
don’t give cf montréal any ideas.
"allo montreal: why are you coughing?"
i would love to see this graffitied a little everywhere around town. it’s really good. sell the rights!
r/tihi
i wonder if rents are $500 there
montreal if it was in occitanie.
cursed image
lol, nice!
very beautiful execution! 😍
you should put a watermark on your image so no one can take it from you and then do what i strongly suggest you do - open an etsy with that i'm sure you could make yourself some cashola !
haha! excellent xd
there shouldn't be a flavour for covid! right? some people have no sense of taste! ;)  (nice work btw)
wow this is good execution.
i laughed but it is like sad laugh
prime r/sbubby material
hated
i laughed too hard for that. i am starting to count my mental illnesses. see you
the saviours of covid
i have created a website to easily search for tweets from vaccine hunters twitter account by your province, age group and postal code. please have a look and comment if you have any feeback: [
they’re more into birth defects than viruses
you have the image, make it a sticker and feel better about vandalizing urban furniture!
that sounds expensive, time consuming & stickers don’t have the same charm as graffiti and murals. 
too bad i can’t paint.
you have the image, make it a stencil and feel better about your painting skills! folks at r/stencils can help you out
nice. i will however continue my procrastination due to the curfew. imagine the cost of the fine for vandalizing city property after 9:30pm? too bad, huh.
with jupiter in the background (back, back, back ...), moreover!
this might be the best angle i’ve ever seen for this subject.
that sign is perfect montreal: farine = french, five = english, roses = bilingual.
not so long ago it said flour at the bottom. 
unless they’ve changed it, the timing sequence has a gap when the bottom row was lit.
gorgeous. i like to see icons of montreal.
it was super easy to be creative with this subject, but you nailed it!
really great picture! thanks for sharing!
cyberpunk aethetics
halloween vibes 👻
i always found it looked like a cabaret sign. with this angle and this atmosphere, even more lol.
very beutiful!
for the curious, it's taken from this place: 
it's a nice little park with benches under the trees and under the overpass there's an urban gym too. i really like this spot.
and a rose is a flower (flour), so here you go.
jeez i driven by that place a million times and never knew it was there!
pretty sure a rose is a rose.
a rose is a flower.
the pronunciation of "flower" ressembles that of "flour".
you can’t have a montréal street photo without construction going on somewhere 👷‍♂️
that's pretty chill. where was that pic taken ?
ah! mount royal metro!
is where the law 101 tabernak !!
jk jk
i would even say the most beautiful in canada ❤️
in spite of itscproblems,it is a magnificent place
it is a magnificent city ,in spite of it's shortcomings
for anyone wondering, it's on the mont royal metro
i was just scolling by and thought uh! this is the kind of thing we have in montreal. whelps.. i wasn't wrong lmao i really love our city (except for construction when the hell are they going to finish pie-ix -_-)
just don't look behind the camera. it's a construction site where the homeless go to piss. 
nice shot though. 💓
shouldn't this be on other cities reddits instead
this one isn’t
[removed]
correct. this is at the mount royal metro station, so not really a street but a sidewalk. the concrete and fencing on the right side blocks off the construction area.
plot twist: the photographer is actually a construction worker who surveils for the construction will be started next week.
mont-royal metro
it's metro mont royal. it's been under construction for years. to the left of the pic is also mont royal and st denis where there is a big homeless problem , specifically for first nation people. it's a nice picture but moving the lens in any other direction would show you a troubled ( but safe ) neighbourhood. 
i'm being genuine, when i say its a nice shot though :)
i only see 1 person whining here
back
[deleted]
you may not like it, but this is what peak dickhead trolling performance looks like.
makes it pretty , but is totally useless .
actually i'm a newcomer and just super enthusiastic and click picutrs of almost everything about montréal wayyy too much ;_; 
also a linguistic student. not a construction worker. xd
it seemed to me that the place was familiar to me. i used to go downstairs to go to the unicorn sometimes.
[removed]
[removed]
all montrealers can be construction workers after seeing so many construction sites daily! 
i know every stage of pouring concrete into sidewalks! 
i know pretty much what’s underneath the entirety of st catherine street around the city centre!
lmao, with 20% of the national gdp, quebec an economic burden? sounds like ur mad because they dont speak the language you want them to.  
source : [
if that was true, then canada wouldn’t have rigged the referendum for quebec to stay. food for thought.
yeah ok you're just being racist and intolerant. as a canadian you should know better.
that's what happens when you have a shitty manual job, like a plumber, and you don't really contribute much to the economy.
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
i have yet to see a source. coming from you i assume there will be none. keep hating
quebec is a national identity, distinctive from the rest of canada. let's call it linguistic discrimination then if it so pleases you.
he really just loves this pokemon
in the graffiti slang, this is called a heaven spot, a hard-to-reach and dangerous location to make a tag (if you fall, "you go to heaven", hence the name).
graphiti artist, yes.  but there is nothing artistic about tags imo.
*grabs popcorn while the "i pay my taxes!" crowd and the artsy crowd hiss at each other*
can someone explain the purpose of a tag? is it like claiming territory of what's the point?
as long as you make such an ugly tag, you might as well draw seeds.
shoutout for the spot though
i'm not.
"artists"
no offense i think thats a street gang tag, i wouldn't call him an "artist"
go onyx! po-ké-mon!
you mean vandals. tags are nothing more than an eyesore. i wish the law was more strict on people who paint these abominations
especially when they are ugly. risking your life for .. this?
why are so many people in this city such fucking squares lmao
slightly impressed.
but very, very annoyed.
making a nice mural, conceptualizing something incredible and carrying it out, that's **art**.
drawing the same filthy tag everywhere within sight, on bridges, overpasses, signs, trucks, trains, that's just vandalism.
same here! i'm kinda new to the city and every time i see graffiti in unusual places, it always fascinates me.
onyx is the fucking worst.
zonek
[deleted]
i'm not impressed. i find it's stupid, self righteous, and makes my city look like shit.
that’s not art. they’re not artists.
i remember when the galipeault bridge used to have that big red suspension tower. had to be a hundred feet high, but every year the graduating class of mac high would go up and tag it. that’s dedication.
i love graffiti. i hate tags. they are not art.
i love the finish on the photo. is it through an app?
check out 1up for some great graffiti art
i think it's appalling. it makes the city look run-down, it is crass. there is no art in this, just sheer wanton vandalism.
this is where cote st antoine cross over autoroute decarie! i walk past this everyday. i remember when the "onyx" popped up.
for all the effort put into climbing up there, i wish the tags were more skilled. i've seen some wicked clever tags in monkland.
it's less impressive when they get hit by trains in the railyard.
i love tags, give humanity to the bland capitalism architecture.
posting to say i moved here in 2018 and zonek are the most prolific taggers i have ever seen and i have lived in 8 major cities in na.
these people need to be found and forced to clean all the fuckin mess they made all over the city. the more tagging the longer it takes.
onyx vs kong
"graffiti art"
are you kidding, this is nothing... look for street graffiti (pichação) in south america and you'll learn from the best
wow that's insane!
onyx lurks
i remember back in the day all the graffiti said vc i don’t see those anymore
that's how i got my username for videogames "onyx"
would be impressed if they actually threw up a decent tag.
pretty sure the type of person that goes around tagging everything with a low-effort tag is the same type of person that blasts music from their phone on the metro.
damn that's wild!
i'm always surprised when these post come up how many people are apologists for this sort of blatant vandalism. 
just because it's part of a culture doesn't mean it's good or needs to be preserved. there are endless great things about graffiti or hip-hop culture that could be focused on instead. 
to defend defacing the infrastructure that we all rely on and pay for for the sake of "the culture" is like saying drug dealing and human trafficking should be preserved because they are essential to rap music. whatever.
that's not a graffiti artist. that's just a tag.
playboi carti
all this to brag about being in a gang and having a life expectancy of 25 years
the fear, you mustn't feel! 🤭
ftfy: i am always impressed by the dangerous places that graffiti artists ~~tag~~ piss in montreal
so many pussies in this thread lol “thats vandalism!” 
the city would look better if they just let it get covered in graffiti instead of having them painted over which just means the taggers are gonna hit it again. 
know whats uglier than graffiti? a wall that was bombed and tagged getting painted over by the city but you can still faintly see the graffiti under it. thats ugly as fuck. just let it be.
yea that's the idea
edit: always a pleasure
if he really liked it he would have written it right.
or the hardcore rap of the 90s.
industrial spots have this charm that urban neighborhoods do not have.
a caboose?? in 2021? that’s a rare sight, fantastic shot!
[deleted]
ah! this is where the train hit our amphibian boat! 😳
i think it’s the same one i saw on jan 29 near my place ❤️[choo choo](
the photo with the date just above it makes a mind fuck haha long live the old man!
beautiful photo!! i love colors.
nice composition! really a pretty cool photo.
nice caboose!
reminds me there's actually a petition against this specific train track being used at night / early morning
[
how did the dudes put graffiti on the building?
how did they manage to draw the graffiti all the way up there? (ie. "marshall") :o
i've been inside there lol
i often played in abandoned factories on st. patrick when i was younger. it is true that they have a charm.
i don't see much charming about it, but hey ... i'm not a montrealer.
even rarer, a boarded-up caboose
it looks like hell too.  as a kid, i used to rush outside when a freight train would pass because there was always a dude waving at the kids from the caboose
> caboose
80% of montreal's infrastructure is from the 1960s
they're not that rare actually, but you don't see them on mainline trains going between cities. nowadays they're used on local trains that serve industries, they'll sometimes put a caboose, now referred to as a riding platform at the end so that the conductor doesn't have to grip the side ladder of a car while shoving long distances.
i worked on the site of the old port and a good part of the job was to tell people to cash out on the rails when a train arrived!
we could have up to 10 trains per day
better than the mother who was pushing a stroller over a stopped train. 
i'm surprised more people dont die there.
a few years back a woman got both her legs cut off because she tried to go across a parked train on these tracks. the train started moving while she was still wiggling her way through.
nice pic. saw this one in the yard the other day and couldn't help but wonder how old it is
or they could take the cp tracks and not have an active train line in a tourist area.
from the roof with a paint roller on a pole
it's called a roller - and that's exactly how (that's why everything is square)
the site was really pretty during the international mosaicultures in 2003. on the link below, there are some of the works that were presented, we can see the old grain silos behind some.
[
it's correct. it is true that it does not have the same charm as a small village, but the immensity of its places, especially when they are abandoned, give off a really special atmosphere. as if all the story that emanates from it filled the remaining void.
>shoving long distance
lingo checks out. this guy chooches.
there's the same thing around the atwater market - tracks that lead to robin hood silos that people think are vestigial.
but its like a tourist attraction? see many tourists take selfies or whatever on the track esp. when trains are crossing
dude you triggered childhood memories buried in my brain when i was 13 in 2003.
you don't have to be a small village. i live in ottawa which is a capital of a million inhabitants and you never see dilapidated places like this
ottawa and montreal are not at all the same caliber. ottawa has never been an industrial city.
in fact ottawa was an industrial city before becoming the capital, we can see the vestiges of it in some neighborhoods but most of the buildings have been replaced by condos or government buildings.
it was the lumber industry so it was a different type of industry i think.
welcome to 1972!
beautiful framing that avoids the eternal barrier at the end! i think she must have been here for 20 years.
i like!
it could even go on r / liminalspaces
"thank you very much, for eating, ameeeeeeeen"
super framing! out of curiosity it is taken with which device?
r/accidentalkubrick
my old stop, haven't lived in mtl for 5 or so years now
the montreal metro is the subject of a cult on r / brutalism.
superb!
shout out méli mélo
ohhhh i miss montreal 😭😭😭
i hope to come back one day ...
nice!
beaudry is very particular. walking escalator and very deep.
[
how many stm employees does it take to replace a light?
without jokes, we understand that the lights are high and difficult to access but it would be good to replace those that are blown once in a while.
such a beutiful picture
wait- has that station always looked like that? i can't tell since it's been years since i when to that station.
meh. it was beautiful 50 years ago
we can see it anyway but it blends into the composition!
with an iphone and are ultra wide angle
totally agreed 😍👌
for a plate of grio, a pot of pikliz and cheap legumes. i love you mélo-mélo!
that they give a little more respect to their customers who see buses do not pass outside at -30 celcius before that.
but yes all the stations lack bulbs or even light at all
thank you ^^
i wonder the same
it still is, personally i like it. it would take a little more maintenance, make it like the opening day, but i still like what it looks like.
nice
the colored tiles are relatively new entk it adds a little twist
don't feel bad about how you responded to late night catcalling. we are human and we have varied emotion responses to how we get approached by strangers and most are valid and normal.
i am glad you are safe and you called the police, you did the right thing.
j'espère que le reste de ta semaine ira mieux, and i hope in general you'll be alright. thanks for letting us know, that's very good of you as well.
what the fuck kind of explosives do people just throw in the streets?
i'll try to spell that word correctly: deinstitutionalization. in the 90s we started to 'return' to society people who needed mental health support because they were less worse than others. it gives this kind of situation in the street.
i'm so sorry this happened to you ...
artist rendition of the perpetrator: 
in all seriousness though, very glad you are okay.
downtown has been shitty these days. 3 stabbings in less than a months on ste catherine, one of them literally in front of my building on maisonneuve and st mathieu. hopefully this wave of craziness dies out.
you made no mistake being snarkily.  standing up for yourself is never a mistake.  i’m sorry this happened to you.
my school is near there and i had a scary encounter with a begger back in december and i wasn’t the only student at my school who reported an incident. luckily i was with a friend so i wasn’t alone. 
with the pandemic and working from home, there are a lot less people downtown so beggars arent getting as much money and are more agressive. 
good to know you’re okay, stay safe.
the vast majority of you have been lovely with your advice and well wishes and i am so grateful for that thank you! many women have also shared similar experiences which i am sorry to hear about and i hope all of you made it out safely.
but man a few of these comments are just so insensitive and display a frightening lack of empathy and class. i can't imagine reading a post like this and having the things that those few people have commenting being the only thing to cross my mind lol.
i always thought downtown montréal was a scary place for women, especially at night. i hope you’re okay.
an explosive??
i’m so sorry you experienced this. i hope you don’t encounter him again. 
i sometimes yell back too, as women it’s tiring to experience demeaning behavior from creepy men most of our lives.
a few months ago i had an intense confrontation with two fat rednecks on a sidewalk whilst carrying heavy grocery bags. they started berating me for waring a mask and tried forcing me off the sidewalk. i screamed loudly which deterred them.
the pandemic has had very negative effects on those already suffering mental illness. i used to feel safe in this city at night and i no longer do.
everyone should be careful when walking alone at night. walk with confidence, keep your head up, be aware of your surroundings, think about your footwear. when every second counts, the police is minutes away.
i'm so sorry you had to go through this!
i have worked in this corner of town for years, and have worked throughout the pandemic. in march / april 2020, i realized how there are homeless people in montreal and that they would badly need, overwhelmingly, mental health care! before, with the crowd of students and workers in the office towers, they melted into the crowd. but since the city center is empty, only them and a few essential workers remain. we cannot not see them! and the crisis is not helping, they are probably more stressed about it too. many shelters and other assistance for them have closed or have been reduced. i walk a lot in the city center, and some mornings, i was "normal" alone, i only saw suspicious homeless people. even at 7:30 in the morning, it is not safer. however, nothing bad has ever happened to me. the worst that has happened to me is a "similation" to get stabbed in the back (just with the point, no knife, fortunately, but it was the fear of my life for a few seconds, we get along !).
it is worrying for us, but also for them, and it is immensely sad. they don't have a very good quality of life either. and they are not 100% responsible for it. we do not know what misery they went through, how sick they are, and the state has just left them practically to themselves, when they are not the most able to take care of themselves. this is a big problem for everyone!
glad you’re safe! what part of downtown was this? atwater? mcgill? thanks for sharing, and you’re right that it’s best to ignore strangers
ah yes i remember him. was he wearing some funky clothes ? like pink pants with purple shirt? 
if that’s him, i remember him yelling and insulting at me for not giving him money. for sure he’s not a normal person
this is to all men:
if you feel the urge to post anything belittling such actions or poking fun at how women are fed up with male disrespect then you are part of the problem.
if you are a man posting to scold the small minded male behaviour that is a nuisance to our mothers and sister and daughters then please speak out loud for the others to hear you.
it’s the men who will stop the abuse and violence in our streets and homes because it’s the men who cause it.
jesus sorry that happened to you. and you should not fucking have to explain yourself for being freaked out by it. but since reddit is dominated by young men with little understanding of the female experience, as well  as incels, it's unsurprising unfortunately. 
thanks for the warning!
what kind of fucking psychopath is that guy? people in the comments victim shaming aren't any better too.
"aggressive guy catcall me and wasn't in the mood to take anyone's shit today so i responded snarkily. i realise this is a mistake"  
this isn't a mistake. men like that need to be called out for their shitty behaviour.
thank you for sharing this with everyone ! you're amazing and your effort and bravery much appreciated !
around which cross street/area of st cats? saw a sketch guy earlier in the day around elexis nihon that fits that profile. did you notice a satchel on them?
wow. i guess people who comment on "this is juste a pétard" would have a different attitude if it was to them that it happened ...
as a general rule, in real life, unlike in hollywood movies, explosives and guns make sounds very similar to that of a firecracker. it can be very difficult to tell the difference between a harmless firecracker and something potentially fatal. we must therefore always remain cautious.
too bad nothing else can be done for now; it seems to me indeed the kind of mishap that can happen to almost anyone, especially women due to the perception that they are easier to victimize. a slight error in judgment under difficult circumstances does not in any way deserve such a trying experience and i hope that the culprit will be apprehended before he commits the irreparable.
hang in there, op.
this is fucking ridiculous! no one should be made to feel unsafe and belittled like that! you did the right thing by standing up for yourself. you shouldn’t need to do that just for being yourself. i’m sorry you had to go through that op.
none of this was your fault op. fuck all those morons who think otherwise
spvm being useless again. sorry that happened and glad you’re safe
that's fucking crazy. he threw a firework at you and the cops can't do anything? it's an act of violence.
lol @ the police. no wonder women are scared, he threw an explosive at you and they’re just like *”we can’t do anythingggg“* for fucks sake.
literally just got home from verbal assault on milton. this is honestly ridiculous and a saddening topic from all sides.
i wish you had video of him.
thanks for the heads up and glad you’re ok! ❤️
guy here. 
wish everyone's reaction witnessing this situation would be to call the cops immediately.
no one should feel scared to walk down the street.
and i think you reacted good. unless you are ready for physical interactions with agressive people, ignoring is the best way to go.
i just moved to an apartment a couple blocks from ste cath and whenever i walk through downtown it’s honestly scary how often men try to hit on me or catcall me. yesterday it happened 3 times in a 20 minute span, with one of the men following me for a couple blocks until two girls came up to me and asked if i was ok (thank goodness for them). 
i’m typically a friendly person (who is used to more small town chatting) so when someone approaches me on the street and says hello, i always respond, thinking maybe they need directions of something. and then i regret it when their eyes start scanning up and down my body. ugh. 
really sorry you went through this, i can’t even imagine what i would do if someone threw an explosive. hope you’re doing okay.
i work directly in front of that church and have been approached before. last week, i was approached by a taller british guy, who was pressuring me to follow his instagram and go to his house. he was super annoying.
however, the funniest thing that happened is that i was vaping when he approached me, and he said "excuse me, what's the closest vape store to here? gotta make that cloud, you know... hit that nic"
*and at that moment, i knew, this man had never vaped in his life.*
anyway, there are a ton of creeps around there. i do fear leaving work late, so i always try to leave while it's light out. i live in this area as well and always walk with my keys in between my fingers in case i need to fend off someone.
some men in this comment section are disgusting. this is our reality. i fear for my safety every single time i leave my house. i scan the road for men like i scan the road for deer when i am driving in the country, check behind my shoulder often, and text my partner if i am out. i have an emergency call system set up by clicking my phone's power button 5 times. i live with my door locked always, and will not leave at dark without someone else.
this is reality.
what a piece of shit. i'm glad you're alright. my wife always has bear spray. it's technically legal and it will definitely get you out of a bind like that.
i dont know in wich area of st-cath you were, but for a quick intervention, there's a police station between bishop and mackay in front of a church (near concordia)
which part of the city ?
why were you not pursuing charges? the police can go get security footage and serve some justice. they probably know him, once they see his picture.
check here to see if the city could have captured it, else lots of private cameras outside businesses.
how the fuck did he get explosives? pardon my language.
i'm glad you're ok!
[removed]
if we don’t do anything, street thugs like this one will eventually plaque the city, just like what australia is enduring a rat plaque. drug addicts deserve no humanitarianism, because once they chose drugs, you gave up dignity and humanity.
im no advocate for violence but...
im getting downvoted for hinting that women should carry pepper spray or smtg like that. ok lol
oh, the scary black man...
lol threw an explosive...just like in gaza
[removed]
moral of the story: downtown is a cesspool, and the sky is blue. 
i don’t go downtown for that exact reason. too many sketchy bums and hooligans.
hysteria or hysterical?
love your username, it's a great piece!
man i remember downtown in the late 90’s. a woman’s runs up to us saying some creeps following and harassing her, he gets stomped out for good measure, problem solved. even the cops wouldn’t care who beat the creep as he deserved it.
today, no one will do anything about it because if you touch him you’ll get brought up on charges for assault and it’ll be much worst for you than for the creep. 
it’s a sad state of affairs montreal.
kessé you fa dewors at night osti?
[deleted]
what?! thats my wife.
very nice photo and very nice corner. i moved very close to the promenade masson recently and can't wait to see what it looks like in normal times. there are several bars and i haven't seen one open yet ...
cool, we already had the right to walk on the street late at night ???
paul masson
i have lived in a lot of neighborhoods in montreal. i currently live in vieux-rosemont. i think this is my favorite neighborhood. very beautiful photo !
god damn, that is nice!
wait, what?! i am your wife
me itout! do we meet at baptiste's?
excellent choice of beers at la succursale!
vieux-rosement represent! i moved from the plateau to get there too, best decision i made.
nyehheehahhhhh... there is a california champagne....
where were going, we dont need wives
one of these days!
ah ben hug good
he doesn’t do anything?
actual translation: '' the service is interrupted for an indefinite period. thank you for your understanding. '' 😁
fyi it's called [地书]( only water is used instead of paint.
can someone translate the poem for us?
it's an ancient poem about a city near shanghai called suzhou which i have once personally visited. known as the chinese venice, you find there networks of water ways and gondolas.
legend has it that there was a custom of ringing of a bell (of the hanshan temple) in the middle of the night (during tang dynasty 618 to 907) . this is said to have caused melancholia & sadness for those who heard it.
and there is a very interesting twist for us in the west. hansan the poet, was an important figure to jack kerouac.
the temple bares his name; hanshan  [
wow people can get cynical. 
lovely, thank you for sharing.
as far as i know it's called a "dishu" and it's done in water. :)
this is part of the beauty of montreal. diversity and rich mix of different cultures.
what gorgeous calligraphy.
you sure it's a poem ? maybe it's an omen, or a prophecy...
isn’t this vandalism?
this man should get a contract from madame plante
asian man  painting a chinese poem. ok
it translates as follows: long live free quebec
[deleted]
vandalism is so cool
oh god, that was a good laugh. good meme
that's so cool, thanks for sharing. yes he was painting with a small water bucket on the dirty tiles.
the poem is called 枫桥 夜泊, here it is in full:
the sky is full of frost and moon, jiang feng yuhuo sleeps in sorrow.
hanshan temple outside gusu city, the bell to the passenger ship in the middle of the night.
i don't have the talent to do the translation, faq i googled and found this:
[the moon is setting. the crows are crying. the atmosphere is heavy with a chilly autumn frost. the maple trees and the lights of the fishing boats are reflected in the water. yet i am unable to sleep because of sorrow. i vaguely hear the bells are ringing in the temple of frost hill outside of suzhou city at midnight.the poem describes that the poet's experience of taking a boat through suzhou city. the boat is resting at night. the clear view at night and the sound of bells make the author feel very lonely and homesick.](
best i can do.
a temple in the distant mountains, a bell rings at night
"wash me."
he’s “painting” with water
oman and chinese have two different cultures, languages and religions bruh. chinese are dharmic (buddhists and taoists or confuciuns) whereas people in oman are muslims. 
this is clearly chinese. :/
no. it’s water.
no this is patrick
technically, he's cleaning.
it would have been sick
you arrive at the station, it's written on the ground
long live free quebec
tabarouette, the world can't laugh.
lots of concordia / mcgill students butthurt on this sub
haha! in any case, i found him very funny.
love that there are salty people here tonight!
it’s water
redneck racists be accusing everyone of everything
it is tabarnak water osti!
that's some small dick energy
it's a lot more beautiful than the estis of simple tags all over the city.
it's 100% november
thanks a lot!
damn... that's awesome.
thanks for translating!!
i didn't mean oman as the country i meant it  as in a "seeing" the future
yes. air montreal does not seem to agree, however.
it's quite liberal air maréal
gorgeous
yup
maybe they negavoted just because it's in french without even knowing what it means.
worse if i am thirsty and the boy has taken all the water?
oh lol omen you mean. my bad xd
it's multicultural though
just not multicultural on the good side (ie pro-imperialist anglo-saxon)
go to return to air kébek
blah it's an image of the people from air quebec who think that montreal is only english speakers from mcgill and tourists from old montreal!
super cool photo! i love all the photos of the subway, i am fortunate to have access to this public transport! especially on the cold winter days
my problem with brutalism is the gray ugliness of concrete. but with the tiles and the skylights like that i find this station quite beautiful.
looks like a photo-montage of 3 images, great photo!
god i miss taking the metro. never thought i'd say that.
awesome composition!
good shot, almost works better without the subway. the juxtaposed geometrical shapes are actually quite stunning. thanks for sharing!
nice one, i see jacques cartier's shadow
absolutely stunning
love that metro station! back in high school we used to get off the metro there to dare eachother to play the game "fuck my ass hurts" lmao!!
(slide down the metal between the escalators, there's a slalom of metal nubs to dodge or you get rekt)
off-topic ... but why are there so many condos for sale in this area?
nice shot! i don't mind that ever-so-slight tilt either!
it's really amazing to come down and be met with such heat
i think it is art like the stained glass window at metro charlevoix that gives a balance to brutalism.
don't worry, it still sucks lol
wow the lack of ressources... but on the other hand i would absolutely love this as a kid!!!
why are the moon so close to each other on the other hand?
i pass by them all the time. i should've posted it for the sweet sweet karma!
jokes aside, this is near the école nouvelle-querbes just across the street which is a has an amazing façade
[outdated image, but still nice](
pull yourself a log!
reminds me of the schools at the end of the movie "the time machine"
[
this should be standard everywhere
imagine whole outdoor pavillions for a class.
this is a 10000$/year school with chirurgical grade air purifier in every classroom, purifiers mostly financed by the rich parents of the students. they did a really successful fundraising at the beginning of the school year.  
these outdoor classrooms are just « la cerise sur le sunday »
lets put everyone 1 inch apart and immibile....wtf...
welcome to class of 1894. 😁
jean-françois roberge intesifies
it reminds me of when we asked teachers "can we have the yard outside?" when it was finally quite warm and beautiful outside in early june. i would have loved it in elementary and secondary school!
distance the logs will help ,running nose from kids.
this is an interesting approach. i would have really enjoyed this as a kid!
why are the lower logs behind the higher ones? nice idea but not well thought out.
too little too late
have you not heard? wood is for the rich now. it must cost a fortune!
i hope you're joking 😂... on the contrary you need access to _more_ resources to set that up!
i grew up in india and i had outdoor classes in the sun during winters.
those were always some fun classes.
[deleted]
because they are not being used at this time.
those stumps could be moved
great movie.
thanks for reminding me about that awful movie. why hasn't anyone done a true-to-story version lately? i would love to see this done properly with today's special effects.
it's better than in a class, anyway you look at it. outdoors is way, way more healthy than in a class, especially if you're worried about airborne particles.
the taller logs were the 'desks' and the small ones, the 'seats'. they were bolted to each other.
nice comment, but not well thought out.
[deleted]
they set those up back in the fall.
not sure why your comment is getting downvoted; the schools should have been closed for a long time now & the desperate clawing at resources & excuses to get them back open is pitiful and par for legault's shite administration.
this is a really expensive private school with chirurgical grade air purifiers in every classroom. the outdoor classroom are just for fun.
seriously! i read people sell 2 foot sectional of log for 50-100$!
got nothing on italy, where they do it on the beach.
not exactly. primary school students are divided by the <<bulles-classes.> >
"no physical distance is required between students belonging to the same stable class group, all levels combined. a distance of 2 meters must nevertheless be maintained between the students of the different classes who circulate in the common areas, including the corridors. >>
megabrain here is right
i would pitch it, as these scenes from the original were cool, like the monsters humans hunting the cattle. that's a cool scene, the transitions in time cool, orlando jones as a hologram of all human knowledge well selling the 7 up yours add campaign, and still being my fave regular on madtv.  get the writing, directors, and dop from the new mortal combat and start with movie one in the can't stop the death scene with more creative ways to die where she like puts radium on her face to look more white, and drops dead from radiation poisoning, she get's jacked the rippered.  
you know a little darker and visually stunning.  same as the first mk vs the 2021 mk
 with the movie ending at the end of the 20th-century people dying out because of space x vs bezos blue moon coloeny base blowing the moon up and causing the end of that time, then having a going going going like a last at sea vibe for the open of movie two, plus a long cut off jupiter base, and mars base...  
moving to movie three picking up on him meeting the new peoples, and cooler mutated new human hybrids refusing to fight for dominance against the past ones and the new ones being future people fourth-most in brain dev there the brain stem becomes far more dense and physical strength going huge and no real story of where they could go or could do, and they learn old legends and updated stories from the before fore time. and end of the third one they are start looking like the kids in the first matrix movie literally  teaching some of the fighting last jump learn, the new people are guardian types maybe of the galaxy ... as disney owns the rights i think, unless they let it expire. and then a merge in tv series adding them to the marvel universe...
but why introduce something worse as an argument in favour of something bad?  just space out the seats ffs.
ahhhh, i see. i guess there's another row of smaller ones hidden. thanks.
how so?
schools should have been closed.
i wasn't aware. i thought we were in may by now.
meh
yep. they weren’t even checking the kids temperatures before they were allowed in the school. and parents like myself who chose to homeschool due to the pandemic were ostracized and given zero resources.
it's the école buissonnière... so you're right, a private school - but not that overly expensive especially if you look at tax breaks in quebec and canada. in line with most private schools (lcc is, as an example, a _really_ expensive private school). 
the building looks old, but i don't know if there is a chirurgical grade air purifiers or not. you may be right and they may have those equipment. but still, purifiers or not, outdoors are way better than in a class if you're worried about airborne particles.
i guess only the rich get clean air.
>who chose to homeschool due to the pandemic were ostracized and given zero resources
i hope you are kidding me, they have created a panoply of educational resources available to everyone even before the end of the 2019-2020 school year to help education at home. i would tell you that you must have access to 90% of the resources we have at school!
maybe you're right. a couple of websites?? i'm talking about ability to socialize. for example, they could have at least paired up students whose parents decided to homeschool so they could have socialization. when i told the school i was homeschooling they said "good luck, you're on your own then". i was literally ostracized.
> i'm talking about ability to socialize. for example, they could have at least paired up students whose parents decided to homeschool so they could have socialization.
what is stopping you from doing that yourself? it is very easily done by zoom / teams. what do you think we do with the students every other day that they are not in the classroom? you decided to do home schooling instead of face-to-face or virtual school, what did you expect for socialization!
> i was literally ostracized 
being told: good luck, we have nothing more to give you than what is provided does not mean ostracized ...
i have the impression that you think that we have thousands of resources in school and that we keep them just so as not to give you any!
i’m on a facebook group for quebec homeschoolers but nobody really lives in the same neighborhood and it’s not that easy to be in someone’s bubble during covid. if the schools paired up kids i’d have someone local my kid could learn with.
>nobody really lives in the same neighborhood
in the previous comment i told you about doing this virtually, like we do at school.
>if the schools paired up kids
so you leave the system but expect the school to do the work for you?
cute rink and cute charlie brown christmas tree.
that’s cute.  teaching to skate early!
oh my gosh. this is adorable
when i was younger, i remember asking my mom why she was buying dollarama stuff for my little cousins (they were 8 years old at the time). she replied that for me it is * lame * gifts, but for them it will be the world!
i learned a lot from that moment. even i remember when i was younger i was happy to receive toys even if older i gave them up.
we move on eventually but i still look back fondly at that good time it gave me.
this is what parenting is ... doing everything, even the absurd (relative), for your children.
do they have a permit for that?
jk jk
dude montreal osti c'est parfait c'est cute i'm so happy to see this ❤️
aww. that really is cute and festive.
super cool to!
very cute! 🥺
cute
verdun?
i like the idea, but if we get a fast melt the basement occupiers might get a surprize.
?
jokes apart, i really hope city officials won't give them any trouble for it...
this is a very montreal answer, very much like us.
i really like the charlie brown tree in the foreground.
villeray
do you know that ice and snow melt at the end of every winter, right?
the size of the rink is about 40cm x 2m, and the banks are lower than the snow in front of my house.
it's a photo of leonard cohen's mural!
they won't see it. look icy as any mtl sidewalk ahah.
also, they don’t care. it’s too small and they can’t make money on it
it just lacks a little creole, arabic and spanish.
i certainly am...but purposely piling an extra 1000 lbs of frozen water right in front of where the foundation meets the flat surface isn't the most brilliant of ideas. and as the outer bank is much higher than the ice, which direction do you think the runoff will gi?
like i said, i like the idea. but anybody with any knowledge in the industry knows that water is not your friend. it finds the lowest point and path of least resistance. i have no dog in this fight so i hope it all works out for everybody.
from the gazebo!
>extra 1000 lbs of frozen water right
you haven't looked at the same photo as we would say, there isn't really more ice than after a good classic ice storm.
so you think the ice plus the compacted embankment weigh significantly less?
you're the type of neighbour to demolish someone's snowman because it ruins your view, lmao.
fucking cartoon villain type.
buildings are built to support much more water than that so let's see, i don't know what world you think you live in.
let's revist this giant leap to conclusions so you can explain the mental gymnastics you used.
i originally responded, "i like the idea, but if we get a quick melt the basement occupiers might get a surprize", to which you responded:
>you're the type of neighbour to demolish someone's snowman because it ruins your view, lmao.
>fucking cartoon villain type.
give it a shot, braniac.
you're the tyoe of redditor to jump into a conversation without having read my original response to op because you think it's funny.
fucking clown type.
i'm not talking about the supporting capacity of the building...remember i mentioned the foundation meeting the ground? you obviously have no understand of what i'm talking about.
i read the entire interaction, just decided to reply to the first comment because it wasn't adding to the other thread specifically.
cheers scrooge.
no, it's you who understands screeching nothing.
i've had too much internet today i guess. i'm going outside to shake my fist at the clouds and take note of who puts their recycling bin out before 9:00 p.m. mrs o'malley the 96 year old widow next door gets her grandson to put it out when he leaves after their weekly dinner, which is about 5:30. i told the city and even have proof.
use your adult words. you're just showing your immaturity and lack of knowledge on a subject way too complex to grasp.
hahaa at least you have a sense of humour, sorry for being hard on you basd off one comment ;)
plante does not make me particularly trippy but this big ham pisses me off so much on my nerves.
a few weeks ago they had a short debate on the airwaves of 98.5 and he was just trying to denigrate the plante team and to cheer them up when he himself was very disrespectful.
he is a liar, a hypocrite and a fool who has as much ambition for the good of the citizens as the shit i shit this morning.
gossant
one thing that's terribly inefficient is your ad blocker.
all these coderre advertisements everywhere make me really wonder about the financing of his party. indeed, before the start of the campaign, there were newspaper articles that reported on the hundreds of thousands of dollars in debt that ensemble montreal is dragging against the war chest of nearly half a million mps. yet we see coderre ads in all newspapers, social networks and other media. where does all the money come from for a very expensive advertising campaign like this? two things one, either pm uses every dollar very badly or coderre has an inexhaustible source of money. however, donations are capped at $ 200 per person in an election year ...
addition: article on party financing: i recommend this article from la presse: debt of $ 424,000 for ensemble montréal 
coming from the chiale guy who lingers too much on his personality iiih boy
the smog affects the memory of montrealers, it seems ... to vote again for coderre .... ciborium .......
i gave denis coderre a nickname: "business"
because that's the only thing he has in mind: doing business with multimillionaire entrepreneurs to make their business flourish in montreal, to the detriment of residents, their quality of life, the image and heritage of the city. city.
who cares that mount royal is hidden by tall luxury condo towers downtown? who cares that the said large towers will in no way contribute to the densification of the city since they will mostly be luxury residential towers for almost single investment use and will not be inhabited. and he doesn't give a damn that all it's going to do is contribute to the increase in the price of real estate. because, it is good for the "business".
he also does not care if a land near residences, which could have been used as a natural park in a working-class district, is transformed into a large container yard with large trucks which will circulate there day and night and which will stink the neighborhood, making dust and a ton of noise for all the residents around, because it is good for the "business".
he does not care that a whole sports stadium is built at taxpayer expense for the benefit of a wealthy sports team promoter, who could have paid for it himself, because it is good for the "business. ".
he wants to encourage the coming of even more big events organized, again by wealthy promoters and companies, to the detriment of neighborhood activities that can stimulate the economy for small businesses, because he wants to put montreal on the map. ", because it's good for the" business. "
this is counterbalanced by the densification of neighborhoods such as rosemont, mercier-hochelaga-maisonneuve, verdun, la petite bourgogne, saint-henri, pointe-saint-charles, the village, the plateau mont-royal where there are many old, decrepit buildings that could be turned into modernized 4 to 6 storey blocks of flats that could help densify the city for real. or that very large spaces could be converted into a park to give the inhabitants of the pleb the chance to go to rest a little and do outdoor activities. because in truth he doesn't give a fuck.
i hated him before, but now that he's trying to look like austin powers i hate him derisively.
competent
yo it's aggressive
gettin some weird [mussolini vibes]( from this.
lol, that's terrifying. 
it might be actually be a mistake, but "page takeover" ads are actually a thing. they're meant to do exactly what they did in this instance, make you notice the ad because it stands out so much.
trying to convince people of what he's not.
there is a fake smile from the face of mud
so tired of seeing his smarmy face everywhere
for me it is these radio ads where he shows himself as the messiah of montreal in relation to security and these new signs which capitalize on the feeling of insecurity of people by associating coderre with security. big trump vibe
sibole could at least have diversified their creatives. i work in advertising and i sincerely don't think that we would approve of a dreadful dressing the same
every ad from coderre makes me more and more likely to vote for holness
my gawd🤣🤣
his high school councillor makeover cringes me out
web dev (that know how ads work) here, what happens is in the ad purchase they asked to get either a specific way to high visibility or turnover rate or the site has a bad turnover and the parameters are wide enough so its the only ad that can show
i don't get hooked on his halloween radio ads.
this looks like the websites fault. not the campaign.
for those of you who don't know, this looks like google ads. basically, for those you just upload your ad, set the target and let google do the rest.
a very large portion of the internet uses google ads because they are an easy way to have paid ads on your website with very little work. this site just seemed to put them everywhere, and google ads for some reason made them all the same ad.
to be fair, they got you to share it to a larger forum.
coderre is iffy-cace, a con-petant.
i hesitate to click on any e-commerce website anymore because i know i'll get attacked by a flood of ads just like this. online marketers have no chill
it's funny, i had the same spam ads on tvanouvelles, but ads from pm "there's something to smile about" or something similar ... i honestly wondered if it's 1) the party that buys all the spots "sponsored ads" on x site, or 2) sellers of ads that look good?
ublock origin browser extension. 
you’re welcome 🙌
that’s just bad ad campaign programming. frequency capping please.
someone in some agency needs a refresher on advertising adstock and frequency capping lol. 
looks like it’s time to run a pi hole instance as your dns server to blank all these ads.
wow are there still people without an ad blocker?
come on... abp, privacy badger. how can you live with all those ads.
ah yes, i remember the days when i didn't have an ad blocker.
this is why you use an ad blocker, in case anyone is still wondering. there's more ad space on this page than actual article.
google ads... digital nonsense.
i'm pretty sure it's illegal if there aren't any ads for the other party on the page.
i'm not a plant fan either, but i think she's a lot less destructive. plante pisses off because she puts a public garden or a bicycle path where it doesn't make any sense, coderre pisses off because he is going to sell the town's jewelry to developers for $ 1 and it will ruin entire neighborhoods .
i do think our choices come down to plante and coderre. plante, for all her faults, has a plan in place. she might have shot herself in the foot many times in the process and the provincial goverment is doing everything it can to fuck with her but i think overall her plan remains solid and i can at least see they're actively investing in infrastructure. and if the worst that happens is that she has a shitty bike path installed i'm not going to stay up at night thinking about it (i bike a lot, so i want that to be a thing anyways). coderre is a corrupt sack of shit. i can't believe people are actively contemplating voting for him. it's mind boggling.
well no, he really wants the good of the citizens ... who are also these rich friends.
it’s an old screech of my life. like you, i don't necessarily have a crush on plante, but i will vote for his party across the board. but for my part, it is not a vote for plante, but a vote against coderre.
gossant: 7 characters
coderre: 7 characters
coïncidence? i think not !
effectively :)
coderre
was hitting it from a machine i never browse from, hence no blocker installed.
made it all the more unnerving since i'm not used to seeing ads in general - but i doubt anything could have prepared me for this f_cker's face peering at me from all angles like big** brother
** formerly bigger
exactly what i was thinking hahahaa 
jeeez
often people overestimate the cost of an ad.
for "banner" as we see on the post it's something like $ 1 to $ 6 cpm. cpm means cost per thousand impressions so $ 0.003 or 0.3 ¢ (on average).
edit: but figures mainly come from the american market so it is at best a guestimate
hey, there has been no worse change since ...
arrive fashion tips from arruda!
bruh, i get angry when i see his dumb face on posters everywhere on the sidewalks...
with ~~ mpétent ~~
"the minister there ... it is incompetent!"
"non, c't'in con tout court!"
put some
r/infrastructureporn
still has that new bridge smell!
how many bugs did you eat?
just lack of painting the landings in red to have an aisle of shinto doors.
kinda looks like a modern dinosaur skeleton. kinda. spine etc.
beautiful light!
wow
pride.
nice but am surprised that there is no wave breeze structure around the legs. is this bridge going to last there?
a new discovery! thanks for sharing 🙃 it's my next treat! best spot to bring a date!
we must be the champions of concrete, between the bridge and the rem i wonder how much it weighs ... one day in not too long ago we risk turning them into green corridors.
woah, but what a beautiful subreddit! thank you in advance for the hours of procrastination spent admiring these beautiful infrastructures, hihi!
a fuck ton. lol
this guy bikes.
wasn't that already partly the role of the boom for the old bridge?
aren't they just like the pillars on each side that are concrete? the rest appear to be metal.
yes, if the population of the island of montreal drops below 20,000, you will be able to transform this bridge into a green space.
ibid !!!!
right, there are only the batteries and the mast as well as (i think) the underside of the apron.
i was also thinking of the rem and the stadium, the tunnel, the other bridges, we are really concrete pros, it's not negative :)
i think rather that the means of transport will be replaced by something much cooler :)
bye bye 👋!
but... but... who's going to warn us of the lizard people's continued reptilian infiltration of all levels of our government!? 
and without him... how will i know which pizzeria can be truly trusted?
that piece of shit hasn’t been associated with the pq for twenty years yet that’s the picture ctv went with. i mean, fuck the pq, but that’s just cheap journalism.
what an anvil ...
radioquebec.tv is hosted by godaddy. you can call godaddy customer service to tell them that they are harboring an extremist militant from qanon. with a few calls it should be enough to cancel your accommodation.
source: i have already worked for competitors at godaddy
18669381119 for 24/7 support
on one hand this is awesome, the less of this garbage is in the ether, the better.. on the other hand, you know for sure he’s just gonna crawl ton parler or some other cesspool and continue there.
(just because parler is getting shut down doesn’t mean these assholes are going away, they’ll just hide a bit better)
the only photo available for act's ctv is him in front of the pq logo 20 years ago? i doubt it a bit ...
anyone else heard the loudspeaker dude driving by here in mtl shouting "white power" etc the day their capitol was stormed?
what an idiot's face!
shutting him down is probably gonna feed his base sadly...
stupid.
conservatives: "businesses have a right to discriminate against whoever they please!"
also conservatives: "except us"
lololololololololololololol
at last..
good.
good riddance but i can't help feeling we're giving too much censor power to twitter.
lol
[removed]
first they came for the came for the crazy freaks, and did not say anything because i was not a crazy freak... etc. etc.
how long til they start silencing simply because "this person did not agree with the official position"
[deleted]
the ones in basements are good bets, so long as lizards are tossing the dough while wearing jeffery epstein and prince andrew aprons.
.
.
.
no folks, i'm not joking. *this* is really what they believe!
watch out, if you find out too much, you'll become like kevin and bill gates will personally inject the virus in you...
mark my words, i've been saying it for years; you'll be sorry when "the great reset" arrives. sheeple
here is the description under the photo:
alexis cossette-trudel, shown in montreal tuesday, march 7, 2000, has had no shortage of political influences on the road to his recent election as president of the parti quebecois youth wing. the son of former front de liberation du quebec terrorists, cossette-trudel was born in cuba before his parents returned to quebec to face charges and serve prison terms. (cp photo/paul chiasson)
absoutely! and what jerks on twitter for letting him, just like trump and thousands of others, spread validating fake news by calling all real news fake news.
there are too many idiots on this planet to let gurus spread hate like this. freedom of speech does not come with the right to use a platform if it violates the good rules of conduct of that platform.
a waste of human cells.
also his twitch. 
link?
get these people off mainstream platforms and we’ll avoid mass radicalization like we’ve seen in the us.
if they cluster on parler, they’ll have a much smaller reach and its network effects easily studied to detect at-risk clusters & individuals.
this is the classic counter terrorism cyber playbook.
plateform like parler have no moderator, and people posting any kind of stuff including videos of decapitation, stuff like that.  not the kind of place matante denise will ever post pictures of her grand child.  people there are already radicalised.  the problem with facebook is matante denise might end up with a qanon vid on her feed and start wondering if pedophiles rule the government.
[deleted]
talking has been removed from the play store [source] (
naah forget about parler. those guys (radio quebec, studio, etc) are all on vk since a while.
stu pitt have been building his audience on vk since at least 3 years...
vk is a russian facebook with very few rules and laws.
[deleted]
is that a new app or ?
what made you think parler is being shutdown? google removing it form the play store isn't the same as shutting it down. this isn't china where the internet gets censored and android also isn't the locked imprisoned environment of ios. the apk can be side loaded.
besides having these radicals communicate in an open forum makes it easier for law enforcement to infiltrate them and prevent terrorist attacks. parler existing isn't a bad thing in that respect as the mainstream will reject it.
they are so subtle
do not
"here in montreal"
montreal is a big peanut! where?
what???
what? where?
i don’t think that matters cause they’re too far gone anyway. shutting him down may limit otherwise normal people from finding him.
it'll prevent him from increasing his base though. the existing one is a lost cause of idiots already.
i’m honestly really ok with a company limiting the promotion of toxic, racist, sexist, destructive and harmful hate speech on their platforms. this is exactly the type of content to be censored.
twitter can do what the fuck they want. if these poor fascist assholes can't afford $10 a month to run their own website... well in canada these fascist assholes will just blame trudeau for literally everything. the cpc even blamed trudeau for their own mps being anti vaxxers lolol
i don't care. they're a media company and they do editing.
hmm which ones have been proven true ?
did you drop an /s ?
what is an official position? 
stop this bullshit fear mongering. 
if you will break *laws*, entice violence to overthrow a duly elected government, attack its institutions and clamour for heads on a pike - you deserve to be deplatformed. 
violence is not a part of the democratic process, period, and this goes for both left & right. it just so happens that right wing extremists have a near monopoly on violent actions & murders in the us. 
might that be because their ideologies have tendencies towards racisms, corporatism, individualism, anti-science and white supremacy? 
that’s a rhetorical.
this is a private company deciding what is acceptable use of their platform, and not the government silencing our free speech. huge difference.
nenenon. no ancient song for him.
a better time
nice pic! ah pizza madona and the belle province across the street... my regular late-night meals after work a decade ago... i love this part of the main. if you want a trip back in time, use street view on saint-laurent from sherbrooke to mont-royal at different dates. crazy mix of places that have been there forever, buildings hosting a new business every two years and sadly, vacant spots.
our city, our home. we see it through different eyes, but i suspect we all feel the same about montreal.
[deleted]
nice. do you have a website?
nice one ! i got couple shots that look like that too when i used to work on saint-laurent 2 years ago
why am i getting the division 2 vibes?
> late-night meals after work a decade ago
same here, but i still work nearby, i always end up getting a pizza for my busboys after a good night, i like the staff from madona, they are cool to talk with
amen.
traffic coming from people who think it's smart to park in dlub or at bus stops
thank you. sadly no website.   
but check me out at 
thanks!
my partner's insta is adoubletakephotography 
i think you two need to meet!
and it was montrealers who funded that, not evenko.
and the worst part is that that's what made the beauty of the site. lots of shade to watch the shows in the summer. now it's ... booooo!
when i was born
behind my house there was a meadow
now it's
**concrete**
all the hills
where i was playing with my girlfriend
now it's
**concrete**
this little path
that smelled of rosehips
it is
**concrete**
once of carpeted greenery
now it's
# concrete
i would like a journalist to ask coderre how many afternoons he has been * chilling * on space 67 since his last term.
i can imagine him pulling a little blanket and sitting down under the blazing sun to look at his beautiful cement as far as the eye can see, saying to himself:
> wow, in another promising project that, denis! criss that we're good.
this morning i persisted with one of my boyfriends after sending him the press link that talks about coderre and the construction contractor. i remembered this post on reddit which showed the destruction of the jean-drapeau park and i managed to find it with the reddit search (a miracle!) so i was thinking that it was a good time to bring this image out again on the sub :) the original post was courtesy of our / u / matt_mg here: 
they paved the creek ?!
tabarnak…. what a shame.
i took a pic of this monstrosity on the ground a while ago. in hindsight, i remember hearing vague rumblings about this but i didn't realize how bad it was.  
large concrete spaces with no shade are notoriously good for heat buildup. good stuff.
yea and because of it they moved all events to the racetrack which meant you couldn’t cycle on it and most of the time couldn’t even cut through. that summer or two was was annoying
i'm not a huge fan of what they did, but it also seems as if most people who complain about this had never been to jean drapeau prior to the changes. 
it wasn't as if they removed lush and dense old growth forests to make this concert venue.... they mostly just paved over what was for 6/12 months of the year a giant mud pit because of the events that were already there annually. 
could it have been done better... yes. did they massacre a huge beautiful forest to make a flat amptheatre no. 
iirc it was about 1000 trees they removed for the whole project. out of just under 20,000 trees on the island. so somewhere around 5% of the total population not including ile notre dame.
i wondered what the island looked like before expo 67. here is: [ //upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/9/98/ile \ _sainte-helene \ _montreal \ _1947 \ _- \ _a.jpg] (
we notice that the island stopped approximately at the swimming pool (the building was already there). the whole of avenko square was in the water.
i'm not trying to demonstrate anything with this, i just thought you would find it interesting.
1) ruin parc jean-drapeau
2) blame your successors
3) get re-elected
4) ???? (probably shady backroom deals)
5) profit!
for people that regularly attend festivals on the island, the change was needed.  prior to this you would come home and essentially have dust buggers for days.  for the people complaining, do you even visit this space?  probably not.  the open space can be used for biking/rollerblading and any other activity on wheels away from traffic.  as a regular runner, i've seen parents teaching their small children to bike on this space during the summer.  a few years back they setup a japanese light show a la botanical gardens.  if they are smart, they can even setup some rinks for the winter.  yes some trees were taken down but there are still plenty of sections with greenery to hang out in.
fuck you coderre.
plante also sells wet soil in the techno park
just to clarify, the wetlands we are talking about are mud after osheaga? 🙄
"to put montreal on a map!"
maybe, but he also had part of highway 720 closed in the city center to make it the park of montrealers that did not exist before.
shit. it's been a while since i've been to see a show there. sad that it's made concrete ....
fuck coderre and his promoters ... tired of politicians who scrape everything to secure favors and good jobs afterwards. it should be automatically eliminated from the political scene. personally, i will not go back to see a festival there, it will have lost all its charm and will be much too hot.
criss that is indignant.
thanks denis!
p.s : fuck you denis.
* by denis coderre, for evenko
just don't vote this fat fuck back into desk. another fuck up, the e-circuit electric race through montreal. fucking flop!!
don’t forget when he dumped raw sewage into the st. lawrence
it's not finished. they need to bring in a gigantic circular saw and "cut out" large chunks of the concrete and make tree islands out of them. seriously, this can be done!
a few trees cut but so what? you still have many national parks if you want peace in nature. i have so many good memories of going to evenko concerts. you need to consider the entertainment value this brings to montreal.
2021 it was not valérie trump who was there?
more anti coderre propaganda
caline, this page is made an anti coderre page, it's funny how it's biased here.
wow it seems like montreal redditor’s are out to get denis. nothing but smear articles and memes for the past few weeks. i’ve tried posting a few not so flattering articles and memes about plante as well but of course the moderators didn’t allow any of those. keep pushing that narrative! 👏
and it is probably coderre who received the rebates and not the montrealers.
it's a park that belongs to the city, isn't it? evenko is just a tenant.
without counting the small scenes which were scattered in the wooded part of the site. the big hot sunny days, it was super nice to go for a walk there. it was like an oasis where we could go to breathe and relax a bit in the afternoon before the headliners concerts.
do i understand a small reference to perusse
b̴͔̦̘̥̱͂͌ę̷̗̜́͌͛͂̆͑͛̀̈́̎̐̂͠͝t̵̥̗̱͚͕͖͍̫͚͉͈͑́͐̇o̶͉̞̗̫̱̹̘͖͛̅͆̆̓̈́̑̎̇̍̒n̸̳̖͕̪̦̈́̌͜
i hear the microphone grilling while reading this.
> once of carpeted greenery now it's
>  
> concrete
correction:
once of carpeted greenery
now it's
# bbbbeeetooooooooooonnnnnnnnnn
hahaha beautiful reference from françois perusse
concrete is terrible ... especially since it does not deteriorate!
your boyfriend doesn't like big ugly cement blocks?
oh come on
knowing what it looked like before is so heartbreaking
oh ya, i remember it well. and if you ever go there during an average weekday now that the work is done, it's a flippin' parking lot. it's complete dead. not a soul uses that area. it's "useful" but a few times a year. how we allowed a park to be overtaken by one company for a very small handful of events is something we should never allow again.
the other travesty in this project is how it cost us taxpayers 70 million dollars and all the profits are going into evenko's pockets. socialize the costs and privatize profits is a scam
i think it's less about the # of trees as it is about the sheer square footage of concrete that replaced them and the small wetland areas. it's a huge heat island now, and sure, the trees that they planted will grow eventually, but in a less bio-diverse setting.
i think the point some of us are trying to make is that it should remain a park, a natural park.. not a parking lot and not a "mud pit" caused by one company. it comes down to what you want from your parks. a natural place for all, or a commercial area where one company can profit but a few times a year, leaving a "mud pit" for the remaining time. 
it also comes down to how you see your city, a tourist destination that benefits tourists a few times a year, or the actual people who live here and pay taxes.
it was not the best before those changes, but now it simply sucks (except for evenko).
in the summer, there is no way you can relax there, its simply way to hot.
hopefully, projet montreal's plans to improve the site will help.
hyde park in london host many events too and it's not covered in concrete. it's all grass.
what coderre did in the jean drapeau park is an abomination.
also, the island was actually a series of islands, the northernmost being simply called the round island. this is the place where la ronde will be built and the origin of its name!
my friend's brother is part of an activist group to protect the park.
the group has already contacted and the borough mayor, alan desousa and valérie plante and the two want to protect the park.
however, it is not the city of montreal that leases the land to adem, it is the federal government.
neither the airport nor the federal government say it is their problem.
there should be a 5 inch deep hole in the ground.
wow!! i love this 🌸🥰
it's like the illustrations from the comic strip "jacob tutu"
hollow bastion dans kingdom hearts!
i love square saint-louis! i wish we had more places like it tbh
beautiful! the essence of the st louis square is respected!
wow really beautiful!
beautiful! love the style
so true
very cool!
i love this so much! beautiful work op
you have talent! please keep drawing!
makes me wonder how montreal would have evolved if we kept older architectural styles as we grew the city!
i had a good coffee in the center of the park, i didn't really notice the houses but they are not bad as you have drawn! it's cute!
"montreal's moving castle" :)
lol and i forgot the orange cone sticking out of it too
thank you :-)
i know the tv series but i never knew there was a comic
i live literally a half block away, feel like i get disenchanted with it. nice to see a fresh perspective
in fact i think it was a book before the series
love it, you even put the birds on the statue.
\+++
the monument to canadian heroes of the boer war. it was during this war, in south africa, that the british set up some of the very first concentration camps. and there's a bit of montreal in there! that said, it is the only equestrian status in montreal and we can not deny that it looks great.
beautiful!
umm wow. do you sell any of your pieces?
i admire your talent!
as a contemporary dinosaur, i would love to see postcards modernize with creations like yours rather than classic flat photos!
this  is fantastic.
very nice.
love it!
nicely done!
👍
it just look so cool .. wanna se more for sure ;)
beautiful urban sketching. love the purple tree trunk.
stunning!
at night it's something else 😂
birds are a part of the park for me lol and they really did that, it was a very hot day.
in fact, french canadians even supported the boers!
it's literally a monument to imperialism!
thanks, i always learn something new when i put a painting here.
yes, i would like to know too!
thank you, yes i do. hopefully this won't be seen as spam since people are asking for information. here's links to shortcut finding stuff on my site: [original paintings of canada]( [art prints of montreal]( and i just started this where i will take [art commissions of locations from photos]( (and if i can, i will probably visit them) - scroll down to the travel art section. painting montreal has become my "thing" over the last several years and i've really come to appreciate the city by doing urban sketching.
in case you're looking for buying this particular painting, i sold it already so it's only available as a print.
thanks :) i made the postcards myself, but if i wanted to sell them to the store it's different - the store or the printer must accept me and if anyone would like to help me with that i appreciate it !
thank you, it's something i started doing with the shadows many years ago and i much prefer it over heavy browns, grays, or blacks.
i mean, even in the daytime if you come at the wrong time it is something else.
i'm a montreal lover, but i don't know a lot of people there, so when i go there, i take a small room with the gray nuns, and i spend my days walking around; i recognized your park at first sight because i spent whole hours there watching the dynamics of the birds.
being a man of the region, seeing nature in the city enchants me. see montrealers too.
i love you, peace!
it's hard to be more imperialist than that. it is even written on the monument:
*in grateful recognition of the patriotism and public spirit shown by lord strathcona and mount royal in raising and equipping a regiment of horse for service in south africa as evidence of his sympathy with the cause of imperial unity.*
yeah, beautiful isn't it.
thank you, i replied in the last comment above.
wonderful, thanks for sharing. i have several paintings of various montreal locations during spring, summer, and winter from the same artist but i’ve wondered if i should get one of the fall. i will check out your website 😀
yeah more fall ones are on my to do list. i usually go hiking in the fall instead so haven't done too many.
i find our new bridge magnificent!
gorgeous! send this to r / bridgeporn
it's of all beauty
who should we draw on one of the pillars? pe norm macdonald?
we really had beautiful sunsets recently!
whaaaa! beautiful screeching this photo! ... i have never walked this bridge yet .... it does!
yeah!
it's sick
fucking belle photo! bravo; j'adore!
thanks for sharing. so beautiful
amazing picture. 👌🏼
really yes! and a whole training ride on the bike
^ (or i'm not fit enough haha)
thank you! i will do that!
thank you so much!
personally i think i would leave blank for the moment. i find it very "classy"
yes really !
thank you so much!
yes it is worth it!
thank you!
thank you so much!
thank you!
* the jacques-quartier bridge joined the discussion *
beautiful picture!
the trick is to come from the montreal side with the wind at your back.
thank you!
ooh yeah it's pretty rough the bridge. that evening my wife and i left together for a bike photo trip. she wanted to ride a bike and i wanted to take pictures so ... we mixed our ideas. what we found out on our return is that the victoria bridge bike crossing closes after a certain time. so we had to go through the jacques cartier bridge and damn it's not the easiest bridge to bike!
[deleted]
interesting fact about the church of saint michael and saint anthony: it was originally a church for the irish community (if you pass near, observe the shapes of shamrocks on the dome). she was only called "st michael". eventually, they will "merge" with the polish community and change the name. they therefore share the church.
beautiful! is your work for sale?
is that an orthodox jew on the right? the hat looks familiar.
where can i buy your arttttttttt
or am i doomed to only ever find it on reddit for all eternity?
love this! i lived in mile end just before moving to germany and this is making me homesick..
also i would absolutely smash a st viateur bagel right now
i love it and it reminds me that i miss taking walks in that corner ❤️
i used to live on that corner! man, i miss my 3am bagel runs...
this is one of my favourite intersections 😌
love it! please update once your art is available for purchase
nice. my wife is an artist so i get to be exposed to a lot of art. (sounds dirty) you have a sense of whimsy that will titillate you and reach your audience. love the contrast between hard and soft, light and dark. i feel invited to stroll along and listen for what may come along.  lovely!
love this soooo much used to be my old neighbourhood looking from the ymca haha wat paper and brand of water colours do u use i do line drawings but it might be fun to add watercolour
wow i basically live around there, please let me know when you start selling prints, would love to get one!
beautiful
i love it!
lovely!
gorgeous
definitely reminds me of montreal... been gone for around 4 years now
oh wow !! next to my house
love it
wow thanks! it comes after lots of failed drafts and lots of frustration so reading that makes me happy!
thank you for the anecdote, it's always nice!
wow interesting! i had noticed the clovers.
thanks!! not yet! and this one needs at least another iteration but i'm going to set up prints of a few of montreal scenes soon. i finally found a print shop and was happy with the print quality. i'll keep you posted!
yes! -
 those hats have the best name! it's a shtreimel <3
ahhh thanks ! i'm working on this and will keep you posted!
so good straight out of their wood burning oven!
so much character and good bagels :)
thanks! i'm working on this!
thanks so much for this comment!  <3
it's a great neighbourhood - i miss going to the ymcasoooooo much! 
i use windsor & newton watercolors on 25% cotton cold press paper but i think whatever you use is fine! for sure watercolors turn out nicer on watercolor paper though.  it's trial and error with watercolors but a lot of fun! also, if you're going to mix with water, use archival ink waterproof pens and save yourself the frustration of seeing your nice lines melt with the water on the paper.
it's such an interesting neighbourhood. i live there too! i'm still sorting out the prints but i'll let you know!
thank you!
:) thanks!
<3
thanks !
with lockdown it's not quite the montreal you left 4 years ago, but the bagels are still being served out of the wood fire oven!
cool :)
thanks!!
me too!
<3
i think i miss the bagels the most. the bagels in toronto are crap.
we can say that this is still the case in 2020 also given the condition of the road
windshield sellers must have made a small fortune.
it should have remained a tram and lots of trees
always thought it was a ridiculously narrow space for 6 lanes, 
makes sense that it was only intended to have 4.
it was still so ugly ...
the décarie and the 40: two embarrassing blights on the city.
can you imagine coming to montréal for the first time, entering the city from the east, and taking the 40 and then the 15 south?
honestly, this is the worst highway i have passed. it's 70km / h, but everyone goes 110 and treats you like crazy if you dare to follow the law.
it was a mess back then and it still is.
the fact that you exit right into traffic lights is crazy, but the worst for me is the need to cross lanes. most of the traffic jams in decarie going north are caused by upcoming traffic turning into the 40 east, and at the same time cars merging into decarie in the jean talon entry going west. it just blows my mind how badly designed the whole thing was, specially when i have to drive by every morning (or had to, thanks covid!).
that concrete is so smooth and bright :d
this highway makes me want to go to town hall with the main element of my platform to fill décarie with water and turn it into a canal. i'll be the first to paddleboard on it.
what? it's not always the case? looks like a gravel road anyway ...
i drive this everyday and am blown away by the potholes that constantly return in the exact same place due to horrible repairs
beginning of the end.
it did not help to add more lanes, it blocked because of the exits and the interchange which are not able to take the flow.
wow where did this photo come from?
i tell you. tanks from the 1960s look chic.
lol there are still gravel tracks too!
the seller of garnotte itou!
with a cycle path and a guillotine for the commuters who infiltrate the city by car.
he should be a roof beneath me. in boston he makes it his, it's really superb. the roofs have parks and places for restaurants during the summer.
it was always intended to have 6
[deleted]
100%, it looks like communist fashion: utility concrete block
> can you imagine coming to montréal for the first time, entering the city from the east, and taking the 40 and then the 15 south?
can you imagine spending your life in ottawa?
even worse is the dorval circle. i had an uncle fly in to visit in the mid 90s, it was under construction. couple years ago he flew in again, and asked "wtf its still under construction?"
urban highways are always ugly, unless it's a tunnel. it's either an urban highway or a neighborhood that's super slow to drive through like the plateau.
huh? what's wrong with the 40 and the 15?
at the time it was all planned, a-20 was supposed to run across the ville-marie route and connect with av. souligny to get to the tunnel.
so approaching from the northeast, if you were heading downtown you would just head down to a-20 for the direct access.
720 has entered the chat.
or arriving by plane and the first thing you see is the dorval circle? or even worse mirabel in a corn field.
did you take the new champlain bridge? 110 you better keep right on the 4 flashers!
have you been there once or maybe there was no traffic? because i can assure you that it does not always go crazy!
even if the flow increased on the exchanger, it would just push the problem a little later. if you add capacity, the human will use it with more cars.
everything would have been better if they had built the other north-south highway along the st. lawrence boulevard! / s
yes, and it was guaranteed to die in an accident, they had no absorption zones or seat belts.
there were easily 20-30 deaths per week on the roads at that time.
ashes to ashes, gravel to gravel
not as much as the cement seller!
maybe someday it would look like [this highway] ( but i'm dreaming.
> [...] and also in the direction of the trans-canada highway projected from east to west on the island of montreal.
i imagine they are talking about the 20 which was originally supposed to cross the island from the south (through old montreal rather than sharing a section of road with the 10/15/132 on the south shore.
also :
> it is in fact on this date [spring 1967] that boulevard décarie will definitively swap its name for that of autoroute décarie and will offer motorists, ** instead of the traffic jams of yesteryear **, its six fast-moving lanes , surrounded on each side by three one-way service roads.
... lol!
20m wow now for 20m we have a little overpass lol
[deleted]
it's not tight at all. motorway lanes are the same width as anywhere else.
ottawa - the town that fun forgot.
no
haha touched
don't get me wrong, i love my city, but these two stretches of highway are some of the worst in canada in terms of urban planning and aesthetics.
highways bad!
traffic is pretty awful from 7am to 7pm moat days. some intersections are just designed to be congested. and potholes.
you have to enjoy it while it's still smooth!
she was supposed to be on papineau; that's why papineau is full of ketaine stores that were supposed to be demolished ...
there would also have been the mont-royal highway which left décarie and monkland, would have passed through villa maria to pass through a tunnel under the mountain which would have emerged at rachel and parc, to pass north of the uqam campus which would have been erected on the rachel - st-urbain - des pins and st-denis quadrilateral, after having demolished everything that was there ...
it was the drapeau years, that ...
\*lever
in the title, the only acceptable way to say “about montreal”
beautiful montreal, not my city of birth, but certainly my city of heart.
thanks for this photo
i lived on the 18th floor of tadoussac and the sunrises were always breathtaking! like getting up at 5 in the morning to go have a glass of water, look absently out the window and see this 😳
wow you managed to get such a good view of the mountains to the south! it's not everyday you can see that far so clearly!
gorgeous sunrise 👌
i love my cat. really. but he makes me see the sunrise every morning because he’s “hungry” (he wants pets).
so beautiful! thanks for sharing with us.
where are you?
i guess you don't get to see the sunrise because even from a highrise because of other ones blocking you.
i live in 3rd now but it's above the other buildings, and the sunrises through the window are worth every dollar.
those are the mountains to the east, otherwise the sun wouldn't be coming up behind them ;)
thanks^^
depending on the view, it is somewhere on mont-royal, at approximately peel street.
even with the skyscrapers you can fully see the [sun rising in the horizon](
"montreal south"
yes peel near the old port
no ... close to mont-royal. we see pointe-saint-charles and the victoria bridge
lol bro brennan and prince street in the old port it is 5 minutes from the victoria bridge go see google map
lol bro my point is that the victoria bridge is at the back end faik lol bro the angle is therefore not close to the old port. and also even if it was the case, my point remains because we were trying to pinpoint where the photo is taken, and therefore 5 mins by tank "it's far" if you try to go to the old port to find create the photo.
so no, in both cases it's not close. it's close in the sense hey ctu in montreal or in blainville, yes if it's close ..
ahhh ok yes i just saw you are absolutely right
it's not the victoria bridge by the way
there were still a lot of people cycling yesterday (late afternoon).
gosh, i'm bored of pedaling in the snow. with teleworking, it's not possible to cycle between my bed and my office.
*high-five* guy on a bike. that was me yesterday in laval and its still pretty hell on the roads right now. my little 5km commute normally takes 10-15 minutes depending on wind. it took 40 yesterday.
yes, the bike during the winter is very montreal.
i am so impressed by these cyclists! i can't even walk in snow aside from a penguin shuffle, kudos to the real quebecois!
ooooooooooooooosti dcriss de tabarnak osti dcaliss de viarge \
[deleted]
winter biking is really blowing up these days. i live not far from rev saint-denis, and i'm surprised to always see people, even when it snows. good for our planet.
i also miss commuting to the office by bike.
i will wait until tomorrow for it to be a little more clear before going out to do my loop on the rev st-denis.
i have never ridden a bicycle in winter. how does it compare to summer in terms of physical effort and comfort?
take a tour of the neighborhood? :)
a classic among the classics.
most of my daily trips this winter are going to st-denis and bellechasse. tell you, i'm having a great time cycling.
i would like that too ... i'll see if i can find myself a bike shop open ...
there are just a few more factors to consider.
ideally, it takes tires accordingly. good crampons, or even studs, will give you excellent grip in most situations, but the more snow there is, the more it slips and the less traction you have. on the other hand, the days when the road is really snowy are rarer. so for physical effort most of the time, you can pedal quietly without getting pissed off. regarding comfort, it depends on your frame and your choice of clothing. personally, i was almost always too hot ... with a good multilayer system, it's perfect. the most fragile are the hands, but there are solutions for that too. tips for covering the handlebars, with good mittens. in my case, i had good ski mittens, with a glove inside. you have to be careful not to cut off the traffic too, so be careful of the weight you absorb on the handlebars. winter boots are a must too. that's roughly! in any case, the pleasure of riding on a small fresh snow in the morning is worth all the bad sides!
and i would add, ski goggles or a helmet with visor are essential!
yeah possibly, but my bike needs to go to the bike hospital, and with covid and all, it's been relegated to high priority like i don't need it for my commute.
super summary! i would add that with the rev, it is incredibly difficult to circulate. it's super nice because you go at your own pace without stressing about the tanks.
bookmark for a future novel character who will ride a bike in winter
i know it was finals week but they could have at least posted things they didn’t need for free on facebook marketplace or donate it so people who would need furniture or stuff like that could just come and pick up instead of throwing out everything in the street like trash.
is all of that being thrown out? talk about wasteful
looks to be a decent office chair in that mess among other gems. what a shame as i wasn’t far from there today i would have swung by and picked some items.
the name of the street ...: /
sadly these people most likely didn’t pay a penny for their rent or furniture; likely funded by the bank of mom and dad. they didn’t work for it so they don’t respect these items and also they don’t respect their neighbours.
it's like this all over the ghetto. it's absolutely disgusting. the sidewalk on prince arthur was almost completely blocked by furniture and junk when i passed by this afternoon.
when i went to mcgill (i had classes at the gym, it's faster to walk through the ghetto from the metro), i saw this ** everyday **.
it was really disgusting.
lots of cheaply made furniture with a short lifespan. landlords charge tenants if the leave furniture behind. so instead it gets thrown to the curb.
montreal's best thrift store is open again for a limited time only... returns again july 1
our street (saint-urbain) looks like a garbage dump... didn't wanna do another post with pictures... i have a question though, does the city know about this? are they going to pick this garbage before next wednesday? or is this gonna stay until then? it's gonna be raining during the week and some of this 'garbage' is actual garbage (food stuff etc...). it's already disgusting as it is. 
extra vent: they could have at least put scavengeable things separately, i've seen a vacumm cleaner in perfect condition (among many other things like printers and such) but it was covered in disgusting things so couldn't even take it -.-.
and so many of these kids spend have their days virtue signalling online about sustainability issues.
there was a post on r/mcgill asking why mcgill ghetto is called a ghetto.
i think this answers that question pretty well.
lol i lived downtown for ten years, this is usually what end of semester looks like
uncivilized barbarians
dunno why renters don't rent places with basic furnishings (bed frame, +/- mattress, dressers, desk, chair, sofa, dining tables) and then just collect damage deposit for broken things? 
would be easier and don't have to throw everything out afterwards.
im new at montreal, wtf is going on?
ahhh the future elite of the country.
why may 1? moving day is july 1...?
wait until july 1 and the rest of the city will look like this (although at a smaller scale because you don't have an entire neighborhood moving out at once.)
they should fine these assholes.
dang, july 1 in may this year?
property value going up kaching. disrespectful idiots!
so long, marianne!
the future leaders of our country
there are facebook groups that would have rehomed the stuff easily like montrealers helping montrealers . i have seen so many things get a second life there and people asking for things they need and someone offering to drive it over . this is so wasteful and makes people look like slobs.
as a mcgill student, i’m embarrassed :(
that’s why you don’t let her go through your phone
to think that i once have spend >$300 hiring garbage collectors to collect my couches, and these people just dump them on the street!
gang of savages.
are educated people doing that? holy f \ * ck!
free stuff day!!!
poor banana
source of the photo: a friend of friend who remains anonymous!
bed bugs ... or eviction?
lol sometimes you would find textbooks and could resell or keep for reference
i live in mile end. here i’d people put stuff out, it is gone in no time.
intersection ste-famille and ste-famille
can we criticize the new generation or no? ive been in this area for 15 yrs and aint never seen this sort of disregard
the landlord wants his rent
someone getting evicted on the 1st of the month by the looks of it. happens in my ghetto too. south oshawa, on.
all that sector looked like a shithole yesterday. i saw so much trash and crap all over the street on st-urbain yesterday.
damn this is on my street..i know exactly where that is  and who did this too...it’s right at the bottom of sainte-famille just before sherbrooke.
damn this is on my street..i know exactly where that is  and who did this too...it’s right at the bottom of sainte-famille just before sherbrooke.
damn this is on my street..i know exactly where that is  and who did this too...it’s right at the bottom of sainte-famille just before sherbrooke.
start the carr!!!
when mommy and daddy pay to refurnish your new place every year
almost as much furniture as pixels
undoubtedly this is horrible... but this happens every may 1st. clearly the city needs to do something about it.
when i last moved i had to drive a good 20 kilometers to dump a mattress (it was in horrible condition and nobody wanted to take it for free). keep in mind that these people are students and driving a u-haul truck for an extra 20 kilometers isn't an amazing option. 
the city could introduce a service where they charge $50/$100 per apartment to pick up all this stuff. i am sure people would be interested.
nice.
this is our new generation of smart kids. welcome to 2021
the reflection in the water is perfect. here is a beautiful photo. good game.
ah yes... 
memories of losing $250 playing texas hold 'em poker! 
(back in the days when i thought i'd be a poker champ, but the casino de montreal taught me the harsh realities of life, probability and statistics instead!)
lovely work. colours, composition, and post-processing is all on point. 
well done!
i went there 3 times in my life without success despite my knowledge.
the 3 times it was with the same friends including one, the 3 times arrived on site surprise us by not having brought a cent and ask us to spend $ 5. no problem for a generous friend, he shared a lot of alcohol with us etc. a good guy.
the 3 times y'as succeeded in going up between 3 and 500 $ on an incredible stroke of luck. the guy was lucky as 10.
the guy never walked out with more than $ 20. we often laugh about it.
she's beautiful.
i miss it. last time i was there was christmas 2019
i really don't like this building. i don't know i just find it lacks boundaries for me and seems like it's trying too hard.  maybe i'm missing a perspective to appreciate it differently
i love seeing pictures of my investments
beautiful photo!
people here on this subreddit really like the casino
that’s a lot of flags, what flags are those?
ah that i lost some cash in this place there when i had just turned 18 ...
$250? those are rookie numbers. 
i lose/win that in the same orbit, heck in some of my games that’s likely a preflop bet size
unless you played the high roller tables, the casino actually taught you one single lesson.
the house always wins.
support playground poker instead. they know how to treat their clientele as opposed to the miserable employees at the casino.
thanks! funny story, i was there for about 5 minutes setting up my tripod for the sunset before security came out to ask me to leave. apparently you need a special pass to take photos on site. nonetheless, i got what i was hoping for at the very least.
go to playground poker. they treat you way better and you eat and drink for free and free massages.
oh yeah did i mention that they treat you way better than the miserable louts that work at the casino?
well, expo 67 was every country coming together to see who can try-hard the most.
the actual casino is a dump too compared to most other major metropolitan areas.
look at mr. moneybags over here!
ok, thanks for the tip! 
currently just started watching daniel negreanu's master class videos, and planning on reading a few more strategy books. after that i'll put aside a couple of hundred dollars here and there, and practice in person, with live people. 
so i'll definitely try playground poker like you mentioned. 
(probably when more people are vaccinated and the corona-virus begins to die down a bit.) 
--------------------------------
also just wanted to ask you: 
as for the skill level of the poker players, would you say they are more skilled/difficult to beat at playground, or at the casino? 
if they're easier to beat at the casino, maybe i should try back there first, even if the employees are not the friendliest? 
but... if the difficulty level of players is pretty much identical between playground and the casino, then for sure: i'd much rather be in a better environment, that's for sure! 
i've never actually been to playground. 
--------------------------------
side note: i had once mentioned to my gf that we should check out playground club... and she was like, "playground? is that a swinger's club or something?!" lol!
that’s preposterous. i’ve never heard of anything like that. you’re allowed to photograph in public.
free food, drinks and massages?
how much does the game cost with these advantages?
lmao how is this guy getting downvoted? mtl casino has overprixced food/alcohol while most casinos in most cities have free booze at the very least. the only things the montreal casino will ever give you are a free diet coke and easy atm access
playing 1/2 or 2/5 win rate is the same, but you pay much less rake at 2/5 in comparison. 
plo or short deck is where the moneys at now anyways
both 1/2 are identically garbage at either. go to pg during hockey/sports games, it’s a donkfest
the best way to practice, right now, are some of the live app games that are interactive and you play with free tokens.
i just find the surly attitude of just about every casino employee such a turn off. rude and unhelpful and unfriendly. they’re unionized and it’s a cushy government job where you can’t really get fired and they know that.
playground is incredible! unlimited food and beverage and alcohol while you play and valet parking. yes there’s definitely a higher caliber of players there though but also lots of whales which is easy money.
for the record i go around once a month with my best friend and we play the same table so we relax and socialize. if i lose 100 bucks i drank and ate like a king while doing so.
i've been turned away many times shooting buildings, also the a25 bridge back when it was under construction.
architecture can be copyrighted. they can ask you not to take picture of the building as they want to retain control on how it is portrayed.
it is still a part of copyright laws that is less known and even less enforced i would say.
you just need to play. if you are not at a table it is not free. but if you play there is free steak, pizza, beer, etc.
playgrounds rake is fucking high tho especially at 1/2
thanks for the support.
i have to agree with you that the crap tables could have lower price not only in the weekday
15$ for the pass is a bit too high. a bit of diversity like the roulette tables would be great.
1/2 and 2/5 tables during f1 weekend 🤑
how long ago have you been? cause it’s changed. you don’t have access to everything at the lower blind tables
that’s printing
what?
is it even more expensive to feed and drink people than to steal them at poker?
oh come on!
it’s been awhile since around february 2020. what’s the minimum now for the free grub?
can’t remember, just know that you wont be eating a filet mignon at 1/2
there’s still a free food menu at 1/2, can get shit like pasta/burgers/poutine/salad
didn’t say there wasn’t any free food at 1/2
ah yes, the good old mcgill u. campus shuttle. i kept my student id card from the mid-90s and was able to catch free rides between sainte anne de bellevue and downton untill the late 2000s when they installed a rfid chip reader and quickly flashing my card to the driver no longer worked.
that's the mcgill campus shuttle, which ferries students to the macdonald campus in sainte-anne.
normally they have some red decoration with the school name, so this is probably a new addition/replacement.
i miss downtown 😭😭-a vermonter that misses montréal and all of you canadians up there!!!!
bro the way the bus b o u n c e s
concordia has a similar old-style shuttle bus that took students between the downtown sir george williams campus and the ndg loyola campus.
prison bus !!
a ~~ yellow ~~ white school bus?
this bus is the reason i moved downtown.
that's not an old bus. it even has an led sign. it's just really ugly and looks out of date.
now thisssssssssssssss on the other hand
[
why does every shot of montreal make it look like an eastern european third world country ?
i knew people who did the same to get to work the few years after they graduated!
wow rfid chip reader clearly didn’t last long, we've just flashed our cards briefly to the driver for the past 5 years!
just wait until they connect a35 and i-89. you’ll be able to get here in noooo time haha
[deleted]
it still does as far as i know (or used to right before covid)
hey mcgill isn’t *that* bad
the mix of... dirty winter sloshy snow and its distinct brutalist architecture. although it's not very present here. idk.
i’m gonna guess you have limited experience with actual eastern european third world countries.
ya i was going to say i don't remember any rfid chip card. i was using the shuttle 5-7 years ago, though, and we had to have a semester-specific sticker on the card
i didn’t know they were connecting 35 to 89. that will be great! i live about 20 minutes from the border on 89 so it will be a breeze
🫂 thanks haha. i can’t wait to come back
they got rid of the semester sticker again, so it's just flash your id to board, although there's a 2 day pre-registration now in covid times.
ngl i expected leonard cohen
that’s very cool! where is that?
that's by earth crusher
not new - been there for ages and it’s great. it’s on st mathieu right off st catherine in downtown.
that's earth crusher, big fan
earth crusher!!
it was a poem there it seems?
i lived right on that apartment !! this is a few years old...
should have been a titan.
yeah my boi earthcrusher is still holding it down!
pretty and ominous
does anyone know where i can buy prints of artwork from any of the ashop crew?
earth crusher!!! love his work
murals are just one of a long list of things i love about montreal!
r/im14andthisisdeep/
montreal reddit starter pack: a)leonard cohen mural, b)farine five roses (particularly the neon sign), c)mount-royal lookout,  oh, and let's not forget d)poutine
its actually cohen as kid with his mother
i'm actually kinda disappointed that it's not.
wait we have a leonard cohen mural?? where?!?!!?
meanwhile all my colleagues that would ask me for a tour of the city were so touched when i would take them to see our "tribute to anthony bourdain" mural on crescent street...
also a better angle
saint marc, like a block away from st catherine
yeah i believe he has another mural on or near clark too in the plateau near rachel and duluth
oh snap, that's by the place where i get my clothing tailored
“ages”.
it’s been there for 4 years
st. marc, not mathieu
edit: i was wrong. it is on st mathieu
/r/imoldsothingssucknow
gotta be honest i don't see enough poutine on this sub. cohen pics are weekly or sometimes even daily. but poutine? my eyes and stomach demand more
you forgot about bain colonial
no, in fact it's anthony nimoy
thanks! heading there once it's done raining!
dang kids get off my lawn.
it’s been there for a couple years...not ages
it's on st. mathieu, not marc
i'm glad i don't see poutine.  i'm trying to lose my covid 15
oh i forgot to add orange julep. that can count as a double since the poutine at the orange julep is good.
it's leonard nemoy, let's see
hey, sorry, it's actually st mathieu. just a block away
ah damn really? i might have to try them one day, i usually just grab a pogo
it depends on what you mean by "as usual", it's been starting to be like this for a long time;)
weird, what's going on?
at least there are no potholes
don't have snow in montreal? 🤔
it is true that it is really different from the 364 other days in the year! nice photo by the way
old montreal is usually jam pack in summer, and even until december easily with tourists, hotels, restaurants hosting events, banquets, weddings, etc etc. to say that old montreal is still empty? come on .
it would make great puzzles, especially the first one!
it's a runners paradise!
what device do you use? i really like the capture of the tone and the reflections of light on the pavements. very beautiful photo.
huhuhuhur ya, crazy, huh?
it sometimes happens to be a lot less crowded than usual ....
so clean!
ive been trynna find a good spot to get the whole feel and vibe in old montreal, you found that sport, nice shot!
read too fast and was wondering what "bandé" was.
it often looks like this outside of tourist periods. winter, like. at six in the morning too.
it's so sad.
it's because there are no bike paths
this city makes me dream ...
apparently a virus is ready to ambush any unmasked and unconfined person after 8 p.m.
yeah i could have said precovid instead!
okay maybe i could have found a better title 😅
😂
it has melted a lot last week
haha if anyone has a title proposal i'm ready to change it :) thank god i didn't think they were going to be so popular!
exactly, the headline says that right now it's a lot less busy than usual!
i hadn't thought of it! but yes anyway :)
thank you so much!! i just used my cellphone actually
geez thanks! i might start posting more of the pictures i take while on walks of our great city :)
same same but different
"bandé" is also a word.
absolutely agree with your title, it was the lower end comments above that bothered me.
iphone? i want to integrate the photo into my hikes.
it's impressive to see how efficient phone cameras are (relatively).
yessss do it, what you got here is so good! if you ever wanna meet and duo shoot, let me know, i love downtown photography, just recently came from a recent shoot in china town and old port ^^
yes absolutely iphone11 :)
i take pictures wherever i go and i feel that it allows me to appreciate more the beauty of the places and of nature.
fun fact: the building in the thumbnail was later donated to mcgill and was used for the cia mkultra project.
i recommend the documentary "the rise and fall of english montreal" for a interesting look at this period among others, though the documentary exudes a bit much anglo arrogance.
people talk about montreal as being the financial capital of canada over time. it was clearly not the people who benefited from it.
all those buildings look like batman lives in them
the gilded age
[cryptopsy - the golden square mile](
if you are not familiar with matt mcgachy's diction, here is the text:
>prominent local aristocratspainted red throughout historya fortune born out of sugarled the family to the social summitthe daughter of montreal's fourth mayorlaid silently at rest in her bedas her son of twenty four yearsstudied mercilessly in the adjacent room  
>  
>as night settled darkness fell upon the square mile mansiondelirious thanks to her pain medication  
>  
>ada maria mill repathunlocked the top drawer of her nightstandand removed from it a fevered solutionbut her flimsy faint grip allowed it to fall  
>  
>clattering to the floor  
>  
>once clifford's focus was interruptedhe headed out in search of the racketbut when he entered his mother's roomit was already splattered with her blood brains and bones  
>  
>the aspiring med student resolved to seal his own fortune as wellthe pressures of life had completely crippled him  
>  
>three days later they were already both six feet belowrotting slowly as the populous' interesttook flight as the rumours grew so did the mystery of it all  
>  
>sadly sherbrooke street was never quite the samethe golden square mile was forever taintedthe gloom that engulfed their mansionstill remains present today
edith: matt mcgachy, not lord worm. my excuses.
when we say that canada is 3 mining companies and 1 lumber company in a trenchcoat, this is what we're talking about.
ah, the good old days!
well now 99% of the wealth is held by 1%
and in 1497, when john cabot arrived... 99% of the wealth was with one individual...
thomson house on mctavish is owned by mcgill graduate students and is paid for mostly by food and alcohol sales.  i spent a lot of time there....
that’s where trudeau’s family house is.
has anything changed?
and they were all white is the best way to understand this phenomenon. / s
[removed]
“during the quiet revolution, some of the businesses created in montreal, on whose fortunes the square mile had been built, moved to toronto.”
gee... wonder what happened.
there are many rumors of bodies buried behind this building you're talking about (ravenscrag)
very fun!
funny how many people still think that it is a mere conspiracy theory, when the us government has released the documents related to this project a long time ago.
oh! is this the allan memorial?!
> though the documentary exudes a bit much anglo arrogance
couldn't tell from the title
any link? i only found a 12 min version of it on youtube, can't seem to find the full 51 min documentary
[deleted]
seriously, your comment is so accurate, it seems like i never put it that way when some people said "you see what we lost because of bill 101."
do you think those who live in toronto benefit from its economy?
> people speak of montreal as being the financial capital of canada over time. it was clearly not the people who benefited from it.
exactly this.
extreme wealth inequality brings good architecture at least
we're back!
i enjoyed this poem, thanks for sharing
it wasn't lord worm who was on this album.
the top 1% own 25.6% of canada’s wealth.
top 1% in canada is roughly 250k gross income. so doctors, the highest paid professionals and small entrepreneurs. not the billionaires people imagine ...
not really, but we're getting there. unfortunately
the rich canadians are now more scattered around the country.
montreal and some affluent suburbs.
toronto
vancouver
and english speaking.
why even comment that
the quiet revolution has nothing to do with the referendum, fyi. like 20 years apart.
montreal was already on the decline after the war. a study showed that industries were already shifting towards toronto in the 40's and 50's.  it accelerated when the seaway was opened. but sure blame the french-canadiens.
children's bodies ...!
yup!
it's available at the banq
sadly the nfb seems to have taken it off their website. it used to be free to view in its entirety. some universities in qc have it, but that's a hassle. i'd email the nfb to ask what's up
before the orangemen burn the parliament down
they have better average salaries that’s fir sure
back then it did. today's wealth inequality somehow just yields a bunch of philistines.
we laugh, but there is clearly a causality between the cost of labor and architectural quality. an elaborate building like sun life's would be unthinkable today.
back again!
you are so right! thank you, i correct it immediately!
rookie numbers, canada. step it up if you wanna catch us in the us!
any idea about the worldwide stats?
maybe he was inspecting the building ? that seems like an expensive drone used by companies.
there was a drone flying between the ghetto and the mcgill sport center wednesday morning, and it was operated by road workers.
looked like that exact drone too.
i know it's probably not you but that big antenna make you look suspect hahaha
in the ghetto??
walk up to the window. naked.
make eye contact with the camera.
masturbate furiously.
that drone was going to a prison for a delivery
better hope they had a drone license, downtown is class c airspace.
why you have windows ?
do you have a slingshot?
use it to take it down.
this is quite obviously a pro drone.
the world doesn't revolve around you, i'd bet money they gave no fucks and were doing building inspection.
this looks like a commercial drone with some kind of a special camera mounted on it — maybe they’re doing thermal imaging of the building?
drone this big definitely requires a licence and permit to fly at a given place and time. if you’re really curious, you can follow up with tcca, they would have a record of this.
says the guy with a drone remote...
i bet you'll find it on a certain hub in a couple day
i hope that footage makes its way here, that’d be fire tho
southpark vibes
[deleted]
this is so fucked. i hate drones.
unofficial spvm drone
tell him i'd be more effective at night
lorne crescent?
that's a survey drone. probably doing video for an upcoming construction project.  possibly replacing the ghetto!!!
if you believe this is a drone incident worth reporting, you can do it here :
[
i'd show some slingshot skills 💪🏼
man thats when you grab a slingshot with a ball full of oil to hit that fucker
edit: apparently not cuz its operated by city workers😅😅😅😅
i’d say we subventions ours - government paid 
and take out theirs
this happened to us in pierrefonds in the west island someone had their drone passing by my windows. my windows are huge so it’s easy to see inside 😫
in the ''ghetto''..?  wtf can you not
that’s illegal you can magbe report them?
i think that's illegal nowadays on downtown
lmao paranoia much
that’s not impossible but he was apparently really going window to window, and we didn’t get any notice from the management about an inspection, so that makes me think it wasn’t that :/
no, this guy was ripping it around roger's place a few weeks back and the police helicopter was over head. can't tell where it's coming from. it can't be netted because it's always over a busy spot in the city. and the guy who's flying it is super crafty. he lowers it so the police go there, then up again and like 100m away and then it lowers for real.
this is border line city perv...
a few years ago a house inspector told me he wish he could use drones to inspect the roofs so he doesn’t need to climb up any more, but they won’t allow it. i’m not sure if for higher buildings the rule has been changed.
hummm that would make sense, we’re right next to the sport center and there has been road construction all week on alymer, i’d say it’s the same drone, thanks :)
haha, i promise it’s just my girlfriend’s tape deck
what, why?
mcgill ghetto / milton park neighbourhood.
poor drone pilot that was hired to inspect the building lol.
fbi open up... lol
they did, it was authorized drone building inspection.
we can’t all live at the palais de justice
what are you apologizing for?
i hate that the term drone got so popular it took over.  they aren't drones, they're rc's.  but i'm also old and grumpy and no one cares about my opinions. :d
care to expand why?
hobbyist camera drones have had zero impact on my life.
the medical drones in remote africa do bring me joy, that people can get medication and care even when they are in the middle of owhere. fuck yeah, technology.
quick on the trigger huh
you can do allot of cool stuff in research with drones. don't hate the machine, hate the pilot. don't let a few assholes ruin your opinion of an impressive piece of tech
it is legal with the proper permits. big time illegal without said permits
it's a 10k+ drone, specifically a dji matrice 300 rtk [ your everyday pervert won't have that, but instead something like a mavic mini for 1/15 the price.
i expect it was a thermal sensing equipment, and he was looking at leaks around the windows. by the looks of it, it's a zenmuse h20 [
edit : reduced url size
yeah going window to window, sounds like he's just working. would have been nice for your building manager to give you a heads up
they literally had a car on the stret saying "drone building inspection".
if you guys like this sort of thing, i have lots more i can post.  any old montreal-related logos that you guys particularly like?
all! i miss canal famille and i am 37 years old loll
requests : old radio canada logos, stm logos and promo logos/stickers , very cool!
getting those fruit roll up after school snack vibe from that canal famille logo.
did the labyrinth have a logo? in the 90s, it was the place for tshirts / patches / weed paraphernalia!
that videotron one is top. the lotto one is great too.
wow, the videotron one reminds me that we used to play video-way in the past ... patapom, bizbille, globe-trotteur ... sibole, that's like 30 years ago!
the international video club:
do you have robot 2000 by any chance? used to be on boul. pierrefonds between boul. st-charles and boul. st-jean. 
(if anyone has photos of this place, or knows someone who does can you please shoot me a dm?)
thanks in advance!
ps. this is a great idea, i hope they're vectors and not just jpgs! btw the fact you called those logos "old" made me feel ancient!!!
zazoo video rental or phantasmagoria
i recognize them all, but the one at the eaton center is really 90s!
all ... i'm old!
as a designer this brings me lots of joy! would love to see more.
if you like old canadian logos, you’ll love this: 
eaon, cfcf and restaurant lafleur are the only one i don't recognize.
that moment when you realize that you never noticed when most of these changed their logo...
really a great initiative! the one at the racetrack is incredible!
wow the family channel!
perrette’s!
wow what a terrific idea..... i recognize almost all of them....
very nice project!
ah it's interesting to see the logo of much music in french :)
sam the record man, discus, pascal hardware :-)
your image reminded me of my childhood! more please!
really nice, i want more!
this is awesome, what a nostalgia trip. the only one i don’t recognize is the family channel one. guess i really didn’t watch nearly enough french tv as i should’ve. please post more!
these are great! a real throwback.
if you have more why not dump them on github!
a blast from the past my friend. i’m 40 and i grew up with every single one of these logos. do more!
kool...luv retro stuff...good job
farine five roses? fairmount bagel et mbam
always had a fascination with old logos as well. do you have a website where you archive them?
"  **how many of these old montreal-related logos to do recognize?**  "  
it's not like it wasn't written on all of them
woolco: 
tqs: 
tva: 
nice project!
i hope you have the city logo and the expo 67 logo (i've always had a soft spot for the latter) in your collection.
super club videotron
age
george the king of the submarine
loto quebec
the weather network channel
old radio canada 
i love this type of stuff
someone else has been remaking them for the past 4 years, it was featured on radio-canada a while back (around 400+ vintage quebec logos, from shops to tv shows). another started to make parodies of them as well. keep up the good work!
[d.a.d.s bagels](
all of them but lafleur. (though it..feels familiar. where were they?) that old eaton's centre logo is bringing back amazing memories of visits to the mall with my parents as a kid. :')
this one is a long shot but how about the cumberland pharmacy logo? (everyone else suggested all my other suggestions, lol)
all!! nice one :)
damn that old musiqueplus logo :')
omg, i recognize all of them!!! i must feel very old!! wow
it's a cool hobby!!!
cine video club 🙏🏻
i miss lafleurs haven't been in sooooo long
all of them. a friend of mine used to collect “bec”s. any name logo that had a bec added to make it que-bec centric. great collection
the old lotto max logo it was called super 7 back then
this is super cool! bringing back lots of memories. all familiar apart from the canal famille one...what about movieland? not sure that was as big a thing for everyone else but we spent every friday night there renting movies! i remember when i was at concordia there was a prof who collected old signs, they were installed all over the loyola campus...
other iconic mtl signs:
- super sex on st catherine 
- mr hot dog 
- beauty’s
some of these are only montréal-related if you never left montréal in the 80s/90s, but i suppose they're montréal-related in that they were found there as well as elsewhere.
tqs
that made me smile! i was born in 1988 in montreal in a francophone setting. i recognize all of them except cfcf montreal.
people, please. we're all frightened and horny
tut tut! it's not st-henri, but petite bourgogne / little burgundy :)! it is a small neighborhood but which is neither st-henri nor griffintown, but well placed between the two
it is an artistic installation. ¯ \\\ _ (ツ) _ / ¯
[amélie dumoulin - center de diffusion d'art multidisciplinaire de montréal.] (
where does it lead?
funny as fuck.
you understand modern art just in case.
finding facilities like this all over the place is one of the reasons i love montreal so much!
stay classy st henri
fake
> little burgundy
it's so assimilated.
technically being on the west side of atwater makes it st-henri
art is weird.
oddly enough, this is just •_•
a park with a bar on notre dame
a la place ou le néon flash h/m-otel. man that place always looked sketchy... based on the neone sign only.
i've seen it just now.
it is true that it sounds assimilated! but there was a large influx of english-speaking immigrants a long time ago, especially from black caribbean communities, before the neighborhood took that name. oscar peterson and oliver jones, two jazz legends, come from elsewhere in this neighborhood.
so it is not assimilation in my opinion, because the anglophone presence came from the poor working class, not from the bourgeoisie. and i find it just normal to want to name your neighborhood in your language
someone in my mothers group on facebook said she was in 'two mountains'. in town i understand bilingualism but on the north shore ...
exactly, it is east of atwater. next to the ste-cunégonde drinkerie
that sign is east of atwater, in the park just north of de levis. the park is adjacent to drinkerie st cunegonde. near the edge of, but in petite bourgogne.
art is anything if you are ready to call it art, someone took a dump right next to the toilet ? eh, has some chaotic creativity, he probably aimed it there in purpose, the emotions he/she must have felt ... yup, it's art 
:')
isn't that right next to atwater market? not really sketchy
ah this chic place with the empty pool?
can’t believe someone spent a few thousand dollars on this billboard
yeah, it used to be south of esso notre-dame / atwater. you're right!
this billboard has been up for over a year. they change the text every month of so, most time not very interesting. this is the first time it is funny/ makes any sense.
indeed, i hadn't thought about the fact that he had changed places ... petro-can tho, right?
yep, correct again
very cool
you got talent at drawing.
i'm gonna need a farine five roses bag for size.
very nice!
cool drawing, well done.
but why the fuck is this a cultural landmark of montreal? it’s just a decrepit, ugly ass building next to an equally decrepit and ugly port. whole area sucks; i never saw the appeal of this region.
i miss the flour part of the sign. as a resident of the south shore, i have seen this sign too many times to count. well done.
great painting, the rem is rly awful
thank you
it is a controversial area indeed, as was the entirety of the old port for a time, but the silos are a vestige to montreal’s history as one of the leading (if not the #1, second only to nyc) ports in north america, specializing in the export of grain. generally, grain was transported by rail to montreal, stored in the many silos/freight sheds in the port and then distributed to ships by marine towers. 
farine five roses (previously ogilvie) is now offices i believe, and there was a lot of backlash when they said they would not be ensuring the sign’s survival. many montrealers grew up with that sign, even if the words on it changed over time. it has reached iconic status, so i think people were happy when they eventually decided to keep the sign. silos 1 and 2 that used to be in the port were demolished in the 80s i think, but silo 5 is of course still there. the central part (elevator b, the super rusted one) is unique because the silo bins are made of steel and are square, unlike the reinforced concrete cylinders you typically see on any other silo complex. so it has some serious historical value that you don’t see anywhere else.
also these architectural ruins have a solemn grandeur about them. sometimes eerie, certainly mysterious, accentuated by their proximity and reflection off the water. difficult to pinpoint exactly what makes them so special to so many. also it’s kinda nice to occasionally have something so different (dirty) sitting there. sparkly clean neighbourhoods/areas often lack a real sense of character that can only be built over time. but that last part is just my opinion. silo 5 in particular is recognized as a structure of historical value by the federal heritage bureau but is not protected under any provincial status, and redevelopment projects for it have been up in the air for years. 
a long comment, yes, i’m just really into stuff like this
i mean ugly and decrepit is kind of what montreal excels at. i love it here but it’s also a broken down dump.
that's the bonaventure expressway.
the rem will run along the viaduct and embankment behind this perspective.
thanks! i've always wondered this. when i just got here, i'd often make the trip to and from the eastern townships and farine five roses was how i knew i was getting in the city!
they really fit the industrial/brutalist aesthetic of montréal.
i understand why people would think they're ugly, but for me they're just magical. i've spent lots of time and still do just hanging out in the parks in front of it and just looking at them, it's like being in a video game or movie, i'm expecting 90's batman to be perched on it or something.
you’re right, damn i didnt reflect long enough. thank you
same here, i’m always looking up at the broken windows to see if there is anyone looking out (i’m expecting urbexers but i wouldn’t be surprised if batman made an appearance). so far no luck but maybe one day
such a beautiful day! where does the photo come from? angrignon park?
beautiful morning/day. this is why i don't mind the cold
i thought we were already finished due to the warming up the last few days, but now i'm happy to see another nice layer of snow.
by bike this morning it was magical.
nice day to go skating!
it was so pretty late last night and very early this morning. it looks like icing sugar is sprinkled on the trees.
yes the view is quite beautiful! :) it's at parc ferland in saint-léonard.
beautiful day for a walk outside, honestly.
before easter it is quite rare, to tell the truth.
but a chance. i don't really like the muddy spring.
it looks more like pius xii i would tell you. ferland doesn't have so many trees.
what is the idea of downvoting me, it's impossible that it is ferland, it's the pie xii park on the lavoisier side. look at the tree number it's just pius xii which looks like a forest with the cave below.
then look on streetview and compare we see the green sign of the bike path and the post that has the school corridor sign and next to the back of the 30km / h sign.
[
it was my cousin who told me that it was ferland since the photo was taken by her, otherwise it's okay if it's pi-9 .. it doesn't change that the view was magnificent today. hui :)
yes it's pius xii, my sister-in-law lived across the street for 15 years.
it is because pius xii is wooded and the winter landscapes are magnificent so to say that it is ferland is almost a crime.
i am not the only one then who knows that it is pius xii.
to be honest, i've always been at stl and i've never set foot in ferland or pi-9 so i don't know the difference: p my parents live across from coubertin so it was the only park where i was going and where i am taking my son now
i understand, the 3 parks are quite close to each other except that the 3 have very different characteristics including pius xii and its woodland without mentioning the cave which is also there.
seriously there is a cave ??? one would say it is i who live in a cave.
pius xii yes. didn't you see the news of the discovery that it was bigger than expected 2 years ago?
[
woww that's pretty impressive!
new silent hill coming
is it or on rosemont in fact !?
that's hot
saint-andré and rosemont.
ahhh okok .. finally it's two minutes from home .. it looks like i recognized the beer posters !! ((:
the 2 trees were unfortunately cut down around a year ago.
rue favard and rue charon.
the second oldest district after old montreal!
my old 'hood...  i miss that area so much
i grew up on favard, right by marguerite-bourgeois park. 
good times!
nice! almost looks like a painting..
cool shot! thanks for sharing!
[deleted]
i used to live around there too. it was only a short term rental but we lived in the neighborhood for almost 10 years. :)
50 shades of wet bricks.
looks like an oil painting, nice picture
stunning!
looks like a painting!
is it a good idea to take a picture from inside your house at the street? aren't you afraid people will know where you live?
hi neighbor
random i know but do you really live in dorval island? how is it going? i always wanted to know
thats what i was thinking
i’m thinking about buying in the area. this or st. henri
thanks!
anyone reading this should feel free to knock on my door and come have a beer.
hello two neighbors!
no, but i found it really funny that the mods put that in the choices, worse in addition, i would like to ben
it's gotten stupid expensive. sold my condo on centre, between ropery and island for way more than it's worth.
that's the attitude! with the restrictions, a beer at sans tavernes would be a better choice, when the terrace opens.
hi three neighbors!
someone i know bought a townhouse in psc recently for close to a million. i grew up in sud-ouest and remembers how rough and tumble the point used to be, property going for those prices doesn't sit right with my spirit.
count me in!
nice job. ah super sex, i remember visiting in the 80's and that sign all lit up in it's glory.
calforex sign almost says sexy!
needs more orange cones.
yo this is cool
last time i was there the 'five guys' was a 'nickels'
looks like the cones are lining up for super sex
i'll always remember the last time i was on ste.-catherine.  the super-sexe bouncer was on the sidewalk in front of  the club, promoting all the "vagin mouillé, vagin poilue.  vagin souillé, vagin qui pue", cheech marin-style from from dusk 'til dawn, in mid afternoon, with little kids walking about.
got taken to the buffet for lunch at super sex a few times ...very odd experience lol
i was walking behind a couple who had a young girl with them and she asked "is that a barbie store? can we go in? " 
i love your work and admire your talent.
ah yes... the hot & cold buffet...  * wicked art btw.
nice! do you sell your work?
i have a particular memory of the super sex sign. when there was the ice storm i was
es messenger on foot in the city center, and all the businesses on ste-catherine closed their signs and their lights and the city center was black, all but one, the super sex. the contrast was so strong that we could see it almost as far as st-laurent.
apparently super sexe used to have a great breakfast buffet. that’s what my cousin told me when he lived here.
this series might make a great book someday!
nice one with the cones!
amazing! the five guys used to be a cinema, le palais i think
ahh supersex where i used to dream of going when i was a hormonal 13 year old and never bothered as al adult!
is the five guys still open?
mi gusta!  my tuesday lunch spot after drawing class
nothing left of the fun montreal.
haha ofc the three orange construction cones had to be in it, well done! :)
celebrated my 18th birthday next door at "super danse contact" just about 18 years ago... oh god.
well anyway, nice painting! you nailed the cones!
i read that super sexe closed in 2017 and the building owner wanted to take down the sign but historical group in montreal wanted to keep it as a landmark. does anyone know how/why the sign stayed up?
tried to go on christmas 4 years ago but it was closed. went to kingdom instead.
i believe/think/hope that's intentional! mildly amusing juxtaposition between subliminal advertising, below, and the overt, overtop.
came here to say this.
thanks!
i believe that the nickels was to the right of the five guys.
lolll
also thank you!
thanks!
wow maybe!
thank you !
the palace !!! too many good memories of a lost teenager. we paid for a film and we went to see a second in secret.
so many hours spent there as a kid.
r / nostalgia, but seriously i have seen so much film at the palace and it saddens me that there is nothing like it anymore. coupled with the arcade which was nearby, where there is the piranha bar now, were two sources of good parties during my teenage years.
lol thanks! the cones are so emblematic of the entire downtown.
i was there for my 21st bday, which was last march lol.
yeah, i went back up to montreal 3 years ago and it was closed. i heard from a dancer at another club due to a lawsuit or something but who knows.
oof tell me about it! i went there monday... and i remembered why i’m never around that area
it's open again? well, was open again? not sure of covid restrictions up there.
probably some shady business because the club was
p o p p i n
[  
[  
like many establishments of the type... a storied, and often dark, history.
it's been abandoned for years now
it's still possible to enter the building through an old beer chute, though: 
no it's been welded.
oh too bad. that video was creepily interesting.
orange cones make up the picture.
looks like january 1, 2020. everyone was wishing each other a happy new year as the chaos rolled into the distance. what year!
place jacques cartier is not in the old port, which begins south of rue de la commune.
more information like this tomorrow during the guided tour of old montreal (shameful self-promotion)
am i the only one who is a little jaded with all these little things of light?
that sounds like such an adorable idea. i hope a fellow teacher responds!
interested! i teach grade 5!
u / boony could see if the english teacher at your school is interested!
hello,
i am a 6th grade teacher, interested if you are still looking for a group to correspond with.
hello! i’m not a teacher but my son will be in 5th grade this year, in an english intensive course… i can ask his teacher if it’s a project she would be interested in… school starts in 2 weeks ! let me know if i should pursue further (school in the montreal suburbs)
i teach grade 5 french at a small school just outside montreal! send me a message if you are still looking!
i don't know if that would still work, but when i was a kid we'd send letters addressed to "anyone, anywhere in australia" or "any grade x high school in montana" or something and let the postal service take care of it - which they often would providing the postage was enough. adds a little randomness too.
i went to a french immersion school in ontario and we had penpals in chicoutimi.  we did an exchange where they came and stayed with our families for a week then we went there.  my french improved significantly after the exchange.
would you reach out directly to schools? i can pm you with the names of some schools that might be interested
great idea! i have a 4th grade class if you can't find a taker! :)
would it be okay if the teacher is a michigan fan?
what an amazing idea! if i still had a classroom of my own, i would have loved to participate!
hi! i teach 2nd grade in french but i will ask the english teacher if she'd be interested! i can also ask my 4th grade colleagues. i will let you know!
check out r/québec too!
have you ever tried contacting the csdm, theres also the emsb if you want students that might be more anglophone aswell
pm'd you
this is amazing!!! hope you find great candidates! :)
i just want to see the exchange letters ☺️ this is gonna be so cute ☺️
this is extremely wholesome.
it would be cool if anglo/french kids living in montreal were allowed to participate in language exchange programs across school boards. french kids are prohibited by law from registering in english schools though :(
kenwood school!
isnt it "e-mail pals" in 2021 ?
or do people still write(by hand) actual paper letters to each other like we used to do in the 80s ?
[removed]
thanks.  me too!
excellent.  i will message you soon!
thank you so much. i'll send you a direct message tonight!
same for my daugther
thank you  (and /u/mitchaubin too!) for the offer.  if i'm not able to connect directly to a teacher here, i will follow up with you.  i appreciate your offer!
i will follow up this evening.  merci!
that's kind of how the us postal system has been working lately, except the opposite.  you send something to a specific person and it ends up with "anyone, anywhere, eventually".  great idea, though.  i love the randomness.
i think making a real, live connection like this can be a great motivator for students.  they won't be "writing" a "letter" to a "friend" that i just read and give them a grade on.  (boring!)  i always found meeting people who speak the target language to be much more compelling that doing activities from a text book.
i'm hoping to connect directly to teachers, if possible.  i've gotten some good responses so far, but i may reach out to you if they don't pan out.  thanks for the offer!
i will send you a direct message. thank you!
bottom of the pile!  (just kidding.  absolutely!)
i'd like to focus on montreal for now, mostly because i have visited several times, but i will keep québec in mind as well.  merci!
i may try that if i can't find a teacher directly.  merci!
thank you!  i will follow up this evening!
thank you!  lots of good responses already!
me too.  we'll give the kids some guidance, but it will also be interesting to see what they come up with on their own.  "do you play minecraft?  no way!  me too!!"
probably?  and i'd be open to that.  but there's also some value in writing by hand.  plus, it's hard to match the thrill of receiving a paper letter.  i'm inclined to go old school, at least in part, but i'd be open to a digital component as well.
as a teaching tool writing by hand is best as far as i know.
it's like postcards. sure you can take photos and put them on facebook, but a postcard is something tangible you can hold, something more personal. i think today's children also have had enough screens as it is with covid.
most kids are already familiar with email but some may never have used the postal system, which is still a very useful tool in today's world : most gov communication comes by mail before anything else, and learning how to address a letter/package is an interesting lesson. they may also learn about the epistolary style or novel and many other things. history affects the present.
sure letters have vastly been replaced by email, but i see much more letters than, say, fax, which was meant to replace it.
thanks, i'll keep that in mind. thanks for your advices!
super !
[deleted]
my parents took me and my penpal to canada's wonderland, definitely not boring!
sounds like your class needs to start saving and fundraising for a trip to montreal at the end of the year.
you should try asking in r/quebec as well. plenty of french speakers living outside montréal too.
kids love receiving actual mail. think it a cool idea. also more petsonel to see the actual hand writing. great idea!👍
yeah.. i guess i forgot the feeling after all these years of lol's and idk my bff jill.
i hope getting a kid will bring me back there!
got on a bus outside a train station in oslo, norway and asked the driver if he would let me know when we got to the stop closest to the address i gave him. he cheerfully agreed. as we approached the stop he let me know it was coming up, then said, "hang on, i'll just take you there." he then drove to the address dropped off me and my girlfriend (at the time), and resumed his route.
that was over 30 years ago, and i'll always love oslo because of it.
im not really sure why people are trying to defend the bus driver. its pretty common in most other cities for the bus driver to be able to confirm their own bus route, and even help direct you to the proper bus if needed. especially on an airplane route. i get that hes not a tour guide, but this is just some basic human decency. just because youre not obligated to help someone doesnt mean you have to go out of your way to be a dick.
op, i was getting ready for a feel-good story about an stm employee, so i could pass this story on to my great-grandchildren, and they could ask incredulously, “really, great-grandpop, there was a nice driver once?”
i was a regular of the 747 for almost a year, 90% of the drivers had soul crushing attitudes.
when you hate your work that much, you find something else.
it’s not just the 747. a few years ago, i witnessed a few tourists asked the 61 driver if the bus went to old montreal, which it does but the driver answered no.  
i understand that drivers are not tour guides but they can still confirm their route. even as a local, sometimes i’m not sure if i’m taking the bus in the right direction and i’ll ask the driver if they are headed a certain way.
you should file a complaint to the stm.
i witnessed a bus driver berating a passenger for not speaking french. it was on côte-de-liesse at one of the stops facing a hotel, the passenger asked if the bus was going to a metro and the bus driver replied "metro du collège". the passenger didn't understand what that meant and they went back and forth several times repeating the same thing and not understanding each other, eventually the bus driver yelled at him "do you speak french? we are in quebec here and we speak french here". the driver could've simply answered "yes, this bus goes to a metro" at any time but instead the tourist/traveller had to go through a really unpleasant interaction. 
i filed a complaint to the stm and got a call back a few weeks later to go over the incident in greater detail. not sure what resulted from it but i think it's something that should be logged. there's a mixed bag of bus drivers and some just shouldn't be on routes where you'll find a lot of tourists.
"chu unionized moé tabarnak! spa in my convention to make the tourist guide!"
\ - a driver from the stm
i used to take the 747 whenever i arrived into the city until i finally caved and took uber. no offense, but the 747 is not exactly the best brand ambassador for montreal.
[deleted]
when i was in cegep i took a bus driver to see his manager with me because i had asked him a question about the route and different time schedules and he had literally replied to me to look at the pancarte, in a very rude way. i told him i looked at the pancarte and still couldn't get an answer to my question, i was only asking for help. what a douche. they all seem so sick of life. not gonna start on certain tellers in the metro.
many stm employees are incredibly unhelpful and rude, despite most of them making over $100k/year. the bus drivers easily make this with the overtime they do. i've seen similar rude behaviour even to locals.
as a montrealer myself i cannot wait for the rem train to start working out if the airport! metro is not bad but i always avoid the buses.
[deleted]
[deleted]
not even a stupid question, since both toronto and cambridge have 'avenue road'.
i got on a 747 at 4am to make it for my flight at 6am. had a $5 bill and coins and the driver refused to let me on as the machine did not accept $bills. a kind stranger offered me coins. made it to the airport in time.
our transportation infrastructure and staff could really be abysmal in some aspects.
for example, the electronic indicators for buses and bus stops. in seoul, more than 10 years ago, they already had super reliable real-time indicators in all buses and at all stops. fine, it's seoul, i thought, but a few years later in a small town in germany, they had something similar, just less fancy. when stm finally installed those indicators in buses, i was beyond elated. then... very soon, some indicators stopped functioning, there's no sound, and some totally went blank. some drivers couldn't give an eff about informing passengers where they're at even when asked. worse, some didn't even bother to refresh the signs at the front of the bus, and was offended when you tried to verify it with them. if there's a major detour (due to snail-paced road repairs all over the city), some drivers don't find the need to inform the passengers.
to be fair, some drivers are quite courteous, but some don't even bother looking you in the eyes, let alone greeting you or giving a nod. i know it's perhaps asking too much to be like tokyoites, but surely we can aim to be half as good?
the facilities - elevators, escalators, etc - at some major metro stations are out of service 1/3 of the time. like, is it too hard to get the basics right? when i was in a small city in austria, there's nothing fancy at their stations, but all the basics run well and are well-maintained.
sure, there are no pickpockets roaming around like in rome or athens, and metro stations are cleaner than some of those in the states, that's perhaps one of the only few things to be grateful for...
working with the public is very difficult. there is everything and anyone on the montreal buses. it's like being a cashier at wal-mart. do this for 2-3 years, worse your love for humanity takes it for your cold.
* source *: all r / askreddit threads on the topic "working with the public"
excerpts from [the first one i found] ( by searching with the magnifying glass:
1. honestly, so many people are great to work and deal with. i get pleasure out of helping people. but then you've got the arse holes that just want to ruin your day. i've moved away from customer service now. i refuse to go back for my mental health's sake.
2. oh god where do i even start. people man, they are so closed minded, rude and fail to empathize with people who might be different than them. society is very toxic and as a pizza delivery guy, i deal with it lot.
3. i feel you guys! i am veteran grocer miself, and today i almost fucking quit, i cannot deal with these morons anymore... should i quit for the sake my mental state? i feel like my brain is rotting away every hour behind the register.
the only time someone has refused to meet me halfway language wise has been on a 747 bus, the first one i got on going to the airport with a the wrong bill to pay for the ticket instead of a ticket, i wonder if it's the same driver.
> now, listen, i get it. you hate life and everything in it. that's a job requirement of working for the stm
lol my friend work as a driver for the stm and he's one of the friendliest person i know.
never really understood the whole thing of hating someone cause they don’t speak french.. so stupid
something is really wrong in montréal right now generally speaking, a bad vibe has settled. shootings, stabbings, assaults, it just doesn't end.
i've been here 2 days, never had been, and don't love its bus drivers honestly. these folks could not give less fucks.
i remember getting on the 747 at the airport, put my suitcase in the tray sat down and put my little backpack between my legs.
few minutes later, the doors close and the driver goes "pas de depart avant que les valises ne soient a leur place". and he repeats that several times with increasing anger, never looking at me or indicating in any way that he was not down with my backpack. i was 4ft away from him.
you're dealing with people who have been travelling for many hours, who probably don't even speak french ... and you're being a dick about it?
last time i took the 747. from there on it's been car2go or uber.
fuck you, buddy. fuck you stm.
simply put he doesn't have to help her but he could and decides not to. it's not if he should have or shouldn't have, it's more of a question of one's moral fiber. it saddens me a bit that others aren't willing to help when they are in a position to do so. put yourself in her shoes.
it might not sound great as an answer, but it's a good indication of the bureaucratic life in québec.
i was planning to go to mon royal park last sunday to see the live music. the 11/711 bus route was re routed. waited for 1 huyr before some girl told me the stop had changed to somewhere else. walked there, got on bus. one couple us as well were in the same boat. they asked why are you not going on mountain. that mf driver mislead them by saying take 165, it will take you mountain. i followed tej couple. but the 165 was no where.near going top.of mountain.
i asked the couple "you sure bro"?. we asked the driver. he was mad yelling at us. "i don't go on the fucking mountain, do you speak any french? get out and take steps". we were flustered. one old lady explained us on how to get their. 
it was fun. fml.
every once in a while i'll come across a nice stm worker.... but it's rare. most of them are the complete worst montreal has to offer. 
metro booth workers are quite possibly the worst though. they will grunt and point to the automatic card machines and refuse to answer questions while they hide in their hut.
stm as a whole has me disgusted. 
i work at the supervised injection site and my shift usually ends at 2:00 am.
at least once a week there’s no service on the 350 line to verdun. i’ve had to walk from east downtown to atwater staying on the bus path in case it was late. usually it comes near berri at around 2:40. that day when i got to atwater and spoke to a stm guy who called the dispatch center then he simply told me that they had 3 departures canceled that night and there was no way for us to know when that happen.
i immediately complained on twitter @stm_info and their reply was that all buses were running and gave me a link to contact stm. to what they answer that there is nothing they can do to help.
so now i know that at least once a week i’ll be getting home at almost 5am.
it feels great to pay for a service that is unreliable like that.
>so, yeah, stm guy, thanks for making a tourist on an airport bus route make her first experience in montréal (and probably québec in general) an unpleasant one. classy.
on the bright side you turned that around completely and the tourist can now say "people are so friendly/helpful in quebec!"
your actions today put us all in a good light, thank you op.
i love your city, but everyone who works at your airport is frankly despicable.
downloading an offline map works wonders and doing a bit of research before traveling. as someone who has travelled all over the world i actually find mtl to be a great city. the one time i had to take the 747 i mispronounced guy and not only did the driver not make fun of it he announced when my stop was coming up. i really think it’s a two-way street and people start with attitude as soon as they come here where it’s like they have poor expectations and do what they can to fulfill those.
once had a 747 driver ask me where i was headed and because i was the only passenger left, he dropped me off straight at my destination. such an awesome guy 🥲
it's rare you find a decent stm driver.  i think it has to do with working with the public too long
stm bus drivers are super unhelpful lol
every time i've asked a driver about a stop on the route, they didn't have a clue how to answer and were frequently rude on top of that. one would be bad enough without the other. but also how do you do the job if you have no fucking clue where you're going?
oh you say it so well!!! what a nuckle head
and so true about stm bus drivers it is definitely a prerequisite to be completely miserable. 
thanks for the laugh 😂
ok, but...
look -- maybe the bus driver was really an asshole, he wouldn't be the first or the last.
or maybe, just maybe, depending on how the person pronounced the word "rue", the bus driver didn't spot that she was confused. and if the bus driver doesn't know every single street in the city (which, who tf does?), how does he know there isn't a street called "rue"? montreal is a big place; for all the driver knows there is indeed a street somewhere called "rew", or "roo", or even "rue"....
besides, maybe the driver isn't so fluent in english. like, maybe he understands it but he isn't comfortbale enough to give directions or discuss elaborate things. maybe "no" is all he can think to say if someone asks him, "does the bus stop at this place." and the bus doesn't.
for fuck's sake, this kind of thing happens all the time, it's not because people are rude or unhelpful or jerks. it's because languages are difficult. it's a part of life.
good job, op!  i frequently travel solo and although i always learn a few essential words in the local language, there are times you need help from a friendly local. for me, friendliness and willingness to help (or lack thereof) leaves perhaps the most lasting impression of a city.
montreal isn’t the friendliest city in canada
stm driver are all trash
you can report it to the stm, they care. i personally wouldnt though
it's not unique to montreal, bus drivers around the world look like they are wrong, it comes with the job i imagine. as much as possible i try to avoid the bus.
can't say i'm suprised that a francophone didn't equate the word street with ste, which in his mind is sainte anyhow. it's not even the english abbreviation. she needed to add in the key word of catherine. rue street catherine would prob have helped a lot.
i mean, he could have been nicer, but....
i'm not a driver, but i have a ton of friends they are and the guys don't have the time, it's not gps, if it does a favor it's nice but the drivers (or chauffeurs) have no obligation to help everyone give directions.
i've been to vancouver a few months ago, do you know how many times i've asked someone for directions? literally zero. i haven't got lost once. all the information is on maps and there is wifi for free in the airport.
pi why didn't you help her then? because you had a bug at the time? who told you that he also didn't have a bug at the time? maybe there was a text that told him that his son has returned urgently to louis-h. maybe his wife left it for her childhood friend and was catching it this morning.
you have the right to say nothing because you felt uncomfortable but the driver does not know 'rue street' and he is the wack?
ah me, toi will sleep.
it's not the driver's job to play google maps.
the time that he makes him repeat, that he explains the problem etc. the bus is late and people may be late / miss the plane etc.
in addition, if he has to do it in english, it is an additional barrier.
the author looks like a potential karen
how she was able to make it this far in life is the real question. has she never hear of google map?
[removed]
pretty on brand for redditors to complain about this and then go into the next stm thread and cry about their bus not being on time. 
he's a bus driver not a tour guide.
the list of stops are on the website and the stops are indicated automatically on the bus.
the bus driver in prague did not speak english when i got off the airport, i made arrangements anyway by not assuming that everyone would have to bow to my tongue. i really feel like the english speakers in this post have never visited a place where english was not the primary language ...
dude... it's still nice and quiet here. keep it on the down-low before some douches start having raves and shootings.
ahh i remember those days of somebody getting stabbed behind the dunking doughnuts, now rent is 1200$ a month
bright sunny weather😍
verdun mostly build out in 1920's and 1950's, anyone know how all that waterfront green space south side of lasalle blvd survived?  any other city that would now be houses or condo towers.
love secret hideaway places :)
this bring back good memories of when i used to live in verdun years ago as a student.  the bike path and parks along the river is such a great feature of the neighborhood.  * *sigh nostalgia* *
looks like it could be a monet!
so this is where the angel of verdun got her name.
your next victim? lol
*intensify heavy breathing*
i know exactly where that is.  used to walk my dog down that path when i was living in verdun.  miss the area.  the walking area that is, not verdun.
great vantage point to watch the bodies float by.
it's already happening, since the beach opened it's full of douchebags and loud obnoxious people.
i actually have no problem with part of the park being that kind of party area, as long as the choice exists to go elsewhere. it's a huge park.
for example, that shelter near the douglas where they do square dancing, well maybe they can also have some industrial nights too ;)
they are already burning down the waterfront with fireworks. have you not noticed all the patches missing of fragmites? people are also tearing them down. there are so many massive scorched sections. people are terrible.
i can see that happening, old port is already compromised :(
we've been throwing raves in verdun for 10+ years..  plz, you've just never been invited ;)
a dude was stabbed to death a few blocks west of the dunking donuts in february.
if you look at topographic maps over the years, you will see that that green space didn't exist in the years you mentionned. all that green space is actually backfill (concrete, asphalt, various debris, snow dumping, etc.) accumulated in later years. such backfill is generally unsuitable for construction. many parks in montreal/laval used to be ancient quarries that were also backfilled in a similar manner. there are 2 bike paths along the green space, the northern one (nearest to the street used to be along the river. you can  see the lamp posts along the path that used to be barriers to prevent cyclists falling in the river.
back in the 20s the river had a boardwalk, it's still there, sort of. the river used to come all the way up to the natatorium. this boardwalk was built on a levy that was built earlier to protect verdun from the annual spring floods (verdun still has an occiasonal flooding problem). 
down by the water in the 50s, like at arthur therrien park it was literally a dump. they covered it with land from the metro a construction which extended the embankment considerably.
so the river was always a greenspace that has only expanded with time.
extra note: the land in front of the 17th century farmhouse near the douglas on the river, there are hundreds of spots where old native camp fires we're discovered. that spot was a staging ground to portage around the rapids.
pov: you're the zodiac killer on the prowl
i have no idea who this person is, but i hope this picture finds them. it was taken yesterday, june 6th at 14:28. coordinates: 45.466, -73.560.
bodies of what... branches?
the beach hasn't opened, the fences are pushed down and it is swim at your own risk.
when the beach officially opens it'll be crowd control and rules again such as but not limited to no smoking on the beach.
i could agree with that as long as it was in a controlled and well-organized enviroment.
that's actually done by the firefighters in a controlled manner... you should look things up before speaking out of your ass. ✌
i'll add that the backfill was made on purpose, it was a plan by the city in the very early 1900 to prevent the city to be flooded every spring.
this always interested me so much when i lived in verdun. you can still see lots of old signs of how built up the waterfront used to be, faded yellow lines over paved road barely peaking out of the dirt and bushes, random worn down chunks of concrete foundation jutting into the water. super cool!
for a second there it looked like you didn't know who zodiac was but you hoped they would get the picture... 
[and it just sounded like a bad idea...](
i hate people who take pictures of unsuspecting people and then profit from it while never bothering to let the person who was photographed know. that moment wasn't yours, it was theirs. creepy.
edit: ok, story time! i was traveling with a photographer friend, and we were in the metro of a major european city. she takes a random picture of the train coming into the station. one guy comes up to her and asks her to delete the picture. she said "i didn't take a picture of you", he said "you took a picture with your camera directly pointing at me". see, to her she hadn't taken a picture of that guy, but that guy was still at the center of her picture. she tried to argue but seriously, she didn't have a leg to stand on - kinda like op. photographers can be very selfish and oblivious for the sake of "a good picture".
i guess you would have had to have grown up in verdump to understand.
i meant since it opened a summer or two ago
sorry if it comes off as creepy. i just thought it looked nice having a sole person in the shot, i feels it adds to the picture. the person is quite unrecognizable so i don't think it's too harmful. also i'm not profiting off this, just thought i'd share a nice picture.
with all due respect, chill out. it's just an innocent damn photo in a public space.
people are photographed unsuspected all the time. what are you on about? you can't even see the person's face.
i guess you haven't been to verdun since then because that hasn't been the case in a while.
ah. well, it's a beach on the island of montreal. you can't really have high expectations of people.
i get your point i just don't agree. if i'd find out someone took a picture of me - even if it's distant - and i come across it, i'd be creeped  out. and you are profiting, just not financially.
agreed. besides, when you're out of your residence, you have no expectation of privacy. so that means it's fair game for a photographer to take a picture. he is not hurting her in any way, shape or form.
that's your opinion, i can have mine
there's a difference between appearing in a photo and being the  subject of one.
happy to hear that the hospital upstream has improved their swimming program.
i'd say she's actually more in the category of "appearing in a picture" then being a "subject of one".. the canopy and path way leading to the water were the subject for me. the person being there doesn't draw my attention. it's all perspective, part of the art.
not sure why you’re downvoted - i thought it was pretty funny. .. upvote in protest
i guess you had to be there...
beautiful photo!
i’m moving to this area in a few weeks, this just made me even more excited
it was a mess last night at 11pm anyway!
i expected more garbage
thanks, grabbed it while racing past the fountain on a bike, can't believe it didn't come out blury
be careful to put on your water boots
one more anglo in the neighborhood ... mile-end was not enough?
put in! there were people from all over the park, i passed on st-laurent yesterday and the park was literally full!
no ❤️
[removed]
wow xenophobia jumped out
that's not a word.
we are in an increasingly individualistic society:
* i want to sit in the subway so i won't let others out
* i want to get home faster so i cut the other cyclists with my bike while passing on the red
* i'm not going to bend down to pick up an old mask that i myself dropped because i don't care
* why would i pick up the remaining lunch i ate at the park with my friends, a city employee will be paid to do so
* i will park my car in the bike path or the bus stop because it is not true that i will walk 50 meters to take my child to daycare (bonus for merging in the traffic lane without doing his blind spot)
you are free to decompress and add the things that are bothering you at the moment!
[deleted]
the metros have definitely gotten sketchier. every time i head to/from work now, some dumb shit goes down. yesterday night (11:30 pm, station mont royal) some dude was destroying a turnstile by kicking it, no mask, screaming in people's faces as they walked by. two tired stm workers were quietly filming it for the cops, looking like it was the 7th time it happened that day. wonder what it's gonna be tn.
this is so anxiety-inducing. the pandemic is of course absolutely horrifying, but idiots give us a lot of anxiety indeed.
idiots who not only didn't cover their mouths, but sneezed/coughed like they're singing opera. that's pre-pandemic, now they do the same and also experiment with ways to wear a mask incorrectly. idiotic young, seemingly healthy, men shamelessly jostling for a seat. idiots who think their voluminous hairs, bags and fur-lined hoods defy physics and don't take up space (who doesn't like a hair breakfast? they'll flap it multiple times to make sure you're fully fed). idiots who want you to think they're cool because they're listening to loud, phat beats. idiots who want to make sure you get to hear every single detail of their private lives because they would later come up in the quiz of life.
then, just when you thought you could finally breathe a little... you found that the escalator's out of service (the case for half of the time). and on the way to your office, you put yourself at risk because idiotic construction managers don't bother about the safety of passers-by. you also wonder why the same stretch of road took more than 3 years to repair. then upon reaching your office, you're greeted by someone lecturing about what a transcendental human experience it is to contribute to a company.
ok, i'll stop here and curl up and cry in the corner.
i for onw wish really hard my company decides to stay on a remote work basis, been home since march last year and it's great.
for real, i saw people at the laurel park at the night of a birthday celebration and drop twenty baloune in the air as if plastic pollution was something of the future fucking.
>people are fucking stupid.
and this is why my friend the pandemic is still not over.
if you think it's over people are in for a bad awakening.
what kinda bubble are yall livin in? people have always been stupid.
i miss the fucking people not zooming off the highway near my place at 11pm.
downtown was so peaceful for the last 6months
i've never seen so much shitty driving as i have these last few weeks.
and lack of respect for sharing space with other people.
i miss the empty streets the most. i hate cars with a passion and it was such a nice time when for a couple of weeks, no one went anywhere.
i'm retaining as much of the hermit style as i can
i love that the metro is there and try to avoid using it where possible. it's comforting to know i can be at work in 20 minutes but not going at all is better
what sucks about being cooped up is not the not going out it's the *inability* to go out
i'm working from home permanently.  i do not miss riding that metro during rush hour.
i took the metro today. and that jumped out at me: since the "deconfinement" the metro has been made creepy. the jungle of users is made wild. i attend shouts, jostling (still today), people who just know how to shout when they are in a group, anti masks too happy to show that they are "woke" preachers, turbulent itinerants, we are would believe in new york!
this guy is right but it’s like this everywhere and not just the metro or montreal. have you driven lately? everyone tailgates you regardless of your speed or if you’re in the right lane.
people are obsessed with their phones. i miss the days when it was just people talking on their phones. now it’s texting, facebook, ig, etc. no one signals and 95% of quebec drivers have zero ability to anticipate red lights or minor traffic.
oh, i think people have lost some of their socialization during the pandemic, so now we’re all slightly more sociopathic assholes. i wonder whether we’ll come back, or degenerate further.
>of course i don't miss all the death and depression and bankruptcy
hang in there buddy. it's coming.
...it’s not even over yet. people are just pretending it is because vaccines have been rolling out.
anyone else feeling more anti-social than before the pandemic?
i used to meet with people pretty often, professionnally and socially. 
now that it's slowly getting back to normal, i rarely feel like either professionnal coffee meetings or social meetings. 
i still like to talk with people, i just can't be bothered to make too much of an effort to see them.
i bet rush hour is still far from peak affluence probably gonna get worse in fall with schools and more return from wfh in offices
i loved taking the metro during the pandemic.
i loved riding my bike downtown during the pandemic.
now, there's just too many people again.
what about fuck that shit lol.
covid was the worst year of my life and it can fuck right off.
absolutely! i’ve been taking public transit(mostly subway) for 20 years and i don’t know what happened but there is definitely a shift. in general everyone is good but since january every time i travel there is always 1 or 2 that just don’t get how the courtesy works and it’s getting worse.
i agree as the deaths, infections, businesses affected, etc. were no fun for anyone but it did give people a new way to live or think of life. especially last year, when everything was closed for two weeks, it was as if everyone’s lives were put on pause. there were (and still are) pros and cons.
it's been 1 years since i smelled bad breath and since going green it has become hardcore
there is nothing i wish more than to put this pandemic behind me. i'll take whatever shitty experience we submit ourselves to in the metros than another day of misery because of goddamn covid
people forget how to drive every time snow hits the roads, so... yeah...
--> r/unpopularopinion 👍
saaaammme omg i don't know who i can talk to about this!!! reddit can be hit or miss and decently you can't voice that opinion irl
there was a couple months when the metro was near perfect. it was kept clean and wasn't crowded. i can understand the fact that there's going to be more people, but they seemed to have given up on keeping it clean. i've seen the same seat over multiple days with a random stain on it. probably coffee, but who knows.
i’ve been living in montreal for years and was using the metro everyday, i’ve got used to confort when working from home to the point that i went fuck it and bought a car when i got forced to come back to work.
less stress, more comfort, i save time on my commute, i don’t have to deal with idiots, and wearing the mask for a prolonged time tend to give me panic attack especially in high humidity.
ya i'm job searching and all the work from home offers are gone, its all office or current wfh with return to work soon.
i dont want to work in the office waste 2 hours a day commuting, in person meetings, being bothered by small talk ect.
feels like people realized wfh is better but, offices want you back anyways.
i still remember going to st-cathrine in april 2020 and it being empty with multiple parking spots, never will see that again.
the general public has high levels of stupidity and annoying behaviour. covid demonstrated that. hard to deal with people like that
don't worry, total lockdowns will return. always a new variant when old subsides.
will never end, a bit of reprieve in summer just to lock us down come winter. 
other countries do just fine with no lockdowns or mandates of any sort.
i saw a sticker on a dump truck that marked me well:
in a hurry to go nowhere.
it sums up the attitude of a lot of people on the road.
"i'm vaccinated, that's correct!"
i'm in the process of moving out of the city. this whole thing triggered some really bad anxiety in me, whenever i'm in a crowd of more than 5 people i get paralyzed and melt down.  
this whole thing brought the worse out of people, i feel like we live in a zoo now.
don't worry, it'll be back.
agreed with this. the beginning of the pandemic was horrible for me. however, i have gotten used to the peaceful life of not dealing with people. i only got to deal with people i really wanted to see. one year of the pandemic made me realize that most of my stress was coming from….other people (not only public transportation, but also work wise, forced social interaction, etc) hell is other people as they say.
''hell is other people.''
jp sartre
on the roads it's just as bad.  i have never seen so many people looking down, presumably at a phone, completely oblivious to what's going on around them.  when i am never to them, i lay on the horn and they look up like "what?".  
invest in a good front and back dashcam if you're going back to commuting everyday.
also a thing that bothers me is people willing to yell over the phone or sharing personal matter with someone else so that it is a matter of everyone else within the wagon or the whole stm bus.
i like covid shutdown because it made me feel more inclined to learn stuff there was nothing else to do.
the peace and quiet while living in the city was nice. similarly the lack of noise from douche mobiles was nice.
the society is pushing people to become more and more 'individualistic' ….which in my terms is called being a goddamn selfish a-hole.
what happened 😂
miss covid?
la peste by camus is just the book for you! *slaps cover* this one here will ensure you understand that there is always a plague from now on for ever and always! 
!!! act now and get epidemic (1987) for free !!!
i was also thinking of this at the pharmacy, when i went to pick up a scrip at the counter. covid made it easier because they were doing more deliveries, which meant fewer people waiting. i live right near so i don't need delivery and don't have serious risk factors and i'm not old. they also changed the practice of paying, so you could only get scrips and otc, nothing else, which was also great- no more people with their carts piled high, crowded into that tiny waiting area, while everyone else has to sit and wait. i truly hope that they leave it like this.
oof. this title ain't it chief. if you know someone who had to go on a vent... 
i've actually found the metro to be more pleasant now compared to the beginning of the pandemic. still a few people not wearing masks right, but in the early days (i think it would have been april/may 2020?) it was pandemonium. maybe 1/5 people had masks and everyone was tense.
[deleted]
montreal drivers complaining about montreal cyclist taking up space on the road. montreal cyclist complaining about pedestrians on cycle paths. montreal pedestrians complaining about cyclist on pedestrian streets.
there's a common theme here, i'm not sure what it is.
at pointe saint-charles also it's the same thing, the joggers are in the cycle paths, the béciques are on the sidewalk and the little old people in cart are in the middle of the street
i'll give an opposite point of view, without taking anyway from yours:
please, for the love of life and all that is holy, please use the bike path when there is one. i live in chambly now, near the 223 - boulevard périgny. there is a dedicated bike path, separated from the 70km/h six lanes road by a cement border, five feet of grass and trees, and it's a nice flat bike path made of gravel.
i understand that there are not always bike paths and i am fine with sharing the road, really. but you'd be astonished at the number of cyclists who will forgo the bike path to cycle in the 70km/h six lanes road.
like i said, this is a plea for safety. i understand there's problematic users amongst all the transportation modes, and that roads are meant to be shared, but please, be safe.
solution: run faster than cyclists on bikes
i'm an avid cyclist and activist for more cycling paths. my only issue with joggers and pedestrians on cycle paths is that they want to use space that cycling advocates fought for, but often don't join that fight themselves. we all deserve safe, smooth, spacious routes that are protected from cars and trucks.  i think the more people out of their cars the better. sidewalks suck. they are too narrow, usually bumpy, not  easy to descend from and i do not mind sharing space with all manner of pedestrians, joggers, etc.
if everyone who ever jogged or walked on that nice safe new bike path thought to join the pressure to remove parking, narrow roads and put pressure on politicians to provide more space for people, then we wouldn't have to fight over scraps.
i commute daily by bike through the west island to work and back, and it is incredible the amount of people who walk or jog in the bike lanes. 
the few times i have politely pointed out that this lane is not for pedestrians, the replies are often a snarky "i am allowed here too"
well...you aren't: 
["road signs and pavement markings indicate that these lanes are reserved for cyclists."](
[since 2014, cyclists, electric bikes, rollerbladers, wheelchairs and motorized wheelchairs are permitted. but scooters, mopeds, joggers, walkers and skateboarders are not](
i also don't understand people walking in the street instead of the sidewalk!? usually 2 people side by side. i assume it's because the sidewalk is too narrow for them?
“i am an avid cyclist” or “as a walker”. why do people feel the need to self identify into their respective armed camps before commenting? i’m an avid cyclist, a daily pedestrian and a frequent driver - all three have an equal amount of asshats
what about strollers?
happens on the post-vendome part of the maissoneuve trail every day, the sidewalk there is tiny though so i can't really blame them.
sorry, but if i'm a pedestrian in your little image there i'm walking in your lane. it's either that, the middle of the street or the grassy/trash area. cyclists and their "i own this part of the road" attitude, never gets old.
the sign says "bike" only. is there a municipal bylaw that says the "bicycle" logo includes roller skates and motorized wheelchairs?
also please bike in the right direction… (with the flow of traffic as pointed out)
so many times i see bikers biking on their opposite direction and i can’t stress enough how dangerous that is. when pulling out of a double stop it is too easy to miss the full speed cyclist coming in the wrong way of the street.
just go bike in the street, you belong there as mutch as a car.
i know i will get flamed for this, but here it goes. i'm a jogger (10+ years) and i regularly run along the de maisonneuve bike path (which used to have rollerblades on its signage btw). i'm not the fastest runner in the world, but i'm fairly quick (\~13 kph avg). i run as close to the edge of the lane as possible and always make room for cyclists when they pass, which includes scooting into oncoming car traffic occasionally.  i have tried moving over to the sidewalk, but i have found this to be even more dangerous for a runner. pedestrians are slow and not accustomed to looking out for runners on the sidewalk. there are also far more cars backing out of driveways and blind intersections to contend with. for the most part, i think i get along with the cyclists on the path. only rarely does one of you shout out at me "trottoire!" i agree that walkers should probably be on the sidewalk, but i think there should be increased tolerance for quick-moving runners. what i think makes more sense, since the bike paths already allow a multitude of non bike vehicles (ebikes, emopeds, one-wheels, rollerblades, etc) would be to have a min and max speed....something like 8kph to 25kph.
dear cyclists. stop signs count for you too.
above all: this is not a temporary parking lot for cars / trucks.
when you use a cycle lane to stop, you are forcing cyclists into needlessly dangerous maneuvers. find yourself a safe place to stop.
just scare them one at a time, buzz by real close or pretend to not see them head-on and hit the brakes at the last possible moment. 
people are stupid and unimaginative until it happens to them, then they understand.
practice your singing like that guy: 
and e-scooters?
the cycle lanes are often there to be able to justify the exclusivity of the rest of the roadway to cars ... the others will manage, if they are not by car they surely have the time.
you say joggers shouldn't go this route, but wheelchairs have the right? in my experience joggers go faster than wheelchairs so i don't see why joggers bother you that much. live and let live, you live in the most populous city of quebec, it is sure that you will meet someone from time to time
why not? bikes go down the car lanes… just feels fair
soooo, someone is upset that the rest of us, at times use the bike lane with the same disregard that cyclist use every lane, all the time?
pisses me off when cycling on the bike paths along the canal and pedestrians walk on the bike path but going in the opposite direction, and they don't move off the path when a cyclist comes at them. and even worse, if that cyclist doesn't yield to them (which they should not cuz the pedestrians are in the wrong), and the pedestrians get really pissy.
although people's lack of caring and attention is cannot be ignored and us extremely dangerous and frustrating, i do believe there is a significant issue with our urban planning.
visiting any other city with decent and thought out urban planning is incredible because you realize how badly our city was planned.
the amount of areas outside of the center of montreal that has no sidewalks, unprotected bike lanes, insane congestion where roads meet, no crosswalk where there should be one, everyone on the same signal... 
our pedestrian streets are narrow (only one or two smaller people can walk comfortably), its terrible for anyone with mobility issues, either because of age, accident or disability. we let electric bikes, electric wheelchairs and scooters race through and on our bike lanes.
anyone who has a pram/baby carriage or those drag along bags for groceries have to drag it up and down using our public transport. 
again, we can't ignore the irresponsables behaviour from our fellow citizens and i often have very short but intense bouts of anger but i try to focus on better planning of space in order for fellow montrealers can use the space we have without endangering themselves or others.
in the picture you link there's no room for pedestrians st all. are they supposed to stay home?? yes if there is a sidewalk i agree with you but in this example.. as a pedestrian i'd prefer to walk on the bike lane instead of the car lane!
ironic
ok, bikes, i don't want to see you anywhere other than on your reserved lanes!
(walking pedestrians aside) i don't think that most cyclists and driver's realize that runners don't go on sidewalks because it's just not healthy for them. asphalt roads are much softer than concrete sidewalks, so if you're someone who regularly goes for runs it's better for you long term to run there. if montreal wants to create more running paths next to bike paths, which i've seen, that would be great.
bike lane? oh, you mean that lawless mad max lane where the rules of the road don't apply.
there's an intersection at university montreal metro that's at the bottom of hill. the bikers have no concern about pedestrians crossing there. the bikers need to go fast and god forbid they slow down for others.
if they're not going to follow any rules, why would anyone follow their rules? people can have a picnic in those lanes for all i care.
'cos bicyclists never break the rules. lol. speaking as a bicyclist.
op you're right and thank you for bringing this to attention. that said it's hilarious how many redditors and west islanders and montrealers love nothing more than to bitch about cyclists on sidewalks as if west islanders even go anywhere without their car lol. although that's a seperate problem. if there is a cycle lane, let the cyclists use it, if there isn't,  then cyclists must share the road with cars. if the road is too dangerous to cycle, then they must find an alternative route or bring it up with their city council, but cyclists do not belong on the sidewalk and montrealers have got to stop bitching about it. those who do it will not stop because an anonymous redditor is upset.
these are so dangerous
while you're right, i suggest ducking. once the car addicts see this they will lose their minds. cyclists can never be allowed their space or rights.
interesting, reminded me of how jay walking was a crime invented by automobile clubs... 
this is how people that drive cars feel whenever cyclists decide to go on the main road when there is an empty bike path right next to them
these are probably the same people who ride their bikes on sidewalks
it's because they're so foreign to us. maybe if our mayor got it together and started putting in bike lanes and paths, we could grow accustomed to it.
and eskates! mouhahahha
this is a problem in all of montreal's parks. the city refuses to put up signs saying it's for wheeled-movement only because it would be "non-customer-friendly".
the only thing keeping pedestrians off these lanes are those midlife cyclists in their spandex speedlusting and blasting judas priest in their earbuds
...and skateboards
this really grinds my gears
tell me about it. in and around downtown, you've also got every manner of motorized modes of transportations on bike paths as well: motorized scooters, vespas, electric skateboards, uniwheels, you name it. it's super dangerous.
also to west islanders:
the paint along the sides of the road [here]( denotes a shoulder, not a continuation of the bois de liesse bike path. stop giving me the stinkeye when i pull over here to make a phone call or reset my gps.
i hate all the dog walkers who also don't keep an eye on the leash even more. i onced got a dog run on the path because they always have the dog to the wrong side and he got hut by a bike at full speed. dunno if he was chasing a bird or something. even worst, i use an electric unicycle so if it would have been me, i would have flew off my wheel.
or strollers. fuck them!
in the west island there is a nice long bike path along pierrefonds blvd that is used by almost no one except a few leisurely cyclist and some joggers. most of the cyclist prefer to ride a hundred meters to the north in the middle of the single lane gouin blvd
they actually aren't. 
that is a bande cyclable, which prohibits everything other than bicycles. 
if it we're a piste multiusage, those other things would be allowed
love ur sews ☁️☁️☁️☁️☁️☁️
great job /u/alex_kasyan_artist! the treatment on the bridge, and the greenery on the left are really fresh and exciting.
i'm guessing this was this done in acrylic? what size canvas are you on, and what's your process for these - do you do any thumbnailing, value studies, pre-sketch, etc.?
i adore this. it makes me want to start painting again 🥲. i can just imagine the quiet hum of sitting by the water and the wind against the grass and trees.
this is so lovely, thank you for sharing this! we need more beautiful art like this of montreal imo 😌
beautiful!! :)
i love it ❤️
it is beautiful!
very well done 🙏🏼
word of warning do not walk on that bridge, though the sign is hidden and theirs a walk way its illegal, same as crossing train rails. 
their was a cop hiding waiting to fine anybody who crossed 150$. never went on that stupid bridge again.
wonderful work and view altogether !
hey i saw you and your friend working on that yesterday! watched you guys for a bit as i'm trying to get into painting myself, if i knew you were a fellow redditor i would've said hi. absolutely beautiful painting btw!
great composition and subject.
i'd love to hang it in my appartment !
lovely 💐
near that office building on st ambroise?
lol my buddy took the photo of yall whilst painting
thank you! it is oil on panel, 8x10. these paintings are done alla prima. i start with a thin wash of background color creating a color base over the white panel. following that i build layers of paint over applying thicker paint with each pass. the photo doesn't do justice to the original in my opinion as it doesn't reflect the effect of the size and detail relationship. 
these are fun to do, especially since the weather is so nice out.
lachine canal is a great spot for painting. i went out painting with my buddy and we met another artist who came to do a watercolor painting of this location.
thank you very much!
thank you!
thanks!
thank you!
right next to de lacquiers street
very cool! appreciate the response.
noah bradley once talked about how dark the bottom sides of clouds are... it's always stuck with me, and here you demonstrate that well!
have a great day, and thanks again for sharing your work and process.
edit: just realized you're the guy who does the architectural pen & ink urban sketches of montreal, too! cool!
i will keep it in mind and write it down for my next visit. thank you so much for the inspo! 🥰
happy to hear that!
oh my gosh, a panorama of downtown that isn't taken from the mount royal terrace?! how novel!
there’s something really endearing about the words “our city”
beautiful pic!
[i see where you've been!](
i'm going to do this tomorrow morning kan i wake up, the walk
walking on air you mean?
looks nice. did you use your phone's or camera's panorama function or did you stitch together individual photos?
wow!
i miss the time when we could just go outside ... soon montreal, soon! we're on the last stretch (if the new variants don't kill us)
is there a map that lists the names of the various skyscrapers and landmarks?
it’s a beautiful city it really is. i cant wait for the pandemic to be over so i can rediscover it.
interesting to see how the city skyline has evolved in recent years
you are correct!
mgh represent!! i work there and the sunrises from the 18th floor are insane
i like your skirt but i don't like the way that hang
rooftop of the montreal general hospital parking lot.
its abt 6 photos stitched together.
i never dared walk onto the top of that parking lot, to take some photos...
i am totally surprised they did not close it and moved it to the arthur porter memorial hospital, because that building would make terrific condos, and doing that would totally fit in the corrupt mindset of the liberals...
that building would make for absolutely terrible condos, i highly doubt the floorplate, wiring, plumbing, insulation basically anything behind the walls would be suitable for a residential building, there's probably asbestos in the walls.
they'd sooner knock it down and build something new over it then try to convert it.
they are still talking about it but they are at the same time sinking millions into it to renovate it so who knows what will happen to it.
warmer than the camper's christmas cold record (july 25), where [reached 9.1 ° c in 2013] ( 51157 & month = 7 & day = 25 & timeframe = 4 & month = 7 & day = 25)!
[deleted]
global warming is a hoax!
it's -2°c back in southern france where i was supposed to be. 
this is insane.
rip ski resorts
[deleted]
and here i am at 4 degrees in north east florida.
damn there's this crazy fog too. can't see our family and can't go outside.
with the amount of rain and the remaining snow on my flat roof, the water rose and i had an infiltration in the kitchen by one of the goosenecks ...
a beautiful new year's eve to climb on the blanket in the heavy rain to unblock it and cut wet gypsum so that the water drains into a fool ...
we will remember it in 2020!
5 top 10 positions occupied by the last 20 years ...
we had about 1 foot of snow on the ground at my parents' house in saguenay last night, this noon there was still a lot
there are people who will be happy because "winter osti de marde", but i like it in winter :(
white gold melts before our eyes.
on a more positive note, merry christmas everyone!
13.6?  how! we have snow in toronto!
currently sitting at -2° c here in the southern us, with windchill it’s like -10°. i thought when i went home from montreal to here i would be out of the cold for a few months. guess today they forgot about which place was which.
:(
it's -4 and lots of snow in toronto, sucks to hear my canadian friends
[quebec flood map remains inaccurate](
not too long ago a reminder to people who are buying properties near water bodies (hottest property market sector these days)
you guys really like temperature records.
green christmas means a white easter!
statistically, every one of these records is eventually going to be beat.
put that in your pipe, 1964!
wasn’t it like 16 a few years ago?
and that’s only the year we started keeping records i believe...
climate change is a hoax. /s
and i, who thought that we would have at least one white christmas ... osti of the year 2020 of late.
it's +7 here in vancouver...
live in laval, it was so weird having a christmas without any snow
decade you mean?
what does it change in your life?
on the other hand, it is a question here of meteorology, not climatology.
the gouvernment is just changing the wether reports. its all a placebo
daily temperatures don't mean much, it's the averages that you have to look at
we’re at the lowest emissions since lockdown. wait until we hit mid jan to mid feb. the coldest month
[deleted]
getting colder tomorrow again. no snow for now though.
wasn't that on the 24th? but i remember riding a t-shirt bike around the christmas area.
yes i remember having washed my car in a t-shirt that day! the golf courses were open too!
a flat roof? in quebec? who was it who had this great idea?
things are getting so weird, maybe the leafs will win the cup this year.
not just the guys. :p
does it?
that is very likely.  but you can say that about any record, for anything.
that was christmas eve, 2015; not christmas day.
no, the decade ends in a week.
i see you did your research. i offer you a posivote.
exact :)
>  its all a placebo
perfect for hypochondriacs!
any weather irregularities and suddenly we have professional meteorologist
i invite you to read this [report] ( /04/rccc_fullreport-fr-final.pdf&ved=2ahukewio44ao_urtahvok1kkhzocd-kqfjaaegqiarab&usg=aovvaw0plcd3gohzoh-lsr759uxi)
bromont has lots of routes open. was kinda icy today but still fun
lol, even hikaru utada figured that the retractable roof was too much trouble and costly to maintain.
looks like the commute for the desjardins staff in the tower just got a little more complicated.
when you walk away
i have always found the stadium to be very goldorak.
i love her 2000s stuff, like "colors".
i'm a big fan of the citroen ds 21 landspeeder thingie.
yes!! i noticed that too the 1st time i saw the mv
i remember seeing this on twitter a while back. cool
i love this song . one of my favorite one with clean and simple and easy breezy. i laugh everytime i watch this music video
[deleted]
“the olympic stadium is in japanese singer hikaru utada's music video, showing a fixed roof. "
what's this song about? fascinating music video.
that's why the expos left. too far from downtown!
what are you referencing
desjardins people work in the tower?
you won't hear me say pllleeeeeeeeeeaaaaaaasssseeee oohhh babayyyyyy
[that's not wrong.] (
serious. this car has an art deco look that will be eternally classic. one of the most beautiful cars ever made in my opinion.
continuation of the succession of roger taillibert
* music video and roof repaired, for those learning french and passing through here
* by japanese singer hikaru utada
it's about a lesbian couple on a terraformed mars.
it's about taking vacation. the title translation is about : 2 hour vacation. its about taking time to yourself even if its short. its not about 2 lesbian living in the future sadly 🤣
it’s about the lacklustre but comforting after years of a couple who balance being busy adults and romance. the title is “a two hour vacation.” it emphasizes how even if it’s not the most glamorous love story, it’s still wonderful whenever you have time for love and that you got to make the best of it, even if it’s short.
it's about baseball mainly.
> desjardins people work in the tower?
[yes.] (
don't go—!!
not sure your interpretation of "fixed" as the roof shown looks like a brand new construction with additions, rather than a repair, right?
a fixed roof because it is not made of a kevlar canvas.
and clip should be allowed to be a clip which can be audio or video. if you want to be a pedantic one could also say segment.
oops!
[deleted]
cool thanks had no idea!
a good way to optimize the stadium
i don't think your interpretation is bad either. i saw the "fixed" as a nod to the fact that the roof was often broken and never really finished.
in this sentence, 'fixed' means fixed, maintained, immobilized, immutable, which does not move. as opposed to the current stadium roof which is not fixed.
or maybe yes, we mean repaired, but i don't think so.
segment, that would just be an excerpt from the music video.
and for fixed, as i answered below, i think both interpretations are possible :)
op will have to make a decision so that we can decide!
context is italy won the euro against england.
i'm all the way across the city but the horns are honking up and down sherbrooke. lots of italian fans around here! 
eh, let them party, i'm glad that they at least have a big victory celebration! 
congratulations italy! or or vaiiiiiiiiiiiiii!
i hear a lot of horns outside, can someone tell me what's going on? everyone has the flags of the patriots but tilted 90 °. i do not understand
man i missed stuff like this. i’m no sport guy but seeing people getting together and be happy like that made me happy too
we will hear about it until the world.
long live italy !! 🎉
forza azzurri !!!!
rdp was a mess too.
too bad the canadian could not go in seven games and won, we would have had it all in montreal tonight.
saint-laurent street it was incredible the number of people
not particularly sympathy for squadra azzura but seeing the english lose is a pleasure that i never deny myself.
this is a bit of a sidebar, but can someone explain the psychology of someone who gets in their car with the sole intention of driving around and honking their horn becausesa team won a game in another continent?
just trying to understand the goal, not hating. it just  seems like an oddly specific and non-intuitive reaction to good news. i get being excited, maybe high-fiving a few people in the room - but picking up your car keys to drive around and randomly honk is baffling.
to think of england won, the celebrations would most likely only span the burgundy pub and bits of the west island
forza azzurri 🇮🇹🇮🇹🇮🇹
forza azzurri
we didn’t get the habs parade, but we got the italy parade!
forzaaa azzuriii
yeah it's crazy yesterday i took the 55 and it was diverted because of the festivities 😛
in video around 8 p.m. 
gabagool 🎉
outremont here! so much horn blaring! thanks for informing me, i had no idea what was going on!
relevant : 
pit pit pit pit
[deleted]
a team of winners. habs take notes.
patriots flags. lol.
hahahaha but i think the flag of the tilted patriots is more that of hungary than italy.
we finally have our country!
enweille a fifth!
next year 😉
serie a starts soon, we will all find our rivalries and dress as usual.
by the way, it's true because on one side there is the nations league in november and italy is in the semifinal against spain and then there is the final a few days later. we're not going to celebrate but a double goes well.
a big 4 months.
i'm not sure my nerves would have survived ...
it was the other place to be indeed.
just like watching the leafs lose haha
>created oct. 20, 2008
it's not so much about the team winning, but an opportunity to celebrate your heritage
because there's something emotional that just happened that has the potential to be a shared experience. for many of us, we watched at home and had the winning feeling on our own or with a few buds. driving around honking and cheering allows us to find other fans with whom to share the jubilant energy. things like this are always more fun when shared. :)
sort of reminds me of my time in barcelona in which every time fcb scores a goal, the whole city jubilates with the sound of a car’s honk  and the word “goal” being inescapable
yes, and that is because montreal anglophones don't exactly identify as british.
west island might be anglo but i doubt it has a large british population lol
west island...they don't care about england.  if canada won at anything, that would be different.
this is the way
longer version 
thank you, it can be seen that with the years people it disperses especially when one compares with 1982 or 2006 which was it celebrations much more monstrous.
one thing is certain no matter what happens next year with a world cup in the middle of november and december, i don't think we will see a lot of celebrations here.
italians in outremont? inside!
[removed]
just the fact that they made it to the stanley cup final exceeded everyone's expectations because their regular season was pretty bad. a little unfair to think like that.
probably not deso
neither do i.
imagine canadians living in any other country and canada wins gold medal at hockey so they go around honking lol. ngl its a bit annoying to assume entire neighbourhoods give a shit about your sport
alot of "italians" that do identify as italian never even been to the country or even speak the language.
then they pretend to sing the chants and shit on social media lol
british here mate we are welcome too
[deleted]
evenko's playground
honestly the funniest/saddest part to me is that it's not only worse as a park; *it's worse for concerts, too*. the surface is hot, there's *zero* shade, it's too hard to sit down on, and so on. i went to osheaga for several years in a row before the pandemic and my impression was definitely that both the original configuration and the alternate site on île-notre-dame were better than the shiny new plaza they unveiled in 2019.
a big outdoor concert, especially an all-day festival, is not just 40,000 people all standing shoulder to shoulder 500 rows deep. you have some people standing that way at the front, of course. but as you go back beyond that pit, you get more people sitting on blankets, resting under trees, spreading out and lounging around, etc. 
i don't mind the idea of a permanent platform for a stage and a standing crowd, but the footprint of the concrete should have been much smaller, with meadows behind that, with some light copses of trees/planters/furniture/etc sprinkled around, making for a more gradual transition back into the forest. that would've been more pleasant for concertgoers, and also much more useful and natural-feeling the rest of the year.
honestly it's such a disaster that i think the city should spend the money to fix it, even if it just reopened. i don't think plante's suggestion of reducing the number of stages is the right way to reduce the impact on the park. that will reduce the diversity of acts at the festivals, and it won't do anything to address the actual problem, which is this enormous ugly unpleasant concrete field.
it's another reason not to vote for coderre.  
this is the "gift" the coderre gave to the "groupe evenko"  
currently, it's a fucking big island of heat that is useless 350 days a year (let's say it serves +/- 15 days a year with osheaga and ilesoniq)
there's a qqpart gif on the internet that shows the site before and after.
the only good thing is the redevelopment of calder's statue, les trois disques.
otherwise, the rest is rubbish; apart from having cut trees, they drained part of the ponds.
"having cost over $ 73 million and resulting in ** the felling of over 1000 mature trees ** to create a mineralized plaza, this is in fact a [gift] ( / en / 3631 / three-reasons-why-denis-coderre-na-pas-dambition) made to the event promoter with public money… because evenko is the only one to benefit from it. "
large empty spaces in soviet style concrete.
coderre's legacy: cutting down trees for corporations. when i was a kid, that was usually the doing of a cartoon villain. i do think he is a cartoon villain when you think about it for two minutes.
a concrete solar absorber to help speed up climate change
holy… i had never seen this myself either. how awful. i already didn't like coderre .. 🙅🏻‍♂️
that, my friend, is denis coderre
jesus fucking christ
ark, i remember seeing the construction site, but i had never seen the result. festivals must have lost some of their charm!
montreal used to be full of culture, music joi de vivre. now its mostly condos and fucking air bnbs. famous clubs closed cause new condos complained. this is a visual metaphor for what montreal has started becoming over the last 10 years.
what a waste of green. how much did that cost us and who's brother in law got the contract?
how is this even supposed to make music festivals better though??!!
"oh thank god they got rid of all those trees the shade was really getting in my eyes." 😑
osti quel désastre. i feel bad for the lonely picnic table.
walking across that space is like being in the desert. at least that's what i imagine a desert to be like.
just missing some granite stumps
it's a picnic table... 🙃
there used to be so many trees and such. it was amazing. 
it's impressive right now, but not really in a good way.
standing on concrete for 10+ hours is never fun - even when listening to music.
i’ve been to osheaga multiple times, this will make me think twice about making the trip from ontario.
i loved the fact that there was so much nature and “park” around the site, such as the pool.  in other words, not simply a permanent spot for a few events that sits unused the rest of the year.
open concept  ....lol
it’s the architectural composition portraying “tabarnak”. a sort of “tabarnak betonique”, a “va te fair foutre” to the whole city from our former friendly mayor coderre :-)
saw that too recently, it's an abomination.
it's a rave dave
i believe that's called a picnic table
next generation is going to miss out on those muddy trash fest warped tours. hard floors to dance on yay
alien landing port to welcome our new(est) overlords.
“progress”
behind us once there was a meadow
now it's concrete
this is what happens when people that have never been to a concert design an area for concerts
maybe i'm wrong, but if i remember correctly, it was gravel all over in this spot before. and after the festivals, (heavy mtl, osheaga, ile sonic etc ...) there were holes everywhere .. i don't know if it's better but good.
its a landing pad for the aliens for when they arrive. duhhhh
it's the new city airport.  now waiting for porter to build a hanger.
what a great opportunity to talk about the development plan for the next decade that was announced by projet mtl not too long ago:
it's a great way to compare the clash of vision between the two parties. now if you have an opinion on the subject, don't forget to vote...!
seagulls really like it chill in the sand space!
i was literally on that wheel 2 days ago lol (back in ontario)
ouache!
they should definitely be putting on hockey rinks in the winter on that area
fucking hideous. why do they always insist on these giant frying pans? what about shade, shelter, somewhere to sit?
a wonderful place to see concerts on a man made island
i’d never thought about it that much but everyone is right. makes no sense at all. they basically built it for hosting a few festivals (poorly with no shade, place to sit, and then there is nothing there all year. ridiculous
hard to beat a music festival with that back drop tho
that's one giant table
the did that so they don't have to mow it.
when the exploited and bad religion came for the event '77 the only shade was at the other stage but you want to be at the main stage, it is weird how jean-drapeau looks now
coderre's montréal corruption at it's best
a gift from denis coderre to his wealthy friends at evenko
an abomination.
isn't there a way to remove all that concrete then ? and reuse it for something else ? im no einstein clearly but can some reddit einsteins give their opinions and explanations on that ?
didn't parc jean drapeu have a large hill where alot of people would gather on to watch live shows that were usually set up at the base of the hill ? last time i was there was in 1998 for van's warp tour.. loved that parc and that amazing event by the way. this to me looks like they really fucked up its landscape which was the best part of this parc. greedy dicks.
if you ever witness these types of incidents get an image of the perpetrator’s face, phone 911 and follow safely at a distance. 
as a fairly big guy if i witness any sort of violence that is victimizing someone frail or weak i would yell stop/arrêt and flag down the next big guy i see on the street to assist. 
remember; you can’t yell help as it’s ineffective. you must physically point at someone and ask them to help. it’s basic psychology 101.
racism against asians is just dumb. there's so many good asians here, direct your hate towards the ccp, that's the target.
the amount of 'i'm helping!' casual racism in this thread is worrisome. 
the comments that are in support of the movement are eyebrow raising. you don't need to asterisk your support of anti-asian racism.
been thinking about this a lot lately. see asian women and feel so bad, i hope this isn't as widespread as it seems to be popping up in the news. not everyone hates anyone else.. i'm  white dude and i have no issues, prejudice or doubts of anyone of any race as a principle. we all have pieces of shit, it's sad that this is a thing. hopefully if anyone sees this hate speech or verbal assault happens you stand up for your fellow peoples.. i know i will.
anyone see that picture of the cop following behind the demonstrating giving the demonstrators the finger? 
i feel bad for my neighbor sometimes. she's asian and i see her looking around everytime she goes to her car as if someone was gonna either physically or verbally assault her.
worst of all of this to me is that it doesn't even seem to be about race really, it's just an excuse and these people think that asians are hated by all so no one will care if they assault them.
it's like people who beat up wife beaters or child molesters; they don't do it out of a sense of justice, they do it because it's an easy target, they wanna bully someone to make themselves feel good and they know no one will defend them. it's a cowardly act.
this is hapening throughout canada :  
 [anti-asian racism reaches ‘crisis point’ in canada, advocates say | race issues news | al jazeera](
so are anti asian crimes actually going up or are we just assuming they are because social media and main news stations say so. i'm seriously curious to see some real data on this
seems like a good opportunity to date for yellow fever guys like me
james franco with noose around his neck meme and '*insert your ethnicity*' label:   
**"first time?"**
the rigorous discipline required to cultivate individuals capable of confronting the evils of racism and violence is antithetical to today's unicorn fart society. 
so many of these disgusting attacks happened in broad daylight, in front of numerous bystanders who chose to carry on as though nothing was happening. 
the cold truth is that most are weak, cowardly, and effective only at regurgitating platitudes and posturing. 
we will need more than marches organized by political vultures to set our world right. we need to genuinely start breaching the confines of our ego created shells and find the courage to love each other as fellow human beings.
was this in montreal? why were most of the signs in english then?
once again people in montreal follow the trendy social movement in the us media du jour. we are living under a curfew that restricts our basic rights as citizens to move freely and travel in and out of the country freely, but now because it was erroneously reported that a shooting in atlanta of all places was a hate crime (it wasn’t, he was killing sex workers), people protest. unbelievable thing to see. when will people here realize that this isn’t the united states....
yellow lives matter
[deleted]
[here's some more bystander intervention tips.](
on the day of this march, i witnessed an act of violence on st catherine. a kid no older than 14 punched another 14-yo kid in the face twice, and then kicked him in the groin. they appeared to belong to the same group of teenagers walking around. this was downtown on st cath, 2 blocks from the police station, in broad daylight, among dozens of people, and there was police everywhere for the march. i was so shocked and i didn't know what to do, apparently no one knew. minutes later i realized i should have just yelled "stop". it made me so sad and shocked.
racism against any peoples is just dumb.
idiots are angry about covid and are looking for a target to vent their frustration on. oh look, the virus came from china so all asians are the culprits ! this is so mind numbingly idiotic that it makes my brain melt. it's on par with people sending hate on social media to actors because they don't like their character in a show.
what does that even mean?
there's so many good asians here. what?
we can not change the cpc.
so i'd rather direct my hate towards the local racists and fascists since that's something that we can change.
governments and corporations convinced us to hate each other based on ethnicity, race or politics. you can attack the ccp without hatred for asians, just like you can call israel an ethnofascist apartheid state without being anti-semitic, or saudi arabia a degenerate state sponsor of terrorism without being islamophobic. most montrealers know this, i try to believe.
i would go even more specific and say to direct your anger towards the ccp policies that you find objectionable.
[removed]
racism as a whole is just plain dumb. 
we should have denounced it when we did blm but everybody just wants the spotlight. we all want equality only if we're the centrepiece. 
as an asian though, some of the stuff is exaggerated. the whole "they called me corona" is brought up in our own communities. we say it ourselves when people came from asia and joke about it ourselves. 
you can't play the xenophobe card if only white people say it. that's hypocrisy. 
honestly, seeing how some of us do not even want to name out kids traditional names or even teach our kids our native tongue, the whole asian pride reasoning is very lame.
oh come on. it’s damned if you do, damned if you don’t; i’d rather show my support than remain silent. don’t be such a misanthrope.
[deleted]
if you're willing to step in, let her know if she's scared she can come to you, or keep an eye on her in case she ever does need help
maybe she’s just scared of covid and other people?
how is targeting asian people because you assume everyone hates asians *not* racism?
also are you advocating *against* beating up child molesters?
in the time it took you to write this vaguely dismissive comment you could have done the research yourself.
these marches do serve as a way of drawing public attention and galvanizing political action. i know for a fact that this montreal march has done that. for example, there are now legal professionals assisting asian elders to report hate crimes who have been connected through social media groups that helped organize this march.
/r/im14andthisisdeep
[deleted]
r/iseesomeoneboughtajordanpetersonfigurine
too thin skinned to face the truth, but they'll stand up to violent racists. what a joke.
because many asians in montreal are recent immigrants and students to canada. learning one language is hard enough and if they do not just want to limit themselves to quebec, learning english first make the most sense.
the protest is to decry racism at home but also to show support for those globally and our neighbors in the usa, english is a more universal language.
there was a oqlf budget meeting at the same time
i think the signage in english reaches more people internationally. this increases the audience and therefore the cause gains more supporters. if you look at images of past protests from other countries, you will see english signs along with the local language. 
any form of racism, sexism and all the other forms of bad behaviour should not be happening on this planet.
i was telling myself the same thing too. it's still funny that there isn't a single poster in french.
there has been a [dramatic increase in asian-targeted hate crimes across canada]( which is what the march was focused on. but sure, keep reaching.
you realise a lot of montreal and  quebec asian communities and people have been victims of a reason uptick in violence and harassement as well? it's not a trend. people aren't protesting just for the atlanta killings either, there have been other assaults, there have been more racist attacks and vandalism even here at home.
sure, i’ll believe what the killer said... killing sex workers who all happened to be asian huh? what a coincidence. also, asians are being harassed here, whether you acknowledge it or not.
[removed]
if the only input you have in the fight against asian racism is to fetishize asian women, you are part of the problem.
you're the fucking problem.
[deleted]
callis. i can't believe i just read some garbage as well. (the part where you fetishize asian women)
fuck yeah, i'm going to be a hollaback girl!
awesome picture!
nice one op.
looks like you're at the corner of de lanaidere there. rennaissance on the left, right?
amazing pic. can i buy it on etsy.
i miss montreal so much ... from a new yorker
it's back to normal now!
absolutely beautiful shot. 
what time of the year did you take it?
nice photo! it is a pity that it is fuzzy.
it looks like some of the shots my friend, peter mccabe, took during the lockdown last year. nice work!  
here is "empty montreal" (sorry it's mtlblog):  
nice pic
love everything about this
> de lanaidere
from lanaudière i presume?
that is correct :)
thank you so much.  :) it is a picture from my phone though. feel free to use it however you want.   
. i can dm you the original ( which is only slightly larger then this ) if you want. feel free to checkout other pictures [
thank you :)
taken after a light drizzle on nov 1, 2020. after mont royal ave was opened up for traffic again.
oy, yes, sorry!
these are all from your phone?!?! please do dm. gonna see if i can get it printed and framed.
yup yup. the last two years, my phone has been pretty dependable. with enough editing of course. have dmed you the link
crazy photo.
it’s hot as a photo, well done!
a better composition would be difficult to imagine.
beautiful! how long did it take to cross over? i assume it is without the use of your telescope.
super nice photo. i live just nextdoor!
i was like, "trevor would really like this!"
cool! how much exposure time?
this is behind my house , sometimes during the summer people set fire to the inside and it makes oart of the neighborhood smell like old vagina
chemtrail innit
incredible image
nice pic! did you use gpredict to know when and where the iss appears?
gorgeous
ⓐ
nice job man. it's sick.
it's very beautiful! do you have a tracker (website or app) to know when the iss passes over the city?
any chance you’ll make prints?
love how the iss trajectory and chimneys almost mirror the anarchy symbol - incredible composition
thank you!
thank you!
it takes practice, but after a few times it gets a lot easier
it took about 3 minutes to fly over. and actually, just used my iphone on a tiny tripod to get this. no telescope.
i use an iphone app called nightcap, which has camera settings specifically for iss flyovers 
he liked it so much, he had to do it himself
i'm using an app called nightcap for ios: [ (
there is a mode for the iss, is that "stack" the photos automatically. the flyby was \ ~ 4 minutes, but i don't think the exhibit was that exactly.
(sorry for bad french! trying not to use google translate!)
space chemtrail
thanks! i actually had to do some editing: the long-exposure was going great until a car drove by at the last 10 seconds of the flyover and ruined the shot. so, it's a composite, but past similar photos i've done i don't create composites.
i am using the iss detector app. it's free for android and ios: [ (
for shot planning i use stellarium + (ios) and photopills: 
yes! the app i am using is iss detector. it's free.
android: [
ios: [
also, during the summer, i do a workshop in the plateau to teach people how to see the flyovers.
i actually got a few people asking this, so yes! i will be making prints of this one and a few others i've taken this year, as well as selling a pack of postcards.
here's a bunch of ways to keep in touch:
facebook: [  
twitter: [  
instagram: [
website: [
and if you'd really like to lock this down, send me an email! i'll give you first class electronic mail service: info@plateauastro.com
i hadn’t even considered that. nice catch!
no shit? that's incredible!
did you go on some site to track its path? i’d love to try and see it in my area
potent
yep! there’s a great free app called iss detector for ios and android that tells you when it will fly overhead
i need so much that i spend more time discovering my city ...
cool photo dump, the 4th one is a great timing (sunset)    
first one could use some straightening but that me.
where's the bridge? it looks familiar but i can't place it.
they're very nice pictures, thanks for sharing
i love montreal!!!
i love this city. my wife has never been and i can’t wait to take her.
wow.
i'll be honest, i would have never thought this was mtl!
beautiful pictures.
photo 6 is the garden of panos
oooh go to capital tacos. best taco place ever 🌮🌮🌮🌮🌮🌮
i used this area a lot in the past couple of months.
the greek restaurant with the white wall is called jardin de panos, by far on of my favorite in montréal.   
i can highly recommend
where exactly?!!!!!!!!
are you using a 24mm op?
where are the potholes and construction cones?
nice!!
this is good;  it allows the rest of canada to see how its provincial welfare payments to quebec are spent.
waiting for the vaccine mandates to be lifted and we are there!
montreal is a very beautiful city, especially in summer! i find myself wanting to take pictures most of the time.
you will come for a guided tour one of these days!
xd thanks! yeah! i could have cropped the first one a bit better~
[deleted]
it’s near the old port. i don’t know what it’s called though~~
you should really visit! :d especially during the fall or summer!
thank you so much for the high praise!
i’ll definitely check it out next time!
i labeled most of the photos with the location. are you looking for one in particular?
nope~ xd just my iphone! technology is amazing these days~~
picture #4 actually
i don’t know the name of the bridge but it’s on the way to the heritage de vieux port montreal
a lost little cowboy looking for r / alberta? don't forget your hat, it's getting cold.
since july, i have been kicking myself to go take pictures at least once a week in town. it's so much fun. but your picture of chinatown empty, with no one, wow. pure beauty
in winter there is quedale 🤔 do i live in a hole?
yes! i want to try the ghost tour.
funny thing i ended up going to the asian market that night, very cool spot and yummy food. thanks for the idea! :)
thanks!
yes, the second one of chinatown! i haven’t seen that building, is so beautiful.
edit. typo
you should get yourself a camera, you will love it
how dare you insult me and my patrimony by speaking french to me?  i wish you would separate once and for all.  repatriate those who have escaped your welfare province for  spots in canada.  then build a wall (mexico will pay for it) and leave us the fuck alone.  that’s all.
thank you! : d i really appreciate it!
personal opinion, the ghost visit is more about actors who put on a show than people who do real guided tours
np! i’m glad you enjoyed it~ i heard there’s another asian night market hosted by yatai montreal this weekend.
\[deleted\]
thank you! it’s the sun yat-sen park at night~~
xd i should one of these days~ they’re expensive and heavy though!
haha, your comment is even funnier when you know that english is basically a french creole.
oh damn… i couldn't wait to explore the dark parts of montreal's history… please let me know!
heavy, not really, if you want something not expensive try film cameras, good ones can be around 200 $ and each film(36pictures) is around 26$ to buy and develope, film is a bit harder to use but the results are worth every penny, check out r/analog
🤢🤮
if you do a little research, you can find several places with a rather dark and intriguing past.
to google i go!
good message, but why on top of such a beautiful artwork?
i love that burrito wall thing
this is completely off topic, but i visited montreal from brisbane, australia in 2012. i took a photo of this artwork, and i’ve always loved the “don’t you want a burrito” part. i didn’t think i would ever see this again, and i was surprised to see this on my front page today. i would love to look at this on google maps, is there any chance someone could let me know the exact location? thank you in advance!
good thing i took a picture years ago so we can remember how great it was.
"we are not born a woman, we die of it"
edgy cringe shit.
[deleted]
i bet it smells like hipsters
these people are heavy ...
space agreed with the splicer group for this collage!
[
it’s a temporary installation.
tbk man have some respect it wouldn't hurt you
the ultimate victimization slogan. just because a tragedy occurred doesn't mean sayings like these have any validity.
the perpetrator made it clear that he was targeting specifically women. 
from wikipedia:
> on december 6, 1989, marc lépine entered a mechanical engineering class at the école polytechnique and ordered the women and men to opposite sides of the classroom. he separated nine women, instructing the men to leave. he stated that he was "fighting feminism" and opened fire. he shot at all nine women in the room, killing six. lépine then moved through corridors, the cafeteria, and another classroom, targeting women for just under 20 minutes. he killed a further eight before turning the gun on himself.
and there have been two mass shootings in montreal since poly.
i'm not sure i understand how you see it then. he shot targeted and killed women, not men that makes it feminicide by definition. also he did this in an institution of learning for a field that is largely dominated by men. if i were a woman thinking about going to polytech in the years following i would definitely have reconsidered, i believe his actions had a large impact on women in university at the time.
also thank fuck it's never happened again like this. i don't know how this being a crime against women would make it more likely to be reoccurring.
alek minassian would like a word.
i would also count anti abortion as mysoginy based so here you go:
when your masculinity is so fragile that you are offended by a collage that highlights the memory of victims of feminicide?
?
who?
that's good, but espace go should have accepted that it be on the main window along st-laurent.
ho ok that make more sense
* a dude with big mental problems kills several people with blue eyes *
edgy 14 years olds: ["we are not born with blue eyes we die of it"] (
i get it, he had serious problems and hated women, i get it, was horrible and insane. still, one crazy guy doing something is not indicative of much, in my opinion. and all the downvotes and inability to enter into calm discussion will not change that. thanks for your answer.
[deleted]
i hate calling them by their name as i don't feel they deserve that kind of respect, but elliot rogers also belongs in that category.
[deleted]
collage. espace go to consent to this display? it is clearly the same person who sticks his activism everywhere on residential buildings in rosemont.
maybe because there aren't entire groups formed around the hatred of school children? and that school children don't exactly forma distinct group other than "easy targets".
he's on the wikipedia list. the victim's names were:
- katherine breann cooper, 22
- christopher ross michaels-martinez, 20
- veronika elizabeth weiss, 19
- george chen, 19
-cheng yuan "james" hong, 20
-weihan "david" wang, 20
except he killed more men than women.
ah yes, clearly events can only be analyzed within a specific local context because reasons.
it is in memory of the slaughter of the polytechnique a little respect
it was approved, it's a collaboration. go to the go space instagram and educate yourself before jumping to conclusions.
[deleted]
doesn't change squat about his motivations. i won't get too much into it because wikipedia does a much better job than i could do, but he did describe himself as an incel and his "retribution" revenge was caused in great part by frustration due to being rejected by women.
[deleted]
he was not because incels were not a group at the time, but we can safely infer he would have been now that people who espouse his exact ideology/world-view organise as group.
two of the other examples i've provided happened in canada. but it's clear you have no intention of arguing in good faith, so i'll just downvote and move on. kthxbai.
great shot, i have never seen beaver lake from this perspective.
[deleted]
crazy photo
great perspective!
 but there are no beavers and it's not a lake. discuss.
seen from belverdère kondiaronk.
great shot. unusual angle of montreal as well.
beautiful! beaver lake was always my favourite place to see the colours in the fall.
amazing, where was this taken from?
wow! thank you for this photo really a beautiful perspective of this place
spent most of my early childhood around that lake.
there are no beavers at that lake🥲
how far from downtown montreal?
thank you! :)
with the saint joseph's oratory!
and mount royal is hardly a mountain.
there used to be beavers!
thank you! 
i took this with a drone (dji mini 2) about 120m up from the park.
and hardly royal
volcanic intrusion actually, like the other 6 in the area like mont st bruno,etc
your shot got me hyped to have a drone, ~~do you need any drone pilot license~~ to fly the mini or the weight make it all good?  
edit: nevermind i found the info, you don't .
no issues with aeronautical restrictions?
nope — it falls just under the weight requirement where you have to get approval to fly it.
can we leave this in the backyard?
verdun and its magnificent forest trails. a city in the heart of nature !!!!
is it easier to park when snow removal is late?
two winters ago, i came across a guy dog-sledding down notre-dame (intersection with atwater). nothing surprises me either :)
i live in verdun too. what avenue?
in the plateau and in verdun in summer in a vespa, in winter in a ski-doo
in 1971 my parents lived in verdun and my mother was very pregnant with me. on march 4 there was a "storm of the century" which deposited about fifty centimeters of snow in a few hours. my father worked downtown and found someone who took him to verdun on a skidoo. i was born the following week.
a snowmobile makes sense to be fair. it's the determined unicyclist that i've seen while waiting for the 61 in all sorts of weather that blows my mind.
tim’s in lachute has more skidoo’s than cars on the weekend 😂
jo corm returning from his skidoo tour
that’s a daily occurrence in my hometown of timmins, ontario. i remember kids taking their sleds to school in the winter.
a beautiful mach-z
i saw one walking east of lafontaine park during the first storm of the year.
hey that's me!
in verdun? i've seen worse lol
this is hilarious 🤣 maybe i could hitch a ride to the local supermarket.
[deleted]
a winter vehicle in the winter.
iiiisssshhhh (not sure how to put it into words.: p)
i'm going to pass you my mechanic ...
it's chill if you pour some gatorade in the oil tank.
you have to believe that yes ...
well, you can park wherever you want with a skidoo!
there was a guy w a makeshift dog sled going along the canal last week...it was constructed from wood and was just, like, a standing platform?? he kept veering off centre haha but it was cool
manning, just below bannantyne.
when i lived in western nb people would take their sleds and 4 wheelers to tims and mcdonalds regularly in the winter.  you had to be careful once you got past grand falls heading west because people would do crazy shit on the trans canada.
> the year.
you don't need cedilla! r'monte your cedille in apostrophe: this + year = this year!
post proof
you don’t look anywhere close to the middle aged gentleman who was riding it...
look mom i'm on the internet!
i’m sure he’d give you a ride!
the guy was having a blast for hours on his skidoo, he didn’t bother anyone nor was he bothered by anyone. he’s also in a public environment on a vehicle that is highly uncommon in urban areas, it’s bound to attract attention.
[deleted]
a recreational winter vehicle somewhere it isn’t meant to be driven. i just thought it was fun :)
issshhh
[iiissshhh](
yeah, but can you just leave this in the yard?
omfg i know who that is. had to confirm with a friend. that's so goddamn funny.
hey neighbour!
how about you let us decide what is an invasion of privacy and what isn't
what ya wanna do is put on a pair of skis and tie a rope to that baby
i would like to thank my secondary 4 french teacher, without her i would not have understood the joke "ah! snowmobile has snowed". probably the biggest profit i got from that year
neighborhood gathering!
it was just a joke, anyways.
>neighborhood gathering!
i'll call lego on your aases!
hochlag. the light you, great photo !!
it's like quebecana.
ch'lag
qq'un tell me please, what is the case of why we write oshlag without "a"? i did not find an explain.
préfontaine ontario like?
hochejag '
dope pic!
nice pic
superb framing
love this pic! 💕
hey, do you freight?
oooh la jag.
the tank makes me ask what year is this photo from?
ah.
yesss, i live right next to this alley, with the tank parked there all the time
this reminds me of the video for cotton ouaté
missing an “a”.
it's just a contraction, the locals also go there often with "'shlag" or "ch'lag".
if you want a neighborhood vibe, i recommend the hochelaga mon quartier facebook group
for me anyway, hochelag 'is the "original" neighborhood, the opposite of "homa".
yep. alley between préfontaine and dézery, near ontario.
hochejaaaaaaaag
that jaguar if restored and running is worth bank.
it could be recent, it's been years since this car has been around
do not.
“hochalag” is more authentic.
nice shot.
thanks, and yes of course, i thought so too. i sense a strong affiliation with the contraction, just wonder why
yeah, logical. i have seen “homa” elsewhere. for me, it is a serious habit in cities these days, to erase the “poverty” association by renaming neighborhoods. good to know.
i know my hood haha
this alley is a dompe with old tanks.
right. i see it now. very nice!
it has nothing to do with poverty, when we talk about homa, it brings together hochelaga and maisonneuve (who are also part of the mercier-hochelaga-maisonneuve group), and it makes a lot of sense "locally", because people feel they are from the same neighborhood (for example, it combines the promenade ontario with the maisonneuve market).
yeah, some really are cool but it's still got to rot
still a bit related, it's a real estate developer thing to sell condos ... hochelaga was not too salesy and homa sounded more "cool" like soho, nolita, etc. it wasn't originally from the locals.
but it's true that hochelaga and maisonneuve are a great couple. but not mercier (/ s).
yes apparently you always need food with you while drinking in public areas. i was approached by cops a while ago while drinking a bottle of wine with a friend, had a empty food container. he explained to me that i should leave a “piece” of food visible to avoid getting a ticket.
you always need some food. before the law was that any food would do, so i would always keep crackers around. then they changed it to "substantial" amount of food, which of course, who judges that? so basically always buy something to eat with booze. yes, it makes no sense and sucks, and definitely insane to do when others not getting hit, but it's like that, sucks ass
im pretty sure thats a drinking in public ticket, not a social distance ticket as those are much more expensive. you cant drink in the parks unless its a picnic with food, its a silly law i know. just pointing it out there in case you decide to contest the ticket, as im not sure if youll have much of a case.
> ** regulations concerning peace and order in the public domain **
>  
> 3. it is forbidden to consume alcoholic beverages in the public domain, except:
>  
> 1 ° in a sidewalk café on public property where the sale of alcoholic beverages is authorized by law;
>  
> (2) during a meal taken in the open air in the part of a park where the city has set up picnic tables;
>  
> 3 ° in certain circumstances or on the occasion of events, celebrations or demonstrations, according to the authorization given by ordinance.
[removed]
just going to point out that people informing you of the correct law so you and other people don't get fined are not bootlickers but being helpful.
wow, that is total bullshit
how did your interaction go? was it "sorry officer, can i put it in another container or dump it?" or was it "why aren't you bothering them? it's just a fucking beer dude, relax. don't you have a real crime to investigate?".
i've been approached by the police for drinking in public or smoking weed before legalization dozens of time. not once have i gotten a ticket, just a sensible conversation between adults that resulted in being more discreet.
so you break the rules, get dealt the consequences and then you come here to whine about it all?
the only point here is that cowardly cops only go after people in small groups who wont push back. everything else about food, blablabla is noise. go to tamtams on sunday and see if everyone has a snack with their booze.
contest it? did you have food?
step 1. break rules
step 2. suffer the consequences
step 3. try to whine about it on reddit in hopes to make yourself feel better
it's just cowardice, they can give tickets to pairs and small groups because they aren't likely to get too much push back or a major upheaval that they can't handle. 
when the crowd suddenly outnumbers you 10-1 they just put on their little sirens and ask politely people to leave because they don't want to start something they can't handle.
break the laws, faces consequences *pikachu face*
yesterday me and a friend got a 128$ ticket each for skateboarding when we were on our way to a fucking skatepark... telling us we skating in the middle of the street, but we were actually on the side walk. i tell them we weren’t in the middle of the street so why the ticket. she proceeds to then threaten to give me another ticket for skateboarding on the side walk. cops here are fucking bored.
why are you crying? it is illegal to drink in parks. you got caught. get over it.
yes, the cops just like any other thug gang will alway hit the weakest. so unless you got the numbers on your side, stealth and concealment is your best friend.
regulars of the park could also look for ways to support people that get targeted by cops, this could help. it sucks that one of my fav parks in town is getting more policed apparently... usual lack of cops (except during the tam-tams) was one of its best aspects.
you need to eat food too and be in a picnic area, but yeah still very lame.
fuck them.. they are the worst outlaws out there, at least in terms of danger and peace troubling...
this thread reinforces why r/montreal is one of the most toxic subs on reddit. some of you are sad.
don't be pissed. you took a chance, but you lost on this occasion.
they probably picked on you two because they didn't want to actually do anything effective or deal with the hassle of intervening in a larger group that was actually problematic and instead opted to create some documentation that illustrated they did something for the day (not sure if booze tickets are a part of any sort of quotas they have).
i'm also not sure why people come to threads like these to act righteous and tell you that you deserved it.  if someone believes there's justice in fining people for finding some sense of normalcy and enjoyment during one of the most depressing eras in most of our lives, and then they have the proclivity to imply that we shouldn't ever examine the merits of laws and when they're enforced, i'd like to put them on a list so i can never invite them to my (future) parties.
it’s a shitty ticket but you technically broke the law dude. be happy you got that and not a covid related ticket
should have said you're a cannibal then looked at your friend.
wow, you’re such a hard criminal. so glad the police are cracking down on tough criminals causing harm to the city with their blasphemous beer drinking. /s
no but seriously, i wish cops actually did something to help society. i’m sorry that happened to you. 😣
well... it's been like that forever
you can't just drink in public in a park ... that's not related to covid or anything.... next time, bring food with you, you will be able to drink while eating. they are not stupid, even if you show them food but you're not eating, you'll get a ticket...
should've smoked weed instead. that gets enforced less.  ¯\\\_(ツ)\_/¯
you failed at having a beer in public. the lesson to learn here is.. don't fail again.
were you sitting at a picnic table installed by the city?
legalize public drinking  
legalize jaywalking
illegal detre sur le gazon amoin tu fait un picnic. keep it in mind have a cracker in your jacket
carry some peanuts or other food if you want to drink in a parc in montreal, you can have a fine for public drinking if you only have alcool, but if you have food it's a picnic and you're allowed.
you know you should bring food there... that's what p-1 3 permits.
did you argue with the cops?
all year they have been looking for people who drank without food but gave warnings.
they came to us both friday and saturday but only gave warnings again. they said they only gave tickets to people who refuse to cooperate.
it is ridiculous but just make sure you got a bag of chips with you next time.
got one too a few months back.
 trying to be safe and not gather indoors. thanks spvm.
yeah it sucks and i wish they would crack down on the bigger groups, but realistically how are 6 cops ganna crack down on a group of 50 people?
did you have bottles or cans? i’ve talked to cops in a park before while having a can of beer and they told me it was ok (we had no picnic) as long as it wasn’t glass, in which case they will fine you
i don’t have words to describe how fucking useless the police in this city are
total bullshit.
the asinine curfew aside, other "rules" also don't make a lot of sense sometimes.  i once got a $150 fine for "not taking in my recycling container", which was a clear plastic bag that was sitting out on the curb for days in the rain because the recycling truck didn't show up, so the city fined me because the city didn't do it's job. * *slow clap* *
twice i've had cops ask me to pour my drink out at the park and they just gave me a warning, no fine.  those cops you had to deal with were useless cunts on a power trip.  in the future if you don't want to have food around you could do what we do and just put your drink in a coffee cup.
why push the limits and then complain that others are doing worse things? have a beer with your roommate in your house, or backyard, dont go to a park... 
i get your sentiment and somewhat agree but just give it a couple more months........
yup beer outside is a nono. real ones know the polar pop trick lmao
i once got a public drinking ticket on durocher and van horne. i was walking 2 blocks from my apartment to a friend’s with an open bottle in a bag, not drinking. cops pulled over and found it, then said “this is outremont, not hochelaga”. they gave me a 400 dollar ticket to be paid in 7 days.
pro tip : get drunk **before** going to the park. /s
many of the metropolitan cities' websites state that "drinking alcoholic beverages in public places is strictly prohibited. the only exceptions to this rule are when beverages are consumed in establishments that hold permits issued by the *régie des permis d’alcool du québec* or consumed in a park with a meal, on the specific tables designated for it."
u/theycallmepi posted the by-law below:
** regulations concerning peace and order in the public domain **
3. it is forbidden to consume alcoholic beverages in the public domain, except:
(1) in a sidewalk café on public property where the sale of alcoholic beverages is authorized by law;
(2) during a meal taken in the open air in the part of a park where the city has set up picnic tables;
(3) in certain circumstances or on the occasion of events, celebrations or demonstrations, according to the authorization given by ordinance.
we are all guilty of taking certain "petty" risks that may be close or beyond the borders of what the law imposes.
when stopped by an agent of the peace, it is best to follow with the perception that their observation that you are contravening the law is valid. it is rare that it is not, and it is even rarer that you will change their mind by engaging in discussions. attempting to argue or to lash out your perception of how arbitrary their application of the law is, unfortunately, does not help.
in your case, it does not matter whether the guys on your side were within less than 2 metres from each other (contravening the laws about public health safety) or whether there were groups of 8+ people around you, drinking, yelling and hugging each other (contravening the same law as you were and other ones about public peace and public health safety): their observation that you were contravening the law by drinking in a public space is still valid.
if you believe that the officer's observation was not valid, the place to contest it is in the courts, by declaring yourself not guilty of the offence. this requires solid proof that you were not contravening the law, and it requires effort, time, taking the risk that you will be proven guilty and have to pay court fees, and sometimes a lawyer.
if you find the law to be unfair and you believe it should be changed, you can approach the media and expose your propositions to lawmakers. this requires a very solid proposition, strong public interest, political desire (which very often are not in line) and time.
in the meanwhile, i find it that it is always good practice to read and to understand local and regional regulations, so that you are aware of the legal risks that you are taking and any of the penalties related to contravening the law. it does not only help with modulating your behaviour and avoid being surprised, but also helps you understand when you are not guilty of an offence and what do you need to prove to defend yourself in court proceedings.
just declare "not guilty" and send it in. 
the crown prosecutor and the cop have better shit to deal with and you'll most likely get the ticket reduced or thrown out before making it to court.
the cops go to the park because it lets them get out of the squad car and stretch their legs. if it's not something that they were assigned to then they need to basically validate their reason for being there. it sucks that you got a ticket but it's mostly because that cops particular sergeant is being hard on them being in places they don't need to be.
what law did you break? there's no law that says you can't have a beer with your roommate because of covid.
me, i'm a vegan fak i just start to eat the grass when a 👮 approaches. i say the ground is my meal. i'm vegan by the way
can’t drink in bars, can’t drink on patios (most of then aren’t big enough to allow distanciation), can’t drink inside, and can’t drink in parks? with the summer coming up i sure hope they’ll smoothen the restrictions in park. if they don’t give us a safe space to drink and gather legally, people will do it illegally and in a way that promotes contagion.
edit: what’s with the downvotes lol i’m just saying we should be allowed to have a distanced beer at the park without a full meal since we can’t have beers anywhere else.
yeah, it's also all tiny condos. great place to live in your 20s when you get your first job downtown or whatever, after that not so much. once those buildings aren't so new and shiny it's going to feel like a real desolate wasteland.
i would like to add as well-- the montreal triplex is a great example of responsible urban renewal! while they aren't highrises, they create decent population density. and in the same block, you can have a wide variety of apartments available. run down ones that are incredibly cheap, newly renovated ones that are stylish and pricey, and everything in between. while it might be counter intuitive to think of a run down apartment as a social good, it keeps rent down for everybody. easier to charge $2500/month if everything around you goes for the same price. but if there are $500 and $1000/month options available, it brings down the maximum landlords can get away with charging. furthermore, you end up with different income levels and different kinds of people, which is incredibly important for social cohesion.
i would agree but griffintown was a completely dilapidated area with a prime location, it’s not like they tore down thousands or even hundreds of apartments to build new high-rises. there weren’t many apartments there in the first place. it was mostly abandoned warehouses, factories and wasteland. im not a fan of condo towers either but it’s better than what was there before imo.
we’re having our own sodosopa! any news of a whole foods?
as someone who's moved here from vancouver (yaletown), yeah, i'm 100% with you. i would understand if montreal goes full protectionism over its urban identity. montreal's urbanism is a big reason i moved here. my eyes are amazed everywhere i walk here. old town, saint henri, plateau... there's an incredible *sense of permanence* that i'd hate to see montreal lose for sleek all-glass bullshit that i ran away from out west.
i also fully subscribe to jane jacobs urbanism (if you've lived in other cities worldwide she's exactly right). the soulless end of glass and franchise stores in vancouver, compared to, well, everything montreal is... please dear god don't let this happen here. in my opinion, you fully can't delve into this without looking at neoliberalism's effect on everything in society but that's another massively complicated topic altogether.
my personal take: cities are not supposed to be perfectly designed (and so the question, perfect for whom?), or you end up feeling like you live in a theme park. i get that's what a lot of people want: pleasantry everywhere. then the same people wonder where the soul or culture is? great cities are give and take, and that exchange/interaction is what produces the so-called culture that attracts you to go check it out. there's no use in moving somewhere to "enjoy the culture" from high above if you have no intention of being part of the human fabric of what reproduces it. otherwise, you're just a consumer of it and are only contributing to its dilution.
the current administration is working pretty hard to fix some of the problems. the previous administration didn't even planned for a school. no parks... this is being fix also.
at least if there is families it will bring some social diversity. social housing is also part of the school project.
as for old an new building i'm not sure but i think there wasn't much old residential building there.
[school and community facilities in griffintown | ocpm] (
[the griffintown school will come with community housing | radio-canada.ca (radio-canada.ca)] (
[millions to green griffintown, invaded by condos | radio-canada.ca (radio-canada.ca)] (
[three upcoming parks in griffintown over the next few years | realize montreal (realisonsmtl.ca)] (
[griffintown will have a new park that is too beautiful! (photos) | nightlife] (
still better than razing agricultural and biologically productive land for bland suburbia. i'd take [this]( over [this](
griffintown is a mess. every other street is blocked for construction. no parking. no amenities.
the city will never change anything though because there's such a high turnover on condos they make ridiculous amounts of money on welcome taxes. most of the people who buy condos are young professionals or couples and once they want a family they sell. lather rince repeat.
you do know that griffintown used to be literally abandoned warehouses, parking lots and factories for decades right? it's much more beautiful now. some urbanization like this definitely does not hurt abandoned areas like what griffintown used to be.
i think people in this thread are exaggerating the reality of the housing stock in griffintown. yes, there are a lot of tiny shoebox condos, but there are also larger apartments and townhouses. and there is also a lot of social housing in the form of co-ops. i think if you compare it to similar areas in toronto like liberty village, griffintown has a broader social mix.
griffintown was developed in a very haphazard way but it was mostly parking lots, warehouses and auto mechanics before. its population before 2006 was around 200 – and this is an area right next to downtown. a lot of the new buildings are really ugly but i think the density is very appropriate given its central location.
the big problem with griffintown isn't the density, it was the lack of planning. but that was because of decisions made under the notoriously corrupt tremblay administration, and these days there is a stronger planning process for other upcoming neighbourhoods like the quartier des lumières, the molson brewery and the portes sainte-marie.
i work not far from griffintown and notice a trend of people not picking up their dog shit. they'll pay $2000 for a shiba inu or cockapoo, but not $0.99 for a roll of compostable poo sacks. the new greenspace in front of my office is going to be disgusting in spring.
at the same time, the central neighborhoods are fiercely defending their historic buildings. in fact, there is very, very little residential construction in central neighborhoods outside of the cv and by extension griffintown. development is just happening on a few specific wastelands. the rest is integration. for example, on the plateau, you cannot build higher or lower than your neighbors in a row of plexes.
this means that we protect a fantastic scale, and that we prevent montreal from changing for the worse (in the eyes of many), but it also means that these neighborhoods are under strong real estate pressure and cannot meet demand and demand. population growth.
so we see a u-shaped construction phenomenon: a lot of cv (and griffintown) constructions in towers, and the rest in the suburbs, where there is space to build. and often in turn ironically these days ... (just surrounded by parking lots).
>read more jane jacobs 
hear, hear!
and if you're not into books there's always this documentary you can watch for free here 
([bonus link]( she was one of the few anglo intellectuals sensible to québec independence movement )
when it's all said and done, if we followed your preferences, there would be:
more sprawl
more cars
less housing
less affordability
griffintown was a missed opportunity.  they replaced a shithole with a beehive.
definitely something to watch out for... but it will be hard to turn montreal into toronto!  :)
griffintown like toronto? not really. griffintown has social housing, affordable housing and regular condos, green space is being developed and it's part of an innovation quarter of downtown montreal. up until 2010, it was mostly abandoned and dangerous. today it's where many people, from students to professions go live to be part of downtown. there's pedestrian only streets and better infra as well. 
the plan you see today is downscaled, this is mainly due to the 2008 recession. the first plan was $6b and was approved by benoit dorais (who is now part of pm). but of course, since cities are cash strapped and rely on property taxes, they allowed the scaled down version to go through. 
i can tell you griffintown, despite the flaws, is better developed than almost all new neighbourhoods going up in cities between the u.s and canada. at least street level is much nicer and isn't just entrances for parking lots (looking at you southern belt, u.s) and it's 100% better than the crap going up in toronto too lol.
my wife’s friend has a unit in that condo building that has green windows (colour not environment friendly), i swear its the cheapest crap i ever saw. everything is cheap, and i mean everything. some units are good quality but this one is a nightmare. i read an article that basically said buildings with brick is solid and good, the ones with too much glass/windows are future slums. toronto will have alot of this problem in the future. you can already see them falling apart. cheers!
jane jacobs said, i think correctly, that no amount of additional property taxes could ever offset the cost of servicing these developments.
they’re built, or allowed to be built, (almost solely) for the purpose of increasing revenues but end up being a financial vortex!
i'm interested in reading more about about st. jamestown. could you add some links to your post?
same as olympic village in vancouver
there's an interesting documentary from cbc called cities held hostage that talks about why montreal's condo boom has been so poorly managed. 
[
me, who wanted to move to griffintown: 🤡
damn didn't know it was actually a bad idea, i really thought it was a nice new neighborhood with cute apartments and the canal view.
don't like griffintown and something tells me i don't particularly like the sort of people that choose to live there these days.
[deleted]
the reason those buildings are cheaply built and not well maintained is rent control. in order to not discourage new construction, new buildings are usually exempted from rent control. eventually, rent control is applied to those buildings. this front loads the profits that can the building can earn. without rent control, developers would be able to make longer term investments.
ah look, nimbys in the wild!
griffintown was factories back in the day.
that's why i'll always vote for someone like val plante over someone like coderre.
[deleted]
what’s fun about griffintown is that montreal learned from it. it was one of the first gentrification projects and the city learned from these mistakes when developing others such as st henri
you don't say, montreal practically built the rem going straight in to it.
"potential"? it already is "little t.o."
for the love of god montreal, do not ever allow yourself to become anything like toronto. 
toronto is a sterile, regressive wasteland where fun goes to die and everyone is a self-centred dickhead. that's why all the good art and food comes from montreal, because conservatives don't live there.
and where in montreal do you live?
ikr, i could not believe how poorly the condos are built. the city only sees as jackpot rather than "actual living space." huge disappointment on city and the companies working on the project.
ah yes the city allowed a massive redevelopment project without thinking about "hey does the current infrastructure support this" which it didn't. then there was an insane scramble to upgrade sewage, electrical and water supply. peak redevelopment for me was when century old row houses were "damaged" during a dig and had be demolished... these same houses where the owners refused to sell
as a fellow refugee from toronto who is in love with montreal, i completely agree with you. i don't think there is much we can do to stop it, the real impetus is mass immigration of working age professionals. canada used to bring refugee families, but now it brings condo buying young professionals.
it is going to be sad seeing what happened to toronto also happen to montreal.
well, i have lived in vancouver and edmonton alongside southwestern ontario. i have to say edmonton has been incredibly gentrified these past few years, and vancouver is way past no point of return, and montreal will follow suit.
i wanted to try toronto for a few years, but housing has me feeling a sort of way, so i looked into winnipeg, and they seem to be going the route of gentrification as well.
so what is left?
also, im not surprised about montreal one bit! anyone who is surprised is undoubtedly living in their bubble for the past few years.
i don't like or agree with arrogant rich people with a superiority complex but i can understand how they always try to separate themselves from the poor because being poor is sadly viewed as a contagious disease & they don't want beggars in their posh neighbourhoods. or another example is how recipes work, they don't want to mix high quality ingredients with low q. ones (or just ones that would taste bad in it). a rich neighbourhood tries to do this, the neighbourhood being the recipe and the people are the ingredients.
unfortunately i don't think it's ever gonna change.
i don't understand tho how st.jamestown failed? because of the lack of diversity? it seemed like the intent was good. i'm not the smartest guy so i'm probably missing a lot of stuff but personally i prefer low cost apartments in old buildings, they have more character and it fits with my preference of buying everything second hand but i know that some people only want luxury and brand new stuff (even tho i don't agree, it's not sustainable & very taxing on the environment). 
what is a good example of cities or neighbourhoods that are well balanced & stood the test of time?
100% agree! the jane jacobs book “the death and life of great american cities” illustrates this view on neighbourhoods quite clearly! its a shame that the book was written 1961, yet cities are just starting to catch onto the importance of urban planning focused on the well-being of individuals!
bird’s eye view: 
i work in the neighborhood (well, did, before the pandemic) and i’ve witnessed the transformation. there’s definitely too much of one thing in the area, doesn’t seem like balanced living.
to support your take on how spaces could be more livable — check out the writings of christopher alexander (eg, the pattern language). lots of interesting ideas in there.
lol it’s basically the cityplace of montreal
griffintown is an awful project completely devoid of charm. the city needs to resist these kinds of projects. we should build more medium density areas with triplexes instead, like in the sud-ouest and verdun and let neighborhoods develop.
so people living in tokyo don’t generally have the housing costs increase the way we do, and their population growth rates are high just like ours.
we are at a critical junction now, after covid, where the number of people that will be able to work from home is as high as it’s ever been. we also have the rem coming online soon. normally, densification means putting pressure on the transit arteries. we should take advantage of our current situation and a density while we can.
build condos and bring in heroin, we are not becoming toronto but vancouver.
however there are tons of heroin busts happening around town, so maybe we can put a stop to this bullshit.
small local business closing or selling out to big business (look at adonis, i remember when that place was a small deli counter and fruit store on l'acadie )
are you okay?
i agree with the sentiment of your post
toronto is a soulless city that incessantly copies montreal but it will really never have any charm like montreal. anyhow, i don't want montreal to become like toronto but in the end we may have no choice. no matter what though, montreal can never be a desolate wasteland of wannabe's like toronto is. old money, the hollywood stars and tourists all come to montreal eventually after they've spent the one day in toronto to do whatever business they needed to do.
👏👏👏👏👏👏👏👏 (have heard torontonians say it is their favorite neighborhood in montreal)
i believe it is more due to poor urban planning from the city and and the free hand that private companies have on the development while disregarding the needs of the city. best example is griffintown where it only after they realise that the neighborhood needed a elementary school not before. i like how in a sense condos building are growing like mushroom but without the essential services being here, or if they are, being overused. which stress young families to move out of the city center and go into the suburb which hold more space and more essential services and creates more urban sprawl.
another point is that developers will always try make profit so condos are a faster way to make profit versus rentals which is why we have a housing crisis here in montreal because of low supply and high demand. their may be other factors, like the pricing bubble which makes condos that may worth less pricier which in turn few can afford to pay for such condos. 
i personally would prefer the government or the city administration to push to build their own housing to tackle the ever growing condos boom in montreal but to solve the housing crisis in montreal also. best example is singapour where with political willingness and many other factor help solve their housing crisis. although here in canada we tend to the bear minimum since budget are tight and while developers have lots of money to spend on lavish condos, city and government have much less to spend on public housing. that does not mean they are poor, but they prefer to allocate more money in other ressources like services and etc.
here the link for the singapour housing crisis and how they solve it. [
i believe there is a way to densify the city with everyone taking part in it, both public and private groups. versus having the city and government going toe to toe with the developers, it is important to better understand the need of the population, to work in harmony, hand in hand.
100% agree. the timeless way of building only ever happens when developers take pride in their work. this is the exact opposite of that.
1. encourage density at human scale
1. force many smaller developments over fewer monolithic ones
1. prioritize owner/developers rather than ones who build, sell, and bail.
1. prioritize development by people who live in the community. people who have no skin in the game don't care how what they build affects the community.
very nice!
it reminds me of something we could have seen in "in a galaxy near you"
the orange cone rockets... well done!
the romano farfard 2 in a galaxy near you 3
wow, super!  
the details are excellent:
vm-1642-f = city of montreal, founded in 1642, by france?
the city logo, the small bikes as victory marks, the orange cones as engines ...
i love
[it reminds me of that song from mes aieux] (
omg good. :)
in the streets of montreal we sail at warp zero
thr orange cones 😭
how montreal sees itself: this photo.
how it is: nid the pool.
the montreal mothership 👽
is this space force?
this is creative and i like :)
the cone-drone killed 4 bikes? xd
wow! * the 3 discs * of calder hold the road anteka, haha!
incredibly, cones propel you instead of immobilizing you in traffic
looks like futuristic drones we can expect in 2077..... ;)
flagrant lack of cycle paths on your spaceship: p
wowowow tres tres cool!
i love it! <3
really nice! gj
love it.  just in time for mike pence to name his space force "guardians" too.
very very well done!
what software do you use?
very nice! but you forgot the construction cones!! guiding the ship in ... in the wrong direction ... at the last second ...
to
at night door ... garage door.
romeo bouffard
vm = ville-marie, original name of the colony that became montreal!
wow indeed, i did not know this song! i grew up close to the stadium and have always found it to look like a star wars or star treck ship. i'm not the only one obviously.
i came on purpose to say that
yes! me too that's exactly what i thought!
photoshop!
check the engines.
as the great julius caesar used to say ... it's fun, there's no bug
after the rain ... the grass is wet
death is a thief who flees with our souls ... but since she forgot her keys of the tank, she is obliged to hitchhike ...
at the
oh no, ufo jokes have been around for quite a long time!
lol i saw them! i just thought that like the real montreal they should be random and everywhere!
maybe stars are the cone d'orange of space.
this is really neat. it really gives the impression that montreal is in a valley, which i guess it kind of is?
absolutely beautiful work. /r/mapporn worthy for sure
this is so cool!
wow! where did the inspiration for this technique come from, and how’d you do it?
you might want to title this one montréal tho
i love seeing the remnants of the volcanic hotspot and the "mountains" it left behind
[removed]
ok so that helps explain the qc-us border for me.  
ps, it looks gorgeous
...and that is why i always rode my bike in quebec when i lived in ottawa.
this is so incredibly beautiful!!!
it looks great. i might have favoured a slightly less exaggerated vertical scale (the laurentians are not the rockie mountains), but that's great.
an interesting tidbit of information. the highway map dates from the 1970s or 1980s (the 417 is there to ottawa and there are some chunks of the 55 in québec), yet autoroutes 13 and 30 are not there at all. but it also shows railroads that have been dismantled as early as the 1940s or 1950s.
very cool map/rendering thanks for sharing
neat! the adirondaxks and vermont can be seen just south...so cool
a really interesting perspective.
nice work! i am confused though... is that a picture of a 3d-printed map, or a 3d rendering? because the elevated edge of the map is so clean, you either photographed it with a telephoto lens, or more likely, it is an all-digital rendering.
love this so much! is the elevation exaggerated?
in what form is this available? eric efxp0000@gmail.com
do you have one of just the island of montreal? i'd love to have this on my wall!
love it! do you sell prints?
that's so cool
this is so cool!! great job!
ah, that's why it's called valée du st laurent. history class really didn't demonstrate it well.
as someone who's been hiking a lot these days, this is cool to look at!
i love visiting "les 4 points cardinaux". i'm looking a composition of 3 maps, maybe montreal, na, and world. it's hard to find 3 maps that can be composed together.
thanks! will use this to teach history in high school, if that's alright.
awesome! you can really see how it's possible the whole valley was once a huge lake. i live in a transition zone between the st-lawrence valley and the appalachians, and the change is very apparent just like on your map.
you should sell high quality digital versions of this, or even like prints!
growing up in the outaouais, the hills of gatineau park seem overdone.
it is.
st lawrence river plains. just like ottawa, in the ottawa river valley.
both parts of the st lawrence rift system
montrealers used to call us capital region guys 'valley boys' but i guess we were all valley boys all along...
he did a bunch of these from various places and posts them there regularly. i always enjoy his work. keep it up!
i’ve seen others doing similar things so i wanted to make some of canada. also, i do gis for a living so it’s not far off my normal work
i didn’t make the name unfortunately. just happened to be what the surveyors decided to call this grid
same here! that's a gorgeous piece of map!
it’s all digital rendering!
yes it is quite exaggerated lool
i can look for vintage maps of the area and make one! i sell my works on etsy under the shop name: modern cartography
yes i do! on etsy under the shop name modern cartography
i actually recently started to! check me out on etsy at modern cartography
op mentioned that the elevation is overkill, i imagine for it to * punch * more like rendering
cool! so, is your process digital (3d printing w/ elevation data), or is this more if an artisanal thing (foam, layers of epoxy, paint, etc.)?
just curious cause it looks so awesome!
very nice!
i just looked through it and amazing work! but definitely yea, montreal would be swell!
why the vintage map (for example the 1975 montreal map)? due to copyrights?
it’s all digital, i haven’t done any 3d printing as of yet but really want to in the future when i can afford it. right now i just do digital renders like these
i just like the looks of vintage maps when i add the elevation to it
i have a printer! i’d print a a few small scale ones for free if you’d be interested. i’d like one myself.
lets start a business i can make the website and advertise
some links from this thread (it was thunder):
march 24th me: the ambient noises outside were insufferably loud and i couldn’t sleep at all
march 25th me: apparently sleeps through biggest thunder storm in a while
i thought a plane was going to crash on my head. i literally woke up and was like "oh well that's it then" and prepared to die.
yeah it was so loud and roared for a long time.. didn't see the fish though.
that was great. first of the year? i thought "summer is coming"
also, there was a sudden rainfall at 21:30 for about 10 minutes that stopped as suddenly. weird.
[deleted]
holy shit that was real? i thought i dreamt it
... my brain incorporated this into my dream
my house in sainte anne shook violently for several seconds. we thought that maybe a train derailed or something exploded. it was raining but there was no other thunder the entire night.
here’s a decent explanation:
> in the more typical, surface based storms, sound waves dissipate in all directions. however, because of the temperature inversion air warming as you go up, in elevated storms, the sound waves are trapped near the ground or get bent back toward earth or refracted. this trapping and refraction of sound can cause addition sound and amplify the sound of thunder, making it louder sounding. the trapping of the sound waves can allow the sound waves to bounce back and forth. this can also contribute to a louder boom and it can make the thunderous sound last longer too.
basically it’s like blasting a speaker in a small room as opposed to an open field. the storm was thick enough to trap the sound as opposed to letting it run free, allowing us to enjoy it’s terror several times over thanks to refraction.
broo i felt it in pincourt 😂it was loud like holy shit
i live in saint-lazare and saw the bright flash before the boom. i cannot wrap my head around it being only thunder, and how we all (a large portion of québec) felt it simultaneously, and i find it even more curious how basically no news outlets have mentioned it...maybe a little later.
plateau here, woke me up and i freaked out half asleep before making the connection with the rain
i was in the bathroom, thought it was me for a second.
côte-des-neiges here, woke me up and was so long and loud i wondered if it was an explosion. however, no one else in the house heard, i thought i was dreaming.
uhm... well i was doing an emergency fueling at saint-hubert airport at 3:45 and im pretty sure the bolt you're talking about was the one that hit the control tower... because i really thought i was gonna die. my ears are still ringing right now
i simply cannot accept that that was thunder. i've lived in tropical countries with crazy lightning and storms, and this sound did not resemble anything i've ever heard. i had my window open and was staring outside as the sound was going on.  simply don't believe it was thunder.
it woke me up here in chambly. very loud thunder.
woke me up at 3h26 this morning. i live in vaudreuil, crazy stuff!
aw i missed it
i'm downtown. i woke up up to an explosion so loud around 4 a.m. that my first half-awake thought was that it was a nuclear bomb. i got up and went to the window and saw the rain and concluded it was thunder, but boy, i've seen a lot of thunderstorms and have even seen lightning crash within a few hundred feet of me but this was louder than any thunder i've ever head. there was some thunder and lightning evident after that but it had a more typical volume.
right? couple fire trucks came up my road bout 20 minutes after, lights and everything. guess they check out some backyards then left. i thought there was an airplane crashing into my house. loudest thing i've ever heard in my life.
i am spring, and i have fucking arrived.
there was a big system that moved from st catherine, to toronto through kingston and ottawa.
it was not a lightning bolt, as it was not recorded on lightning detection networks.
also, the descriptions do not agree with that of a lightning bolt. it is impossible for someone from saint-jean-sur-richelieu to hear the same flash as someone from pincourt or from l'assomption.
my best guess right now would be the explosion of a meteorite in the atmosphere.
edit: it was lightning after all.
shook our entire house. it lasted for a solid thirty seconds. i don't think it was thunder but possibly a meteor hitting the atmosphere?
omg i can tell you exactly what happened. around 3:30 to 4am, a huge bolt of lightning hit a tree around 20m behind my house (mont-saint-hilaire) and instantly blew it up. everyone i've talked to reports this at the same hour. there are pieces of wood in a 75m radius around the tree. no one was injured.
man every time something happens at night i miss it. if there's a faucet leaking a drop of water every minute i won't be able to fall asleep, but once i'm gone there could be an f1 race below my window and i'd sleep throught it.
it was wild. we woke up just before the storm and watched from the balcony. it was like that one thunder kept going. the cracks of lightning illuminated the sky....we face the mountain from the ne side. it was freakin awesome, we were out there for the whole thing.
here is a link to a video of the affair, theres no way this is thunder haha [
brossard here ... super loud and abnormally long. i too wondered what it was because it seemed too long to be thunder
live near metro peel.  horrible thunder! apparently, in ancient time in mongolia they were afraid of thunders. now i can get why.
woke me up as well. but it did not wake up my dog. he usually hates thunder.
it was just a  thunder. my 7yrs old daughter have not hear it. maybe the lighthing was close to you but from where i was a regular thunder. i’m belle-chasse and l’assomption
i'm in saint laurent. heard two of them. thought it was planes at first, i hear those often. but they were too loud and lasted so long. definitely thunder.
heard it here in beaconsfield, went on so long thought it was a train derailment or plane crash. it was more 3:30ish for me.
[same thing at the same time in austin, texas.](
surprised nothing on the news about it 🤔
edit: **montrealers wake up to boom from the heavens, not an earthquake**
montrealers were startled awake around 3 a.m. thursday thinking the ground might be shaking, but it turns out it was the heavens jolting them out of their slumber.
"we, too, received about 30 reports of something strongly felt in and around the west end of montreal island, between 3:20 and 3:30 a.m.," said seismic analyst nick ackerley of the canadian hazard information service.
both the earthquake track and earthquakes canada websites reported no earthquakes in the region, which ackerley confirmed by checking seismographs in the region.
"clearly a lot of people felt something frightening, but it was likely related in some way to the fierce thunderstorm that rolled through around that time," he said.  
a low pressure system hit the region overnight which brought rumbles of thunder with it.
[source: cjad](
i was up, and saw it knowing it was going to freak the sleeping cat when the boom came. but why is it impossible to believe the most plausible explanation? yesterday's weather forecast thunder at night, too.
haven’t experienced it much in montreal, but in connecticut we would get rolling thunder like this pretty commonly.   that one was loud but definitely just thunder, esp since the storm started right after.  sorry internet conspiracy theorists.
yes! at 3:40 am. the thunder was so loud and it slowly faded away with a rumbling but it took a long time to stop.
i was closing my eyes to fall asleep, and i just snap out of bed after noticing a really intense flash. opened my window to hear the roar. it was a particularly bright flash indeed.
the crazy thing is how it was only a single lightning strike, and everyone on the south shore heard it.
me too!!! i was watching videos at 3:46 am (i think) i look outside flash i'm like " ok wierd whatever" then i hear this big ass boom and i'm like wtf???
from the west island, heard it as well... i went back to bed instead of recording it 🤣
damn you guys making me feel like i missed out
all i'm getting here is the sound of construction drilling the pavement at 8 am sharp :(
my dog heard it, poor muffin hates thunder and hopped into bed with me
"o**n that day, humanity received a grim reminder."**
sorry guys, i had a lot of taco bell
"theres no way that it was just thunder" meaning?
it looks good! i can see my school :)
beautiful!
do you sell them?
wow that’s gorgeous! nice work
love your stuff!!
hey, those are dope!! mtl represent
this is amazing!
very nice, i hope to see an exhibition of your views one day.
maybe a low effort/shit post rules needs to be added.
cheers! thanks
psnm? what were you doing on reddit in p1? ;-)
thanks :)
thanks for the interest! i have a website where there are a few prints: www.bigbadbaghdad.com
thanks a lot!
haha i don't go there anymore lol
i love watching the sky. always beautiful.
great pic! 
which part of montre is that? i'm a sucker for old houses and that seems like a neighborhood i'd like to stroll in.
i agree.
the sky in montreal was one of my favorite things about living there, especially at “magic hour”
summer in the northern hemisphere is great all around!
i was in a cab to the airport in montreal at sunset in december 2014 and i texted a friend back in la "this sunset is a visual representation of a chorus of angels singing"
ah, you're finally awake !
aren't pink clouds a sign of pollution?
every evening, i go outside on my balcony and check out the sky with my boyfriend. it's a nice ritual. we've always have comments about the pretty colours. (yay pollution!)
it looks like westmount up by the summit park.
it is westmount, streets that lead upwards from aberdeen avenue and towards westmount summit park.
is that golden hour or blue hour?  both are amazing!
you were trying to cross the border, right?
it is, but it's not the only possible cause.
i've seen pink clouds in the yukon and alaska so don't think so. i may be wrong tho
no, it mainly depends on the humidity.
i go by the river (ile bizard) and watch the sunset, sometimes with a nice joint. very enjoyable. mont royal has amazing sunsets but i think the ones by water are superior as you can see the reflection. south africa with it's huge mountains on the coast of the sea is probably one of the best places for that.
theoretically, it's not montreal :).
i’ve heard all those names used without distinction, depending if people were farmers, cinematographers, sailors etc. 
what’s the difference?
i had the chance to work inside the arctic circle (or very close to it, igloolik) in august 2011: the « night » was 45 minutes of pink sky.
i remember how intense was their « let’s take our city back » campaign.
golden hour is when every object glows a reddish-yellow.
blue hour is the opposite, like in this picture, when everything has a bluish tint to it.
not sure if it has to do with atmospheric conditions, or angle of light, or whatever, but both are pretty incredible. i think golden is right before sunset, and blue right after?
thanks. 
i know in movies blue hour is when the sun has set but the light is still there. it’s like a 45-60 minute window. i think terrence mallick is using that a lot, maybe kubrick too in barry lindon.
so i would say my colloquial use of the terms is the same as the movies. 
a quick google says in the morning it's reversed (makes sense) with blue pre-rise and golden right after.
[deleted]
so one of the co-organizers is bragging about being able to afford a nice trip with the donations received, but will public money have to pay to erase this bullshit on the wall? can we send him the invoice instead, please?
i would have liked to have had a cacanne of paint to add an erratum to the first one.
« vaccine kills...  the virus »
nice gang of grapes.
you know what, this is a wonderful parallel to the internet. a single individual, a poor and unstable fucker with a spray can, can leave a strong mark that will linger for a long time, despite not representing the community at all. the fallacy of people walking by, seeing this, can think that it represents the city
[deleted]
vaccine kills .. lol? since when??
people who died from ca covid must be fake enh numbers? / s
it's always let the children play, which is such selfish bullshit. it's not about their precious kids, it's all about adults acting like spoiled brats. the kids are probably a lot better off than they think. it's nothing more than lazy, ignorant morons and their shitty, germy kids. they're the reason we're in this mess, and they're the reason it's still going on. 
fuck you and your kids!
would love to send the people saying fake pandemic to icu wards/hospitals  in ontario or in india.
it's pissing off because these are the ostis of thick morons who left in a yellow bus from the depths of quebec to come and slaughter the neighborhood in which i live where i now have to face the stupid words every day and be reminded that 'they exist.
fuck them. i wish them to catch the covid osti and choke on it.
lucie laurier did it all, i saw her
i really can’t stand these people. i’m generally pretty patient, but i have none when it comes to this. they’re all so stupid. i can’t even understand how they can shit on something they clearly don’t understand. that’s some crazy mental gymnastics
ahaha with the conjugation and punctuation errors, the sign reads as if indeed, legault let our children breathe, and not like “legault, let our children breathe!”. just a little ironic.
what exactly is the name of their sect?
ah more signs of what some called a perfectly peaceful and uneventful protest that in no way interfered with vaccines at that site.  /s
i've learned that if someone has to preface something with they are pro-science, they are about to show you a youtube clip of two ancient and irrelevent doctors in alberta who think restrictions are bad
i suggest that we send the compensation invoice to the city of st-jérôme
ark
i say you should be totally allowed not to get vaccinated.
you just have to redo all of highschool science sec 1-5
braindead
big whinners
worse in addition it is not collected.
the sign is right, it's true that legault lets our children breathe; without the sanitation measures, there are many more who would have respiratory problems right now.
whenever people spray paint stupid shit, i remember this snl skit where they talk about the police hiring people who match the handwriting (spraywriting), and add more spray paint to make you look stupid.
in this case, they’d add “covid” at the end of the first one and “not a” in front of the second.
smooth brain time
sometimes i tell my roommates to change the subject when we talk about this. it comes so get me, how people can be just 100% straight up dumb as fuck.
the photo in this radio canada article is just perfect.
faces ... slogans ... and even math is on point.
dumb af.
these people can't be bothered to look up how vaccines saved millions from smallpox/polio.
you all need a hug, can we allow hugs again?
i was there. again, 90% of the people were civilized. you still have a percentage of morons, unfortunately. even though i agree with the post and understand the frustration, this graffiti was too much ...
just let those fuckers die, less idiots - better life
not all protesters are anti science . some just want to have a choice, a voice.
fuck these guys.
i have a serious question: who are these people? all quebecers i know are normal people. i understand that there are many anglo-canadians who watch fox news and therefore have been assimilated to american pathology, but french speakers in general are not like that at all (in my experience).
it's completely weird.
there is always going to be unwanted elements in all manifestations. it is never a representation of the complete movement. i'm sure you would be aware of this fact if it would have been a manifestation of blm. could you try to have a little empathy for this movement too? good for you if your life is still going well after being embarrassed at home for over a year, but there are a lot of people who haven't been so lucky. to ridicule this movement constantly is just doing a favor to the government which, by the way, has completely screwed up everything about covid from a to z. do you really want to be a propagandist for their regime?
im sorry but vaccin kill...
they kill virus .
yup exactly.. can’t even protest because of these dumbos
well, if we wanna talk about science, *some* of the vaccines have caused death and i don’t think it should be brushed under the carpet. the vector vaccines botched their research on side effects in their rush to produce it as fast as possible. however, the amount of people that will die if we don’t reach herd immunity will be much greater than those caused by the vaccines. the biggest problem in all of this is that we shouldn’t have put ourselves in a position where we were this desperate to make compromises and sacrifices. canada should have at least been able to take contracts to produce vaccines or even design our own vaccines so we didn’t have to rely on other countries to so generously sell us theirs.
[most published research is wrong](
who is the cellar paying to go protest anyway? i really do not understand this one.
someone please do it and update us lol
... dry
just in time for the cinco de cuatro
[you're kiɖɖing me, buster](
well i don't know what i expected...
imagine: a swimming pool filled with vaccine. a guy falls in, can't swim and has 50kg of concrete attached to his foot. death from vaccine. celebrate research.
yeah, plus most kids do seem to be playing outside? idk, near me all winter i'd see kids making snowforts, tobogganing or playing pick-up hockey in the alley. they didn't seem too "oppressed." i suppose it was against the rules, but from a pure safety standpoint not too risky since they were outside. 
some parents no doubt did not let their kids do this, but i can't imagine those would be the same people taking to the streets that the restrictions are too harsh on kids. i think a lot of parents are projecting their own anxiety/fears/stress about their kids/having their kids at home more. 
what do they think happens in other countries afflicted by wars and natural disasters? school and normal life gets interrupted sometimes during extreme events. if the kids aren't fine in a permanent way, it's because of the direct effects of those wars/disasters (deaths/injury of those around them etc.).
saying to let kids play is exactly implying they don't give a fuck if their kids get covid ... bad parenting all around !
i’m in highschool and i’m loving masks because i’m not confident at all and i think i’m ugly so i actually hope masks don’t go to soon
sounds like you'd like to write some graffiti of your own.
weren't you a shitty, germy kid at one point? loving the compassion here.
don't get me wrong, i'm not defending vandalism or ignorance which is why this comment seems like the other side of the same coin.
or even in quebec. we're not out of it yet, the hardest part is probably behind us but i still see people dying of covid and complications every week..
it's a real snowdon, the hole is too small for fairmount / st v
i thought it was a photo at first
if you're not going to tell us what bakery you prefer you might as well not be from montreal. regardless, if it's not fairmount you're wrong.
fairmount > st viateur dont @ me
which bakery?
i have a taste for brewing mustard: has the quality of saint-viateur diminished in recent years?
mtl bagels beat ny bagels. just saying
what do you mean you painted it? it's the same colour as any other bagel.
(actually that was a compliment) :d
looks good enough to eat 😋
too uniform in shape to be from st-viateur or fair mount - looks like a toronto bagel to me ;)
andalos?
it looks appetizing!
would you mind painting some cream cheese to go with it?
your painting skills are delicious!
i just like bagels and smoked meat, i didn't expect this to be so controversial.
wow, looks like a picture! very talented!
you painted this?
obsessed with all your work!
bagels aren't bad, but i've never figured out why they're such a big even.
wow.
don't get into any bakery at the moment.  there's a pandemic!
selling prints?
i like how montreal’s only dish is either poutine or bagel. 
aim a little higher maybe
i was going to say ville émard certainly lol
a hot fairmount sesame on the walk home with a bagful under my arm is my dream afternoon.
the only right answer here no cap
i don't understand this one. i don't want to be persistent i just want to understand. seems to me that st-viateurs are tastier, right? if you take a bite of each one after the other the fairmount is definitely more bland. that's the impression i have, anyway.
it is of course from the unanimously preferred bagel place: <insert bakery of choice>
i used to be a st viateur person but man... it is hard to defend them as the best anymore. even bagel brossard has gotten me on board now! fairmount is better now... 
i've noticed a significant drop in the last 5 years at viateur, and their retail bagels are noticeably not as good as their in-house ones.
u my dear friend, have said dangerous words in the montreal sub, u have two choices and toronto ain’t one
yes indeed!
that's bloody incredible. (*applause*).
i have nothing to add to the bagel discussion but your accent in the same word makes me want to freak out a table.
yes please dm me on instagram @erinrothstein
how high should montreal aim? what are ottawa’s popular dishes?
because fairmount bagel is open 24h, so if you have a hankering for a 3am bagel (pre lockdown) they can hook you up
next let’s discuss smoked meat 👍👍
retail bagels occasionally come burnt now and sadly i can taste it. i'm a die hard st v fan but i must agree i've had some sad bagels from them lately.
brossard bagels are the best on the south shore by far. nothing better than eating them fresh out of the bag when they’re still warm.
real bagel says hi lol
a granny.
as a former ottawan... shawarma i guess? honestly ottawa-gatineau has some great bagel (kettlemans, cadmans, ottawa bagel shop) and poutine (fritomania, pataterie hulloise, patate lou-lou) places too, idk anyone there who would shit on bagels & poutine
ottawa never claimed to have a famous dish
the main obviously. next!
> a granny.
this is the best thread on this post by far
happy cake dayyyy
fully agree! best smoke meat and poutine i’ve had in mtl so far.
omg no!!! even dunn’s smoked meat is better than the main. i suppose next you’re going to tell me that cote st luc chicken is better than chalet bbq... 🚫
oh wow thanks! you too! i had no idea 🤷🏻‍♂️
me neither, i posted a puppy pic at last minute. had to reap that sweet karma
* we are in 2025, everyone is talking about it ends its 20th season. *
* guy a lepage: "we welcome this evening denis coderre who comes to present us his new book 'montréal ça stinks pis c'est laitte; a love letter to the metropolis'. denis, the question that kills. will you- do you go to town hall? "*
* denis coderre: "well guy a. i have changed. and yes, i will go to town hall to show you how much i have changed" *
he said he would stick around as opposition leader this time, always full of shit.
unless i'm mistaken, he still hasn't said the words: "congratulations to valérie plante for her victory".
it's all the same for such a proud man. he is still blaming the media or his opponents or whatever instead of saying well done and actually moving on.
shit attitude.
edit: error on my part, he quickly said bravo at the beginning of his speech before launching into his usual nonsense.
i quit 2, electric boogaloo
hope it's true this time around!
comp is try
denis coderre never wanted to serve the community, all he wanted was to serve himself.
k. bye.
he left to concentrate on his next book: reretrouver montreal.
* “i love them,” he said. “it's an extraordinary book that ends, but with this experience, i can do a lot of other things, \ [… \] both internationally, locally or elsewhere. "*
my french isn't the best, trying to understand what could be *ailleurs* in this case. if not local nor international, where then?
word of a friend: "denis coderre who announces his withdrawal from political life, it's like broue who announces his last tour."
womp womp.
edit: i'm coming to dislike politicians with increasing intensity the older i get. but mr. coderre is at another level - the very sight of him, especially in those stupid fucking glasses he's adopted to hip himself up, makes me want to go vote against him all over again. he didn't deserve to govern and i'm beyond glad he lost. hopefully he can pack up that ridiculously oversized ego of his and find a dumber electorate far from here to try and swindle.
he actually promised he wouldn't do like last time and would stick around. so much for that pledge.
unless of course the polls are in favor of a return to 2025 ...
yes please. and dark in oblivion
remindme! 40 months
haha!
my 2nd to last parting gift for him, was a vote not for him. 
my last parting wishes for him... is: 
#>!╭∩╮ʕ•ᴥ•ʔ╭∩╮!<
what a little man with an ego as heavy as a block of cement.
there are plenty of positions in the cas of large companies for political has-beens. he's gonna be okay.
i could see it being at transcontinental telling us that the publi-sac are still essential.
/s
denis coderre wants power or win.
if he loses he quits !! he's a sore loser, lucky he wasn't elected. if he had the best interests of montrealers at heart, he would have remained in the opposition to debate and defend his point. but no… he leaves for the nth time. it is a pure opportunist in my opinion !! chow bye bad loser 👋
beubye!
competent
passionate
unscrewed
he will come back 6 months before the next election
oh no! anyways.
never 2 without 3? the future will tell.
... for the next 4 years.
still?
yes of course, he does like so many others before him and he quits political life until the next election.
why the negatives ???
who are we going to talk about here then? : o
i'm sure it was entirely his decision, and not the will of the city.
don't let the door hit you on your way out! ciao!
the big load of shit doesn't even stay in the official opposition.
he did not specify the municipal therefore, there is always a door between open for the provincial. hoping that he regains his weight which made the cartoonists so happy.
pikachu face.
good riddance don't let the door hit you on the way out.
he's just so bitter ...
peace out and please don't come back next time.
still? i do not believe it at all.
at the risk of repeating myself, na na na naaaa, na na na naaa, hey hey hey, goodbye!
otherwise, for those who are nostalgic for mixmania, we have:
baby, baby  
you're leaving, it's done well for me
guys like you, i have my arms full
you go away and don't come back
don't, don't, don't, don't ...
good riddance. big thick.
make sure to tell your donors that if you don't release your conflicts of interest  in a timely manner that we won't accept the next guy either, denis.
username checks out !
cool.
bon vent denis, good luck in your private career, or not ...
seriously, is it going to be tough ensemble montreal. not bad all the stars have lost. projet montréal could reign over the city for a long time.
byebyebyensync.gif
promise?
don't let the door hit your face on the way out.
good riddance, shit bag.
but it's a jpeg. i wish it were raw so i could fiddle with it.
mmmm are you sure what montreal is? i don't see the leonard cohen mural
never seen!!!
where was this photo taken?
it’s fucking raw!
i prefer medium rare montreal
i love this city
since when does le 1000 have red lights on it?
from mount royal?
i thought it was a reference to wwe in montreal
i wanted a picture like this for a long time. thank you
nice, just finished a 1000 piece puzzle of the same view!
gorgeous !
fuckin greatest city in the world!
epic colors! which camera and lens did you use?
the green on the left is desjardins. our national flagship for 120 years. let's be proud!
stunning 😩
so i just got the 12 pro max. what exactly is the raw feature and how do i maximize its use?
fix the wb first hehe
huh shi you have a point, i usually shoot raw so i didn’t bother checking lmao, that sucks d: now i wanna see what you’d of done >~<
where is there a mural of cohen? the only mural i know of downtown  is the one of bourdain
out of frame, i have another photo with it but it was not as beautiful as what i posted. if you want i can send it to you
i think it is taken from chalet du mont-royal
monday night
personally more of a medium-well done my self but everyone kept telling me to try raw, so this was the result
ok.
it's been like for at least the last couple of weeks
from the kondiaronk lookout most likely, i recognize the angle and we see branches at the bottom left.
photo taken monday evening
glad i helped with that then! :d
there puzzles for everything huh lmao, i’m def too impatient for that so kudos
fujifilm x-t20 with the 18-55mm lens it came with lmao
raw pretty much lets you edit the shadows and highlights post-process better. not sure about how it works on phones though, but id think its the same thing
[here's]( a quick edit i did in iphoto. with night photos like these i usually boost the shadows, lower the highlights and cool the temperature in lightroom. anyway, it's a great shot!
you can see it to the right of this picture      
im not sure on which street it is
this, or more specifically “du belvédère kondiaronk” at its lookout in front of this chalet looking place
you can't see me!
do they change colour?
you would love these:
yeah i got the phone mainly for photography and that kind of thing. on a mac, you have some editing tools to recommend? on the free or cheap side?
wowwww ok that's so so good, really pretty and so much better .0. now i rlly wish it was raw aaaaaaaaaaaa
crescent street
oh i thought it was taken from the rooftop of cinema l'amour
oh how wonderful thanks i just bought a dozen, looking to finish at least 1 before covid ends! ( ´∀｀)
i wish i could but i’m not very experienced on the post processing side of things, i just use photoshop (that i got cracked for free), and the free version of lightroom on my ipad with some other random apps sometimes, but that more for portrait type stuff. for landscape and most things if not all, just photoshop. wish i could give a better answer but i do know there are definitely a ton of great apps on mobile and mac for free so you can look around, when i was taking pics from my iphone, i got pretty nice edited results through just the in camera editor, so just play around with it lmao
if anyone who knows their way around different editing apps, do leave your suggestions n stuff ^^
i wish i had that kind of access!
only a dozen? hopefully you can combine them for even more fun :d
loool
i barely made it on time to shoot this image after being bamboozled by the montreal busses on 4 separate occasions (never using google maps for busses in montreal ever again).
gear and details:
sony a6400
tamron 28-200 at 140mm f5
1/800s
iso 800
i have an alternate version of this image in infrared on my instagram:
full resolution images and prints:
op try the transit app,, it's really accurate
so beautiful. one thing that is cool about montreal is how old buildings such as churches can add a lot to an otherwise relatively single height area of town.
awesome picture. that's my montreal.
i believe that's tier clock tower on laurier in outremont at the bottom too right?
beautiful
my ❤️
i can see my flat from there, such a nice picture. walking on saint-viateur when the sun sets is amazing.
[deleted]
i just moved into this neighborhood yesterday!  thanks for the beautiful picture!
where did you shoot this from?
had a friend recommend it to me after, installed it but haven't used it yet since i only use the metro for my commute
recommended!
yep it is
church of st michael and anthony on the left (google maps just calls it "polish church" lol) and saint édouard church on the right.
from the north-eastern lookout on mont royal
it has subway time prediction too
thanks - nice shot.
happy feast of st. joseph!
friday, march 19, we celebrate the feast of saint joseph. here is a photo of u / simonlachapelle of saint joseph's oratory, the largest church in the world dedicated to the worship of saint joseph and the largest church in canada.
here is an interpretation of the canticle that is sung at the end of each mass, sung in the crypt of the oratory:
[noble husband of mary, worthy object of our songs! our hearts beg you, watch over your children!] (
what is the feast of saint-joseph ?? genuinely curious i've never heard of this before.
personal story: our graduation ceremony was at saint joseph's oratory in high school even though our school was in rosemont. the joke is that notre-dame college, our great rivals especially in football, was directly across the street.
you can be an atheist and still appreciate the contribution of the imo oratory.
all sorts of cool. great shot :)
the guy is apart of my family lineage, always a cool fact no one believes :)
this is absolutely stunning! great photo!
adequate username
the clarity of the photo. 🤩
to you too and happy father's day to those who want to celebrate today, let's have a meal of zeppole 😉
now is the time for those who want to treat themselves today to go and buy zeppoles today at their favorite italian pastry shop.
the catholic and orthodox churches, we have saints (ordinary people who have led holy lives and are in heaven and whom we implore for help). throughout the year, we celebrate these saints on special days. saint patrick's feast day is on march 17 (normally associated with the irish, green beer, and the nyc police department). another famous feast day is saint valentine, whose feast day is on february 14. la fête de saint-jean-baptiste is another feast day. and christmas is one of jesus' many feast days.
saint joseph's feast day, while it hasn't been secularized to the same extent as other saints, is a very important feast day for the church, as he is a very important figure.
i hope that helps
i don't know where they are giving their diplomas now, but we rarely went to the oratory, the relationship between the brothers and the fathers of the holy cross was not the best.
didn't know that rosemont was our biggest rival, i thought regina was.
probably due to the fact his actual historicity is totally unconfirmed.
just saying, you might start there before making further claims.
yeah no i know st patrick's day, easter, christmas and the whole gang it's just that we never hear about st. joseph's day, or at least it's not celebrated or a public holiday. if this is an important day for the church it is obviously not as important as christmas or good friday.
if it's not a holiday, for me it's not important lol
* jean-eudes
if we talk about football and the ranking of secondary schools. well it was in my time especially!
i think he is talking about brother andré, not joseph the father of jesus. brother andré, he existed ...
yeaaah i'm talking about brother andré lol, who is well and truly confirmed in my family's genealogy haha but yeah, you are right regardless
yes, indeed it is not more important than easter or christmas, and culturally the feast is not celebrated like the feasts of saint-patrick for the irish or saint-jean for the french-canadians.
that's why i posted this cool photo, to celebrate l'oratoire and to shed some light on his boss.
understatement of the year, "he existed" haha.
edit because i'm not clear when i speak, i don't make fun, the understatement made me laugh when you think about everything he has done, to all the people who consider themselves owed their life or well-being to him, at the oratory which replaces its shed and its saint-ification (i forgot the term) despite being called brother andré. not bad epic, the guy.
bingooo hahaha
ah the oily brother .... it's a lot more logical!
right, you see for us italians it's pretty big so it's cultural indeed.
like i said before at least everyone here can benefit from good zeppole dining.
interesting thanks for the info !!
let's face it, there are a lot less commercial incentives that mean that big business does not highlight saint-joseph as it does for others ...
if there is no way to make money for the capitalists, we don't mind, it seems!
except that “to exist” is binary: you exist or you do not exist. you can't understate existence ...
we are going to make together "the flat person of the party". the term can be binary in its form, that does not mean that its use in a sentence and in a language and culture gives it a binary meaning in use.
words and sentences have more meaning than their simple definition from dictionaries. in the present context, he expressed to exist in such a way as to oppose a presumed fictitious character. in my answer, i guess that to exist is too simple a term to describe the life of a man who has become a saint, since sometimes in the language describing that a person exists can also be interpreted so that he has only done that, without any interesting characteristic to his life.
winter is coming.
it looks like it’s cold just from the light and clouds.
lots of people take our city for granted but truly, montreal is beautiful.
very nice composition!
wow, she's amazing!
very nice.
i had cause to visit 900 de maisonneuve (the glass building at left) last year. the view looking south from the upper floors is simply amazing.
our quaint little metropolis
phenomenal!
nice photo.  i miss montreal!
i thought there was snow on the roof for a sec there ><
beautiful picture
wow😍 great picture!
wow
i’m stealing that pic
gorgeous!
put that shit away.
it's the editing actually, i took the picture with a drone so i had go through some color correction and added a bit of a "cold" vibe. glad you noticed anyway!
man our city has a vibe you won't find it anywhere else
it definitely has a vibe and is a beautiful but i had been destroyed by construction, bad management and corruption. i appreciate montreal as a visitor but cannot live there ever again.
thank you
thank you it's a pleasure !
i’m happy to say i installed most of the windows on that building.
the manulife tower? do you have pictures?
nice job, dude.
fun fact: 900 de maisonneuve west doesn't have any underground parking. it does have 5 or 6 storeys of it above ground though.
that's the one. sadly, no, my mind was on other things that day. maybe u/mind-against can arrange one for us?
the novel perspective on all the classic buildings surrounding dorchester square combined with a clear view all the way down to the river is quite stunning.
i'm planing to go downtown kater on to get more shots, i'll take one for you. let me know how you want it
anything approximating what i described above would be wonderful, thank you. the little alley between 900 and simon's should be quiet on a sunday afternoon. good luck!
[deleted]
my shift is 3pm till 11:30pm mon-fri.  i got all the necessary documentation from my work last friday stating why i would be out past curfew and i assumed that would have been enough.
now i gotta worry about some cop having a bad day and having to waste a day in court fighting a 1000+ dollar fine on top of my day to day bullshit at work!
i understand nothing honestly
instead of the authorization letters they may as well give out uno reverse cards.
the famous "judgment" of the police.
the curfew should have had very very precise rules to make sure we protect people. is the point of the curfew to prevent parties or to fuck with nurses and warehouse workers? at this point i will be shocked if they win the next election. i do not understand anymore, the curfew was put in place to prevent parties but aren't parties illegal anyway?
yay ma peur! i'm an essential workers since i work at a pharmacy and my boss is scheduling us to end at 8h30pm because "you need that much time to do the job" which we don't we can start earlier. so now i'm gonna be fucked on the way home even though i'm in uniform and i have signed letter from work. i told him the letter meant nothing but what does he care? sorry for the rant i just hate when everyone tells you your nuts for worrying about something and then it happens -_-
there is also the one who had her lunch bag searched:
beautiful powertrip
has common sense and not to mention intelligence gone out the window amongst provincial authorities in quebec?
i swear last night i was out at around 7:30 and i saw this woman run out from what looked like her place of work into the street and almost get hit by a car. she then got in her own car and sped off. i swear people are afraid of being caught out and people are going to get hurt.
police will be reasonable, is not a plan.
now just imagine all the time and money wasted when all these tickets are contested in court and ultimately overturned.
silly person, cops will only accept a notarized authorization letters in triplicate, and it will only be available on the 2nd floor between 2pm and 3:30pm, when you have form 2b. 
to get form 2b, wait in line for schedule tkt, which is only available on mondays, between 9:30 and 9:45am!
then, the cops will use their "discretion" to deem if your letter is valid or not in the future!!
why am i not surprised?
a small public reminder that the administration of montreal has increased the budget of the spvm. just what everyone needs.
everytime you give extra powers to the police they get abused.
welcome to tyranny. don't get expect this to end soon, or ever.
and now those people have to go to court and potentially spread the virus.
i was on vacation, i start my first night from saturday to sunday (11:45 pm-9am), i will have my paper delivered there.
i'm going to have my employee card, but i'll be fine if i get a ticket stuck.
"where are you going?"
"i do the covid tests"
i hope i won't have to go further than that ...
literally asking for your papers just for being outside on the streets. 
i am reminded of "are we the baddies?".
>prato said it is up to citizens to prove they're allowed to be out after curfew.
it says you have to "establish" that you're out for an exempted reason, but obviously it's not right to interpret that as requiring people to prove it, because there are several exemptions that are impossible to prove. for example, you can go to the drugstore. how do you prove you're on your way to the drugstore?
i *dare* a backwater cop to try to ticket me with my documentation. like do they think *i* want to be at work? no. but it is what it is. any power tripping cops will be met with complaints and i will fight any ticket i unlawfully receive by those oikers.
our police officers are trained in the military. follow orders, not use judgment and discernment.
there we ask them exactly that.
some police officers are capable of it, but from what i have seen over the past 15 years in mtl, it is not the majority.
it is therefore certain that there will be a pile of these tickets which will be unjustified.
that didnt take long
this happened to me, before the curfew. long live the magog police haha
i hope all the doctors and nurses that have been calling for curfews are happy with themselves.
as a **direct** result of these disturbing stories coming out of quebec, i will no longer be supporting *some* of the measures being used to fight this virus in canada. it has become clear to me that *some* of these measures are not about controlling the virus. i am still going to wear my mask, and avoid large gatherings, but these developments in quebec have made me a lot more skeptical about some measures. i will definitely not support a curfew anywhere else in canada including in my province of british columbia, and i will no longer be supporting doug ford’s new stay-at-home measures in ontario.
doctors and nurses, it’s your turn to defend what is happening in quebec.
fucked
this sucks! i do food delivery would normally work later into the  evening as it is often the busiest. i havent worked past curfew yet though, even though i would be technically aloud to, for this very reason. i dont trust the police to not use good judgment and give me a ticket anyways 🤷‍♀️
lol just uno reverse card the cop for also being out past curfew
police is a punitive organization by its nature. serve and protect my ass. police units have a [certain quota on how many infractions]( they need to register per shift. this kills all common sense and it's no longer about the spirit of the law. so this should come as a no surprise when they hand over tickets to people waiting for a bus after an evening shift with a letter from their employer in the pocket. and it might not stop here. now these people will need to wait at least a year to contest the ticket before the judge, probably take an unpaid day off for that and who knows what will be the decision. we need body cameras on every on-duty policeman and community driven body that reviews complaints and can dismiss an officer if necessary. police should never investigate itself.
good thing we brought on 100 extra police for this. sounds like they're doing a great job as always.
where we moving boys
so what can we do? who can we call to make complaints to? how can we ensure that these people get their tickets immediately dismissed? how can we ensure that these police officers face consequences? if anyone has any ideas or resources let me know
the problem is we should never give police more power, because many of them are clueless ego driven idiots.
fucking. insane.
stupid useless cops. get rid of the morons.
disgusting
what a mess!
i mean from the article there’s a chance the cop messed up and there’s a chance there’s more to the story we don’t know about.
to be fair though, good food is replacing the essential role of the supermarket and should be treated as such, with employees finishing at 7:30 at the latest.
i think if you're walking outside with a coworker after work, you still need to keep 6 feet apart. probably these guys were all together in the bus shelter ir maybe smoking a joint after work.
but she did not get fines, because... i can read the article but i guess that /u/poligonal can't? (the video also does not talk about getting fines).
edit: see below for follow up.
maybe, just maybe the workers were asked to explain why they were breaking curfew and refused to do so resulting in a fine.  we don't have half the story here. this is the perfect example of media trying to scare/frustrate people. big title, no content, no context, empty article
not sure if you're referring to the workers in this article or front line workers in general - but the victims in this case are not *that* kind of front line worker.
keep the good work my friend. i hope these are isolated cases and won't happen anymore.
would it be possible to sue the police department or the officer himself for damages? they are knowingly and maliciously handing out phony tickets after all.
i believe that as long as you have a written letter from your employer as well as the document allowing you to be outside during the curfew that you can attach to your ticket in your protest letter, you probably will not even go to court. .
bin there they rely on the judgment of the police ... i am not surprised.
give police more power, watch police abuse said power.
we are all on a need-to-know basis only. 
carry on now, nothing to see here, moving right along.
> i understand nothing honestly
in fact, it is not you who do not understand, but rather the police ...
hi all. i made a map of existing and (actively) planned rapid transit in your lovely city, which i thought i would share.
[deleted]
yess! i can't wait to see this! on the other hand, like any promise, i will only rejoice when i see it with my own eyes: p
but we are going in the right direction!
i still can't get over how they forgot to link the rem with via at dorval.
sad to see that the entire lachine and southern/western lasalle areas continue to be super underserved by rapid transit.
hoping that you forget the lachine streetcar.
there's a ton to be excited about in our transit future, but i have to say it's frustrating how we're pouring tens of billions into serving outer-ring suburbs, with little attention paid to improving transit in the central urban neighborhoods. (credit where it's due, mayor plante's platform acknowledged this issue and proposed a huge investment that got flatly denied by our lovely provincial government, so a lot of the blame sits with the national assembly.)
as the confinement restrictions wind down, key bus routes and the orange line will be overflowing again, and while the rem is great, i think it's mostly going to attract new riders (and existing exo train riders) rather than relieve capacity issues for the stm.
i'm not saying it has to be the pink line specifically, either--why not resurrect and update the tramway proposals from last decade? why not propose more srb lines like we're building on pie-ix? heck, why not just do really dumb boring basic stuff on a bunch of major bus routes: off-board fare payment kiosks, more signal priority, more permanent bus lanes (instead of part-time parking lanes), stop consolidations, higher frequencies, etc. why aren't there even scraps and crumbs available for the most transit-dependent, highest-ridership neighborhoods?
nice map! there’s a typo for acadie metro station.
does exo = amt commuter trains?
nice map!   
there is also the project in longueuil that you could incorporate! 
by the way, have people seen this? arguably a better version of my map, although it doesn't include rem de l'est.
[
that's great! weren't they planning on making canora an intermodal station with the st-jérôme train line?
edit: just found this [thread]( about it. according to cdpq infra, the artm will have to make this decision.
i thought there would be more coming for the west :(
thanks, this does look quite good and follows the usual visual design of the metro well.
i guess the most prominent design difference from the official maps is that this one has to be viewed at a pretty large scale to read details well. i'm not sure how any official maps will ever manage that trick honestly, with so many different lines coming together. the whole thing gets crowded fast.
as a purely selfish wish since i live in that area, i do wonder what it would look like with the srb pie-ix line added to it. it's questionable whether it will really count as rapid transit, but it happens to be directly relevant to my own daily life.
very nice menu. it is obvious that côte-vertu and bois-francs must be connected ... in the first 2 years of the closure of the deux-montagne line, it became stupidly obvious ...
also, aside from the need to link côte-vertu and bois-francs... the need for a big circle around all that will arise in the next 20-30 years... it won't all be to and from downtown anymore... i worked there 10+ years, and don't know if i will go back.
ndg and lachone sit forgotten in a corner
nice map!! doubt i'll be letting go of my car to get in from the west-island, but still nice to see that finally mtl transit is modernizing!
absolutely wonderful, it really illustrates how another rem line out west close to the 720 is the missing piece of the puzzle!
it is so magnificent!
after 50 years without major changes, things are finally happening
* knock wood to make it happen for real *
hi! will the rem connect to the central station? are the little white bridges where people can "connect" to the stm?
for a long time i thought that another way was missing to get downtown from the four corners of montreal. i hope that will help the crowding that there is ...
well i have to go to mtl one of these days. i’m from mtl! i was a yun’un when henri-boubou was built. ahuntsic
it would be nice if you can add the srb-pie-ix on the map.
how does this not extend to dorval station? such a dumb decision, they better make a clear path from the terminus to the airport stop
i see that you have other public transit systems on your website, any others that you find are good inspirations, especially in the north american context?
i always thought that adding the canal and aqueduc as waterways to this map would help people understand the south west more.  they are basically compasses.
i wonder how many different options they are considering for the southwest around the canal . would they use exisiting trains through ndg and vendome to connect the airport while having a nice tram from maybe guy down towards the canal that goes through little burgundy/griffintown, and then go on the canal, stop at atwater, gabdois, the new park, vsp/lachine est, to dorval.  do they only stay on the north side of the canal, do they have plans to build new neighbourhoods replacing st patrick ville emard/eastern lasalle area's industrial area.  they could have a simple bridge to cross to get to transit.  and how about the eastern (nothern) tip of cote st paul between the highway and canal?  i believe you could make some nice developments, some multi family housing for sure, parks, shops, and a huge market would be so perfect for the area.  de la verendrye was extended to the canal and is beautiful, with protected bike lanes, 2 driving lanes and wide sidewalks.  that huge spray painted dump warehouse is zoned for a community centre online (i hope a market) i think there is something big cooking.
with 70 000 projected daily users and its 17 stations, the bus rapid transit (brt) on pie-ix boulevard is not negligible as well. the boulevard is currently stripped on its whole length. [here's the wiki link with some info](
i find that “the diagonal” is still missing across the plateau / rosemont
it's so beautiful. plz build fast
i think after all of this is built, the southwestern/west central portion of montreal around ndg/côte-st-luc/lasalle/lachine will be the most underserved areas of the agglomeration. hopefully the next project will be some sort of rem southwest or an extension of the blue line.
you should include the brt pie ix rapid bus line
liteally everywhere exept where my family lives
damn, i was born on haig street... kinda weird to see it on the map
this is amazingly done and so clean! will this be used by the stm in the future?
now? or to come?
the “griffintown-bernard-laundry” takes the cake.  he lived in outremont.  rename that station.
it is absolutely ridiculous that we don't have a metro stop at the airport yet.
is this official?
maybe i'm just pessimist, but there are a few of these that i'm firmly in the "i'll believe it when i see it" camp.
i hope it all happens! because that is one gorgeous network 😍
the light blue line is gonna be trashy as hell
you can also get to angrignon by taking a exo bus way up from valleyfield
when’s a2 line opening? anyone?
[deleted]
2 ideas ... (bullet point power)
* the orange line loop should be completed. (my pet peeve)
* the blue line could be extended from snowdon to angrignon
* or make only one blue / green line.
* or make 2 lines with a change of line at angrignon.
one day they might continue the green line into lachine
i find that the end that is parallel to the green line to the east is unnecessary. i would have passed through the middle of the island, not on notre-dame.
i remember when the metro was built: ahuntsic just b4 expo 67. something weird happened. 
we still had tramways and electric buses. even had a terminus ( ahuntsic) where we could stay warm w wood burning. very small. henri-bourassa wasn’t built yet, was a lane for trams and 1 for cars.
all i can say is that i'll vote for whichever mayoral candidate that will promise to build a bridge from l'ile-bizard to sainte-dorothée.
on the blue line extension, are those the official stations   names?
so with suburbs like pointo getting connected, i expect land prices to go up. right now 1 hour to go downtown is hell, but if that can be 40 minutes instead that would be a huge improvement.
it's the island marching band! they walk in the parks and alleys of mtl. they are musicians from several different bands (mainly jazz swing), who started playing in the alleys last summer.
i think it's the island marching band!
the "shut the fuck up i work at night"
nice that that was allowed in that borough (unless it wasn't). 
we're trying to organise events (deambulatoire) and we don't have the ok from the borough here in rosemont-petitepatrie.
beauty
super fun! me the other day it was a choir practicing in the alley 😄
dang, i love dixieland jazz and second line drumming. thanks for sharing!
maybe the van hornies?
it looks like the kind of band that walks the streets of new orleans.
it sounds like 1930s jazz and swing.
i live here too and i heard it from my apartment!! made me happy :)
punk floyd
it could be the royal pickles
looks like the cats in the aristocats! 😂😂😂
whom! go have it!
it's really cool! i'm jealous! i also want a marching band in my alley !!
what a vibe
iron maiden
gypsie kumbia orchestra, montreal bohemian latin american dance circus band group see [here](
[deleted]
yaaaaaark .... more yuppie passe-partout than that, you just have radio-canada.
hehe i don't think people ask in hochelag '. since the start of the pandemic we have had “mobile happiness” (car with big speakers), the alfonse circus and various music groups that crisscross the streets of the neighborhood. it's cool and i would be surprised if people would complain about it.
why? its technically not an event if it constitutes of a spontaneous music act no ? i live in la petite pat too and i would love to see that here btw <3
some of the same musicians, but a different band :)
not sure why you're getting downvoted
dude i was in my garden last year and one day i saw someone dress up as santa claus on the top of a truck walking down the alley, playing christmas music at full volume. you remain surprised but it makes my day! especially in times of pandemic. seen in hochelaga.
if he comes to my alley more than once, i would complain. osti of ass music
yeah, it's lovely and i'd sure love to see it happen here but we gotta play by the rules. can't risk getting everyone a fine even if there's a low chance. 
hopefully the borough gives the ok!
[deleted]
who do you complain to?
ok now i see why you're getting downvoted
to immigration. it is clearly a trip of french ste fool of christmas elf music there.
i will imagine that you are fooling
haha when they passed by our house, it was marjo, gerry boulet, plume, bleu jeans bleu. they are clearly french!
you do well to apologize. you surely bully people. moreover, the decorations are very beautiful.
thank you for your apologies, i felt a little outraged by your positivism but i feel neutral!
as long as you are not declared positive
ok this time because you apologize, but for your mother's sake, don't do it again.
you do well to apologize, the people in this sub are not used to that
oh this is cute! i already wanted to visit my uncle tetsu, i should spend this weekend
it's fun your positivism but christmas is canceled this year so it's probably halloween decorations still lying around. it is true that it is beautiful.
no excuse you not, we all need a little pick me up.
i haven't been downtown in 9 months. it's sick. i was working not far away. it's nice.
you are an expositif !! !
those are pretty nice! thanks for sharing.
i really wish i could go to a bar in old port or mcgill and get a real christmas spirit cocktail or something. this year sucks. thank you for sharing the video when a lot of us can't or shouldn't go out even to just enjoy the lights.
“being positive” is so controversial nowadays.
what a great video. life is so busy that you don't always take the time to appreciate the little things. watching this video, i felt like i was seeing the eye decorations of my young children.
thank you and happy holidays.
no-what? noel is the champion this year. didn't you get the memo?
you/vredditdownloader
🥺 montreal i miss you! gorgeous; thank you
[deleted]
/ u / savevideo
an awesome video! also the music really adds the festive mood. i haven't heard them in previous years! it's cool!
is there anything more quebecois than apologizing for being postive? lol
i will go for a walk one evening between the holidays
why do you apologize for being positive? if anything that is what montreal needs.
lucky you apologize! go downtown in the midst of a pandemic!
excellent video as usual.
why the nutcrackers don't have fucking masks! at least they are left behind though ...
[deleted]
i was so happy to hear that they are doing the delivery. mononcle tetsu is probably responsible for the few pounds i gained during confinement: p
username checks out in ouistiti
go ex-pogo
lmao
looks like the save video bots have been banned from reddit due to dmca claims on onlyfans. people were saving premium vids from reddit that resulted in dmca takedown notices.
well yes ... why do you want to download the video?
maybe watch the video on youtube directly instead of downloading it
i think it's /u/vredditdownloader
i don't get it
hahaha ... oustiti!
that's a shame. thanks for letting me know!
i just wanted to share it with a family who live in a country where youtube is not available
i don’t think anyone does
yeah no worries. i tried to do the same and googled it
it’s… been a long time since a photographer posted here.
everyone"s sleeping right now but wow!  that's a great shot!
what did you like the most?  anything that surprised you?  how much poutine did you eat?
what did you find most amazing about it ?
hello, hi!
awesome shot, my friend.
grain is looking amazing, great pic
so very cool, thank you for sharing and happy you enjoyed our lovely city!
love film! that grain seems a bit... much? what film is it / how do you process it ?
film wow impressive
is that not a thing people do?   if people didn't post photos on /r/vancouver it would just become a complaint board.
there was another shooting in montreal today
is that better? /s
i've eaten at tons of 2 and 3 star resteraunts in japan but mon lapin blew my mind best service and amazing amazing food. iate 6 poutine in 4 days.  the one from la poule mouillée was the best imo.  i love walking around and taking photos and reconnecting with greeks.  my parents married in montreal in the 70s before moving to vancouver.  the church there did me a favour since my mother has passed and i was having difficulty finding documents for my greek citizenship, so i went in person to pay them for sending me my parents wedding certificate 6 months ago.
my favourite thing about montreal was how friendly everyone was.  and being able to ride my bicycle around the f1 track. 
i will definetly return.
also i shot this same shot on a film that turns greens purple.  2 rolls are stuck in my cameras with shots left but here is 1 roll i finished 
friendly people!  food!  bicycle!  there seemed to be a nightlife!
fpp retrochrome.  essentially expired government kodachrome 1600h.
also i use the lab here in vancouver which charges me about 11 a roll for e6 and 8 for c41. then is cna using a epson flatbed scanner.  i'm also buying a 50mm macro so i scan using my nikon z6.
we’re essentially either shitposting or engaged in perpetual comment warfare over some dumb article. a good photo is definitely appreciated. 
also i don’t know about the film you used but i gotta congratulate you on that exposition, most digital cams i know would have burned the shit out of the biosphere. fun to see someone really use the fact film stores more info in whites than blacks, contrary to digital, makes a great image!
happy to see some people still use film for photography.
you should submit your picture to the banner contest in montreal sub.
mon lapin remains the best meal i’ve had in this city. excellent choice!
> iate 6 poutine in 4 days.
oh my. that's... a lot.
i thought kodachrome is impossible to develop ?
digital is too sharp now a days.  people are starting to buy pro mist filters which purposely diffuse the image to make it less sharp.
don't get me wrong, i still shoot tons of digital, but there is something amazingly enjoyable about shooting film.
easily deserving of a star.
sorry ektachrome 1600h
i still have a pentax asahi just need a repair. but film still have the feeling of i should don’t waste a picture.
amazing, btw there are some amazing film stores still open here in montreal. phototek and studio argentique have hundreds of film cameras for sale. photo st-denis offers almost same day dev+scan and borealis is known all over canada for being one of the best film labs for slide film.
yes exactly!  it gives me more time to recompose my photos and make sure i really wanna talk the photo before i shoot it.  my best work is produced that way.  
are there shops in montreal that repair cameras?  what's wrong with yours?
i have one to sp1000
oh i had no idea, i was trying to do so much in 3 days.  i'm still slowly releasing the photos i shot on film, but how does 1 lab differ from the other for slide film?  "the lab" here in vancouver i believe develops a ton of a cinema stuff still, and they are the go to for alot of the movie studios here.  
some more from the retrochrome i shot. i wish i had 2 more days in montreal, but i'll save it for next year.
i contacted some shop for it. they kind of expensive.and all i know about the camera problem it’s. i was with 2 friends at mont tremblant and one of them probably drop it. i still keep it as an artefacts. i buy the camera 5$ in a yard sale. i did good pictures with.
basically they are quick, have the best equipment to develop and scan and offer a variety of options both for prints and scans. 
and nice stuff man !
how much does it cost? which shop?
wow, great photo, this is my new background on my pc.
is that in outremont near the cemetery?
do the stairs get crowded....just to love jogging on the mountain.
its at what time?
housewear
thank you! it was mine for a while
nope, it's the stairs that lead to the chalet.
yea they do, but there are walkways all around if you want to jog. otherwise you might have to avoid peak hours and weekends.
the stairs are often crowed, however maybe not at sunrise when it’s -16... i love to run in westmount for the switchbacks and hidden staircases all over the hill. the summit woods are a real gem and there are some phenomenal views of the oratory. behind the old royal vic and the redwood crescents are cool alternatives to the big staircases as well!
i took the photo on november 6th at 6:49 am.
yeah, i was worried about the stairs as they are choke points.
i’ve run up the mountain many times and it’s usually pretty easy to avoid the crowds. too icy for me now however
great image, love it. was this taken at blue hour?
[took these the other day](
"knock on wood", to another year of the floods not breaching our doors
it already gives the "t" to mark montreal.
nice picture !!!!! just before night wow !!!! :)
i can see this cross from my bedroom but have never seen it up close
♥ ♥ ♥ ♥ ♥ ♥
beautiful shot!
nice shot!
look at this photograph
did you bike or hike?
it's ironic that quebec loves the idea of secularism when it comes to preventing veiled women from being teachers, while this huge cross remains in a public place, at the top of the island, visible for miles ....
ummm... 'mont royal' is the name of the small mountain / large hill that this landmark stands on. what you've presented to us here is called *'croix du mont-royal'* or *'mount royal cross'*.
when are they gonna take that shit down.
watch this getting removed one day for being "offensive" to some. (but having cardi b sing about her wap on tv is ok)
nice shot op.
thanks!  you are correct, maybe 45mins-1 hour after sundown but still a bit of light out
nice!!
here here! and to less covid related restrictions!!
thanks!
well then, this is for you
thank you kindly
thank you for the kind words
make me.
every time i do, it makes me laugh
drove to the parking lot on the hospital side and hiked the rest
we call it a historical heritage.
while you are correct in that regard,
the « umm » seems condescending asf.
polite ways of correcting people do exist.
hey op ,
i truly admire this photo👍🏼 
it makes me want to light a blunt.
never.
i’m with you on this. it’s ironic that quebec is all about secularism when it comes to making sure no veiled woman can ever be a teacher, but when it comes to this giant cross on public land that everybody has to see every day, then they dont see the problem!
off the top of my head, i can think of 20 streets that start with saint, and nobody seems to have an issue with this.
they’re still naming new streets after christian saints to this day!
but can you even imagine the uproar if a new street was named “mohammed”?
people dont realize their cognitive dissonance.
your ilk are the ones calling to remove wap not vice versa. imagine fabricating scenarios like this randomly, lol. we're living rent free in your head. such fucking victims.
thanks!   personally i prefer a wap to a dap (dry....) but that’s just me 😉
idgaf about how raunchy wap is. most offensive thing about this "song" is that it's a repetitive, unoriginal, cheap, trashy, generic reminder that sex sells. i cannot for the life of me comprehend why the world is so enamoured by cardi b. at least, meghan thee stallion has actual rapping chops. shame she's wasting them on this kind of shite, but at least, there is some talent there.
looooooooooooook
call it whatever you want. for me it's glorifying colonialism & indigenous genocide.
i found [a picture of you](
may have had a drop or two of some oils during this excursion ... maybe not 🤫
you just have to add a big m and a big l next to it.
>they’re still naming new streets after christian saints to this day!
source ?
ah yes the great genocide of montreal.
edit: downvoted for pointing out montreal was inhabited when it was established. the natives loving there were previously genocided by another tribe. yikes r/montreal
i thought i deleted that photo off the internet!!!!
g0ddammnit facebook!!!
it's really my favorite idea from the start. you keep both the history by not demolishing it and you transform it so that it is secular.
worse if you look upside down it makes jtm which is okay.
i love the alleys with vegetation that comes out everywhere.
ain't green is fucken *** v â rte ***.
montreal alley 🥳
oh! is the rain starting?
my god is my alley in addition!
should start taking pictures of my alley steps it looks like. its the air ksa pogne
how are the tights made and stick to the floor?
is that paper mache?
it looks a lot like rosemont, like 21st
those are some extreme clothes lines. i guess they need some good quality clothes pegs.
wow this is the most quebecois trail in the world and also perfect for a walk with a joint😍
doesnt look very rainy.
or the sunsets over the city
looks like chalk but i'm not sure.
more 6th dandurand i would say
ahuntsic, seems to me the alley just east of st-hubert / henri-bourassa 💁🏼‍♂️
i would say smaller homeland
no u.
or sunrise at the mt-royal lookout
the lines and colors are too defined to be chalk, especially in the rain.
in my opinion it is possibly stencils
unless you have your israeli citizenship, i don't see how you can't be with palestine in this situation.
i'm actually quite surprised by the number "thousands". i've even some articles saying hundreds lol
i was there. i couldn't see the end of the people. it was easily in the tens of thousands. 
as a side question, do native quebecers feel more compassion for palestinians due to the queb-can thing?
just for everyone to see / so everyone can see:
[
[
[
[
[  
[
👏🏼🇵🇸👏🏼🇵🇸👏🏼🇵🇸👏🏼 waiting for the zionist media to label this protest as anti-semitic
edit: just in case my comment was misunderstood: i have seen many media outlets and politicians labeling palestinian support as anti-semitic rhetoric. as bernie said, being against a right-wing government in israel is not anti-semitic.
[removed]
🇵🇸♥️
all protests are equal. but some protests are more equal than others.
free palestine
wow, i never thought i'd see the day where people protest for palestine. i'm 100% for it.
thank you, montreal!
lemme just sort these comments by controversial and get the popcorn
[deleted]
is there anywhere that i can get an impartial take on the source of this conflict? i’m feeling quite ignorant on this whole situation.
not a comment that talks about masks. stay classy, montreal.
gorgeous
i compiled a video of the clashes after the manifestation, including police pepper-spraying a subdued man (and the crowd). video shows the "clashes" after the manifestation at at dorchester square from the beginning to the end. 
look at all these terrorist supporters!
[deleted]
[deleted]
take a popcorn bucket.
[removed]
what did israel do wrong ? can someone educate me?
my understanding was two things set this off:
1 - a judgment evicting a few dozen palestinians for squatting on land they didn’t own set of violent protests
2 - israeli police set up crowd control checkpoints in the old city as a security precaution because jerusalem day often sparks violent confrontations
hamas sends rockets into tel aviv indiscriminately targeting civilians and on we go
you know what is biased and unobjective? claiming that israeli side is the only one to blame and the palestinians are just innocent victims in all this. you people are way over simplifying the situation and falling into the classic "victim is always in the right" narrative which social justice warriors love to cling onto without further analysis. both sides share responsibility for the conflict throughout the years.
not sure how people can rationally believe that its ok for hamas to fire missiles at israel in response to 6 palestinian families being evicted after a lengthy private property dispute which involved properties that jewish people legally purchased in the 19th century:
[
there are lots of shady things the israeli side has done over the years and i am not disputing that, but this can be equally said about the palestinian side. if people would bother to read a wide variety of news sources rather than just seeing the same left wing echo-chamber sites you would open your eyes up to truth which is that this is a much more complicated issue in which no side can claim innocence.
hamas is a terrorist organization period. they dont care who gets killed even if its their own side that suffers most due to their actions. people like to always bring up the fact that more palestinians have been killed than israelis in order to somehow prove that israeli side is the evil aggressor. this fact completely ignores the fact that hamas operates entirely from civilian locations: they fires missiles from civilian locations - apartment rooftops, streets - and has bases and weapons located within hospitals, schools, and mosques. how do you expect israel to fight back against this type of tactic without killing civilians?
israel has tried making concessions in the past in order to curry favor for peace deals. in 2005 they conceded land on the gaza strip to palestinians and hamas responded by firing missiles at israel. even worse, instead of allowing the palestinian people to use the high tech greenhouses left behind by the israeli settlers that were evacuated they burned them all down and built rocket base instead. hamas is a terror to its own people.
the point of my post is not to say that the palestinians are in the wrong. i have alot of sympathy for their plight, but i think israel is in a difficult situation where they get attacked by all sides. both sides play aggressor and victims at times. personally, i feel like it was a huge mistake creating an artificial state for jewish people in the first place. jewish states were also being proposed for argentina, uganda, instead of palestine. i think no matter where the location of the jewish state would have been picked there would have been conflict.
edit: thanks for the rewards. even though i know this has been downvoted, its been read by rational people.
maybe you should protest hamas?
[deleted]
look at all these maskless people, all the people they put in danger, is nobody thinking about the 8th wave??? we need to shut down the restaurants and put a 3pm curfew lmao
for the first time in my life i was afraid to wear my star of david in public. people are sheep. learn the facts about the world and you’ll be free.
um no, i have israeli citizenship doesn’t mean i can’t sympathize with what palestinians are going through
edit: i do not support hamas shooting rockets into israel gonna make that clear. i am just anti death for any side
if you walk around a little on the political sub, you will have a bad surprise
in the 60s-70s, yes. flq militants even went to train in palestine. 
now, it’s a bit of a mixed bag, for obvious reasons.
edit: [small recent rdi documentary on the relations that the flq maintained with other revolutionary / terrorist organizations of the left] ( @ 25min for the part specific to palestine.
the separatists support independance movement and minorities fighting for freedom all around the world.
and any québecois can understand how it feel being a minority with your rights suppressed by the majority.
of course, what is happening in israel is on another level completely.
yes , separatists have always been supportive to the palestine cause.
my apartment overlooks the protest route, and definitely seemed like tens of thousands to me yesterday.
we really need an impartial organization with a scientific method that counts people in the demonstrations ... seems to me that we would settle a lot of hostage on the bottom line of a crowd.
have you seen this one?
it's amazing how public freakout has become gif central for this conflict.  that sub used to be for karens getting mad over the wait time at subway
both sides of the conflict are acting like complete savages, don't need to cherry pick.
maybe you should use sources other than just publicfreakout if you want to increase your credibility.
r/list_palestine
r/israelexposed
 nothing anti-semitic about this. carry on.
lmfao ok?
the majority of the world does not care what happens in the middle east
[deleted]
as long as there something to protest, people will protest for it. it's pretty much as simple as that.
there's no "real side taken", it's just all about how the narrative is conveyed, for instance:
note: if there's "no media coverage", usually there won't be any protest, eg. like what happened in hong kong, etc. which is kind of sad.
5 year old hamas commander probably
i can try a bit better. basically it starts with abraham (the biblical one) where god promised him and his descendants a land that basically extends from the medeteranian sea spanning modern day israel and more (including part of egypt, jordan and part of iran), but, god being god, said that abraham's descendents would have to suffer for 400 years before getting the land. fast forward to joshua leading the hebrews returning from slavery in egypt (for which there is no archaeological evidence) came across the land of canaan, and essentially the book of joshua describes how the hebrews committed genocide on the canaanites, because god did not want the hebrews to mix with the "idol worshippers" so they all had to be killed. 
for some time there was a hebrew kingdom with all the 12 tribes, but after being conquered by the babylonian empire around 600bc and the greeks, persians and romans  the tribes were wiped out leaving only the tribe of judah (where jews comes from) which was cast into the diaspora (meaning outside the promised land) after the land exchanged owners multiple times, though some jews did remain on the land, but very few. 
fast forward to more modern times, jews were being persecuted a lot in europe, evicted from spain during the inquisition, and a lot of violence was being perpetrated since many problems were blamed on jews. zionism sort of began then, which was a well-meaning idea to find a land where jews can live safely. britain was committed to help and offered several solutions, but only ended up offereing uganda and otehr african countries which the jews were not interested, as they wanted israel. though many jews were also opposed to the idea and ultimately the movement sank for a while.
baron rothchild a french jewish banker basically single-handedly revived the zionist movement by purchasing a lot of israel's land from the ottoman empire encouraged many people to come to the land and develop it and was quite sucessful. after world war one all the land was officially conquered by the french and the british who created the modern day borders and countries we know today in the middle east. the british wanted help from the jews and palestinians in the region and made treaties essentially promising the same land to both of them. however the british were committed to a two state solution but neither side were happy with the agreement and the jews resorted to terrorism to kick out the british and the british essentially gave up and withdrew.
winston churchill  was a self-proclaimed zionist and at the end of world war two helped the jewish state to be founded to the dismay of surrounding arab nations. the jews were not satisfied with the borders either and david ben gurion the first prime minister of israel said that they would accept the un resolution and worry about the borders later. i beleive israel prematurely declared independence and a massive war was triggered where israel won and pushed out their border for security reasons (violating the geneva convention). in subsequent wars they continued to take more land and return some until you get modern israel. at some point israel had the whole sinai dessert, but gave it back to egypt. 
essentially no one wanted a jewish state there. the us wanted it but for anti-semitic reasons: send jewish wwii refugees to israel, we don't want them in the us, is basically what a us judge said. so, ironically,  anti-semitism played  a huge role in creating the state.
the un will only be happy once israel has returned to the borders un resolution of 1947 (i think) which was a pretty awkward partitionnning of the land for israel that made it difficult to defend,. jerusalem was also meant to be an internationally controlled city state. but since things have escalated some of the palestinian organizations refused to recognize the jewish state (even the un sanctionned one (which is partly why the war broke out in 48). the pa now i beleive recognizes the jewish state, but not as it currently is, but hamas does not and calls for the eliminaiton of the state entirely which is tough to negotiate with. there was a good attempt at peace in the 90s, but the israeli prime minister was assassinated by an israeli extremist.
but tldr: basically this mess is many people's fault including britian who's responsibility it was (at the time) to draw the lines in the sand for israel and palestine, as they did for pretty much all the middle eastern countreis after the collapse of the ottoman empire, but they just dropped everything and left, leaving both groups of people the land was promised to to basically fight over it. the the un got invovled and said, "these are the borders we want." no one was happy with them, then israel declared independence and drew the borders it wanted unilaterally after wining the ensuing war and the otehr wars thereafter. 
i may have made some mistakes, but it should be a good starting point anyway.
definitely not from reddit, but from history books, wikipedia, couple of reputable youtube channels
montreal is nearing 50 percent vaccination rate and the vast majority of the protestors wore masks, and outside contamination remains quite low, not to mention the fact this city has been engaging in rather large protests for the past year with no clear connection to rising cases (barring covidiot demos which spread contamination via bussing in people from all over the province, didn't respect any sanitary measures, etc).
there was literally less sanitary awareness at la fontaine parc this evening than at dorchester square, with a metric shit ton more people at the parc than at the demo. i know because i was at both (wearing masks and abiding sanitary measures).
maybe start having a rational risk analysis framework.
palestinians deserve a country
touchy subject, so i don't expect there to be many. i went and it was fairly smooth
great shots! i'm a little jealous.
cease your investigation
thank you!! omg im always thinking of the illuminati when i take the metro 😅
what stations?
stop blowing my mind.
major triforce vibes in that second pic.
number 3 is lucien l’allier? number 2 is jolicoeur? number 1 is prefontaine?
the metro is a work of art, so is your profile of it. thanks for sharing!
very nice photo series. thanks for sharing!
when i scroll the stairs go zoom. 10/10
this reminds me of the slow rush album cover
bro.. this is art. it belongs in a magazine
your eye definitely has providence.
damn this makes me miss montreal so much. can't count the number of hours i spent shooting photos in the metro when i was younger. great shots.
so what you're saying is ancient aliens built the metro!?
wow i love the first one ! i downloaded it and just set it as my phone wallpaper, it looks dope !  i hope it's ok with you ?
prints available!
thanks buddy! don't be jelly, the sacred geometry potential in the metro is infinite
prefontaine-st-henri-snowdon
3 is snowdon, 2 is st-henri
thank you! i wish i knew which magazine wants these
well, i didn't say that... 😉
dope wallpaper! thanks bud
this is one of the things i was absolutely captivated by the first time i came to montreal! i'm so glad to live here now.
ima use those spots today for photos for my class project thank you 😭
i don't know, maybe some montreal culture center or some tourist agency 🤷🏻‍♂️
haha, find your own spots 🤗. unless you're in a rush, then go there..
i am surprised at the rendering, it is very pretty!
beauty!
wow, this is surreal; the thumbnail looks more like a drawing than a photo
really beautiful photo, look like an intro for a dracula story.
really not bad!
beautiful, i love watching the full moon rise....not tonight though! waah!
damn! what’s the focal length on that lens?
superb photo, i love the quality of the colors and the rendering of details for the distance… do you use a telescope 🔭 (a real telescope? i have a nexstar 8se) or just an adjustable zoom clipped onto a mobile? i'm really impressed! nice job 😊🙌
angery mün
hi i’m just commenting on this post bc it’s recent. i’m looking for advice. :) my precious boyfriend is from montreal and moved to the us almost a year ago. i want to get him some things from “home” as a gift. what kind of things should i be looking for? we’re in tx by the way, so i’m trying to start early since some things may take a long time to get here.
important info: he is 29. software engineer. lived in montreal most of his life. mcgill & concordia grad.
and tonight (oct 20) you can see the moon like that again. look is ~ 18: 17
thanks! it clouded up a few minutes after, so we got lucky catching this. 
try and spit it tonight (oct 20) in the east starting at 6:17 pm
i was doing a workshop last night with a mother and her 7 year old son. it was the first time they’d come to a moonrise and they were blown away
thank you!
i actually was able to see it for just a few moments after it rose, but then it got covered by clouds again:
i used my telescope, with my phone attached to it. here’s the link to it:
focal length: 1250mm
yes! for this photo i used a c90 mak and my iphone xs (
an orange cone would most definitely make him laugh.
if it was me though, i'd love to get something like an expo jersey. pretty rare that people have those nowadays and it's nice nostalgic piece given his age.
ideas that may or may not apply depending on taste:  
montreal bagels (+smoked salmon and cream cheese?). can be frozen for transport.    
a "postcard" showing the worst that winter has to offer ([example1]( [example2]( so he does not miss the snow too much.   
quebec microbrew beers, or ice cider.  
maple syrup (bonus point if it comes with crêpes).   
[orange cone plushie](  
also, you can just make a new post. the sub is not that inactive.
i did see it later on, but was blurry and of course, that means rain. i actually have a really good view of the full moon and love watching it right from my front window. however, it's overcast right now.
that’ll do it!
perfect. he has mentioned the bagels before, i’ll do that. yeah i didn’t want to do a whole new post in case he is on this sub lol
omg. 
i work part-time as an atp in a pharmacy.
it's been more than a year since the pandemic started, but apparently pharmacy sanitary procedures are kind of too much for some patients.
the other day i asked a patient not to touch the parts of the score and his reaction was to touch as many things as possible (the counter, the cord that separates the line from the counter, etc.) inside me. asking defiantly if he was allowed to at least touch those other items.
if frustrating.
people have a problem, let me tell you. zero respect, just because i'm wearing an ugly uniform and i'm across a melamine counter.
people are so self centered. it's always been about protecting the ones that we love, not ourselves. idc if i get it and die, but i sure care if i'm responsible for the death of another.
you are a human who deserves respect. like even if you have doubts about the veracity of the covid, it's not much to respect the measures in place and especially not to insult anyone while "you do your research".
<3
yesterday; client comes into my store, without washing her hands and asks for my boss ...
"certainly madam but it takes you a mask"
-he is in my car
"go for it!"
* the client goes out, come back with a mask and never wash her hands *
she and my boss do what they have to do, during this time i close my store ... i arrive to go around the counter, and i wait for her to move, to keep a distance and la ... wow she said to me:
-you know, i work in medical, you don't have to worry ...
wow. i ask my boss, "who is she?" and this is where i learn that she is a dental hygienist ... wtf.
tl: dr dental hygienist without mask, without hand washing in public places.
i understand you.
i work with people in india and it's so terrible there. we just lost a young lady over there. she was not directly in my team but i know her team leader. the uncle of another working compatriot is also deceased.
i personally know 5 people who have had covid. one of them did not work for a month.
i have another working compatriot of african origin. 3 of these close friends lost their fathers. almost at the same time.
my 2 best friends lost their grandmother at the start of the pandemic.
it's insulting when people don't care.
the fact that so many people do not take covid seriously only reinforces why it is a good idea that i take extra precautions.
op, you are absolutely a human who deserves respect; never doubt that!
i understand well. i run a store and covid has shown me how much people care about other people. the customer isn't always right, karen. let my employees work in peace and health.
at the
1-you deserve respect, fuck clients like this lady
2- it's super legitimate to fear covid, worse to want protective measures for yourself.
3- if your boss doesn't allow you to put a client back in her place, i really hope that other clients will decide to intervene.
3.5 - moreover, therefore: little trick of the lady who does not like people who lack respect to others: answer them with gentleness, kindness and compassion. "ma'am, i think the checkout lady deserves you to respect her bubble, that would be nice of you."
worse at worst, go there with a very smile "cordially eat a tank of marde". usually, it takes them a while to bridge the gap between your gentleness in the form of your words and the harshness of the substance, take the opportunity to continue to smile and be far too polite and adorable to justify their anger.
i work in a grocery store and always have to remind customers to put on their masks, sanitize their hands, etc. it's so annoying that i want to hit them. anyway, i hope this will be the last time something like this has happened to you.
this is what i fear most about the end of the pandemic (even if we agree that covid-19 will not disappear). all the fucking morons who are going to show their faces "ah well i said it was not true, i did well to put the mask in my ass instead, gang of sheep who were vaccinated pouted i do it know it was all shit "uuuuuuuuuugggggggggghhhhhhhhhhh
honestly, already at the base i had mysanthropic tendencies, but since the pandemic all i want is to move on mars in a society of people with a positive iq (although, not sure that i qualify, for the moment. ) and leave all those assholes here. i say morons, but the worst part is that they are often not caves, just selfish assholes. it's just crazy.
i hope your family will get a vaccine soon, when my parents got their dose it was as if a huge weight had been taken off me, now i am waiting for my grandmother's second dose.
a socially distanced hug for you, we're at the finish line!
the impression it gives is that the people who refuse to collaborate and to follow the instructions put in place are people who have never been told no, so are unable to take it, they are egocentric and selfish. , and unable to think of anything other than their navel. it's really not cute.
in my job, the two kinds of clients who collaborate the least are men in their late twenties, early thirties, and men in their sixties. the former are of the * malicious compliance * type while the others are of the yelling * you won't tell me what to do * type. kind fuck, it tempts no one. i work outside in the heat that it is these days, and i survive and i don't complain. so it is possible ...
don't let that  affect the rest of your day/week/weekend... i just ignore idiots or calmly make them realize they are stupid
"ma'am whether you are afraid of covid or not, it doesn't matter to me or to any of my staff, there are regulations in place in this establishment and if you can't follow them regardless of your opinion on the matter then here might not be the place for you, please follow me i can direct you to the door... or you can follow regulations and i will serve you"
in a calm voice with the "i don't get paid enough to deal with or care about your level of stupidity" look in your face
there are people who are just really fucking stupid. it wasn't long ago that i asked a lady at the iga to put her mask on her nose too, pi ca response (complement unworthy of having been called out, it's "oh i didn't know")
eille la velle it's been more than a year that we are in the calisse!
anyway i'm scared of the covid too, i'll scream it from the rooftops.
it really exposed the idiots of society this covid osti.
i explain to everyone how losing my taste or my sense of smell would change my life, it can affect 2-3 but those who do not care
> in my head, i just wanted to squeal this person out.
you should have...
it is unfortunate that this person reacted aggressively to your concerns. there is no need of that, they sound like a shitty person. 
that being said, from a scientific perspective, the who and cdc have both been quite clear that after they had a chance to research it, fomite transmission (aka transmission on surfaces) is  rare. 
it is a bummer that quebec’s regulations are stuck in april 2020 on this matter, but i just want to (maybe?) reduce your anxiety a bit on this one. being worried about people touching things isn’t reflective of the current scientific consensus.
the joys of living in an increasingly individualistic system (not to mention that there are just too many morons).
you are not the only one who is really careful. besides, i was mysophobic ("germophobic") long before this pandemic. :-)
your rant is well justified. i shared your anger and i'm not sure i would have been as patient as you.
keep fighting the good fight.
ha your fear of covid
well if its not tempting me to take the chance of having about a 1 in 1000 chance of dying (depending on my age group) and even if i don't die, it can be a lifelong disability or at least the worst 2-3 weeks of my life.
yeah i'll pass.
yuck. sorry that someone gave you bullshit like that.
i understand you so much. i find it hard even on r / montreal to talk about it, you never know if people will support you or ridicule you because "mele toi de tes affaires" or "anyway on est vaccinés". the worst part is that you have no real recourse, worse complaining or bringing people to order is always * your * problem. anyway, if you want to talk, don't be shy :)
[if i speak i am in big trouble](
someone came in to the restaurant the other day, and ask me if you needed to be vaccinated to eat. i told him his vaccination status is none of our business. the jackass said "good, i'm not putting that crap in my body"
3 days back, and i regret going back already... why are these antivaxers so fkn loud.
people are stupid, doesn't matter the occasion. move on.
you're so ridiculous and the day you just understand you're just like everyone else you're gonna be happy
oof all rant for a few words .. you could have answered him by saying yes you are afraid .. and tell him that it is important to respect the measures. as we do in society ... we talk to each other. now everyone is going to whine on the internet about anything and everything. ridiculous
we've been locked up for over a year because of fearful people like you. trudeau walks without a mask to his g7 parry. it just has all these restrictions because the politicians want your hypochondriac gang to re-elect it.
i work at an iga and a lady in her 50s arrives without a mask. i tell her to put it on and that she can't go home without a mask. she still tries to come in and say like "worry poo, it's all bullshit anéway".
so of course i block my way and tell her tiredly that i can't let her in.
she asks to see my supervisor, who tells her that she does not have the right to cause obstructions to other customers and that they reserve the right not to let anyone want to enter. she leaves calling me an idiot brainwasher by the government.
i laughed worse after wondering why she didn't die of covid when innocent people lost their lives which was surely worth more than another tabarnak who lives in retirement.
[removed]
however, everyone continues to work for a pittance nationally.
remember name from credit card, take picture, call the cops? these people need to be punished.
i think you over-react a bit. at 5000 cases / day i would say you are 100% right, but with less than 200 cases per day, your reaction is overkill. yes, you have to wear the mask properly ... the client should have worn it properly, but to lay a text for that ... not sure
[removed]
> also, yes, i am fucking afraid of covid, and i admit it. i have lived in quebec alone for several years, and my parents and other members of my family live in a country in southeast asia and have not yet received their first dose of the vaccine. especially when most of my family are in the healthcare industry, and my mom who is literally the family doctor ... i don't want to imagine how it would be if my mom or dad catches it, and the virus infects my grandparents who are stuck in bed with loss of autonomy.
i don't understand. if you're here and your parents are in southeast asia, how would you transmit the virus to them?
could be able to talk about this subject osti
everyone deserves to work in a respectful environment. it's also good not to be in contact with vulnerable people.
on the other hand, there are still 40,000 fans gathered in a stadium in texas. no outbreak and massive killing. at some point, you'll have to realize that you have to live with the presence of the virus and not go crazy.
18 million died of heart problems as well.
death / illness is part of reality.
i am a pharmacist.
i quit my job because i was fed up with telling people to follow the rules.
i'm doing a clerical job now and damn it, glad i'm not dealing with general audiences anymore.
> his reaction was to touch as many things as possible
where were his parents? (/ s, unfortunately ..)
i do not miss working in the public one bit when i read this
they're just morons who are looking for meaning in their lives and who need to feel superior by despising others, and inventing fights against enemies who don't exist ("covid is a hoax ... but our knowledge ")
on the contrary, people should appreciate what you do because without you their life would be more complicated. aside from the pocket observation of customer service jobs in the current capitalist system, i would say that you suffer from the fact that you are probably the only person who takes them back from doing something immature. probably also one of the few people they talk to during their day ...
hope at least you have two-three good clients in a normal day. you have to try to * focus * on those, because unfortunately, there are too many morons when you do customer service. that said, we should force people to do 3 months of customer service in their life, that might put a few in their place ...
respect for keeping your cool with the kid across the counter!
solidarity with you! it's just amazing, the childish reaction of this person you described :( it hasn't been easy the last 2 years in customer service ... it's rotting my sanity deeply.
> his reaction was to touch as many things as possible
the esti of fucking people infuriate me.
my wife is also in the pharmacy. you are warriors.
1) you never stopped
2) through the evolution of the pandemic, the measures have also evolved; one day it is 1m away, you come back to work the next day and it has reached 2m, 8, 10, 40 clients max etc ... you are constantly playing baby sitter
why do you care if he touches them?
i know :( this pandemic simply shows some of the ugliest sides of humanity...
i would like to stay alive, too, personally ....
it is about protecting the ones we love... but it is definitely about protecting ourselves too! are you kidding me? how ridiculously fucked up is it that people feel awkward saying that? of course i want to protect myself, and anyone who mocks me for that can eat a bag of dicks. i don't need to make excuses for the type of pos people who make mockery of a deadly plague. damn right i want to live!
gorgeous
illuminati confirmed
where's that triforce?
[deleted]
at this station often, and have never seen it from this beautiful perspective.
that's my metro station and you totally captured the beauty in it. great job! love it!
it reminds me of the park station
or there is a similar skylight at the bottom of the escalator
that’s a really cool shot.
zelda magic
nice picture
so much wow!
very nice
thank you!
just over that yellow brick triangle going towards cote-vertu
what? i never noticed that, ground floor is a bit nasty lately, but i think it's a good looking station
haha thank you. it took me 3 years to notice the satisfying geometry. look upwards under the yellow brick triangle when going towards cote-vertu.
very pretty ! where is it ?
it is in st. michel? i saw in like that in my corner. very pretty !
gorgeous
nice, there is one like that in villeray sur st-denis i think.
in case you want to see some yourself.  go [here](  
zoom out so you see the whole island and search for magnolias on the right.  there's about 120 of them but i'm not sure what subspecies actually look like this.
thank you, it's in saint-léonard :)
thank you :) it's in saint-léonard.
that's awesome! thanks for sharing!
"2 weeks" ;)
non-essential businesses flooding with hurried customers in 3... 2... 1...
so basically they know that people are going to get together for christmas no matter what so they are cutting back on possible hangouts after the holidays to do some kind of soft provincial quarantine.
[deleted]
the only businesses that are non-essential seem to be mom-and-pop retail outlets and beauty salons... everyone else either is (somehow) essential, is a supplier to an essential business (and therefore essential), or has a bunch of lawyers capable of coming up with a contrived scenario in which they would be essential (well doctors are essential and they cant work if their fingernails get too long, so my manicure salon is essential too...)
now if legault wants to inspire himself from germany, maybe he could be inspired by their well-funded and efficiently managed public healthcare system.
also, given that we are in week 11 of the 4 week challenge, does anyone actually believe this will only be two weeks? doesn't legault realise that a big driver of non-compliance is a crisis of trust in his leadership? what happens if/when this goes beyond two weeks, why would anyone take anything else he says seriously.
we're 9 months into the "2-week shutdown to slow the spread".
" what is clear, however "
i love that they have to use that line. good job government on clear, concise and thoughtful directions that don't change every single day.
clown show here in quebec.
no logic to close the businesses and restaurants but not at least to make the secondary remote and to separate the primary classes in the primary and secondary with the space gained ...
this is so fucking dumb. i am heart broken for small mom and pop shops at this point. wtf is wrong with them. costco, grocery stores are all totally fine with insane volumes of people yet the small shoe store on st hubert with street access that has barely been able to make any sales this year is destroyed, think about the souvenir guys in the old port. you can agree to disagree with their business but they have been hammered by the pandemic. post christmas they have some hope of having someone walk around. instead now they are going to have to wait until spring 2021 at best ! 
seriously legault, you're a giant illogical prick at this point......
[deleted]
if anyone believes the lockdown is going to last two weeks you're crazy.
it's rubbish, imagine the number of cases after christmas, we will let people get sick to run our economy and when the money comes in we will close everything for 2 weeks anyway people will be too much ill to shop / s
just do it now if its so important and youre concerned for our health
i guess they’re being realistic — if they did it before xmas everyone would flip their shit and disobey. this way, we get our shopping, our holiday time, and then a shutdown to minimize the spread of the inevitable massive bump in infections.
except people who don't care are going to rush out to get gifts for parties they are going to have anyway.   
stay out of stores.
what a shit show
shopping to give gifts to my family that i can't see lolllll. #effeoff
"schools responsible for 30% of current cases "  
"instead of returning jan.4 students will return jan.11"   
holy shit, an entire week, wow, that's the end of the pandemic, that extra week is really going to make all the difference,
as long as i can hang out outside with people i'm cool tbh.
expect boxing day sales starting next week!
still won’t work. tbh though the only thing really that i want is to be able to slap a puck around on some outdoor ice but apparently that is a fucking super spreader without data.
do you think the outdoor establishments will also be closed?
so i can go to the dentist on december 28th?!? i hope that is considered essential.
it's good.
i would have taken 3 weeks, until the 18th;
riiiiight, because we're not in trouble now, and the virus will wait after a religious holiday to do anything worse...  ffs.
we didn’t shut down quick enough and we opened up too early in the spring and we’ve be paying for it ever since. 
everyone can say whatever they want about china, but i would rather have been in my apt for 3 months and back to normal than this fkn shit.
for everyone who's gonna be partying during xmas anyway, and then everything will reopen and the numbers will stay bad. most of the cases aren't even coming from shopping. look i'm just pissed my pottery studio might have to close again and it's super safe and the only thing keeping me sane. any little local verdun shop i go to you wait in line, very little people inside, ect. you wanna contain the numbers for real, close everything in january, including school, and get better at testing. ffff
can we get gyms back? please? how are we supposed to stay healthy in this weather and training indoors is difficult for some (especially during the holidays)
if only we had as many doctors and nurses as we have morons, everything would be great.
too many self centred people out there.
the government knows that people will celebrate in groups. do not play the innocent.
so... if we have had the same approach this whole time and we are still having a crisis "" in the hospitals...not enough icu beds...etc. shouldn't we try another approach? 
how long until most of the businesses go bankrupt?
“after christmas, quebec will close non-essential stores for 2 weeks. "
poor guy who worked hard on his boxing day ad
the world is going to get infected at christmas parties and then ferment their virus at home in peace afterwards.
here in germany they are closing everything tomorrow, including daycare centers and schools, to let the world isolate itself a little before the inevitable christmas party ...
this will be the final blow for alot of people.0 word of help for people with no money for rent,food etc
caskets for christmas, on sale at costco
seems that 90% of businesses managed to fall under the wing of "essential business" the last time. it will not change much.
wasn't everything already shut down?  i haven't been outside in ages so i dunno lol
will takeout restaurants still be operating?
oh well, almost there. this thing won’t really end til next summer. at least it’s just a matter of time and getting vaccinated.
still blows my mind that my workplace, a dessert/pastry shop, is still open and running as per usual. in no way are we considered essential.
i also don't understand how there are all these new restrictions put in place and yet the government of quebec, canada, and montreal all collectively agreed to have a festival happen right near my job – the old port. 
absolutely ridiculous. please, legault, make up your damn mind.
 just wanted to add the article discussing the transition in stores. the work that has gone on to protect employees and shoppers has been taken extremely seriously. i don’t know if in private offices the same steps have been taken.
march all over again :) i wonder why :)
are construction workers getting an extra week ?
way to go
the fact that nobody will be able to buy anything non essential at big box stores is insane. this is supposed to be about health. by depriving consumers of this what is the point? a right isn’t made by making two wrongs...unbelievable...
this is so bad:(
chubby chuckle.
ridiculous. what is the agenda ,really?!
[removed]
for any troubles in the subway, the person in the ticket boot has access to call security, don’t hesitate to go to him.  
edit : don’t hesitate to go to the stm website and leave a comment in the complaint and comments section. most of those who harass you are already known and will be taken care of swiftly. but do it quickly, all security footage are only kept 48 hours. keep note of the station and the time of said event.
as a healthcare worker who takes the subway daily, things have gotten worse since covid-19 started. with less people taking the public transport, these individuals are more visible and there's not necessarily a rise in mental health issues. but statistically drug consumption (whether it be legal or black market) is on the rise. add into the mix layoffs, the cost of rent and the inflation, it'll get worse before it gets better.
i think it's a mix of mental health and drug use up significantly, generally - hell, among richer residents i believe alcohol consumption is way way up, you can imagine the shelters and the streets. 
still it's not new york in the 1970s around here yet, or even sainte-catherine in the 1990s - some people are really exaggerating here. maybe i'm weird but i can deal with some crazy while mental health/social services try to catch up. the violence is the real issue and for that i fully agree a few extended popo visibility campaigns in specific downtown areas could really help if social services also does a lot of work on this.
maybe file a complaint with the stm. they might or might not do something about it.
it is. 
the pandemic happened, it was harder to get drugs, no one to ask for spare change, hospitals and mental health ressources overwhelmed. mix that with the fact that there was already a migration of homeless people to montreal...
i've lived in verdun for more than 12 years. i've seen the neighborhood go from poor/eclectic to full of hipsters to going full gentrified with families and now i see lamborghini and hummer in front of restaurants. the homeless crowd has never been bigger than what it is now, and i don't feel safe walking on wellington when the sun is down. 
last month, someone threw a wallet in my face at lionel-groulx. like you, i've seen people trying to start a fight with randoms on the subway. i see more cases of people begging in the wagons or shouting or spitting everywhere. 
i hope ressources will be put at the right places to help those people and assure the safety of public spaces.
i live in the village and things have absolutely deteriorated big time. i completely avoid walking on saint catherine’s if possible, it looks like some apocalyptic, dystopian, wasteland.
definitely gotten worse.
i hear screaming outside nearly evening night now.
huh, sorry to read that. i hope you're okay now.
do you mind sharing what line and what stations it was at?
i get downvoted every time i mention it, but it remains true: the health and safety of metro users has been * officially * at the bottom of their priority list for a long time. for the stm, the stations are first and foremost a "point of service for people in a roaming situation" and for them it takes precedence * before * the preoccupations of metro users.
someone here called me paranoid last week when i said that the metro is no longer safe ... it seems that i am not alone in finding that it is the case!
henry george 1890s: progress and poverty.
the more you push up land prices the more extreme poverty you get.
the latest increase of "help" to first time buyers from project montreal will increase prices further, pushing more and more people into extreme poverty.
crazy. i don't ride the metro much anymore but when i did circa 2010-2014 i never worried about pickpockets... i always keep my stuff safe and with me though in general (on metro or anywhere) but maybe i was just lucky. around the same time i visited paris and was amazed at how many times the automated message would remind us "attention aux pickpockets!" on their metro (at least once every ride)... and i never heard that here at all.
station?  time?
i never encountered anything worse than a lunatic screaming i want a damn smoke...(at bonaventure) i feel bad for all those incidents i read about.
do i scare them away or what?  they dont even bother asking me for chnage lol
it's crazy, maybe it's more visibility due to the lack of usage, but the metro feels much less safe. downtown also, pan handlers are more aggressive and more present. i was walking downtown this weekend, and was asked for money over 15 times in the span of two hours... it's frankly disheartening. the juxtaposition of 5 guys offering $18/hour and a person sitting right beside asking for money... wild times.
if you think this is bad, you should see what vancouver looks like right now. at the very least, check /r/vancouver for some first hand accounts. some escape from ny type shit for real. no politician has convinced me that things will ever get better. unless you run to the hills, expect police policy to push the problem to a jurisdiction near you.
i think pretty much everywhere is a little worse. 
during the day, less concerning but definitely more concerning at night. bc you can tell that they are more affected by whatever substance -- or more in need of it. 
it's not a metro thing or even a downtown thing, although both of these now have more problems than they did before.
sunday evening, it's suspicious in the center. it's been like this for a long time. no classes, no stores, no offices etc.
omg word - my sister just got home and told me she was grabbed, followed,  and almost searched by a homeless woman at beaubien
more cops do not make things safer though, they only react to crimes they dont prevent them....
my advice is always look pissed off when you're going outside downtown. that'll get people to leave you alone- i'm by no means imposing but i have a (so was i told) very masculine face and rbf. that has helped me a lot to make up for being otherwise quite thin
covid really screwed up a lot of things and people. i'm sorry you had to go through that. 
my only bad experiences with homeless people were one guy kicking my leg and shoving his hand in my face while i was napping in the metro and another guy begging me to go to an atm to give him a 20 after i gave him 7. he left angrily after 3 stations because there's no way i'd go to a atm with someone i don't know.
i avoid the orange line now because i feel like i'll snap someday...
i has having a little get together with friends last saturday and a few meters from us some kids, maybe 5 where kicking a kid next to a tree, already down. we kinda chased them away but they stayed around pretending not to know whats up. later about 10 showed up, some girls in the bunch too.
the kid was papper sprayed in the face and as we cleaned him up an other kid got some too. we gave both water and made sure they where alright. but it was weird. anyways, they paper sprayed the first kid in the face again before leaving running away. myself and a friend got a bit of it. we walked the guy to make sure he was safe but he meet up with friens that wanted to retaliate. being older, i told them to just go home and stay safe but they dont know me.
so, now instead of guns or knifes kids will use paper spray to attack people. there's probably going to be some gang violence in parc lafontaine soon, so i'd avoid it as much as possible, especially at night. 
not to be an asshole but most of them where of the darker complextion. reming me of the kids from louis josef pappineau. it was probably a drug deal gone wrong but you never know when things will escalate with guns.
things have gotten worse due to covid, no doubt about that. lots of people lost their jobs, rent is expensive, inflation, etc.
one thing i have noticed though, and not only regarding those that are homeless - overall people are just meaner...
people just seem so much more pissed off/aggressive. i go to work once a week, and there always seems to be a confrontation amongst people over the stupidest little thing.
people are on a short fuse these days.
we don’t need more police to punish these people. we need programs that help people before they get to that place. we don’t have nearly enough funding for social programs, and we already have huge over-funding for police.
legit my life got much better after getting my car. no need to deal with all this shits and retards.
here i am moving into montreal, corner of the multimedia city. it's encouraging!
this why i have a small canister of bear spray with me
man, not just downtown. all of montreal's crime has been in a huge rise. lots of gun activity also.
can someone make a regularly updated thing posting what stops are to be avoided? (instructions on how to post updates for us luddites would be appreciated.)
your not the only here, it feels like downtown is a different place.
hey! i’m in toronto and was thinking the same thing! the street harassment is ten fold worse than it has ever been. i was followed by a homeless guy this summer, and a friend was followed by an addict a few weeks ago. i’ve had asian friends physically assaulted here. i don’t know what’s happening. it definitely feels way less safe downtown than it did pre pandemic.
i live in the plateau and for the past 6 years its been super safe til covid hit. a mix of things has made living in this area an absolute nightmare sometime. i was almost mugged on st denis in broad daylight last year, i hid inside a dep im a regular at luckily so that time i feel lucky, but over all theres not really a vibe of safety like there used to be. i actually feel like night is safer though, ive had more bad things happen in daylight around other people than i ever have walking around at night mostly alone.
val needs to go, she doesn't care.
working in a social reinsertion center for drug users in montreal, i can say that the pandemic has caused so many relapses. i also noticed a huge increase in calls of people asking for refuge or therapy. isolation, general stress and uncertainty about the future really drove people out of rehab, back to drug addiction. these people become homeless and desperate.
i find it’s always like this as the cold months approach.
things are definitely worse with the pandemic effect. the pandemic has made scarce situation of some worse and more precarious.  people only have so much to deal with the problems.
the op is right. the wallet scam: throw it at someone, that someone tries to catch it in order to protect the face/body, and now you are engaged with the scamster whether you like it or not. a ton of scams going on; watch out!
i feel the same. saturday night my appartment building was victim of intense vandalism. during the night the fire alarm went off. we all went down to the lobby to see menacing words written all over the walls with literal.. shit. shit everywhere. shit on the handles, we couldn’t get out of the lobby. that stuff is scary. people called the cops but they didn’t care until various hours passed… seems like it’s the norm.
yes probably. since less people are taking public transportation.
i mean i haven't done so since like march of 2020. well except the bus once. but haven't step foot in a metro since then.
it's you. live downtown for 4 years now after moving from the suburbs. found downtown alot safer at night even than walking in the suburbs. i take public transportation everyday,  yes there are crack heads... know most of them by face by now, but to get pick pocketed or mugged? never even almost happened. idk
he should! he's in his own right if he feels threatened.
now all we need is more shootings....(╬≖\_≖)
the past week i think i've read about a shooting happening everyday in toronto
was there last week for 3 days. it felt a lot safer than downtown london,on but i was back in my hotel by 10pm so things might be worse later on
i guess i'm the wrong person to convince. i'm sure there are plenty of examples where everything works automatically. we should suggest that the stm draw inspiration from success elsewhere.
i think the problems were always there just it’s more noticeable now sadly. the pan handlers work in groups… they have started fanning out to suburbs as well.
call 911
i'm currently watching the radio canada debate and they said there's 220 cops per 100 000 citizens in montreal, way more than calgary (166) or toronto (180).
i walk by the village often and i can attest to this, but oh well you get used to it.
i come from suburbs of paris, so i think that montreal is really safe compared to paris. but i'm totally agree that the situation is getting worse. i live near lionel groulx since 2019 and for like 6-12 months, there are a lot of weirdos at the metro exit (in the park). my girlfriend told me that a weird woman insulted her 1 week ago.
hey, i'm sorry you went through this and i'm glad you notified the stm. i hope you will be safe from now on and not go through something like that again. 
i am always surprised however by the amount of people who are shocked that an affordable housing crisis, growing economic disparity, a worldwide health crisis, years of cuts in education and healthcare, 20,000 people on waiting list for mental health care, a huge hike in food prices, huge inflation would cause social unrest.
read local news - renovictions, homeless folks encampments razed, everything is pricier, there are issues our city and province never properly dealt with for years and we are only now beginning to see the consequences, and that is because we are lucky to notice it only now. 
for many of lesser fortunate and vulnerable members of our society, crime and homelessness and general sketchiness was daily life.
there aren't a million ways to go about it. crime and homelessness is linked with poverty and lack of a filet social. mixed with burnt out healthcare system, we are lucky it's just this. 
until many things change, i fear it will only get worse.
take care,
well… inflation is up, depression is in, everybody is exhausted. the mayor is defunding the police and won’t buy bodycams even tho she said she would. soo….
s’cuse mais… 
it is*
beautiful photo!
don't know why, but i have an unjustified attachment to 1000 de la gauchetière.
it is the shape which, for me, represents our downtown area.
edit: the 1000 is not the peaked building that we see in this photo. we see only a small end behind the big black rectangle laitte. i wrote this comment because, without the 1000 in the photo, it's a little less mtl for me. it remains a super beautiful photo all the same.
yeah too much let's say it is inaccessible. (traffic joke)
you are really beautiful, in winters in summer and even with your orange cones i still love you you ear my first love and even if i left you for a long time i will one day come back in your arms !!!!
i am just learning french and i’m unsure what ‘tsé translates to. can someone enlighten me?
gorgeous 👌
i'm not from montreal, but i wonder where this photo was taken.
island of notre dame?
she knows it, yes.
is it me or is the ferris wheel in the old port really a stain?
we are in montreal, our goal is to be superior to the french in their own language.
excellent angle. what would be great, it would be the same place but with a drone, higher, in order to see the mountain and the cross.
beautiful photo. thanks for posting.
beautiful from afar but far from beautiful
[deleted]
aaaaaaaaaaaaah, shit
kill bell *
we are in montreal, i don't see the problem with the spelling or conjugation errors.
ris in opus card
"tsé" is short for "tu sais", the expression is used the same way as its translation "you know" when you speak familiarly with peole
y'know
at least it hides the courthouse and its monotonous color.
am of the same opinion. it made the city skyline ugly.
"their own language", it's yours as much as ours, for sure we use it differently and sometimes it's really funny, what a beautiful and rich language we are lucky
fak you come on / r / montreal to tell us in a thread on a photo of montreal?
is mount yamaska as accessible to the public as mount royal? after mont yamaska, [which seems mostly private] ( always-in-the-plans-cdfd2f7d541c1cfa687dc429a680044a), are there any public forests where you can go for a hike in the area of st-paul?
not to mention that access to water and a lake is easier in montreal. in addition there are several kilometers of riverside parks along the river.
can you seriously point me to the public walking trails in the corner of saint-paul (excluding the route des champs)? or a place to go and sit on the water's edge?
i don't want to turn this into a city / countryside argument but for having done both, woodlands, rivers and lakes are much more accessible in montreal (in the suburbs!) than they are in small towns. countryside in the south of the province, where everything is generally private and difficult to access. public parks are often tiny and if you're not a riparian or woodlot owner, you usually don't have access to them either.
parc jean-drapeau, parc du mont-royal, parc la fontaine, parc angrignon, parc maisonneuve, parc nature du bois-de-liesse, parc de l'ile-de-la-visitation, parc des rapides ... name that these. not enough green spaces? it's true that we never have enough, but if i were a tenant in st-paul, i would never have so many green spaces to be able to visit.
montreal is greener than its suburbs.
you are literally in the field.
lol
i don't know, i prefer bell than videotron haha
tbl
ris en bmw (metro walk bus)
thank you! i appreciate it.
yes !!!! uh yes sir !!
despite it’s having some imperfections, i still love my city. beautiful pic
parc dieppe is such a hidden gem
wow, very cool shot!
what do you suppose that tower is going to be in the end, once they're done? 
i mean the new one at the end of the cruise ship quay.  the platforms that stick out are massive! it's a very strange looking thing right now.
also, the crane they used to build this was huge, so freaking tall, and was clearly not needed for what they stopped at. either plans changed, or there was only that tall-ass crane available. so many questions...
you guys have a beautiful city.  are there any open air markets on those piers, or by the water?
[is that legal?](
anyone who when they will open up the park again ? i tried going there over the weekend and saw the entry was closed because of construction
amazing picture! thanks for sharing!
dave
nice picture! please consider sharing this on r/cityporn
how do i reach this parc? i put on google and the maps takes me there and before i know it i’m on the flyover crossing my way to jean drapeau.  
stumped!
same. love this island! ever time i go for a walk in a different part of the island, i discover something new,; a different community, different vibe and an amazingly different culture. i love it!
if you want more info, the view will be magnificent:
it's an observation tower. it was planned to go up at the same time as the cruise ship terminal renovations, but it got delayed by a year. i forget why. covid, i suppose.
the views onto the city and the river promise to be amazing. it should be finished before the year is out.
unfortunately, no. there used to be an awesome flea market in one of the sheds during the weekends, but that was decades ago. about the only commerce is a small food court, a snack bar, a handful of mobile food trucks and a row of kitschy souvenir / trinket shops.
the old port's pretty antiseptic and touristy nowadays. the only reasons i go are the girl-watching and the excellent views of the city and the river. it's a great place to watch the fireworks competition too.
atwater market is close to the canal. it's not all open air but a good chunk of it is. it's usually gorgeous at this time of the year with all the spring flowers everywhere. it's like a festival of scents and colours. i love spring in montreal (*proper* spring, i mean. not the early part with months old garbage and dog shit everywhere.)
no, but people always mill about on the piers to amuse themselves.
if they're using something under 250g like a mavic mini then it's legal for now anyway.
as others mentioned, the rules are very different for drones under 250g. on that transport canada page, you can see that this you press the controller on the left and select "micro (<250g)". under that category, nearly the whole island is open.
of course, you still have to fly responsibly, and it's possible for certain areas to restrict you from taking off, landing, or operating a drone from within their territory. for example, parc jean-drapeau bans drones that way. however, to my knowledge they cannot control the airspace so you can fly over as long as you take off, land, and operate from a different location.
if the drone weighs less than 250g it is legal
i was there on friday. the parking is closed but you can still go to the park
look on the satellite view, you should see an access road next to habitat 67 at the begining of the bridge (in cité du havre). if going by car there is parking on that access road and under the bridge.
wow!!!
ok, it will be beautiful, yes. :)
they sure will be amazing!!!! i was wondering if it was going to be an urban bungee jumping spot or something. :d
weird that you get downvoted, because honestly you're right.  
it is weird how bland the pier is given the good energy coming from montreal, and the distant connection to a french heritage and especially to a culture celebrating people of the land (in paris there can be over a hundred different street markets, even to this day - although not all on the same day of the week). in fact there are small markets here and there on good seasons throughout the city, so it's not even like that couldn't exist.  
it's like a big commercial place with a thin line of bike lanes and railway, another round of touristy restaurants, and that's it. atwater is great, but there's no reason that sort of vibe couldn't be closer to downtown.  
(well yes there's a reason, and it's called big money and becoming "antiseptic" like you described.. the fate of all cities attracting money i guess..)
hopefully i get to take my family up there after things return to normal.  it sounds great.  i just looked up pics and it looks like it would be fun around christmas time too.
ahaan! thank you so much.
it's much more beautiful, when you're hanging around at home from 8 p.m. to 5 a.m.
there are so few people that there are mushrooms growing!
it's going to be crowded at the sleepless night.
oh yeah ... this place still exists!
found the dog-owning photographer
nice! i like that each building lives in their own set of perspective rules.
i really like your colors! i just took a look at your profile, nice progress for two years :)
the city of a hundred spiers
sick
i love
that’s cute
very pretty!!
ugh so lovely to look at. come paint my area 🖌️
haha ya, my version of simplification
thank you very much!
😷
thank you
thanks 😊
thank you :)
thanks a lot! which neighbourhood is that?
very cool... where do you sell them? can you do any city?
it is superb! what material are you doing this with?
do the prices include the frame as in the photos?
these are awesome. you should definitely sell them!
it looks like the back and buttocks of a seated woman. we can't see her arms because she is tying her hair… ❤️
how much does it cost for a custom order ?
i like it!
these are not all liberal constituencies 😭
without stuffing it's beautiful
is it possible to be in black? if not that's cool because even i might buy one for my office.
i think you have a great work of relatable art, may i request custom so that the red watercoloring can change to hues of green color instead? (montreal & it's bountiful parks).
sickkkkkk! how much is it?
seconded.  please dm me @devilleart!
thank you :) yes, anywhere is possible! i have more on my site [devilleshop.com](
thank you :)) a layer of card stock and a layer of watercolor paper (arches)
yes!
thank for this compliment :d
$80 for 12"x12" or $90 for 11"x14" plus shipping :)
hah !! thanks
yes it's possible! message me after purchase :)
absolutely. if you send me a message after your purchase i can make a note of your custom colour request. 
haha thanks! i sell them here: 
:d you can check out my website or instagram :) [devilleshop.com]( or @deville.abstract
super!
[deleted]
earthquakes canada
automatic detection of seismic event: magnitude 4.0 - may 17 7:03 a.m. edt - joliette area, qc
edit: the report
edit edit : update, 45.83° n 	73.5° w
~~ 2021-05-17 7:03 edt: magnitude 3.8 - near sorel-tracy, qc - felt ~~
2021-05-17 7:03 edt: magnitude 3.9 - near epiphanie, qc - felt
i thought my upstairs neighbour fell out of bed
welcome to los montreales, canafornia.
jokes aside, that woke me up good.
yup. same in hochalaga/maisonneuve area
i did! i thought a car ran into my apartment.
i'm in laval and its the strongest earthquake i've experienced yet. my whole bed was shaking.
i felt it in ahuntsic anyway!
yes, i'm pretty sure that's what it was. people on twitter felt it in lanaudière and laval as well.
edit: confirmed 4.0 earthquake in joliette!
yes. just one rumble. it shook the entire building. i am on the 8th floor and it woke me up. for me it wasn't a whole 15 seconds, just a quick shake.
yep, we felt it in verdun
it happened 2 times. there was another at 6:30am-7am. i heard jets this morning i thought it was a sonic boom. wasnt the first one around 5am ?
edit.: i heard a really loud boom while my whole place was rattling.
yes! ndg, felt like a huge object fell and shook the whole house.
>overall i think the events like this have increased in the last 5 years.
kinda.
according to [earthquaketrack.com]( filtering by atleast a 3.0 magnitude shows there have been:
* 4 in the last year
* none between 1 and 5 years ago
* 14 between 5 and 10 years go
so certainly a lot this year after 4 years of nothing. but then compared to 5 to 10 years ago, its pretty par for the course.
yes! in the plateau it woke me up and i came here to see if anyone else felt it.
felt it in villeray
pointe-aux-trembles, it was intense 2-3 seconds
st henri checking in!
windows rattled a bit in little italy
vaccines are kicking in...
yep, for sure.
dunno if this is the same thing, but i assume: 
most recently entry is 4.0 up in joliette.
i felt it in old longueuil too
i also felt it in ville-émard. strange.
yep, i felt that.
yes rosemont too.
yup in the west island.  it woke me up.
yeah, i'm in ahuntsic and i also felt it for a good 10 seconds around 7:01!
park ex, can confirm.
yeah it woke me up, my budgies were so scared too
all the way out in the suburbs (duverney, laval), felt it too
wow ! came on here to confirm if that was it. wow ! it felt like a car ran into my triplex, i'm on top floor
felt it in montreal-nord
yeah, i did too. it was weird. 
there was a low rumble which got noticeably lower, and then heard the windows move like a pressure wave hit them. then it calmed down fairly quickly.
i felt it in villeray on my toilet bowl: o
did i sleep through that? i didnt feel anything
yes!
yeah, also in milton park, but it was very short.
felt it in laval a few mins ago. it woke me up so i wasn't sure, but this confirms my doubts
heard it before i felt it.
seismic activity has been increasing. it's a little concerning considering the fault line we're on
just felt it in the yard in anjou too, twitter is blowing up about it
longueuil also i felt it
felt it in longueuil too!
brossard i heard a loud boom this morning... thought i was crazy
i am in saint-eustache and i felt it!
i felt the earthquake all the way in laval. my entire bed shook. it lasted a few seconds. but weirdly the light fixtures didn't shake.
yep montréal east too
yes. same in mont-royal
i confirm to have heard it north of st-jérôme, almost in st-sauveur!
yep - downtown near concordia.
it is a brown hawk.
your hawk looks stupid
talk to me, talk to me!
no way, that's definitely a racoon.
claude fauchon?
yes it seems to me that there is a nest on the big church at the corner of st-antoine / vinet (?)
coopers hawk, or coopers hawk in french. i think it's the one because of the tail feathers
beautiful photo
majestic
majestic! great photo!
wow how majestic. look at the way it stands, beautiful
[deleted]
very likely, not all of them live in large urban centers
his expression says, "ah ... it's you i saw in little burgundy"
i saw a bird just like this in my backyard in saint henri two weeks ago!!
nooope, chuck testa!
you'll see, there will be fewer and fewer pigeons in your corner :)
he's a big peregrine falcon he came to my house to catch the little birds i stood in front of him he's saving it's better not to touch my adorable birds yeahhhhhhhhhhh
yes, you're right!! thank you so much
til i learned the french word for cooper’s hawk
i think so too. he's clearly not a hawk.
do not judge too quickly because in fact there is a doctorate in aerial studies. i was not quick enough to take a picture of him but when i saw him at the beginning he was wearing his tophat and his monocle
falcon speaks?
bin ... i'm talking !!
you, i like you hahaha
falcon driver
st-jacques/vinet, close enough
yes, it likes pigeons!
finally it is a brown hawk
[removed]
those are two species though. épervier brun and épervier de cooper.
same
just calling it like i see it y'know
false. it's a government surveillance drone. / r / birdsarentreal
on sainte cuneguonde, right next to the lachine canal
this looks more like a immature cooper then. by the tail feathers.
ah yes.
they spray con trails all over us and poison us with bill-gates generated 5g.
freedom !!!!
possible.
dude it looks like a tree!
i knew a foggy eric
this one is actually pretty cool.
good there i have fog on the cemetery, rrre in the head
very nice
oula, i'm scared
really nice
thank you
c'est  beautiful...lol
i noticed that your other photos were taken by the fuji xt-3. any chance this one was as well? i really dig the colors. any simulation used?
do you mind if i use this as a wallpaper? this is amazing
💜💛💜
you are bold to assume your own identity.
do you have a problem with the trees?
marks!
there are vultures perched on the stones!
thank you !
hello !
yup it was shot on the fuji x-t3, no simulation and at the morning golden hour; this really helped for the colours. on captureone the edits looks like this: contrast (+27), brightness (+20), saturation (+28) and i cranked up the clarity to +40 wich had the effect of densifying the fog in the middle.
i really really love the fuji system, i've been with nikon for 10 years and god knows i loved my d7000, but i never enjoyed it like i enjoy shooting with the fuji, i'm basicaly bringing it everywhere anytime. anyway, thanks mate and have a good day !
not at all, in fact i'm very flattered. it was well worth getting up at 5 am to shot this after all :d
a gang of tipsy zombies run after me with a machete!
they need to convert it into a roman bathhouse in order to host the post-covid orgy.
the structure couldn’t handle a wave pool or lake in the main stadium. part of the garage below have already began crumbling due to stress. i think they stabilized it enough to keep the stadium usable but there no way it could handle the additional load
i'm not against the idea but this is montreal/qc planning will take 10 years, budget will be overblown 10 times then they'll have to restart because someone forgot to order bilingual lumber or some sh*t like that.
when i lived beside it i thought they should turn the thing into a massive middle eastern style bazaar.  i'm really liking your idea though.
turn it into a coliseum and bring the gladiators back. have those who broke covid rules fight each other. bring the whole family!
an indoor ski resort would be really nice otherwise!
could sell frozen poutines too!
we often use the olympic stadium as a crisis management center, we used it to shelter haitian refugees, we are currently set to give vaccines against covid. i don't think you could use it the same way if you convert it to a range.
lol you should bring your ideas to the [participatory budgeting group] ( this one may be too ambitious but i like where your head's at
if we're going to keep this thing up with our tax money, we might as well open it to sub-division and rental possibilities for various venues. flea markets, expos, etc. 
i don't think the structure is sound enough for such an overhaul, but your idea is a great springboard for more. 
we need a plan that brings us closer to reaping the benefits of all the money we sank into that white elephant.
someone is jealous of bora bora :)
it’s being put to good use now as  a mass vaccine center . a huge stadium is an asset to our city. it’s the people running it who need to be forward thinking and creative
not a bad idea at all!!
this is the best idea i have yet to hear, it could also be very tropical and have hanging gardens making it very unique, put climbing walls on the tower as well and water slides. this is what we need!
can we vote op as the mayor?
the alouettes are going back to the big o as their game stadium, if i recall correctly
it was a colossal failure of project management and the mayor jean drapeau in cost and planning. in the end it is still a well made structure, but the number of construction fails give it a bad reputation. i lived beside it, and 1 yr noted only 8 days it was used. as a creative mind, i have too many ideas, and thought of what i would do with it to make it full every day. the thing that montrealers, new yorkers, ottawa and toronto want the most is bikini time. so.....make it attract bikinis nightly. not just in summer. that means indoor beach in a large frozen city attached to public transport. families are actually the largest disposable incomes, so it needs all ages enjoyment. liquor is the most lucrative sale, so bars and clubs. drunk ass idiots are the worst, so keep them indoors under surveillance instead of edmontons version of letting them on streets. screams indoor beach experience.
kind of like tropical islands in germany?
maybe that's a good solution to bring in regular revenue
quebec city has their indoor amusement park and now indoor water park
and maybe, maybe it could help some people needs for going away on vacation every winter, sometimes just a few hours of warm air and uv would trick some brains into relaxing enough
that's actually an awesome idea. there's a theme park outside of berlin called [tropical islands]( and it was built in a former nazi airship hangar. it is the largest indoor water park on earth. it's really nice to be able to go there on a damp, dreary january day, breathing warm air and being able to swim and lounge.
i always thought this stadium should be converted into an x-games type of venue. build a ramp so people could mountain bike up and down from the higher seats to the field - that has to be almost 8 stories high (?!).  extreme and regular wall climbing. a bmx ramp somewhere. bungee jump from the roof "ring". bref, your idea and mine together and don't forget to ask redbull to sponsor the whole thing for a couple of millions/year!
i am assuming this post is meant as a joke? it is true it is sad to see this beautiful stadium so unused.  last time i was inside was 1983 talking heads and the police concert. it is a good venue for big shows, but it is of course fundamentally a sports venue, and should be used as such.  the problem seems to be that it is just too big for the kinds of crowds anticipated.  imho the city shouldn't be considering building a new baseball stadium when this would work fine, is already there and hardly used, even if the crowds were only at half capacity.
interesting idea and made me laugh while reading it :) take your upvote.
edit: why are you drunk at 9 am?
[removed]
i like it! how about making it full aquatic so i can scubadive all year round?!
just turn it into it!
or....they could buldoze it and create an incredible greenspace open to the public.
i like the idea of an extreme sports complex. turn the tower into a climbing wall and watch the economy around the olympic park grow. problem is boomers hate extreme sports and the smell of pot. the olympics aren’t very interesting anymore so why not promote some fun cool sports
yes!!! just like "tropical islands" resort in germany
i just wish canada would adopt a caribbean island so i could go to a real beach and pay using cad. and canadian tire money.
or just repeal all the shitty interventionist legislation that holds our economy back (like converting street parking into cyclist areas) and raise money to actually bid & host the olympics so we can bring back businesses and reap the tax rewards.
but of course, this will never happen, for countless reasons left unstated.
if the romans could fill in a coliseum with water and organise naval battles (triremes) for a show, can't we have just 5 feet deep of water?
yes, yes and yes
that would be a terrific idea 💡 to bad our politicians are looking out for themselves instead of doing their job and work for the people who pay there salary
or how about one of those mideivel times restaurants
when i was a kid i went roller skating there once. pretty good. would go do again.
or just bring the expos back.
masks are mandatory or not?
be sure to close it at 6pm every day "to help the families of the employees"
it’ll suck when the indoor beach is eventually moved to washington.
reopen bain maquire!
how about the ten ton blocks of falling concrete?
expo 2067 wya
or turn it into a shelter and house the homeless?
please no beach club in hochelaga. thank you.
make it an outdoor beach and use the demolished building to make the sand
if they were able to hold gladiator fights with boats in the coloseum, we can do that at the big o.
this is the stupidest idea i have ever read.
totally agree as long as it's not the tax payers they pay for it... especially the heating bill
thats wave 4 right there
re👏🏼open👏🏼bain👏🏼turcot👏🏼
what did bain colonial do to hurt you?
nice scene for the last moments together of a couple of japanese teenagers who have to leave each other to go to two different cities because of the university. they will never be forgotten and even if the girl will settle in an unhappy marriage, the guy will be left alone all his life, unable to forget.
makoto shinkai's wet dream
colorblind here. does everything look pink to everyone else except the sky?
i guess mostly the trees look weird, the rest has maybe a pinkish haze over it to me.
details:
full spectrum modified sony a7
tamron 28-200 at 28mm f2.8
720nm infrared filter
1/3200s
iso 800
from my instagram:
full res and prints:
looks like ste-famille.
nice picture
sick!!
or the importance of planting trees to avoid heat islands ...
can i know where this place is? i would love go see it 😄
beautiful
[looks like victoria in spring :)] (
it looks magical, not a single pothole in sight. ;-)
ah ben tabarnouche
oh my god so much!
yup, all pink except the sky and the building and signs you can see a bit of on the right.
there is nothing special about this road, you don't wanna go there 😅. it looks like this because it was shot in infrared.
ok, thanks. interesting that infrared does that.
it's all about the editing though, image comes out all orange in raw file, after white balance adjustment the sky is orange-yellow and the leaves are all blue. i finish by swapping the red channel and the blue channel in photoshop (or setting blue as red, red as green and green as blue or something similar). a similar effect can be done on normal images, but it won't look 100% the same as ir also affects tones, contrast, haze (from rayleigh scattering), etc
oh i see. that makes sense.
reading this made me sick.
there needs to be a public investigation on how the spvm handled this.
a lot of it makes no sense whatsoever.
the fact that every step of the way she was ignored, and both the police and hospital staff did nothing for her, and even blamed her, is absolutely disgusting. 
human trafficking is such a terrifying problem that isn't talked enough about.
i can‘t believe how worthless our judicial system is for sex crimes. it’s disgraceful for a seemingly progressive country.
what i want to know is what bar was this? the bartender probably laced her drink, the bouncer *high-fived her kidnapper* on their way out. it really sounds like this bar is part of the network. they should release the name.
so the cops knew the guy, and knew the location, which means they knew that this activity was most likely going on, yet they still refused to do anything when the friends asked for help at multiple police stations. what kind of bullshit is that. and telling the friends they have to wait 72 hours before taking action? what about the whole "first 48 hours" thing. this whole thing smells fishy. i don't trust cops for one second, and i wouldn't be surprised to find out they were not only complicit but involved in aiding these traffickers.
the problem is much worse, girls from montreal are sold in western canada and vice versa, but no longer people from south america are brought here, like this famous housewife who made the front page of jdm here a few years, she spent 20 years in the service of a politician known in mtl only to get kicked out once she got cancer.
[deleted]
acab. the pigs who said "come back in 72 hours" should be fired and named&shamed.
>she said the police told her friends that there was nothing they could do, they had to wait 72 hours until she was officially a missing person.
i thought that was a myth.
positively scandalized by what i read. i sent a link to the article to the radio-canada newsroom. you can too by writing to temoin@radio-canada.ca or assignmentmontreal@cbc.ca
this story is horrible and the justice system has clearly failed her.
honest question, is this actually considered human trafficking?
a blood-curdling story. but who is doing this in 2021 in montreal? who sells / buys girls alike? i do not understand anything...
i said it once, and i'll say it again: fuck le svpm
acab
this is like fugueuse in real life
clancy is an amazing, strong lady. i hope her bravery isn't wasted.
this is vile beyond belief.. the cops knew the address and didnt survey it regularly. how many ladies has this happened to?
it's horrible.
true story: a while ago it was my and a girl's birthday. we were partying a bit at the club. some guys offered her some shots and she shared them with me. now, i've been drunk before. i've had my share of "way too much... never drinking again". but that night it was insane. i can't remember everything but still remember alot more than pass out drunk. i was gone. i mean i was dancing like a fucking fool, lost all inhibition, still able to stand and conversate well enough but it was as if i was super drunk but physically able to handle my self. buddy of mine dropped me home. apparently i dropped in bed breaking the bed. next day i slept almost all day. there is no doubt that the shots were spiked as it was the last thing i drank and it was midnight. i'm happy that the girl i was with was ok as we were a fairly big group.  she slept passed out for really 24 hours. anyone victim blaming should be given this drug in a control environment and they will absolutely change their mind.
spvm are fucking useless and never fail to meet said expectations
a few people from my highschool in ns, while we were in highschool, went to jail for a long time for human trafficking. it's crazy and starts younger than most people may think.
this is fucking disgusting!! how could police or medical staff not try their hardest to help this poor girl! my god how awful. 😢
this is sad, but in the same time it's reality and very common, lot of shit people out there, thats why when you go to bar you need to be extra careful, specially for girls.
i read a while ago in 1 of the fb group, on the comment there was this guy that always brought drug when going for date and put it on the girl drink to make her horny, no one saying anything except me and the other guy basically treat me saying i need to calm down, wtf going on with people these days.
it's disgusting.
spvm #winning
montreal needs “the equalizer” to take care of this shit
can someone explain exactly where the"human trafficking" is in this story ?
from what i understand, a girl in a bar gets stuffed and threatened, walks out with her kidnapper, in a cab to another apartment in montreal, allegedly gets raped 3 times and takes drugs again and then is rescued by a swat team by posting her address on instagram.
this is kidnapping, not human trafficking. and they sent in the swat team but then didn't believe the victim ? they sent in the swat team but didn't search the apartment for openly visible illegal weapons?
and this is a story from 5 years ago ?
i'll tell you what this story sounds like, a foreign fabrication to signal boost a liar and promote baseless social strife.
[deleted]
my ex gf was drugged at a daytime ball hockey tournament. luckily i was able to get to her with the police and get her to the hospital.
the doctors and nurse treated her like she was just some drunk retard, it was 10:30 pm.
this is even after i told them i think she's been drugged. 
they didn't test her for date rape drugs or anything.
the next day (last thing she remembered was a guy bringing her a drink) the cops told me this happens every night, and if she didn't want to press charges there was nothing to be done.
keep in mind, the wolds biggest date rape drug dealer came from quebec and was arrested by the rcmp a couple of years ago.
not this case. every fucking time. they do not care. this case is only in the news because she got out, and because she was a university student. even then they didn't care.
they could do so much. but they are either too lazy or just payed off.
now imagine when you're a runaway foster kid. they could have done so much, or at least something. they never do. i just want to scream at them.
this sort of thing is why i would generally not bother reporting a sex crime to the police. if i still know where the guy is, i'm handling it in a different way... that may or may not be legal.
>there needs to be a public investigation on how the spvm handled this.
100% on this! there must be lots of noise for this to happen! it's depressing to see victims suffer like this. the system completely failed her. this is absolutely disgusting.  
 😢
yeah, they will be investigated by another police service who will find that everything was peachy keen and above board.
this was also 7 years ago. maybe it’s gotten better under new admin?
i was raped and went to spvm. they took me seriously at the start but never even spoke to the man who did it despite me having his name, address, and his confession over text that he had surreptitiously recorded the encounter. they called him, asked if he wanted to come in, he said no, so they told me there was nothing else they could do. fuck me, right? 🤷🏻‍♀️
[deleted]
i've been laced two times at the same bar. i wonder now...
!!!! pls? where was that
i'm guessing they don't specifically so that people like you don't assume that. i'm all for pitchforks but a high five on the way out could be for a number of reasons, or no reason at all.
they acted once they had the address, read it again.
when a person goes missing, should the police visit all addresses known to the police? it will make visits ... worse anyway, even if they know the address for some reason, the fact remains that the police do not have the power to enter without proof that a crime is in classes.
wtf which politician?
source ?
[deleted]
why? it's probably a procedure he/she was told to follow.
it's the people who set these procedures that need training or discipline if they are not following their training.
it is: [
not surprising they'd do this, especially when the person is an adult and alcohol is involved. had the same thing happen in my group of friends, we went out, 3am, waiting for one of our friends to meet us, she never showed, we couldn't reach her, out of character, etc... we call the cops, go to the station as well, told that it's 48 hours for a missing person and that she's probably just sleeping with some dude... 
it's sobering to think that this happens, and society turns a blind eye.
i just emailed them both. i am completely appalled by how this was handled. it makes absolutely no sense. i'm convinced the bartender / bar are part of the network... this story needs to get out on every news outlet to show how absolutely useless the police and the hospital were in that situation...
well...it’s not. it has elements. and it was headed into that direction pretty quick. but it was kidnapping, forcible confinement, abuse, rape, etc. but no, it was not human trafficking. do i think that was next? yes.
it's nothing new, montreal is known for its sex industry, for better and for worse
the story goes back more than 7 years. it's posted today because the girl is returning to therapy due to the pandemic and now has the courage to speak up
gorgeous!!! we absolutely have to highlight the beauty of our city.
this corner has been under construction for so long. glad it's over.
remember sam the record man? ah the memories of another era ...
i have walked by that corner many times, but never once stepped into that a&w. 
i really should rectify that.
well, i'm glad they're cleaning at least one street. st-denis below sherbrooke, for example, is fucking gross.
this is just around the corner of where i work (at least before remote work started). can't wait to get back to the finally done nicely constructed road once we all get vaccines.
look at this photograph
looks better with a normal amount of people than the constant sludge of humanity in past years
i miss the exterior.
i would like to come and live in montreal after my studies, for 1-2 years maybe!
thanks i really love pictures like this. i miss montreal and i doesn't look like i'll be going anytime soon ☹️
is that the belgo building?or its across to the left.
god i miss going in town
used to live on st alex and even worked at the pharmaprix. loved living hereeee
be careful what you want. a deluge of photos of the cohen mural is on the way.
it is useless, this is the most beautiful street corner in montreal, there is nothing else to show other than anthony bourdin
yeah it filled in a lot since my days wandering around in the autumn of 2000 during my first semester at mcgill.
remember crazy irving?
same i used to walk around that corner every day for work. a&w breakfast was pretty dope.
i have a vip card for that a&w because of my work. however, since i work from home now i can't use it.
especially since they rebuilt it twice! i walked there a few times since (i also work around there) and it's really pleasant.
you're right lol
\ * the photo from the mont-royal belvedere would like to know your position \ *
oh shiiiiit! yeah, but we were a microbytes family
i think it's a cooper's hawk and not a peregrine falcon, the spots on its chest and belly are more orange than gray.
murder chicken 😍
except it's not a peregrine falcon! it is a hawk-hawk. cool same!
falcon talking about it? (ok, okay, i'm on my way. bye!)
[was this video taken with a nikon?] (
ooooooaaaahhh! sick!! fortunate!
offer him a coffee to digest well.
you could make an inaturalist account to have your sightings identified by others, or just document them, if you tend to like bird watching :)
crosspost to /r/natureismetal for extra tasty karma.
wow!! super video!!
very very cool. well done! i saw one once in my back yard, but it wasn't eating. how lucky for you!
what exactly do you think he eats?
you have to stay close to our place because this morning around 9-10am i heard a weird bird lol
ah! we hear the snow clearing today.
finally someone who takes care of the rats
ah, a french falcon!
i think the video deserves its place on r / hardcorenature too
[
also saw one in my backyard of the plate which was puffing.
another time on the sidewalk of st denis who was banging a pigeon.
/ r / natureismetal
françois bellefeuille approves.
i just have that in mind when we talk about hawks.
[deleted]
it's a cooper's hawk.
aaah good point! thank you!
🤣🤣🤣
really lucky this morning haha
sparrow
ahahah
indeed
suddenly he is enjoying his breakfast!
let's go
finally, it seems to be a hawk rather.
nothing better than a plump pigeon
11 years old already, my my.
it looked more of a sparrow lol
loi 21! sti!
it always reminds me of [genesis by justice] (
beautiful photo :)
could we finally get rid of this horror? like if we added an m and an l around it wouldn't be any worse at all.
it looks like far cry 5
wow wow wow, what a beautiful photo!
crazy photo 👌
super beautiful your photo!
really cool shot!
jesus save
j.....u....s....t.....i...c....e
i think it's time to replace it with a big "m" for montréal.
is this a temporary exhibit? i would like to see it in person
its like the eiffel tower with a cross on top?
~~ lol ~~ mdr
^ (apologies, loi 101)
in quebec, crucifixes are not religious symbols but historical artifacts.
don't like seeing giant roman torture/execution device towering over our city?
hahaha so true
[ \- it's on the top of the mont royal, which is on the east side of the park. easiest way to go there if you're driving or taking the bus (line 711 / 11)  is to park / get off at belvédère camillien-houde and walk up the stairs.
wait, aren't you sarcastic ??
nah it's there permanently.
but isnt a mountain an authority figure in government?
i would squeal that with the same garbage.
yeah ... practice that.
when you put it that way i like it a little more.
i would say "it's not a mountain." but i don't want to die.
add an m and an l next to it. tourist instagram spot.
lol. best comment today.
exactly!
it took me a while to realize that jfl gagged stands for a just for laughs gag. at first i thought it was some sort of wierd bdsm scene in montreal which everyone on this thread seemed to know about.
wait until it airs and they put a circus soundtrack on your humiliation
15 years ago i got jfl gagged at parc lafontaine.  asked to look after a dog for a second to have another  guy come and play with said dog.  dog runs away leaving me standing there like an idiot.  but both guys had little pieces of tape/bandaids on their ears which i found very suspicious.  keep in mind i’ve been jacked many times.  i had also smoked a joint and was walking with a brand new dell laptop in my bag.  i was tripping and sure i was getting robbed.  had this gag lasted 2 more minutes i was throwing punches.  i was sure it was a robbery.  it wasn’t.  i signed the waver out of relief
the show is still going on??? wtf
i've always wondered -- does refusing to sign the waiver mean they won't include you in the show? i've lived here my entire life and i've always hated jfl gags. i've passed by a few obvious ones as a teen and always give them a wiiiiiiiide berth
lol they stopped me in the park to gag my friend and have me participate as being in on the joke.
lol don't sign!
eta -- also, which park?
my friend's dad was part of one probably 10 or 15 years ago.
it was at a golf shop and they would get you to practice your swing in the simulator but then lower a chandelier within striking distance while you practiced. then the store owner would try to haggle you about paying hundreds of dollars for the broken chandelier.
he was a lawyer and although he was kind of a funny guy he just didn't feel like everyone seeing him get pranked on tv for the rest of eternity so he just said no to the waiver. they offered him money. think they offered 150 then 300$ because his reaction was apparently pretty good so they really wanted it in the show. still said no and they never were able to use it.
i don't know about the rest of you, but i find just for laughs gags to be hilarious. sometimes when i'm down i'll binge watch a series of clips on youtube and it always brightens my day. 
my favourite clip that i saw recently was the classic "[fat man breaks car](
as for your ptsd... well just keep in mind, no one is really "laughing at you", they are just laughing at the ridiculousness of the situation. it's all in good fun!
yeah it happened to me last year, everything goes by so fast. once they show the cameras and the gag ends, the actors disappear into thin air and you're left with a production assistant who rushes you to sign the waiver and get on your way so they can reset. i don't even know if/when it aired, i don't even know if my face is on tv for all to see .
they should really work on how they deal with you after it's done, it wouldn't be super hard to take a little more time to explain the details to you before making you sign and letting you go. by the time i realised i'd signed a waiver without even reading it i was long gone.
they still do this!?!?!? 
god i have to move back to montreal lol
maybe it's just paranoia but i just...wouldn't sign the waiver.
i mean you get absolutely nothing while being asked to sign a legally binding document that you almost certainly didn't read through. i see no gain in this. even if you really want to be on tv they probably don't tell you if/when you'll appear or what it'll look like.
got gagged by jfl too a few years ago. sadly, their gag was super lame and the people working on it looked really annoyed with me for not having the reaction they wanted. their gag was literally a dude hiding in a bush dangling a fake arm from a fishing rod, but he was in my line of sight the entire time so yeah... didn’t exactly have the element of surprise. they actually asked me to redo it 🤦‍♀️
i fuckall idea what you're talking about.
i like jfl gags but you can tell which ones work well and which ones don't. some of them are quite funny though. i'm personally a fan of the [ball avalanche]( or when someone got caught seeming to[ lead a protest]( .
i’ve always hated that show. i can’t watch it. some of the gags are just plain cruel. kind of pisses me off that it’s still running.
do i want to google that?
lol, my brother got gagged, and realized it halfway through the bit (he's a big fan, and he recognized one of the actors...)
he had a different life-changing experience - they asked him if he wanted to pretend to be surprised and air his bit. he was *devastated*!!! he loves the show, and was so bummed that it was 'fake'. turns out, most of the reactions are real, but if it's been a long day, and not many successes, they might re-tape to finish the end.
he chose to stick around and help gag other people for a while.
he's a 45 year old doctor.
i have never in my life understood this show. i'd be very curious as to how they got you. it always seems like they have some little anglo kid sitting in the middle of like parc la fontaine with a 1960s-style lemonade stand or something that just comes across as beyond ridiculous.
where do they even show this program? the only time i've ever seen it is - seriously - on flights in argentina. i used to fly lan argentina from ba to patagonia sometimes for work, and this would be much of their in-flight "entertainment." but that was a few years ago even.
the only thing i have always found super strange about that show is how they can have the cops screw with people. that doesn’t seem like a good idea for about 100 different reasons.
i got pranked, the actor i accidentally "harmed" was keeping up the act for a little too long and i felt wretched.  when someone shoved a clipboard in my face and said something in mumble-french i signed it without looking, then they told me to get the hell out.  later i realized what happened, and i could lose my job if the wrong person saw it on teevee.
it was a horrible, horrible experience; if i had to do it over again, i would've called the cops to report what happened before someone could explain it was a hoax.
do you get paid?
congrats on being one of the lucky real gagged!
my friend was once hired as an actress to be pranked. they do it for about 60-70% of their gags. hers involved a real elephant so they probably couldn't take any chance of messing it up and probably had to film it quick for legal animal abuse reasons so they hired actor to keep it easy peasy.
if it can reassure you, there is a lot of chance that they just don't keep your part for tbe show they gag a lot of people and just keep a few for the tv. my girlfriend was gag many years ago and never got to see it on tv. with my google skills i found the segment quickly and then we saw that she was not part of it. her reaction was not big enough.
you might have just encountered an scp anomaly. 
my first summer (2001?) in montreal i was shocked by a filming of naked news on st. catherine. a jfl gag would be small stuff after that? i'm from the states originally... hehe
omg i'm so jealous!!!
> you sign a waiver at the end and they leave you all alone to pick up the pieces of your life.
what?
i mean how bad was it?  can you tell or the waiver has an nda ?
what are you talking about?
so are you going to explain what the gag was?
are you laughing with you or laughing at you
you'll live. these are hilarious. congrats and enjoy it.
(also, noone calls it "jfl gagged", hence why everyone is confused. spell it out properly next time).
i feel like i see them every few weeks in the summer at lionel-groulx and they look obvious as shit with the big columns of draped scaffolding to hide their cameras. were they more subtle this time?
i got pranked today as well! the blind guy with bird poop on his phone. i thought it was funny afterward, but in the moment i was a bit shaken up.
just dont sign dummy
do youuu wanna talk about it lol
wait the time i got jfl they picked me in advance. i was sure after that it was all staged. you telling me it isn't?
do you have to sign the waiver? do you get any benefit from doing so?
i saw them once near the balcon on sainte catherine and it was blatantly obvious that it was a skit.
does it pay anything?
do they offer you anything in return? passes to a jfl show or something?
i'm actually surprised these are really candid scenes. i thought they were all staged.
does it still exist?
are you allowed to share details of the gag? or would that go against the waiver?
can you not sign the waiver and not have it broadcasted ?   
i worked on set for juste pour rire once, only once, and never will again.
watch the impractical jokers, they laugh at themself instead of other people
being jfl gagged is a right of passage for montrealers! today, you became a (wo)man.
smile, you are on candid camera.
me that would be nope! i will never sign a contract with devil rozon.
what was the gag?
wow beautiful.  thanks for posting.
greetings from nyc. missing montreal dearly.
such an underrated part of the city. also great they closed off that section of the wharf from cars
where on the lachine canal?
lived in montreal about 10 years, and i gotta admit i fall in love with boulevard lasalle, saint-joseph, lakeshore and on. lovely place to just drive around, bike, and walk with lots of peaceful parks. i now even consider to buy a house in the area.
i grew up in lachine, best part lakeshore of the whole island in my opinion
i've caughy several 30 to 40 lb. sturgeon right there. i also caught several good highd right there too.
used to live 2 minutes from there! if they would of never jacked up the prices. i would still be there. my old place went from 800$ to 1300$ a month.
eyyyy lachtown be
looks like there is a mountain hiding behind the lake mist.
omg so nice to see this, been living here all my life so far and right next to that exact spot! i should go take more photos around the area ^^ nice pic! (also if anyone would wanna meet up for some photo shoots around here, pls i need friends ( ´∀｀)
those morons with their graffiti.... is there a way i can go and clean that up?
that thing needs some beautification. paint job, crest, anything other than concrete blocks.
very good year to visit, construction started on the lachine canal 200 years ago in 1821.
wow
i just moved very close to there :d
greetings! hopefully, we will get to travel soon :-)
same here! missing my hometown from seattle.
it's not on the canal. it's the wharf at the bottom on 34eme av. or  across from the dairy queen
better get in soon. lachine was the last bastion of "affordable" property. in the last few years it's really shot up like crazy.
even in the lower avenues where rents were very cheap everything has crept to 1200-1400$ a month.
i'm down whenever you want. dm me.
god willing. if they would just open the border by april, i'd be thrilled.  right in time for montreal to come out of hibernation.
montreal's real-estate price increase is relatively slow compare to where i am from, but i can definitely see that market's on the move.
[deleted]
it is insane how much it went up within 2 3 years
consider yourself lucky! you sound like a landlords dream. long term good tennant
it was sheltered for years because the area east of 32nd was always seen as a bit "slummy" but in the last 15 years it's started to be really cleaned up. new projects everywhere especially the almost 7 figure townhouses at villanova... you got a massive project planned at that end of the canal right in the thick of a lower income area that is gentrifing fast. that area of lachine is very under developed but they will change in the coming years. only shame is the city just can't figure out what to do with notre dame between 6e and 18e. it's a bit of a wasteland... 
however easy access by car, bus and bike to downtown and west island. easy access to the 20 and 13. close to the airport... good amount of grocery stores and restos.
[deleted]
it's non violent but has a cast of characters that's for sure. far from a no go zone. it's actually perfectly fine. duff court area is the one to actually avoid. i live 500m from where that photo was taken 🧐
thats it. duff court! i now live over the mercier bridge where housing is more affordable than the island.
you know what's funny is châteauguay/ area was cheapppp as hell for years because of that bridge. again in the last few years it's really shot up.
haha!  exactly they noticed everybody was coming here so decided to jack up the prices.  to be fair as well, they have been building a lot. i found a nice condo by the water over here in the old part of town. i highly doubt the prices will shoot up as high as they did in lachine. 
i lived on 62th or 64th avenue if my mind is correct.  my place literally went from 820 a month to 1020, this was 3 years ago and i recently just checked it out because its back on the market and saw that it is going for 1350
ah, yes, i too remember when they activated the complexe desjardins death laser to smash our enemies.
montreal, 1 bc (colorized)
this picture is so perfect at representing montreal, the building, the nice places ..... a destroyed building/road with a ton of orange cones. 
feels like home
the desjardins logo was changed in october 2019 on the tower of the complex ... so this photo dates after summer 2019, but not during.
[here is an article on the helicopter logo change operation.] ( -desjardins-complex)
what a great montreal title
your frenglish is abject.
long live the french language ...
summer **
that was a good summer
franglais much
[deleted]
there’s 3/4 brand new towers around place des arts and like 10 downtown i can’t wait to go again and see everything that’s changed
qwa
i like the title
until some bat eaters destroyed the world !
[removed]
the desjardins intergalactic empire!
have you ever heard the tragedy of alphonse desjardins the wise? no, that's what i thought. this is not a story that montrealers would tell you.
lol
bc = before corona
annual orange cone festival
and we seem to see health instructions (blue-yellow) in the middle of the street.
and the works / benches with colored animals was there last summer too. so i assume that this photo was taken in spring / summer 2020.
it was last summer, i don't know why i scored two ..
spot on!
i work at complexe desjardins... i haven't been in 13 months.
qwhat?
the conspiracy goes deep, man!
/s
"is it possible to learn this power?"
"not from a bank ..."
are you talking about alphonse desjardins, founder of the jacques cartier bank?
i think it says “dancez” lol
"desjardins is not a bank"
exact!
jeanne mance park is other side of the street
that's a big household of people grouped together there!
it’s so nice to see gatherings again! can’t wait for a proper return to normalcy, it’s why i love summer
friend was there at 8am reserving some vball courts, i have a feeling it was packed this pm
nice
did you see the two guys on the little dirt bikes sowing catwalks? haha
yeah it was nice today!
nice picture
[deleted]
sometimes there are even bigger gatherings and lots of students and young people partying
[deleted]
everyone at risk is vaccinated now, give it up.
ok doomer.
[removed]
and because of this mindset we are still in red
when our icus aren’t overwhelmed with covid patients i will.
sure, that’s why we are still in red right?
where did you get this information? personnally i just got vaccinated on friday and i booked my appointment as soon as they announced we were added to the vaccination groups, so i'm pretty sure i was not the last chronically ill person to be vaccinated
hmm, i wonder if mask-wearing worked during the protests? 
nah, let's continue to gather maskless in parks for our hygiene de vie :)
false. you are assuming that the majority of cases are from illegal gatherings, which is not the case according to official data.
no we were in the red because they took this long to close down the airports.
our icus are always overwhelmed no matter what. it has nothing to do with covid. there's a lot of people who go to the hospital the first time they cough "just in case". these people clog the system constantly.
you can downvote me all you want, it doesn't change the facts. only 1-5% of people infected actually needs to go to the hospital.
you're assuming the government always does rational decisions.
this but unironically. yes. let's encourage people to gather maskless in parks. it doesn't lead to contagion and prevents indoor gatherings, which are way more dangerous.
don't conflate outbreaks and cases. different metrics.
my point exactly, "who cares".
you’re right, our icus were in a right state before the pandemic, but right now it’s a complete disaster and we are barely coping. it’s not just about numbers, it’s the effect that it has on the workers, yes we are doing well in montreal right now but because of that we are sending healthcare workers elsewhere in the province.
i have a family member that works at one of the hospitals and believe me the situation is still very bad even though things are improving.
how much effort does it take to slap on a piece of fabric though? really? the bar is so low and yet here we are
*could the mods please add an illustration tag? i don’t think my design classifies as any of the options.*
marcelle ferron's canopy at this station is one of my favorite works of art from the montreal metro.
by far one of the prettiest stations we have, just wish more were built like that
used to live there, i miss montréal
very cool mate. if you ever do laurier let me know :)
i recognized it at first glance.  very nice job.
we walk past it every day coming back from daycare, and my daughter says each time: daddy looks it's santa claus !!
it took me a really long time to figure out what she was talking about!
she finds that the white curve on the far right looks like her beard ...
so last week we stopped to run and play around the building, and check out the colors inside.
i went there for the first time yesterday and it was beautiful! i love your illustration of it
school ..
love it!
once your payment clears, sure
edit: thank you
here you go! 
thanks! ☺️
thank you so much!
i'm asian and it happened to me last march 2020. i was pushed and fell to the ground. no one helped me up or asked if i was ok. right downtown next to mcgill.
it has been quite trashy in some corners of the plateau for 12 months ...
edit: i reread the article and a passage affected me:
“i couldn’t breathe, i couldn’t see, so i couldn’t unlock my phone to call the police,” he said, adding that no one in the area took it upon themselves to give him a hand. “i heard people walking by and no one helped, it was really weird.”
the last part hurts. one of the greatest human strengths is mutual aid. apparently montrealers are dehumanized, probably used to turning a blind eye to people who need help, that they no longer know in what situations to intervene (like this one), and others where it has become. normal / recommended not to intervene (people begging or sleeping in the street, fights, confrontations and insults, etc.).
on the one hand, if we intervene personally for every "person in need of help" in town, we will never get to our destination, except perhaps on certain days.
but on the other side, it creates situations like this ...
pretty disgusting as an attack, hoping the attackers eventually get caught.
this is becoming more and more frequent sadly. this topic was brought up last year on this sub and r/canada shortly after the covid-19 pandemic started but nobody paid any attention. that was also around the blm movement. i guess asian lives don't matter much? sad.
this korean guy got lucky. last year, a korean guy got slashed in the throat around vendome metro. this is horrifying.
my gf is asian and i worry about this shit every day. it's so stupid and nonsensical...
shameful acts!
in the plateau, two asian people were also attacked by five or six men. the attack was very brutal, leaving at least one person's face completely covered in blood and the people who were there told me that it was definitely a hate crime. not reported anywhere.
this is 5 minutes from my house, and i am also an asian man
good...
doubly sad because no one helped him.
this is just so sad
this is so distressing because....this man probably lived in montreal for years, possibly his whole life.  what relationship does he have to covid?  absolutely none.
for that matter, what do any asian people have to do with the emergence of the covid virus really?  none, as far as we know .  evidence so far is that emerged naturally from animals.
it's very difficult for me to understand the mindset of folks who decide to do this.  just why?  and what outcome are they hoping for?
come on montreal, let's do better
wtf! if i ever witness a racist gesture like this, good luck to the guy!
not only is it trash but on the set i'm amazed
fucking hell.
i wish we could all just get along. this is depressing.
i was thinking about moving there but not anymore
some people disgust me. the ignorance and hatred in people really has no bounds.
calisse. (that's all. that's my only comment. also, sometimes i hate people.)
it’s time to start crowdsourcing surveillance footage. definitely a few residents have some camera footage of the suspects.
aren’t pepper sprays illegal in quebec unless it’s labeled as bear spray or something? i’m planning to keep one for a protection at this point
[removed]
nobody caught anything on film? :@
>it was some type of pepper spray — thick, oily and orange, kind of  like paint, james explained. (james is not is real name, which is being  withheld for safety reasons.)  
>  
>“i did a bunch of research  afterwards, and it appears to be some type of like, military pepper gel,  just by what was left on my clothing and the colour of it,” he said.
military ... the nerves, he describes the bear spray that is sold in all the outdoor stores.
i'm not surprised this happened. asian people, like myself, should expect more of these incidents happening in the foreseeable future. there will be "copycat crime" that will be modeled after this one. this criminal act does not represent the average montrealer as these are acts that are perpetrated by those mentally impaired to cope and deal with what's going on around the world. however, living in montreal for the past 7 years, i have felt that there is an undercurrent of anti-asian sentiment among some montrealers. it's definitely out there. and it's not "oops, i didn't know what i said could be considered as racist"-kind of racism. it's more the "i know exactly that what i'm doing is racist and i would like to inflict this upon you" kind.
ready for the downvoting, but your typical plateau montrealer is of a cowardly breed of self-centered sub-human. 
no apologies due or given. this incident is disgusting.
black lives matter not asian
genuine question, how do we know he was attacked because of his race? i don’t see anything specific about the attacker verbally abusing him on his race. this could have well just been a druggie, this article seems to start with a conclusion and frame the evidence around it. 
i still feel sorry for the bloke though, pepper spray in the face doesn’t seem great
terrible crime, though not clear that it was necessarily because he was asian. it wouldn’t surprise me if it turns out to be the case, just we don’t know. if someone read it was clearly a hate crime, and has proof, would love to see it
edit: people on this thread thinking it’s controversial to ask for proof other than an article title is shocking. hope you all realize that this type of thinking is exactly what helps mobs convict people (often minorities) due to circumstance with no proof. grow the fuck up and wait for evidence before reaching conclusions you have no clue if are true or not.
cue the downvotes from “outraged” people usually outraged about the central park five. you are doing exactly what bigots do. wake up!
[removed]
i’m not here to doubt racism towards people of asian decent exists. it does. my experience with the gazettes coverage of it is for better or worse vague. the victim in this scenario said they were confident it was racially motivated because nothing was stolen. they also did not hear any racial slurs etc. i don’t doubt the attackers may have assumed the victim was asian and older therefore less likely to fight back or had other preconceived ideas. i have also seen the gazette (i think) let the owners of ganadarra say their break ins were racially motivated when the restaurant was possibly located on a one way street with fewer people at the time of robbery. these are obviously both significant and news worthy events, however, there is a lot of space to consider other factors in both scenarios
i'm sorry that you had to experience that
quebec has a real racism problem and it seems that people don’t want to address it. 
that being said, yes, it’s everywhere in canada too. 
sorry you went through that.
i find it horrible, it scares me for my elderly mother who sometimes takes the metro alone. i'm afraid that if one day she feels unwell, people will let her die there.
are you going to file a complaint at your neighborhood station?
i'm so sorry. don't know if it's any consolation but if i or any of the people i know were there, we would've helped. not all montrealers are like that. take care!
i'm asian, too, but honestly i'm not surprised that nobody helped you. i was yelled to "go back to f-ing chinatown!" by this quebecois guy in la banquise and the employee just laughed together with him. nobody acted like he was doing something wrong etc. i'm not even chinese. 
i have lived in a liberal us city as well. if the same thing happened over there, people would have yelled at that guy.
this means that the level of anti-asian sentiment in canada is generally high, even though it doesn't externalize because canadian culture is more pc. i think vancouver real-estate price is blamed on the chinese and it is true that the mainland chinese people are buying a lot of property in canada. this i do not approve of myself. however, there is a very racist element to this because i'm pretty sure other groups have speculated on the vancouver and toronto real-estate as well.
this is partly what society has come to.
this is my opinion, but i really think it to be true. the fact that no one helped you, i don't think it's cause you're asian. i feel that societies all over the world, especially in cities, mind their own business so much that it goes to the extent of turning a blind eye on everything. including even acknowledging other human beings close by walking on the street.
in some ways it's good, you can do what you want and no one will say anything. but that's also the problem, whatever you do, you don't exist, no one exists anymore.
i'm so, so sorry. even more sorry that no one tried to help or check if you were ok.
i’m so sorry this happened. so disappointing that no one would at least help you. i’m a montrealer and expect better from my fellow citizens.
wtf! how can someone watch this happen and not even approach to ask if the person is alright or need any kind of help?
honestly i would have helped you! i'm so sorry to hear that!
i think it's pretty trash everywhere ... the pandemic + the rebirth of fascists = trash everywhere
[bystander effect.](
at the same time, we are in a pandemic of an infectious respiratory disease, i imagine that someone who is coughing and who has visible respiratory problems, there are a lot of people who are going to be afraid to approach him now.
would you ever make it to your destination? what? are there so many people needing help? is this a way to justify the idiocy? unbelievable ! i am flabbergasted by the event and your comment. it's racism, not a lack of mutual aid or "bystander effect". from a country that does not admit systemic racism .... what else should one expect?
you're right. also, people may have thought he was native. unfortunately they live around us with the greatest indifference. it is quite disturbing.
you can help her under penalty of a $ 1,500 covid ticket.
[deleted]
unfortunately, i have serious doubts.
the chinese government is to blame, remember that it is a totalitarian government with the nazi, the government ....
no asian people should be moron blame people because of their caliss skin color.
they ran articles about racism acts against asians in  la presse, ctv and cbc only to remove them from first page the very next day. i emailed them all for an explanation and no answers from any of them. 
crimes against asians are brushed under the carpet. they are not as newsworthy as an attack against others.
love the house foundation joke hahah
saw this in ndg. found it pretty cool to have social commentary masquerading as halloween decorations!
one day terrebonne will have its cycle path ... one day.
i love this house. 
also. who do i vote for to get my bike path back? we have so many candidates and i haven’t heard anything from any of them. 
i have a parking spot, and i pay hella taxes so don’t even ducking start.
they are gonna get fined for it not being 60% larger in french.
“general scientific literacy” - lol savage!
nice to see people having fun with it. honestly i dont think my area will have many kids trick or treating but i hope those of you who can will try and make up for last year for the lil'ones
what are the halloween guidelines this year?
[deleted]
ohh nooo the foundation one. that one hits.
when your social commentary is prepackaged by media corporations
basically applies to all homes in ndg😂
i was going to ask but it looked like ndg. a lot of fun decorations but i haven't seen that one.
i'm fond of cycling myself, but with a cycle path on notre-dame-de-grâce and another on maisonneuve, it's stupid to have one in terrebonne. it is literally 4 minutes to get from the track of notre-dame-de-grâce to terrebonne, so you might as well go through notre-dame-de-grâce. the congestion that a possible runway on terrebonne (which is not wide) would create would create more danger than good. especially in front of the school. too much is like not enough.
for montréal, i'd say the candidate most favourable to bike infrastructure is valérie plante.
it's ok it doesn't include the word pasta
[here]( they are. we will not do the bag thing, we're all vaccinated and don't want to create a mountain of discarded plastic bags...
i'm.... not sure i get the joke?
imagine thinking you are the outsider when billion-dollar corporations are on your side.
i thought he was talking about the city of terrebonne. it makes a lot more sense for someone from ndg to talk about the street. my bad.
the distance between terrebonne and notre-dame-de-grâce is quite large. i find it absurd as an argument to say that there should not be more bike path just because there is one two blocks away. if people are cycling in terrebonne, there should be an infrastructure so they can do it safely, period. it does not prevent cars from circulating. the bicycle should be considered a legitimate means of transport, and it is by creating a dedicated infrastructure that this will be achieved (like civilized places ie amsterdam). you never make a similar argument for tanks "the cars just have to move two blocks away to avoid the bike lanes". but your comment reflects the fact that in america the chariot is king. it's unfortunate, and everyone loses it, including motorists.
edit: your photo is nice on the other hand, thx for sharing.
val needs to go, sue needs to go, etc...
or that you are "speaking truth to power"
aaaahh! i'm sorry, i misunderstood! a thousand forgiveness! i thought we were talking about rue terrebonne where there was a pilot project that went wrong (hence my comment) ... pardon my friend!
we are a family of four, with one car and four bikes, and four stm cards. so no, for us the car is not queen, it's a hasty judgment on your part about me to think that for me, the car is queen. when we think about it, we conclude that there must be room for cars, pedestrians, bicycles and public transport, all have their place, especially in a winter country with an aging population (travel needs are multiple and different, and the clientele not the same). the disastrous pilot project on terrebonne only proved that we cannot increase the number of cycle paths without logic and without planning that takes into account all the stakeholders, and all the needs. and then, by bike, it's 4 minutes from terrebonne to notre-dame-de-grâce, if for you that qualifies as 'big enough', well be it. but seriously, it's the next door.
edit: comparing amsterdam (which i love) and montreal is like comparing oranges to coconuts. there is no snow and ice 6 months a year in amsterdam, and it is flat. so it is much more feasible for them to cycle.
edit 2: thanks for the compliment on the photo!
cavendish street should have a track before terrebonne to really connect the other bike paths.
omg yes, this one had completely slipped from memory! a bona fide classic! 😂
holy hell
> especially in a winter country with an aging population
an argument often repeated, even if there is nothing to support the idea that it is not possible to cycle in winter. what is needed is a network of cycle paths suitable for winter conditions. [and it does exist: see the example of oulu in finland where about 50% of the population cycle all year round.] (
> however, this does not prevent me from thinking and seeing that there must be room for cars, pedestrians, bicycles and public transport, all have their place,
except that cycling in montreal is often a dangerous activity. precisely because we always have to share the land with cars. i don't think there is a place for bicycles at all. almost all of montreal's road infrastructure is dedicated to cars, and the little that remains is considered sufficient for bicycles. it is for this reason that the bicycle is not a means of transport taken seriously, and the lack of dedicated infrastructure reflects this reality.
the terrebonne pilot project was carried out hastily, but what it demonstrates above all is the fact that people refuse to get rid of their cars. the fundamental problem is this. polluted cars, traffic, contributes to urban sprawl and works against local commerce. not to mention all the related infrastructure spending. less cars are undoubtedly the best thing for town planning, and it is for this reason that cities [like paris (where car traffic has halved since 1990) and most european cities] ( : //www.paris.fr/pages/reforme-du-stationnement-repenser-60-hectares-privatises-par-les-voitures-18146) take this approach. in america, we are slowly starting to realize the mistake of having made the tank the preferred means of transport, but we are far behind. there needs to be a culture change, and resistance to bike paths is hurting montreal a lot.
> and then, by bike, it's 4 minutes from terrebonne to notre-dame-de-grâce, if for you that qualifies as 'big enough', well be it.
once again, we have to think differently. safe passage for bikes should be the norm, not the exception. i shouldn't need to travel 1km to travel on a safe passage.
> edit: comparing amsterdam (which i love) and montreal is like comparing oranges to coconuts. there is no snow and ice 6 months a year in amsterdam, and it is flat.
totally wrong: 
to say that we cannot compare montreal to european cities is an argument without tail or head. for what reason exactly? if we accept the fact that amsterdam has better infrastructure than ours, what is preventing us from replicating their approach? there is no reason.
of course, these are cities with different realities, but there is no reason why we could not emphasize alternative transport as it does.
oulu in finland has real snow.
> even if nothing supports the idea that it is not possible to cycle in winter
it's possible, but the majority of people * don't * want * to winterize it.
they don't want to do it in the winter because the infrastructure to do it safely is missing. the example of finland shows that if you create a network of cycle paths suitable for winter, people do.
the * majority * don't want to do it because it's fret, that's all.
it is fret and it slips crisply! even with salt everywhere (which wrecks the bicycles, by the way)
pcq they have not tried, in 3 minutes you have no more fret.
so how do you explain that 50% of the population of some nordic cities does it? we are aunties who are not able to manage the winter and they are not?
can you walk in winter? skiing? why wouldn't you be able to ride a bike if the infrastructure is adapted accordingly?
the only reason why winter biking is not practicable is because of the lack of infrastructure. take the time to educate yourself and watch the video i posted twice on this thread. all of the city planning studies on winter biking show that the cold is not the reason why people don't winter biking.
> so how do you explain that 50% of the population of some nordic cities does it? we are aunties who are not able to manage the winter and they are not?
different circumstances, but nordic cities do not have the same road layout as here. look at the difference in traffic on the plowed trails * here * winter / summer. it's not the infrastructure that causes this traffic to drop ...
> are you able to walk in winter? skiing? why wouldn't you be able to ride a bike if the infrastructure is adapted accordingly?
you come back to the point of infrastructure, so i come back to the point that * the majority of people don't want to do it in the winter. *
> the only reason why winter biking is not practicable is because of the lack of infrastructure.
no, it's because there they don't ** want to do **, you understand the difference between wanting and being able?
i took this picture last night from la grande roue de montréal
fun fact, there is a city rule that states that no skyscraper can be higher than the mt royal you can see in the background.
mmm, i love the med density
never had been the most interesting skyline. nice shot though !
damn, that's awesome
added my personal touch 😉:  
yessir
i can see the montreal tower from my school tho, college laval ;))
how....? so good
what's with the diagonal lines at right?
think that city would look much nicer with all the money alberta gives them!
this is a good thing.
on the contrary, i find the skyscrapers / mountain overlay super unique and beautiful. and i find that we have a good proportion of recognizable skyscrapers.
the skyline from the old port isn't as awesome as from the champlain bridge imho.
very nice!
the ones in the right? they are lense flare
quebec/ontario cities don't get any of that money, it all goes into provincial programs. unlike the original quebec money that was used to kickstart the whole albertan economy.
alberta is a net recipient of canadian federal government, even worse than quebec nowadays.
agreed. we have some nice, unique skyscrapers, but not in an over abundance that makes it look cluttered. with the mountain and the water as the backdrops, i think it’s a terrific is skyline.
ah! thanks.
you should do some research! you are misinformed
agree 100%!
who do you think financed the exploration of western canada? the construction of roads. the armed forces to take over the territory from the native. the original oil pumpjacks? eastern canada. equalization payments are just a return on investment. of course, they are also a gesture of solidarity with poorer provinces like the maritimes whose economy is more seasonal.
i miss this place and the beautiful cherry blossom pic-nics !
i was there too today!!!
super beautiful !
with the accès-montréal card, montrealers can access the outdoor gardens of the botanical garden for free. the card can be purchased at accès-montréal libraries and offices for $ 8 and gives access to discounts at many places in montreal!
beautiful place. took my gf yesterday but we only seen half of it
i hope they end the construction on pie-ix soon, makes it impossible to find parking.
me too! what a perfect day
it's usually pretty easy to find street parking on hochelaga
me too!
it smells of elections
can we get a night train to nyc too?
believe me but see me.
apparently this was corrected to "high-frequency": [
which, while somewhat disappointing, makes sense as new "high-speed" lines are apparently generally considered to be > 250km/h: 
it's not high speed rail / "hsr" (the trains will only go 200kph) 
it's high frequency rail "hfr" (as in, there will be many trains a day)
hfr needs dedicated track, which is what we're getting; hsr needs high speed dedicated track which is several times more expensive to both build and maintain 
still cool and a move in the right direction, but don't want people expecting european tgv, because that's not what we're getting. (it will be a nice ride in the new via corridor fleet though!)
i dig a little and seriously ... i find that this project is "blah".
first, they are talking about 177kmh, it is the maximum speed of their new locomotive that they do not yet have (according to their own brochure). the locomotives that via are currently operating go at 160kmh max.
177kmh is fast, but not that fast. trains at 200 + km / h in the 50s and 60s already existed. we won't talk about european tgvs ...
in my humble opinion, very good call to use "normal" tracks to make it backward compatible. but if you are into making tracks just for that, make it funny enough so that it can run at 250kmh, buy trains capable of reaching these speeds ....
my 2 cents.
cool. i'm sure my great grand-children will love it when it opens.
i hope this happens!
trains will start running just after low-cost daycare, pharmacare, proportional representation, clean water on reserves...
monorail!
that’s it? 200 km/h… i don’t know seems kinda slow for 2021
oh, i smell [another study](
why just 200km/h? germans and the french are traveling 270-312km\h on rails since i can remember.
laughable . via rail can’t even use the mount-royal tunnel anymore .
absolutely will never happen and if you believe it will you are being fooled.
announcement # 12 194 for this train line. it must be a running joke in the government by now.
too slow
of course
even if it happens the ticket will cost an arm and a leg.
pff... i do 300 km/h all the time between montreal and toronto. jk.
honestly how is that high speed? i guess that will get us there in half the time?
itt: lots of people that have never heard politicians talk around election time.
this is ridiculous. the governments of canada, québec and ontario [commissioned a report in 2011]( and the conclusion was that 300kmh+ would be the best option between the cities.
this proposal is literally 23kmh faster than what via is proposing with hfr. why can't we just bite the bullet and build something right the first time that actually could be the backbone of a decent rail network in southern ontario and québec. an electrified trunk line with spur lines that use dual mode locomotives.  if we spend $10b now, there's 0% chance we get the money for retrofits in my lifetime for a proper high speed line.
that being said, its no secret why the fed won't just do it and when i worked at via a few years back, it was an open secret why they wouldn't fund proper hsr.
hint: yyz-yul-yow is a cash cow for airlines.
edit: apparently we're just talking about hfr here again... everyone, please write your mps so we can upgrade this half assed solution to something we have studied over and over again to be good for the canadian, québecois and ontarian economies...
okay, jasons 2 minutes ... we have a pneumatic metro system that works right inside, a bus system, a commuter train system on normal train tracks,
i want trains, but a project of this magnitude, announced like that, just a tweet, everything is already decided behind closed doors without debate and we are waiting for the details to be delivered as if they were the tablets of moses?
the liberals copy the legault method
tgv in europe runs at 300km/h...
we are far from a tgv.
in fact 100km / h is missing to call it a fast train ...
do you mean a high speed train, the same as what they did in morocco between tangier and casablanca, morocco, roughly 550 kms?
if morocco (africa) can do it, i’m pretty sure canada can do it too.
i’m not even talking about china here or any other countries in asia.
the project is estimated to cost $4b as of 2019. likely that's gone up, and don't forget to factor in incompetence, graft, and general cost increases, and this is likely a $6b project. 
via also last announced a loss of $115m in the quebec to toronto corridor. tickets are already subsidized by the government. i guess we need to hope that this governments massive investment will help the company break even? i'm a bit skeptical. can't wait to read the article on how snc fairly won a bid for some major work.
what year is it? lmfao…(eye roll)
eille if only hahahaha.
montreal to toronto will still be as much as a plane ticket i bet
a project from another era that will not change behavior, saving 20 minutes on a trip is not enough to make people abandon the car ... if we are ready to put 10 billion for a third link, 15 billion for a tgv is still reasonable.
that’s pretty cool
it’s about time!
[not just bikes - why passenger trains suck in canada - part 1 - via rail]( 
it will be less worse! <3
why not just build a hyper loop
so much, it's unfortunate!
yes and no. the tgf project is not new and the government had already funded the studies given to it at the end of last year. the latest budget already provides $ 500m for the project.
so it is not a random date, but it is more than the simple electoral promise made there.
but, it doesn't smell like the cut 😞
was it the ndp candidate who was the first to stumping on mount royal who made you say that? or is it elections canada calling on retired federal public service managers to recruit them?
i'd have mtl -­> nyc much before mtl -> tor
why the fuck would i go to toronto
that would be nice
last i checked it was already an overnight train which is too bad as it would be a pretty train ride
amen to that 🙌
that first please.
can*
high frequency will trick enough voters.
the current via trains get up to about 160.  if they were more often and a bit quicker, that would be nice.
fair point. 
"up to" 200km does not mean montréal-toronto in 3 h
it means the train could reach 200k in ideal conditions on an empty track if it was a race.
currently our "up to 177km/h" trains do that in 5h:30, the same tame it takes in a car 
and obviously the trains cannot go faster than the train ahead of them on the same track. so maybe it takes 5h instead, on the condition that every engine has been upgraded already.
so the truth is ..... they announce they will buy new engines and it wont change a thing concretely for users.
and i am certain they already know who to buy them from and we will find suspicious ties between the engine providers and the current administration.
sorry folks i'me am just the messenger, do not blame the weatherman for forecasting rain!
don't worry with via in charge we will be paying high-speed prices for this regardless
we would have to replace a lot of the tracks, if only because their location is problematic. we think of those that cross the villages (we remember mégantic) and montreal with the big traffic problems that it causes throughout the city to have to cross the railroads with viaducts.
there would be a lot of miscellaneous gains to be made there.
[just wait till we switch the hour](
yééé! :) and for once i know exactly where the picture was taken from.
february is almost over!
circumstance song: 
i cannot wait for spring
is it a panorama that you made? there is a funny effect on the buildings at the ends of the photo. looks like they're bending over.
not joking but i am seriously happy it didn't snowstorm for once. i feel like we always had a crazy blizzard -35 degree shit storm in february.
it's amazing being able to walk in the sun!
very beautiful the colors of the sky!
nice pic
des pins corners mctavish 😁
finally
i walked there almost every lunchtime, maybe soon ...
it’s almost summer 🙊🥺🥰
mercury in gatorade
i’ve been counting down the days till march 14th since the new year.
and when is it already?
it doesn't really matter. there is not less sun just as the hour changes.
i'm sure you already know but hey.
i already notice the change in my mood.
i get up? sun.
i'm having dinner? sun.
nice
wouldn't you know, al-mcgill
march 14 or 15
march
yes, but when you get up in the morning you usually go straight to work. so for most people, it's nicer to have the sun for a long time at night, as it gives you more free time in the sun.
awesome work! i'd love to see the final product 😁
love the style!
aesthetic
i like that a lot. keep up the good work!
beautiful i want a copy.
wow. i have been working outside downtown for more than a year before covid... in the previous ten years, i worked at two places in this painting... i like it. a nice capture of the feel of the place... i kinda miss the balcony and the fountain... (i know they are both gone) thanks !
awesome work!
wow! looks amazing!
love your take on the pvm building.
i used to go to that 3 brasseurs all the time!
looks really awesome.
wow that's great !! i want more !
when you can see the light from your old desk on a painting! great job
very nice but working there i can only find it weird the rogers building missing but telus building thats south of pvm showing in it place! intentional?
saint-catherine street?
nice
this is fantastic! great work!
very nice work but it’s not bonza... it’s monza 🙈
the building to the right is rogers not telus . don't mean to criticize your painting is more and more beautiful.  just saying in case you didn't know .
i like this
tks and i will post when finished.
thank you!
tks!
thank you!
tks! your welcome!
thank you very much!
thank you!
thank you!
thank you so much!
thank you!
thank you!
mcgill college st
thank you!
thank you, fixed it! 👍👍👍
oh! okay, i will fix that.  thanks!
thank you!
4988 rue vezina h3w1c1 edit: open to anyone born in 1966, even if your birthdate is later open to people born in 1966, even if your birthday has not passed yet ...
edit 2: full list of no reservation, az vaccination sites (for people born in 1966 or earlier) in quebec is [here. here is] ( the list of all the sites of walk-in vaccinations for the az vaccine for people born in 1966 or earlier, even if your 55-year-old birthday has not yet passed this year.
edit 3: shoutout to all the amazing front line workers, you're all heroes! thank you to all the front line workers, you are all heroes!
dad took the opportunity this morning as he just turned 55. get it now if you can.
it's a shame they don't open vaccination to everyone yet as so many doses seem to sleep in storage, although i understand the reasons why. i'd (personally) still take my odds with the blood clot instead of risking getting covid.
if it weren't a pandemic that might be a great place to meet well informed middle aged folks.
[deleted]
same in lasalle. small line up at 8:30 am but was out in just over an hour
for those who don't know ( because i didn't), it does not have to be the centre based on your postal code. lasalle was closer for me than the palais. the person didn't care when i gave her my postal code.
also it is the year that you turn 55. if your birthday has not passed yet but you were born in 1966 or earlier you're good.
my dad doesn’t want to go! he’s only 55 and fears this vaccine might interfere with his health since there’s been a lot of debates about it... the government isn’t doing a great job reassuring citizens about astrazeneca
thanks for sharing!!
thank you for sharing!!  i hope people snatch these up quickly.
i made my appointment at pharmaprix for next wednesday through clic-sante. i'd rather not stand in line at some shopping centre, thanks. i was able to get an appointment within a week, and there was a ton of space open all over the place.
read this post and went to dollard arena in lasalle   no waiting, took maybe 5 minutes and a 15 minute where they watch you. 
awesome very happy to have first dose. also have appointment for second dose.
wow.  they gave out coupons for spots in quebec city, and today's places were filled up in less than an hour first thing this morning.
im 27 and if i could i would take the vaccin asap
is there any information about the vaccination of people with chronic diseases?
my 2 parents and my stepfather had aztra zeneca (covishield) and no one had any symptoms. they are between 67 and 71 years old - one has diabetes, the other has heart problems and eventually my mother is a cancer survivor.
edit: no one has had any side effects and everything is fine.
how do you find this information out? [this page]( is still saying under 60. is there another page i should be looking at?
anyone has a fake id to provide? i'll do the makeup and costumes
went to the montreal general this morning at 8 am. everyone was lovely and i was out of there at 8:45.
can we show up? i'm not 55+
tell me you failed math in high school without telling me you failed math.
  - i refuse to take the az vaccine, i want the other one.
everyone i know is scared to take the az vaccine.. they want one of the others ones instead
i don't get why other countries have banned this vaccine and now they wonder why nobody is going to take it here maybe people don't want to die
thanks. but no thanks.
[removed]
do they accept people from laval? my dad is born in 1966 and his birthday hasn't passed yet, he's 54. he went to a place like this in laval this morning and got refused because his birthday hasn't passed yet.
same! i wish we could give informed consent and just go!
yep and the blood clot risk is very low and you can take aspirin low dosage if you worry
the only thing that worries me about az is its efficacy with some variants but its better than nothing
my dad also went this morning, i'm relieved he will have some protection soon. 
i would take the astrazeneca vaccine at this point. i'm in the age range of women affected by the blood clot...but i can't live like this anymore. i'll take the risk, but we don't have that choice at the moment.
30 cases out of 5m don't scare me twice as much as taking an advil.
did you just say you'd rather have blood clots than covid?
everyone was very sweet, i agree, but, the damn masks... seriously messes with your style! all jokes aside i thought all the personel were amazing, everything went fast and smooth and all smiles!
health canada has dissuaded young people from taking this vaccine though
health canada has banned it for people under 55 due to an investigation into blood clots.
it's not a case of relaxing restrictions, they are absolutely not allowed to give it to people < 55.
[deleted]
it's not a matter of opening the next priorioty group after the 55+ are done.  the az vaccine is simply not to be used on people aged 54 and below.  but that could change eyt again... we'll see ;)
agreed, this age limit is really stupid. an obvious more sensible solution is to allow everyone to apply for vaccine, and then prioritize the older applicants (or whoever need it more). this at least guarantees no waste of vaccine and space. don't know why they made that choice, maybe less work for them?
don't get your knickers in a bunch. it's the first day they've opened for the 55 plus. they can't do everyone in one day. they had huge line ups at the olympic stadium this morning. from all accounts, things are going along pretty well. no big line ups at this particular place doesn't mean they don't have a steady influx of people.
they give you a lot of suggestions online and a lot of the spots for the next week or so were already taken at locations near me. but i was still able to get one within a week.
obviously i don't know your dad's health challenges but on average he has about a 0.00005 chance of developing a clot with the stats that we know about. ask him to compare that with the chances of contracting covid.
169 out of 34 million...  "the total for cases of cerebral venous sinus thrombosis (cvst) were recorded as of april 4 out of 34 million doses of the shot administered in the european economic area"  [source](
have him consider how contracting covid might interfere with his health.
[deleted]
what is the delay for the second dose of az?
congratulations!
28 and same
i believe it starts next week but only for specific types of disease (immune disease, cancer)
basically we got skipped i think..
for 55+ it is only in place without appointment. there is a list somewhere. i read it in an article of lapresse. my mother (58 years old) went to the clinic in ste-agathe earlier and he gave her an appointment at 1:30 p.m.
the full list of az no appointment vaccination places in quebec is [here. here is] ( the full list of all places az vaccination without appointment in quebec
sans rdv for az for 55+. so you can't make an appointment for this vaccine.
i'm confused too, i just looked yesterday and it was 60+, would it be possible for a 55 year old to be vaccinated without appointment for any of the vaccines?
beautiful! you can even see the christmas tree.
"stinky" have never been this pretty before. 
nice work from the artist.
i love it. where can i buy a print?
she's adorable.
that’s amazing!!!
adorable place too
i'm not the artist, but you can find her on fb: 
i begin to wonder who is more eternal between christ and this dude there.
why don't you ask him? i'm sure he'd love to tell you... ^^lol
it's been at least 10+ years, btw. i realized he was a recurring character in around 2010.
i got to chat with him almost everyday (he worked closed to de la savane). he is actually a nice fellow, he does not try to push anything on you and he is all around wholesome. he really is a true believer in a good way that does not impact us.
this dude is always down to have a really nice conversation with you. he has great discussion skills and isn't about forcing ideology down your throat at all. dude was there everyday fro. my first year in highschool to my last in college lmao
his devotion was more impressive when he actually held the sign up himself, not just having it on that pole.
i actually know someone who knows him.
the guy has a lot of mental problems related to living on the streets.
and when you don't have anything to believe in, sometimes religion or conspiracies come to fill the void. there's a term for it but i can't recall.
you should just ask him. he's a very nice guy and does not try to push his beliefs. he clearly has some mental issues though.
 last time i spoke to him, he told me he work as a waiter and comes downtown after work and on his days off. i also asked him why he always wore winter clothes. his answer was that there was a lot of chill air currents in that intersection lol.
a guy with that sign have been standing there since 2001. i don’t know if it’s the same dude or if they’re doing rotations.
i spoke with him for \~ 30 minutes once.  we had a pleasant conversation about faith and the history of the world.  he is aligned with the new creationist movement, if i recall correctly.  he works as a server somewhere and has, by all outward appearances, found peace in christ.  we spoke about stephen meyer, author of darwin's doubt and other books (i haven't read but am familiar with), and about christ, evolution, and dna.  i told him about rené girard and we parted amicably.  i forget his name, but if he reads this: peace and god bless.
the bible asks that christians evangelize and spread the good news of jesus. which i assume is what he is doing.
he's the soft of street preacher i can respect, one who speaks only when spoken to. i'm gone with people expressing their religious devotion in ways that aren't noisy.
i've spoken to him a few times. he doesn't *want* anything from you. he is just trying to help people who are suffering with the help of the bible and jesus.
without being a believer, i am impressed by those who are so devoted to their faith. imagine sacrificing so much for a * belief *.
awww i miss that dude! haven't been downtown in a while. we used to surround him and hang out with him while doing the annual zombie walks, he was very chill about it, would smile from ear to ear and even would allow pictures with us. 
i am glad he is still doing his thing
he's like the one-armed dude hanging around guy concordia metro entrance. you see him every now and then.
he want you to know that jesus christ is eternal, pretty obvious, no?
twerk for jesus
this is more for him than for you. he wants a reason to get up in the morning, a sense of purpose.
he's earning his stairway to heaven
he looks like a hoth rebellion soldier.
as others have already mentioned, he's a kind fellow. i used to work near de la savane and would sometimes grab a bite with colleagues where he worked (not sure if he's still there since it's been a few years since then). had some small talk here and there with him; i definitely recommend having a chat with him if you have the time!
i remember him one time preaching some stuff at the entrance of one of the heavy mtl from few years ago. i would also see him occasionally in snowdon metro station.
attention?
he wants bilingual signage.
i don't get the title and all your comments saying it's "incomprehensible" and whatnot.
can you read the words...? i think that's all. he's a walking pamphlet for his religion. i'm not catholic either but i don't see what's so confusing about this.
his way of doing his part. in his mind anyhow.
just look at his upright pose, not slouching.
whatever he's doing he's proud about it.
im not sure, i've been alive for 19 years and im pretty sure i've seen him there since i was 5, i kinda wanna talk to him
he's going to talk to you about jesus.
used to work on that street, so apparently the church behind him pays him in food/shelter for doing tasks around the church, including this. when jesus is your gravy train you ride him like lil nas x rides the devil
so i've worked with him before. i worked at this coffee shop called laprep couple of years back and he was working there full time. during his free time and during the weekends he goes out and stands around sainte catherine.
the coffee shop is now closed and i left before it did, so i don't know where he is working now.
he believes it is his life mission to be there and spread the word of his belief.
he is super nice and harmless and seems very passionate about his belief and will most likely gladly tell you what it's all about.
also some other dude at angrignon metro station selling jesus tee shirts and singing all the time. quite a character too.
he's picking up jesus from the airport.  could someone please tell him he's in the wrong place?
to anyone who calls him crazy i hope you go watch this video around 1:00:00 [ % 2fvideos% 2fsearch% 3fq% 3dtheovox% 2520gesualdi% 26qs% 3dn% 26form% 3dqbvr% 26sp% 3d-1% 26pq% 3dtheovox% 2520gesualdi% 26sc% 3d0-16% 26sk% 3d% 26cvid% 3d91362ea8b5bc4fef9cd:  www.bing.com/videos/search?q=theovox+gesualdi&&view=detail&mid=df113ae8b7c774502b1adf113ae8b7c774502b1a&&form=vrdgar&ru=%2fvideos%2fsearch%3fq%2fvideos%2fsearch%3fq%2fvideos%2fsearch%3fq%2fvideos%2fsearch%3fq%2fvideos%2fsearch%3fq%2fvideos%2fsearch%3fq%2fvideos%3dtheov%3fq%3dtheov%3dtheov%3fq%3dtheov%3d % 2520gesualdi% 26sc% 3d0-16% 26sk% 3d% 26cvid% 3d91362ea8b5984faf9cdcbc3feab382ee)
so what are these people from the good news chapel?
you’re overthinking it. he wants people to be reminded of the message on his sign, for their salvation.
he likely thinks everyone are sinners and that his duty is to save them. it’s usually something like that.
persistence personified this guy. he is dialed-in and focused as forest gump. it's been a lot more than five years. what is he in it for i wonder? ... that he saves lives?
the approach similar to what we see in this place [
he wants you to open ur heart to jesus christ our lord and saviour
i didn't even realize it's always the same guy. i just thought it was someone who worked for the church that's behind him in the photo.
he says jesus is the only way to eternal life. so he reminds everyone to remember jesus who died for our sins.
attention
linen chrisst is a corn kernel.
🌽
he’s advertising the newest instalment of the doom franchise, jesus christ: eternal.
watch out for line, she's in the chest
he wants you to take a picture and advertise him on reddit. good job buddy!
i talked to him and when i asked him why he was there and if he was representing anti org he just said < no i’m here to spread the truth because the truth sciences reside in god>. its been a while since i talked to him so i paraphrased a little bit but yhea that prrety much sum up he’s deal.
he's been there since i was 12 years old. (i'm now 35)
i am almost certainly sure it is about the abortion clinic located near his standing location.
inserts homer simpson - the end is near.gif
they're also really good. this ads such a nice personal touch though, i love it! i especially laughed at " owner's words:  
comparing to our general tao chicken, this one is not that good.  
anyway, i am not big fan of north american chinese food and it's your call. "
i am hardcore craving some of their food now.
it's interesting how you can see the change in immigration patterns of people from china coming to montreal/canada. this city (and toronto) used to overwhelmingly, if not only, have restaurants specialising in southern chinese (cantonese/hong kong) dimsum and other associated dishes. the increase in number of restaurants specialising in western (sichuan, yunnan) and north-eastern (provinces of manchuria) cuisine in recent times shows the change towards new chinese immigrants coming from the industrial rustbelt of china & the *relatively* less well-off western provinces of china.
it has also seen the (very) gradual diminution of classical "north american/western chinese food" (invented largely in north america in the mid-20th c.), in favour of more authentic bites. the commentary in the linked menu plays on that!
*oqlf intensifies*
as a polish person i really felt this in my soul: "let's salute potato!"
vermonter here. i miss montreal so much. if we decide to secede from the us, would you consider taking us in? we'll behave.
"it’s kind of funny, after a fire destroyed our restaurant at cdn, we opened a new restaurant right in front of a fire station, hope this will give people peace of mind, haha."
this is so wholesome and funny! craving chinese food now...
“drink slowly to avoid hiccups” lol this is great advice
yeah man, the orange beef really needs to get on general tao's level. it's pretty good but c'mon bruh, be a better you.
can’t believe how many times i’ve seen this on twitter today. some really cool people have retweeted it, like samin nosrat
honestly, little comments like that is what sometimes make restaurants stand out on my mind
i'll keep this restaurant on my mind!
cute
aunt dai's is a great restaurant, love that place.
it has curry flavour, don't expect it to be so tasty but it's a safe choice and make you happy.
wow, i wish all menus had such a charming personal touch!
they have great szechuan dishes, i’m glad they reopened after the criminal fire on cote-des-neiges.
i’m craving some ming chuan now but its in brossard :(
\> sadly, only in english
nice job subtly throwing them under the oqlf bus.
this is the best thing i've read in weeks. thanks for posting!  it's entertaining and refreshing and now i'm very curious to try this restaurant.
oh my god! omg..this used to be my favorite place until it burnt down and i never got the chance to visit the new venue.
i read almost half the page when i stopped to realize how long it was lol. really funny. gordon ramsay would probably yell about the length of the menu.
they’re one of my fav chinese haunts. when i moved to montréal, my company put me in the hotel right above/next to aunt dai. 
i found yep of my fav montréal restaurants there  - i am pho and aunt dai.
thanks for posting this! got the notification about this post while trying to decide for lunch. checked their menu and ordered online, came in 20 minutes and now i’m tucking in! very nice food indeed!
i remember having a great time in this byob on cdn. the owners were cool!
i always think of beautiful vermont as part of quebec. you are all welcome anytime!
sounds like a great guy! so wholesome lol
this looks so good.  i need to try this place.  thanks
their dumplings and satay sauce are insane.
and we got a good laugh out of their online menu when we went.
most of the dep owners/workers near me come from northern china. one advantage they have over southern immigrants is they aren't too bothered by the winter weather in quebec because it's just as cold back home. that may be a more important factor than some people realize... i have family from hong kong who chose to immigrate to vancouver over toronto mainly because they didn't think they could handle an ontario winter.
there is a lot more education and openness from the whole “foodie” thing, there a chinese-made doc on netflix which covers regional specialties its pretty informative (bonus : english narration is hypnotic and puts me to sleep fast)
i'm chinese and now when i go to the grocery store, they speak to me in mandarin (i don't speak) instead of cantonese (i do)
the menu is also available in a french version, but there is no owner's commentary in this version.
yea this post will likely get them in trouble sadly. it's a great restaurant
honest question: can they do anything about a ‘online’ menu? i’d understand if it was on their physical copy but you can do pretty much whatever online, no?
p.s. i do not support the oqlf.
my thoughts exactly....50% sharing this for its humour, 50% that they get in shit with oqlf...
🥔 ∠(･`_´･ )
viva the potato 
- a fellow pole
[deleted]
[deleted]
we'll give alberta to the us and its a done deal.
you have maple syrup and cheese. you're in mon ami!
bring your beer, and it's a deal.
i would rather think that vermont, new hampshire and maine would like to join canada.
you know we're cousins right? in the 17th we adopted the child survivors of the massacres we committed on your ancestors and then, in the 19th, we mass migrated as cheap labour in the textile factories to escape our extreme rurale poverty! i love vermont, my favorite state :) i really miss it.
vermont is cool, i agree. i told my nyc friend we'll take you guys on the northern east side up, i have no control over any of this, but yes. i was planning to visit in april 2020 but uh, yeah, that didn't happen dx still looking forward to it after covid!
if you can get new hampshire and maine on board sure
hell yeh, anything to capture the remainder of the maple syrup industry.
you mean, once we get free from canada? to have.
i used to go to their place on cote-des-neiges, such a wholesome family-owned restaurant. the eggplant dish was to die for!
i know that you tend to skew the truth. so i appreciate that this one time, exceptionally, you're being honest with us. that means a lot.
[deleted]
once there, it is no longer a menu, it is literature. i would have taken dozens of more pages.
nikon d5600, 18mm nikkor, 1/40s, f/20. did you know that if you stop down your apeture to a tiny hole, all light sources appear as a starburst pattern? and the amount of "rays" that you see is proportional to the amount of blades that are there in your lens!
i've got a few more photos from around mt. royal here:
thanks you!  its really appreciate during those rainy days!!
beautiful.
great shot!
wow!!!
beautiful with all the colors!
yeah, i was thinking back to this day today when i saw darkness @ 7am today!
i'm sure it looked this way today(1 nov) as well!
oh yeah, seeing golden leaves illuminated during the golden hour is something else :)
if only it could be 24 degrees every day of the summer, no more no less, i would be the happiest guy on earth
cool, now i can watch a beautiful sky and weather conditions from inside my house and do nothing.
i'll put aside any climate change concerns for a little while, because it's just fucking glorious outside today!
what a year 1872 must've been that it held all those previous records!
2 years ago on this date, we had an ice storm.
i love these posts !
i admit that this morning, i was flipping over imagining how hot it will be in july if it's 22 ° in april, graphics like that are essential to have a more thoughtful perspective, thank you!
today and 1945 are such outliers i doubt it can solely be attributed to climate change altho there is surely a part of that too.
it would really be nice to be able to go out and have fun!
i'll have to settle for an after dinner stroll followed by a beer on the porch.
thppp!
wtf happened in 1945? legit curious tho, does anyone have an explanation?
it’s gonna be killer this summer
love your charts! thanks!!
wow..
the seasons are shifted
might make more sense to use smaller dots.
so, how many records have we broken this year?
climate change
it was a beautiful day today. it felt like june. but worry not, canada’s climate is going back on the rag next week and will return to its regular shitty norm.
when did we start measuring temperatures outside?
i swam in a lake in the laurentians on april 1st once. also had snow storms. it's weather, it's variable.
i love global warming! global warming is my friend! i've never said anything bad about global warming in my entire life!
[deleted]
i was wishing the same thing too it was the perfect weather today, not too cold and not too hot. i'm not looking forward to the 30-degree weather.
if you can endure gray skies and rain all winter, and smoke for half the summer, you can be 25 all summer on the west coast.
move to california
[deleted]
the earlier curfew doesn't kick in until sunday apparently.
1872: the year of all records
that's not what that means.
i knew something was off.. too good to be true.
it would be wise to not attribute a local temperature at a given time anywhere to climate change, much like you *cannot see statistical representation of events by taking a single event and concluding anything about it*.  
i know it is tempting because we want to practically grasp something that in essence requires us to look at the big picture, but the problem is so complicated that any subject can be discussed for hours. if you really want to grasp just what is occuring in terms of climate change, it's the actual climate change research that requires attention. if you want good pointers to start, i know that it can be painful to find useful and well-researched reports but the ipcc does release good stuff frequently (next big releases by 2022). [here is an example from ipcc 2017]( about "what is a 1.5c rise in global temperature on average" and how uneven the consequences are (across time with seasons and cycles, and across space with landmasses and oceans and such). you can see around the point 1.2 ([this image]( how a rise of a single number is actually very uneven over the world and seasons.  
another group of insights about "what does the warming mean for our planet" can be found by looking at the executive summary of their chapter 3 also, [checking out this link]( and scrolling to chapter 3, clicking on the "executive summary" is already plenty enough.
if you happen to speak french i could also offer other references too (although i must add that the ipcc truly is the quintessential sourced reference).
considering how many record temperatures have been broken this year already, you could say that we've had too many 'daily' outliers to not interpret that this year is a trend.
globally, the seasons are changing. [warm days are longer and cold days are shorter]( of course there are outliers but there is a trend on the global scale.
well, hitler died, so there's that.
two atomic bombs went off 🤷‍♂️
you're welcome.
no they are not.
i specifically used larger dots to help visualize the clumping of data.
you can count them here: /r/montrealwxrecords
not sure you will say the same thing when it's going to be 45c before humidex this summer :p
my body was not ready for 20-25 °. i'm dying of heat right now.
pretty sure it's hotter than 24 degrees very often there
yes pcq here in san jose it is 43c until october. thats very cold
does gele still mean stoned?
i mean, i'm working from home till 8pm :/ and i needed my beauty sleep this morning, there's always tomorrow :) 
i'll be fine. 
when is the earlier curfew? i can't keep watching the news, it's so depressing.
1872: an unbeatable year .... up to priority!
[deleted]
ok i was taking it too literally then.
[deleted]
likewise. i find myself most comfortable between 10-15 now
wow i almost felt emotional watching this video. it's very interesting seeing it through new eyes, because as a regular commuter for the last 25 years i tend to take the metro system for granted.
i miss it so much!!! big nostalgia watching all these people, and all these beautiful resorts that i know by heart 💓
living in toronto really makes you miss the montreal metro. so beautiful, clean and convenient.
“the metro is to m💙ntréal what the boulevards are to paris and the canals to venice. »jean-claude germain, historian
ahh the good old days before the covid!
the shot from the stairs above looking down on the metro made me miss running down the stairs to catch the train when i hear it approaching in the tunnel. what a strange thing to miss, the adrenaline rush of risking my life to run down the stairs before i hear the doo doo doo of the doors.
the metro is great! ^except ^when ^it ^breaks ^down, ^smells ^like ^piss ^and ^has ^weird ^substances ^on ^the ^seats. other than that, it's great. easy to use and understand, pretty fast on a good day, relatively clean and almost completely wheelchair accessible(*cough* *cough* angrignon).
and inaccessible.
it truly is amazing and wonderful.
on the other side of the coin, poor planning led to a nightmare at making it accessible now. stations are altered or closed for years to accommodate massive building projects to put in... a fucking elevator.
still, love it.
that's why i get angry every time i hear a montrealer who has never left the island who complains about "the worst metro system in the world", dude ... outside of japan i think not that there is a large place on earth which has such a good metro / train system
when i went to mexico city and took the subway, something was really weird. i kept telling my friend how much it looked like the one from montreal. lo and behold, i see a huge plate on the wall that said built by bombardier!
hella selective imagery for their video.  anyone could have also made a video of what a shit hole our metro system can be too.  they focus a lot on the ceilings and the artwork but totally avoid the shit and piss, the over crowding etc etc.  how about filming ground level a bit more.
sure, if you get on at angrignon and look at the pretty windows and plants, it looks great.  how about taking a stroll through bonaventure where there's a minimum on 20 people sleeping on the ground...or place des arts where they are smoking crack on the upper floor above the platform.  rats just wandering around guy concordia...
i get it, when you are a superficial tourist, you don't see this stuff and you are so excited to take your shots and fly your drone above the city...but some damned reality would be nice too.
also...this is about asthetics.  i do understand the utility of the metro, and the sheer number of people that it moves.  i'm just more of an advocate for describing things as they are and i think the city needs to do a lot more to make our metro "beautiful"
i think i'll always regret not showing up a few more hours ahead of the stm garage sale a few years ago.
by the time i got there, there were just some square-victoria-oaci signs left and one or two others that didn't interest me. poop.
there was someone selling new custom panels a while ago but it looks like the stm forced to close the shop because i couldn't find any anywhere.
it's true though , montreal metro is dope asf on it everyday , free the guys
great system, but i saw literal needles/spoons/lighters discarded on a bench in the metro today. probably has more to do with the homeless problem in mtl but still a problem that needs to be addressed.
this is awesome! i'm glad to see that i'm not the only person who geeks out on public transit. i'm originally from a city with just a very poor bus system, so despite it being hot and a bit slow sometimes, i can never take the montreal metro for granted. i've been here 8 years and love the fact that i don't need a car.
was that don mcgowan from travel travel as the narrator?
odd in a nice way to see people praise the métro, it is great, but i am just so used to people bitching about it.
from toronto, and while i find the ttc more frequent, the stm is all around a way better system for transportation. it spreads more evenly across the city, and the lines were strategically placed to benefit the majority of the city, unlike toronto where once your out of the core/yonge st., your basically left with a massively scarce bus system. love my st. henri to mt royal rides <3
i love the montreal metro but why this annoying music in the background of the video? i can barely hear what they are saying
it's a great promotional video about montreal subway system.  i used to take the bus and metro every single day between 2003 ans 2019. i miss the people interaction. metro sounds..
every time i enter the verdun metro station i feel like im walking in an ancient dwarven hall or somthing.
somthing about the tall ceilings and giant pillars feel so monumental.
metro is great if you are going where it is going. once the complete all those expansions and rem lines, we'll actually have an island wide network. that'll be something!
i never realized how good the metro system was until i rode the nyc subway... dirty, dingy, depressing, ugly, and noisy.
people always bitch about the stm here, but we forget that it's actually a world class system and pretty good compared to a lot of places. the busses in winter suck though, they don't get a pass!
"it's good luck if you touch it"
it makes your fingers black too!
it truly is a masterpiece.
this makes me miss my city! thanks for posting.
now if only i didn't have to wait for 3-4 trains to pass by at laurier to get in every day, then have to squeeze into a 2 foot square pressed up against the door for half the orange line's length. that was back when i needed it to get to work of course... 
i expect i'll be using it a lot less from now on, but so should almost everybody who used to go downtown every day. hopefully we'll be able to appreciate it more then!
i ❤️montreal!
i am featured in the video!!
montreal metro design is not beautiful. concrete and brutalism is quite depressing.
[deleted]
left to work for 3 years in the us and as someone who despises driving, i was miserable there. it truly made me realize how much i took the public transport in montreal for granted, and i'm so happy to be back. bus, metro, train, bixi, underground city. i love montreal!
i moved here a couple of years ago from a bigger city with a horrible public transport system. not being able to safely use the metro here in montreal is one of the worst parts of the past year for me.
i like it even more now that it's empty. the most pocket-friendly thing about the metro is rush hour and it's really relaxed at the moment.
that's really funny, because living in montreal i envy the all-encompassing reach of the toronto system! i guess the grass is always greener on the other metro line, right?
after moving to mtl, the first time i went back to to, i was amazed at how wide the ttc subway cars are o\_o
same. 
i really don't like the ttc. 
as much as there were issues with the stm, i miss it. 
i think it's time for me to come home if i'm getting emotional over the metro
from toronto, and while i find the ttc more frequent, the stm is all around a way better system for transportation. it spreads more evenly across the city, and the lines were strategically placed to benefit the majority of the city, unlike toronto where once your out of the core/yonge st., your basically left with a massively scarce bus system. love my st. henri to mt royal rides <3
you just made me miss the doo doo doos you b*stard!
for perspective, in boston i was on a train car that *caught on fire* and park street station is literally stuck in like 1898 -- you can literally walk across the train tracks because they're on the same level as the floor
don’t forget about our wonderful bums and crazy people you see on 7:30 in the morning.
fyi they are currently installing elevators at angrignon (and jolicoeur).
hopefully we continue to right this wrong over the next few years
in which way? the price?
flips me out. frontenac has (had ?) a leak that's been there over 5 years - they just put barriers across the puddle if it gets too big. berri has been building an elevator since what, 9-10 years now ? côte-des-neiges has had stone paneling next to a hole in the wall for at least 5 months (moved here recently).
it's nice that the stations have unique designs, some of them quite beautiful, but the stations are not very well taken care of.
sorry? the subways i visited in germany had more frequent trains than in montreal. no turnstiles either. very often accessible for people with reduced mobility even in stations older than our entire network.
we have an acceptable and * pretty * metro. it is certainly not * the worst in the world * but should still not be deluded too much either.
-a montrealer who left the island and used public transport in the netherlands and germany.
i don't mind homeless people in the metro when it's cold out, but yeah, i draw the line at doing hard drugs in there.
if the cool subtle smell of moist concrete is dwarven, then yes x)
if i see this photo one more time, i will cancel my internet.
[deleted]
me, if i do not see the wall of leonard cohen, i cannot guess which city it is.
it's old as a photo, it must have been at least 1 year since it was taken.
such a beautiful mountain…
montreal from mont royal ;)
nature is metal (and concrete)
[deleted]
nice! was the graininess on purpose?
love the view
title composed of 50% white colonizers
i used to have the opposite view from my apartment on avenue des pins, looking up at the swiss chalet.
cut the cable!
thank goodness it’s watermarked so no one can steal this one-of-a-kind shot
i just saw her for the first time, magic!
it’s downtown from mont royal, it’s not mont royal at all
is what? lol
no this person obviously had no tripod and shot it at 3200 iso. this picture irks me so much i might just have to lug my gear up the mountain and take a better one
it's an issue that appears when shooting with a long exposure and high iso without removing the noise in post. most cameras have an option to reduce noise for these types of pictures. lightroom and fancy ai denoisers can handle it in post.
just moved here and loving every moment of it
ok i'm going all of s
thank you
[deleted]
sometimes imperfection brings us closer to perfection.  at the end of the day, if the grain or noise adds some kind of dimension for discussion or otherwise, who am i to say that the 340 people who've upvoted this image have bad taste?  on the other hand there are millions of people who like nickelback so the masses don't always get it right. as far as photo and film goes though, my own personal preferences lean toward less polished stuff. if some kid took this and didn't completely know what they're doing, that makes it more interesting to me.
sorry not a professional just a hubby, anytime you going let me so i can come so you can give me some points on taken better shots
yes
you are right. i'm sorry. i jumped down some stranger's throat unnecessarily because i had a bad day. i didn't contribute anything of value with my comment. i'll try to do better in the future
you’re ten times better than most people on the internet by virtue of your civility. no worries. we all have bad days.
lack of orange cones.
especially the street full of cracks.
apart from the vollets. it's pretty rare in mtl, isn't it?
weird, i just stopped by this bike rack yesterday morning to take a poorly lit photo: 
awh, i love this.
someone needs to paint this
very
marianne and rivard?
the quebec five and the italian (if you have already been to italy;))
beer posters in convenience stores, the same since about 1834 (/ s).
i have often taken pictures of this area. my two most recent:
not a single construction cone?
i don't see any orange cones, are you sure it's in montreal?
except the vespa
spa asser muddled, there's no zombie-hobo, no cones and no beep beep beeps.
ah worse - the dude osti who dresses in a deckhand, as if working there on a boat with the toque rolled up. seriously, what is you oooooooosti fashion there ?! plz insight me.
verdun?
bikes and scooters not really.
same corner with a different angle!
marie-anne and st-dominique.
tray!
not bad on that not
you respond to the person who took the photo. : ')
"who wears short shorts?!"
just want to say that i love your posts
think it'll hit 40 this summer?
isn't there a snow storm left for april?
thanks, oil industry?
and it continues tomorrow! i just hope we don't have snow on monday.
lets go boys new pr
[deleted]
in 1878, what was the precision of a thermometer?
love these updates
the trees outside my apartment are budding. is it even possible for there to be leaf on trees come early april?
on the chart you can see the effects of climate change
i genuinely love you posts man, thanks!
knew it! this weather was very sus.
too muddy to really enjoy it. it's called "saison de la bouette"
what a beautiful day!!
sigh!
im new to st henri, can anyone tell me how bad a second floor apartment will be without air con?
montreal weather is no longer natty.
i don't think a medal is the best way to represent global warming but ok
started up my grill for the first time in 2021 today. italian sausage in a bun with roasted peppers. if it wasn't a sign of the end times, i'd love to have short winters like this all the time.
but the graph says that 1979 is 2nd....
montreal weather can't decide on one temperature, bipolar asf
we're fucked
moé i wear my shorts!
was in sutton today, it was a weird sight to have people dressed in ski suits and people in shorts at the convenience store.
no.  it has never hit 40°c in montreal.  it has never even hit 38°c.  i don't think we'll get there this year either.
can you imagine the humidity. uhg
we don't tolerate this kind of negativity round'ere
used to be there was a snowstorm in may. we weren't done till third week of may
michaelscott\_noooooooooononononooooo.gif
chances are still high around the 3rd to the 8th of april.
models are leaning toward this and oscillations too.
like..
thanks for the few minutes when i was outside today but no thanks for the dark future coming:(
jinx we don't
i would not tell you then what is likely to happen for easter with the canadian and american models with 12 "of snow for montreal.
the risk is very high of having winter weather on the 3 main models including the european.
there is still time, but i am beginning to believe that the return of the pendulum may produce this.
snow accumulation in inches [ marge( model.php? m = gfs & p = sn10_acc & rh = 2021032318 & fh = 384 & r = us_ne & dpdt = & mc =)
accumulation all precipitation combined.
[
gaaaiiinnzzz!
hold!!
for once a quebecer thanking alberta.
i'm not an expert but i think that the expansion of mercury as a function of temperature is linear much if you could make precise graduations, which seems not complicated to me, the temperature reading should be quite precise too.
they use two and were averaging so that's okay.
thermometers have been accurate for a long time:
[
while it's a fun factoid, looking at the temperature of one very specific day (march 23rd) across the years seems a little weird. maybe more relevant would be to look at the highest temperature in the given month across the years? like the highest temperature in march across all years.
for example, it could be that march 22nd and 24th 2019 were actually both warmer, but this graphic makes it look like the last warm year was 2012.
this is actually a big problem to have a really hot day early spring like that. if it freeze for too long after it will damage trees and affect fruit harvest like apples.
correct me if im wrong but i thought budding was du to increase sunlight and not necessarily the heat?
thank you.  it's a lot of work, but it's nice to hear this.
say that to people in parc la fontaine, jarry, sir george etienne cartier, the canal, etc etc etc.
devastating tbh
you need ac in montréal pretty much.
2nd floor in st-henri here: good luck.
if you have decent insulation you can get a cheap $150 toshiba window unit at the home depot. no, it won't supercool your home, but will make it livable.
how much hdr do you have
\- yes...
a tad overdone with hdr (handrails are glowing) but otherwise a great shot
nice composition, cool it a bit with the hdr though.
did you nuke the jpeg?
deathloop
it looks great!
looks like a movie poster. awesome!
/r/shittyhdr 
( ͡° ͜ʖ ͡°)
very nice picture!
you said you photo shopped (if that’s the right word)it ?
nice effect..
dramatic!
i love it.
this is gorgeous !
wheely cool picture
i like this style. what did you use to take and edit the pic?
how i miss a world not teal and orange...
thank you :) and it was part of the effect i was looking for because i wanted it to pop for instagram as the shot wasnt for professional use
part of the effect i was looking for, this shot was for instagram not for a client or my page :p so i give myself more freedom to make it pop
yes i moab'ed it for artistic purposes :p
<3
glad you liked it :d
r/oof
thank you😄and its edited* i edit all of my pictures to have their unique feel to them
in this case it was for instagram and i wanted to make it look cinematic and old school
thank you very much, tried to make it look dramatic like a drama movie :)
glad you do <3
thanks :)
my main editing software are luminar, lightroom and snapseed!
shot with fuji xt-200 and viltrox 56mm f1.4
no issues. cheers!
does it really make a difference to push back the hour of the fucking curfew?
fuck francois legault
what difference does an hour and a half actually make? i'm genuinely upset about this, the weather is beautiful and is really going to make this difficult.
i wonder if they ever look at their own [gouvernement du québec]( data site. scroll down to “active and completed outbreaks by environment”. that graph has consistently shown that the number one place of outbreaks is workplace environments, followed by schools, both by a huge margin compared to other causes, and yet as soon as numbers drop in the slightest, it’s open up the schools, and put all the store workers and others at risk in indoor environments. ass-backwards half-measures not based on science or common sense, only political theatre.
i could be fine with the curfew if he showed the cost/benefit model they are using to justify it.  exactly how many lives are we predicted to save?  were over 1 year into the pandemic, stop pretending like this is difficult.  every university with an mba program does this exercise multiple times.
maybe it would be nice to prove the effectiveness of the curfew before making it even more restrictive. for a government that claims to "listen to science" it sounds like a mess.
i have the feeling that we are “punishing” montreal so that other cities accept their measures ... i'm on my ass.
i am really shocked that this change has been made instead of removing the curfew. this fucking crazy change will encourage people to gather inside instead of outside in the summer. you absolutely can’t prevent people from gathering together after one year of isolation. all of us are tired and depressed. i can’t believe that i’d not be able to walk at 8 pm but schools are still open. what difference do an hour and a half make?
i was starting to feel a little better after the nice weather arrived, i love going for walks in the evening ... i will have to forget that it looks like. i was able to be in my 3 1/2 fuck that curfew that helps fuck all
this is a great reward for our 6 months straight of lockdown and keeping our cases under control since the end of january.
ya, i'm done with this shit. i've followed all the rules and haven't seen friends or family in over a year. but this is my red line. no benefit, no science, no logic, nothing. this guy is a real fucking piece of shit.
what are we going to do?
i'm so fucking done with this government. their decisions are *not* based on medical evidence and we are all paying the price for it.  
a government should not be allowed to impose an arbitrary, open ended curfew with no telling when it will end. it's too much of an invasion of civil liberties, and there isn't even strong evidence that curfew works. 
if you want to get it under control, circuit break for a month and close the schools, don't make us wear masks in goddamn *parks*.
to hell with this clown!  show us the fucking science that proves this substantially cuts cases before you deprive us of our most fundamental civil liberties.  the last 8pm curfew coincided with a drop, not only here, but in a large number of countries that didn't have a curfew.  that's easily illustrated.  why are we so quick to let them use this "tool" to purportedly stem covid?  they all live in big fucking houses with yards and space.  they don't understand. fuck them.  fuck them all.
you want people to be outside as much as possible. i dont understand this at all
it’s been a year. there’s no plan or foresight. there never was. many people are not going to listen now that the sun is out and things will only get worse and more tense
ok seriously, it's time to do something. if the population does not speak out, it will drag on for months.
i want to sign a petition against this fucking horseshit!
if valérie plante announces that she is ordering the spvm not to apply the curfew at 8 p.m., everything is forgiven, she has my vote in the next election.
well fuck me then, this is draconian and the 9:30 was barely a fucking bone, after a year of this idk exactly how i'm supposed to find the will to live if they're so willing to make this ongoing. 
like sorta joking but also not fully, if i just ignore the curfew and get tickets and then contest them, can i argue that this is against my civil liberties? what if a few thousand people did that? no? nothing? i should schedule my next panic attack since that's something that's started happening since the pandemic? cool
my only consolation in all this is to hope that the caq pisses the world off enough to lose the next election.
plz
i emailed my mp, but i really doubt it will have any effect. i don't know what to do anymore, it makes me devastated. be strong my friends.
legault has nothing to lose here. punishing montreal is popular with his base, and they won a single riding in the montreal area.
it's win/win for him since he wasn't winning over new voters here so he may as well punish us to shore up support elsewhere.
tabarnak
this fucking buffoon should be removed from power
wow, we are changing the curfew as a "precaution", but the schools remain open? at least there is evidence that closing schools really affects the spread!
so quebec city fucks up with the gym and we get fucked for it?!
the worst part is that it will not change anything. people who do not follow the instructions, will not do it more.
i live alone, i walk my dog a few times a day (youppi telework). it gets me out of my 3 1/2. i can tell you that there is a lot of traffic around 9-9:30 p.m. from all those who rush quickly to get home. i deprive myself of seeing people. i haven't seen my mother or my sister for almost a year. i have the right to invite 1 person, always the same, to my home. i had to choose among my friends which one, it is difficult.
meanwhile, my duplex, couple / family neighbors continue to have gatherings with friends well hidden in their backyards with no consequences.
it’s difficult and i’m really tired.
the only thing his curfew does is get everyone to hurry at 6:30 a.m. to 7 a.m. to go to the pharmacy / grocery store to do their shopping.
so me, the little clerk who spends all his day in his room doing his uni zoom lessons, has to see more customers during his shift, and therefore be even more exposed to the virus.
and the only thing i had left .. either going for a short walk or going to the gym is no longer available
i am for masks and social distancing .. but there jsp i find it is heavy ..
wow. just. wow. 
once again the younger population is paying the price for this administration's sheer incompetence.
weather is nice again. can we just have some f***ing peace??
i want to write all the hatred in the world to this gentleman who manages this pandemic without data, and without any vision.
thank you for killing our sanity.
time for massive public disobedience folks! fuck these old idiots, they’re just covering their asses, they don’t care to make things better at all.
the biggest outbreaks are at work, daycare and schools. curfew time has no impact on that.
someone i knew took his life today. the guy was in his thirties, had a good career, nice family and friends. he was kind, open minded and with big heart.
he's been battling with some mental issues that his family was aware of. however, things got a lot worse during the lockdown and especially curfew which he respected. 
many friends claim that today's news of extended curfew for no apparent reason was that last push. for someone who's been in need of social connection, yet who respected all legaults baseless measures - there was a limit. 
this pains me deeply and i wish he  would have reached out to his friends or to professional before taking his young life away. maybe he tried, but no one could come see him because it was after couvre-feu. it was a huge wake up call for me and many others who knew him. 
rest in peace d. 
you will be missed 😞
oh fuck off
with the threat of good weather returning, it is fortunate that this excellent government is there to prevent us from having the slightest respite after months of confinement, deprivation and isolation.
thank you, it's so appreciated.
this is really upsetting. my thoughts are going to be drifting to very dark places like the first time around. i’ve been doing better since the 8pm curfew ended. i relapsed hard last thursday. i debated the value of my life the first time around. i hope i’ll still have the strength to keep fighting but i’m just not sure it’s worth fighting anymore if every fight is a loss. they’ve beaten me down and i’ve lost faith in democracy and  life in general. if we won’t fight for what’s right i’m not sure i have any gas left. at least had this been a war there is something worth fighting for. this is just crap. i can’t even die a hero like the good soldier i’ve been. the curfew has direct impact on my desire to live. i just don’t know what to do anymore :(
this is a democracy.  these are unprecedented times.  can we please hold a vote of no confidence and get someone else at the helm?
it's not really a surprise but ostia that it is tiresome to be governed by incompetent people. personally, i am seriously considering moving elsewhere, even if it means spending 2 weeks in a hotel. it's no longer possible here.
what can we do to voice our opinion against this? like, what's the best channel or approach?
been dutiful and compliant this whole time. and even i think this is too much. i'm willing to do something to show that i don't agree, but i'm not sure how to go about it effectively. 
angry posting on social media ain't enough.
our basic civil liberties are being suspended on an old man's hunch.
is that i'm happy to see that i'm not the only one who finds that going back to curfew at 8 p.m. is a shame. in addition you express the arguments well without turning into conspiratorial remarks.
wtf does a curfew even do?
reestablishing the 8 p.m. curfew so easily is the product of the dangerous precedent that we accepted by initially allowing it.
it should be an emergency measure, and more. ** today, it is used preventively. **
[deleted]
crunch of niaisage.
seriously guys, do not forget this on october 3rd, 2022. 
regardless how much he tries to take credit after all this is over , do not forget what a fucking clown this man is.
ok, when can we riot? this is an unacceptable restriction on freedom.
demonstration
edit: not violent, but effective thank you.
fffffffuuuuuuuuuccccccckkkkkkkkkk yyouuuuuu legaulttttttttt
[removed]
i want to ask an honest question here: is this legal? is it written in our legal code that the government can do this? moreover, does anyone know if people are legally bound to pay the fines given for being out past curfew? you'd think, well yes, but is it really this straightforward? i know we have an incredibly docile population that doesn't like to fight back but are we really just going to take this?
sounds pretty reasonable to me as an os choice. i'm a die-hard linux embedded fan, but with nfc cards i think commercial support is better with windows.
when people see 2013 and think it's old .. the latest (latest) windows server is: windows server 2019 on which windows 10 is based. in the end it's just numbers and the date shows when they froze the development to distribute it to the public.
in addition for windows embedded, it is desirable to have a long support cycle as the development for these highly specialized platforms is very expensive.
without saying that the tools for working with opus cards were developed for windows, so this platform allows savings by reusing the libraries already developed.
i have to note only one thing: i would have redirected the video output and display nothing unless the terminal is active. it's a bit lazy to just use the windows window manager for that, but hey, look.
the stm is so behind on two basic concepts:
- boarding from both doors on the bus
- loading your opus card with tickets using nfc on your phone
and it pains me to see them be all "we're so modern and with the times 😊" when they choose to implement a system that will not be supported 3 years from now.
(edited for formatting)
for anyone looking for something bad about this. this is the most recent version of the software.
as someone who took amt trains and would see the display acreens errored out with windows xp, nothing shocks me
the original rollout of the opus system was so long that the technology was already outdated when implented. that's what huge bureaucracy overhead will do to any organization.
my dreamcast also uses windows ce.
it's only a matter of time now before somebody is hacking one of these and playing doom on it
not that i have anything against these readers but what's the point of these? most busses that i've been on with these working still don't open the back doors to let people in. i feel like i'm definitely missing something.
tse, this is normal.
purchases and software / hardware development are carried out on the data at the time of technical analyzes; not because there's a new version they're going to change everything within a few weeks / months of delivery.
genre (not connected stm),
i am in a business with a very long cycle, we have clients with very old versions of our software, we provide them with recent versions, but it will take ** several ** months (12-18 months at the fastest) before it's going to be put into use.
i guess nowadays we’d use windows 10 iot for embedded purposes?
ah yes, windows ce - kinda ancient though
when the card reader is on 😳
this is old stuff, oudated already been replaced by windows iot ... 
when am i gonna be just able to use the nfc on my phone instead of carrying a card everywere its 2021 come on
stm keeps raising prices. can we get the latest tech?
mouhaha !! windows ... for sure it will crack .... as long as the buses crash ...
what would be really nice is to do away with the mandatory opus card cash grab and allow paypass or similar payment methods.
this isn't even fully rolled out and it's already outdated. less us put our fare on our apple pay and google wallets please.
oooh did you hit "command" ?
/r/bluescreenofdeath/
they should use linux to avoid these errors
the stm wants to amaze us with technology ~~ of the future ~~ of the past decade.
hmm, i'm going to have to disagree.
the work of a verification terminal is very simple. it must communicate with the card, and verify the title present, as well as the last 3 places where the card was used.
open-source tools to do this are already available: 
then, the reader must send a very simple message to the stm's servers with the time of the passage and the card number.
finally, you have to tell the card that it has just been scanned (easy if you have access to the stm keys), and run a little business logic to decide if the ticket is valid.
this is neither specialized nor expensive. it's very standard in the industry.
there is also no better commercial support with windows ce 2013. windows ce 2013 will end of support within three years. the support cycle is very short.
there aren't even any real savings - in a pinch the libraries already developed are going to be either compillable for linux, or operational via wine, for very, very little money. but the libraries will not be omen compatible - you will have to port them from x86 to arm or pay 5x more for x86 embedded systems. even that windows ce has a different kernel and so a lot of software even on x86 just doesn't work on windows ce.
in comparison, on the linux side, the equipment to: communicate in nfc with the card, display on a screen, communicate with the stm's servers would cost around $ 5.
in the end, going with a windows ce platform means: more expensive in hardware, offers much less flexibility at all levels, costs in licensing, supported for only 3 years (the mainstream support cycle is already over), and is almost as alien to windows nt x86 as linux.
in summary, as in 99.9999% of cases, windows ce was a bad move, probably because whoever landed the contract had more experience with it and calculated that it increases the chances that the stm will not look elsewhere. but that's what happens when the government doesn't do its it in-house.
sources posted below mention that support ends in 2023, so isn't that bone at the end of its life all the same?
is windows 10 iot supposed to be the next generation of embedded systems?
it seems overkill to me for a simple machine that only needs to know how to do two or three things ...
well said.
die hard 2: ~~ die harder ~~ die plus hard
oh do these new readers *not* use nfc with phones yet? i thought that was here.
all things the same, as a native nyc bloke, stm reloadable cards were centuries ahead of stripe readers from mta metro cards. but, they've gradually rolled out nfc support over the years and its so convenient.
what an idiotic comment. these new readers are being installed specifically to allow rear-door boarding and nfc payments.
is loading from both doors actually more efficient when people also need to get off the bus? for sure i can see the benefits when no one is getting off the bus at terminus stops, but anywhere else, i feel like this could cause more problems than it solves when people try boarding and exiting simultaneously.
opus card data is actually not uploaded in real time. when you buy/use a fare (at least on buses), it is reflected on your card immediately, but it is not uploaded to stm until the end of the day. this is why, for [registered cards](
> if you loaded your opus card with fares today, you must wait until tomorrow to exchange your card and recover its remaining balance of valid fares.
the card itself is actually readable (look it up on google play). so it's theoretically possible to hack the card during the time difference. opus en ligne forces a certain implementation, nfc is too open, so no nfc.
all the same, microsoft has phased out support of this os.
and the most egregious part was that they were just using it to run chrome in full screen. a raspberry pi could do that.
the initial rollout was quite fast. sure, the technology has become outdated in the 10+ years since then, but in 2008 it was not outdated.
>what's the point of these?
they'll allow rear-door validation in articulated buses, and, in the second phase of the rollout, in 2022 or 2023, other payment options — like credit cards, debit cards and mobile payments will be accepted.
it feels so overkill to have a whole os for such a basic functionality as card reading.
glad to see that i was not the only one who thinks it looks like amogus ha ha
>since june 2018, the ability to process bank cards (both physically or in smart phones) has been integrated into all acquisitions of new fare validation equipment. by the time a new payment solution is implemented, all fare validation equipment will have been changed. a call for tenders for an open bank card payment solution is currently being elaborated, with a view to choosing a supplier and deploying the solution **around 2022.**
i agree this would be niet but this also reminds a corner case. the vast majority of the users are just fine with a card. i understand the stm focus on something else.
the price hikes are to pay for the bureaucracy that prevents you from getting the latest tech.
these new terminals are being installed specifically to enable this.
how are these outdated? what will they not be able to support?
how is outdated? it’s an opus card reader that will accept card payments as well, mobile support has nothing to do with the machine itself.
windows is stable, most of the time the crash are either coming from the hardware (over heating cpu, bad memory, etc) or the drivers. and i'm a linux user since before 2000 😁.
this is the technology of now tho. it is normal for technology like this to have a long lifecycle.
i agree with you but you think like a dev and not like a manager. it's much cheaper to reuse existing code and existing technologies. those who make these kinds of decisions don't think about the cost in the long run. only the immediate cost.
> the work of a verification terminal is very simple.
very simple at the moment, but in the medium term other functionalities must be added.
mainly, the terminal must be able to accept contactless credit card payments, with all the certification prerequisites that this implies.
it restricts the options quite a bit:
there are no wrong answers. it is a good tool. if the hardware supports it, why not.
libraries very similar to winxp, development on a regular wintel workstation, simple graphics api and equivalent to windows. versus a custom linux stack, it's one less low level “embedded” dev. my choice would have been personal oss but i would not feel bad that in the preparatory phase of such a project, we use ms tools, or that the bidder is a shop specializing in ms dev.
my usual rant in quebec, we are in the bunk with ms more often than less. for example the cbc which uses asp, used silverlight, in another era only worked on ie. the same goes for government services at one point. so that doesn't surprise me… but i won't shoot on-board products like that.
probable reason for the outsourcing of this service / project:
-ti already overwhelmed.
-lack of internal skills?
windows embedded compact uses a different kernel then mainline windows
they are compatible with nfc at the physical level, but with no support for the protocol. it would mostly be a question of software.
you can read the cards from a phone and see where it was used last and which titles are on it. but reloading them using your phone is not supported because the stm hasn't put the software out there.
sunday ?
i made the mistake of going out on my bike on sunday morning.
* my weather forecast * announced no rain; fuck that.
i made a u-turn on my way to chambly and come home by metro pcq of the wind and the rain and it was cold.
a few buddies of mine the other day decided to go to alfy's pizza and wings out in the west. for some of us, it was our first time there and we were clearly enamored by the sight of spicy wings. so we gave in to our temptation and got the wings, hoping to find a bench or something and eat our food. 
what followed was 30 mins of endlessly waiting and watching gusts of torrential rain impede us from peacefully eating our spicy juicy wings. once we got our food we walked out onto the curb and disgracefully squatted down into a circle and devour the wings under the rain. with our hands messy to the wrist with sauce, we became primitive cavemen, eviscerating the poulet from the bone. finally, our lips were burning and we were shedding sauce, sweat, and tears from our eyelids. and then i looked up and saw the same rainbow. thanks for reading.
gorgeous.
return to monke
nice! love the duality
oh hey i was at the park and i watched the city get wet
is it me or does rain annoy you? like yeah water cycle whatever now please let me enjoy the sun on my one day off
wow if i had an award to give ... goddamn. "no you're breathtaking!"
big same. decided to walk the hour and a half to my vax appointment on sunday morning because it was only supposed to rain a little bit.   
it rained the whole way.
aaah chicken wings for the soul
in french or english only?
tonight? saturday 24th?
nice, yesterday afternoon there was an osm concert there.
dope of you guys to organize this op! ill be there. you guys got a facebook or instagram we can follow for future events too?
cool across the street from me.
who was present last time?
who can we suspect tonight, if anyone, and who's organizing this?
happening now 
break a leg!
ahhh i’m out of the city!!! i’d totally goto this!!
i went yesterday and adored it! this is the girl who got a spicy chicken wing stolen by a squirrel who likely has indigestion today
amazing show we had a blast ❤️ cant wait for next one
should've said at 7 and then oh sorry i meant at 8
is this legal? do you have official permission from the borough? do the cops ever come and break it up? i ask because there are these dj shows that have also been cropping up saturday nights in various parks, but invariably some dumbass cops show up to kill it. what's the difference between dj set and comedy show?
there was a french show a couple weeks ago in parc lafontaine. 
there's also a show that occasionally pops up jeane-mance.  
can't recall if that:s english or french though.
i guess you just have to either luck out or be in the know, they're not often advertised.
there's plenty of french park shows, just not this one. checkout picnic et humour on facebook.
english unfortunately
yeah! corner of girouard and chemin de la cote-saints-antoinne
thats amazing. i live super close by, is there a website or anywhere we can see planned events?
i post about it on thrive ndg on facebook
hell yeah!
i don't talk to the police
thank you!
super glad you had fun also happy for that squirrel
these shows start at ~8 and end before 10, idk about the dj sets but i presume they go on for longer.
yeah, it’s a shame ndg doesn’t have more french events since the neighborhood is now 50-50 when it comes to language
did claude crest used to do english comedy? would be magic.
cool
sorry, i'm not aware if there's any website. i went for a walk and stumble upon that concert. enjoyed it pretty much.
[deleted]
i think it's my friend elspeth putting that on, eh?
i wanted to go but i am out of town. how was it?
thanks! just found that one too. this is all great, just moved here and itll help to have this and other groups
great show you the host?
lmao got me
it's not is real hair, or is real teeth, but it's his real moustache en tout cas.
awesome thanks!
yeah!
cool enjoy the green.
just a quicker way to let you get close to god, nbd/s
if you walk under there you might become a porcipicicle hahahahahhahahaha
very dangereux, much ouch. 12/10
that's gonna end up in the inspection report for sure
> poorly insulated building
-montreal
edit: i should have written quebec, our suburban houses built in the chain in the 60s are also worse. it is as if we collectively forget from june 1 that winter exists.
8/10
which church?
st pierre claver?
melting snow and icicles. don't stay!
danger danger loll
next final destination movie?
anyone knows which church this is?
icicle are so beautiful
lethal
such a pretty church is in petty poor state inside. but gotta love those bells.
if it falls on your head can it be deadly ?
if there was a world war where you can only survive icicles, canada would win, and because it's the best country in the world
toc toc toc toc
i came here looking for someone to quote that gem. bravo hahahahah
quickly, i would also say saint-jean baptiste on rachel.
it's st jean baptiste on rachel/st denis
confirmed
if you listened to legault yesterday, that's not even what he said in french. he said the federal government had not communicated to them whether they would lose the pfizer doses if they did not stick to the two-dose in three-week schedule.
here is the quote from yesterday:
> "is there a real risk that a company like pfizer will stop delivering doses because the time between the two doses is not respected?" obviously, we will comply if it is to stop the supply of new doses, said mr. legault on monday. but, if we have the choice - and we want the government of quebec to make that choice - we prefer to vaccinate more people. "
note the glaring and important difference with what the article contains:
>"what the federal government has told us... is whether there's a real risk that a company like pfizer might stop delivering doses because we're not respecting the \[interval\] between the two doses," said legault.  
>  
>"there, of course, we would comply, if it would lead to stopping procurement of the second dose," he said.
avec comme titre "**pfizer could withdraw vaccine supply from quebec if two-dose schedule not followed: legault**"?
this is why we do not find this eccentric title in the french-speaking media (or all other media except iheartradio and ctv montreal), yet they are talking about the same press conference.
[
[
you fall squarely for propaganda.
we complain a lot about the curfew and health measures but i do not understand that we are not more outraged by these decisions of legault and his government. there is no study that shows that the vaccine is really effective if you wait months for the second dose. i understand that they want to vaccinate as many people as possible, but if in the end we do it all wrong and it doesn't work, we will not be any further ahead and it will have cost a fortune and several lives. that they follow the manufacturer's instructions like any medication. it's not for politicians to decide how the vaccine works and we shouldn't let that go either. who cares about the curfew, legault does anything with vaccines and that is problematic.
imagine telling your population that the virus is out of control because they’re not following directives only to turn around and not follow the directives of the vaccine producers in administering the vaccine they designed in record time that would get us out of this mess....
does the caq have a pr team? because they really need one.
[deleted]
> a pfizer spokesperson said the company "cannot confirm that such consequences have been implied," but that "pfizer has continued to encourage public health authorities across canada to follow the health canada authorized dosing intervals." 
pure speculation so far, nothing has been said that this will happen, the question is just asked.
what a bunch of pieces of shit. meanwhile they're enacting this curfew to shield their own incompetence. i have no trust in the people
so we must follow the lockdown rules or risk severe fines. for the record i'm all for following the protocol. where i can see how it would get lost on some is the fact legault isn't listening to the pharma company issuing the vaccine and their recommended dose. he's the type of guy who's doctor says take these pill for the full 10days but stops after day 3 because he feels better. this is not going to go well if he continues the way he is.
it’ll be travesty if this joker gets another term
this government sure isn't used to being told 'no'. would be nice to see them finally **not** get away with one of their idiotic decisions.
going against the manufacturer's recommendations is not only dangerous, it undermines the public's trust in vaccines. these are not "suggestions", these are recommendations based on the data they have.
> biontech and partner pfizer warned on monday that they had no evidence that their jointly developed vaccine will continue to protect against covid-19 if the booster shot is given later than tested in trials.
> “the safety and efficacy of the vaccine has not been evaluated on different dosing schedules as the majority of trial participants received the second dose within the window specified in the study design,” the companies said in a joint statement, referring to prime and a booster shots given three weeks apart.
> “there is no data to demonstrate that protection after the first dose is sustained after 21 days.”
statement from the fda 
> however, at this time, suggesting changes to the fda-authorized dosing or schedules of these vaccines is premature and not rooted solidly in the available evidence. without appropriate data supporting such changes in vaccine administration, we run a significant risk of placing public health at risk, undermining the historic vaccination efforts to protect the population from covid-19.
> what we have seen is that the data in the firms’ submissions regarding the first dose is commonly being misinterpreted. in the phase 3 trials, 98% of participants in the pfizer-biontech trial and 92% of participants in the moderna trial received two doses of the vaccine at either a three- or four-week interval, respectively. those participants who did not receive two vaccine doses at either a three-or four-week interval were generally only followed for a short period of time, such that we cannot conclude anything definitive about the depth or duration of protection after a single dose of vaccine from the single dose percentages reported by the companies.  
> we know that some of these discussions about changing the dosing schedule or dose are based on a belief that changing the dose or dosing schedule can help get more vaccine to the public faster. **however, making such changes that are not supported by adequate scientific evidence may ultimately be counterproductive to public health.**
we are governed by morons
isn’t it the federal that buys and distribute the vaccine though?
this article is a bit misleading. it seems to imply pfizer would withdraw the vaccine supply when in fact its the quebec government asking if they would if they do not follow the dose timing. pfizer has responded that they recommend government follow their instructions as beat they can but they will not withdraw supply.
legault is just taking orders from the [real experts](
it's scary, the consequences could be the mutation of the virus.
would pfizer still be liable if something were to go wrong if the government isn’t following the schedule?
everyday there's a new joke with legault being the protagonist.
isn’t the us government about to go the same thing once biden takes office?
a lot of information is circulating and it is important to sort it out. here's what we know from pfizer data.
- if given a single dose, immunity after 21 days is 92%. the confidence interval is still a debate tho, especially for people with weak immune systems.
- pfizer's problem was to get the best viral coverage as quickly as possible. space out the first dose and the booster increases viral coverage! however, given the pandemic, it was judged that it was better to have 97% immunity with 21 days apart than 98% in 30+ days.
- spacing the doses up to 12 weeks increases viral coverage (from 1 to 2%). the problem is, what happens if we exceed this deadline? nobody knows, we have no data on it and very few similar mrna vaccines for humans (some rare examples for some cancer). it's hard enough to generalize.
- many people vaccinated in quebec have signed a discharge of acceptance of the vaccine which clearly stipulates 2 doses spaced 21 days apart. failure to respect this close is a direct violation of the agreement, we agree that many people doubt the vaccine and that legault's decisions further strengthen this feeling. how can you trust the government if it does not even honor its contracts?
- the slow vaccination in quebec is due to the lack of supply. a lot of medical staff can be requisitioned to vaccinate, i have seen speech therapists receive training to help with the vaccination campaign. we have the "man power" to vaccinate a lot of people, and we have the logistics thanks to the pcr testing clinics. we just need doses.
information to be taken with a grain of salt is the information that circulates in the health network.
for the record, my grievance with the curfew is a lot that the caq uses it as a diversion, like a mall magician, while they do some fucking dodgy business. i oppose the curfew as a health measure, because alone it has no scientific basis (we could discuss it if we were really in confinement), but what is really shocking is how it is used as strategy to gaslight and divide the population.
it works extremely well because since the beginning of the crisis, we are angry with the recalcitrant, so the caq leaves us an insane measure which forces us to say "i am not a conspirator, but ..." to criticize it.
even gabriel nadeau-dubois was called a conspirator by the caq to dare to ask for the scientific basis.
i am worried about vaccines, because we are moving towards a use that has not been tested. logic would want the booster to work again after waiting a little longer, but we literally have no data on the subject. this is in line with the lack of caution we have shown from the start. if we're right about vaccines, it's a gamble that will pay off. but if we are wrong, again, we have not finished struggling.
> i understand that they want to vaccinate as many people as possible, but if in the end we do it all wrong and it doesn't work, we will not be any further ahead and it will have cost a fortune and several lives.
yeah, that sounds like sweden's "strategy" to beat the virus.
google "first dose first". it's the right thing to do. this is going to be [official us policy from january 21] (
we still have data, the. 1 dose is ~ 52% effective (see pfizer). statistically, it's better to have 100 people vaccinated at 52% than 50 people at 92%. this strategy is seen all over the world.
give them some time to get their messaging straight and in order.  it takes a while after you've been travelling for vacation to get back to your a-game at work...
yesterday health canada told src radio that it is the vaccine supply that is blocking, not the vaccination.
québec has massively upped it's vaccine rollout speed to the point where the rate limiting factor is delivery of vaccines to the province.  this is expected to massively increase from mid january into february as canada's delivery schedule improves.
israel is moving very quickly (although they're not bothering to vaccinate palestinians, which is absolutely disgraceful and pulls their share of population vaccinated down considerably), but québec is going as fast as it reasonably can right now.
[deleted]
we vaccineted 80% of received doses, more than ontario. chill with the bureaucracy talk, were waiting for more doses.
remember they had 10 months to plan that vaccination campaign while we were in lockdown but politicians were too busy planning their vacation and flying around the world at christmas so here we are
israel is way ahead of the game internationally. way ahead in terms of population percentage. bahrain i believe is second place, and only accomplished half of what israel has accomplished.
israel i think should should hit over 25% of the population vaccinated by the weekend and they only started less than a month ago!
what's even funnier. they have so many doses because they "overpaid" for the vaccine. want to know cost? it's 2x so around 30$ a dose vs 10-15 canada paid. instead, we bought almost 300m doses to distribute instead of spending on getting us vaccinated first quickly and efficiently. 
a complete failure so far.
israel followed he single dose approach as well. they also have mandatory military service for all citizens so mass mobilizations are easy.
yes, there is no way they would withdraw doses. biden is planning to switch to first doses first as well. it is becoming standard procedure.
[deleted]
he will. i have almost no doubt.
you prefer going back to the liberals mafia?  because the pq are dead or dying and qs will never be big enough to reach power.
the federal government purchases and distributes vaccines among the provinces in proportion to the population. but it is the responsibility of the provinces (health = provincial jurisdiction) to distribute the vaccines.
no
i don’t thing they were ever liable to start with.
but somehow he's still leading polls. i am confusion.
nah, they just don't plan to reserve the 2nd dose. instead they trust they'll be able to procure it from the supply chain, but they'll still give the second dose when it's supposed to be given.
source?
> if given a single dose, immunity after 21 days is 92%. the confidence interval is still a debate tho, especially for people with weak immune systems.
nobody knows how long that lasts. 
this whole made-up one-dose protocol is because the caq can't organize anything, and is too weak to impose measures that will actually stop the pandemic.
thank you for the info!
> spacing doses up to 12 weeks increases viral coverage (from 1 to 2%). the problem is, what happens if we exceed this deadline? nobody knows, we have no data on it and very few similar mrna vaccines for humans (some rare examples for some cancer). it's hard enough to generalize.
it is especially this "uncharted territory" that worries ..
still a stupid plan.
the us is one of the very few places on the planet handling the pandemic worse than quebec. why follow them?
edit   
the data does not show that one dose is good enough \*because that was never studied\*. 
anyone who tells you that one dose is enough is lying to you.
it has been said a lot that biden is going to do the same, but he's not. biden is not actually going to keep the second dose in reserve, but he believes the delivery schedule will be able to deliver the second doses on time. so he doesn't put off the second doses, he doesn't save a reserve for.
>a transition official said the biden team believes that vaccine manufacturers will be able to produce enough second doses in a timely fashion
quebec will not use the new deliveries to administer the second dose. the plan is to take it in march, about 3 months after the first one.
the 52% is an absurd metric. this is the average over the first 21 days except that the effectiveness for the first 7-12 days is effectively 0.
after the incubation period the efficiency is 90% according to pfizer stats. the problem is how long it will last without a ** booster shot **, not the effectiveness.
[deleted]
the palestinians haven’t asked for israel’s help with vaccine distribution and instead went to russia. it’s not israel’s responsibility to involuntarily vaccinate palestinians.
that's a 10-15$ difference per dose max. 
instead, we bought 10x supply to distribute worldwide to poor countries. 
i have no problem with us distributing to help the world but, for 300m$ why the hell didn't we overpay for the first doses too if we are willing to buy so much supply longterm anyway?
wtf it's actually pretty good !
that montreal font looks like the one used on bubly cans lol
i love the logo i wish they would pay you for it!
the white part kinda looks like a kkk hood.
that's a pretty fantastic logo!
this is dank. i like this a lot and i'm not even into football.
looks cool but the alouette looks like a duck
i love!
i would perhaps choose a red that is a little darker, a little less flashy, which could also remind canadians. otherwise, great design!
i really like this idea and i want to commend you on your good work.
however, and i'm so sorry to say, but the alouette on top of the logo reminds me of a klan hood.
maybe a change of color to distinguish the bil from the rest of the head.
i see a klan's man hood with the eyes... i can't unsee it
to say that they paid a crazy price for the horror unveiled in 2019 ...
excellent
fuckingment beau!
offer them to the crissest!
sorry but i have to say it… it look like a penis
compared to any professional team uniforce, nfl, nhl,nba, mlb. sorry but this is ugly.
the logo looks like an angry banana.
that's not bad at all!
not really into football but this is great!
nice work! please share them on /r/cfl :)
let me know when you got some t-shirt or caps like that, i'm in!
very creative. love it.
no original. kinda of a up copy of the trois-rivières lions logo.
wow well done!
bravo!
i fucking love it, personally, this is super clean!
c tippy top that
i like this for montreal. it’s much better than what they have now
i would buy a jersey now wtf
this is sick
gorgeous
i like the jersey looks modern and simplistic with nice french colors you should submit it  see what happens
anyone else sees a 🌽?
i'm a designer. it's very good. one criticism. i like the montreal with the al in blue on the uniform. however, i'm not sure it works with the full name montrealouettes with the al coloured with alouettes. i'm not sure. just something to think about. i went to design school so i must criticize everything. again it's all very good. may i ask, what is the idea behind the logo?
nice color scheme, very bold and much better than the navy blue and that ugly burfundy they have sported for a while. montréal should be bleu-blanc-rouge, the color of champions. 
typewise it's a bit too retro for my taste but it works. nice touch to put the emphasis on the 'al' by elevating it, event though just the color switch is enough to make your point imo.
the bird unfortunately gets lost in the composition. i can decode your intention but when i squint my eyes it looks too much like a ram with something on its head.
that navy 'al' looks kinda jank. the al spacing is off , needs kerning between the é and the a. the navy is also really hard to read on the red. i'd be worried for people who are color blind.
you won me over with the montréal... great idea. love the logo and color design as well. very good 👏
link to the other rebrands!
wow actually really good! this is sick! they should buy it from you!
i'm sold
delete this post before they hijack your idea without giving you any credit lol. great job!
it's not a style i like personally, but it is very well done. clever integration of the names and of the fleur de lys/bird.
it might be just  me, it kinda look either klansmen or mighty duck
i love the montré larks
we don't care.
really bad.  you think it’s good, but it’s not.
very jaunty
love the compromise between the bland/corporate current logo and the college-esque previous logo
there's an awesome boardgame bar somewherevin mtl
geaux alou-ain’ts!! i cheer for the saints based on the fleur de lis, proud to be a quebecer(anglo quebecois with ties all the way back to les filles du roi) love this new design.
i switched to french's ketchup in protest when they left (like a lot of people). i'm not going to switch back. heinz has too much sugar. french's tastes more like ketchup.
if i’m not mistaking it’s the same factory that makes the kraft diner mac & cheese. that place will soon be made a national landmark.
too late... french s ketchup 4ever
we don't care about heinz and french's. now we have [canada sauce] ( and [firebarns] ( as well as [mag mayonnaise] ( which are quebec companies and what is more, use as much as possible products from local farms to make their products.
and let me tell you, their condiment is screeching better. i haven't bought anything else since i discovered these products.
there are way better options for ketchup out there  
• [canada sauce ketchup](   
• [ketchup joe beef](   
• [primal kitchen organic ketchup](  
• [good food for good ketchup](  
• [mother raw organic ketchup](  
• [g hughes sugar free ketchup](  
\- [fermented ketchup](  
\- [kimchi ketchup](
they only do this as marketing to re gain their part of the quebecois market. #nothanks
i find the boycott of heinz ketchup one of the few times where consumers collectively got together and fought back against a company that actively screwed over canadian workers.  i feel like buying it now would make me feel conflicted.   
are they using canadian sourced tomatoes?
i'm not switching back from french. you traitors.
i remember.
sweet, i can buy heinz again lol. i actually like french's too though. it's different but also good.
i really love how we all came together to protest heinz when they moved. 
they just seem like monkey hungry capitalists though with the back and forth and i can’t respect them. 
but hopefully the food market will increasingly respect canadian manufacturing as a result.
* still won't use canadian grown tomatoes...
i'm all over french's now. as other have posted... but jobs are good also.
anyway, sauce sriracha over ketchup anytime!
most of you need to educate yourselves better on this topic. 
wow, it’s like having cern or a new aerospace company invest here….
i prefer sunspun anyways... but i'm weird.
the real travesty is the fact the apparently *all* the oranges and bananas you see in the grocery store are grown by dirty foreigners. we should continue these boycotts until there are no more imports and canada is an entirely self-sufficient country.
ketchup sucks anyway lol
obligatory fuck ketchup.
yuck, people still use that crap
i like it more too, but i find french's has a lower viscosity, kind of a bit too runny.
i worked there for a summer job a few years ago, and i don't recall the kd mac&cheese being produced there. what i recall seeing on the production lines were philadelphia cheese spreads, kraft singles, bbq sauces and salad vinaigrettes. 
it's been a while though and it was before the heinz merger. maybe i'm mistaken or it changed since then.
edith: this [job posting] ( talks about "our great team takes pride in producing highly popular products including peanut butter- philadelphia cheese- kraft dinner- dressings and much more! ". you might be right after all
and peanut butter and microwave popcorn. i used to work close by and you'd occasionally get a hard whiff of foods-you_ciukd_make_when-you're-nine-years-old
[deleted]
[quetchup] (
seriously, fuck heinz and their high fructose corn syrup and red die garbage.
i appreciate knowing our products
mag mayo is hella nice
firebarns lime is great sauce! i just tried their bourbon bbq sauce too, wow, awesome too.
does ketchup taste the same as heinz in terms of texture?
where is it motonous etc?
okay, firebarns is pretty ordinary when it comes to strong sauce.
mag mayo is incredible though.
i replaced the ketchup with the sriracha so i am amused by this commercial brawl. but it's cool to see quebec companies climb into these hard-to-break circles.
of course there is better option. im just comparing the most available option. its like coke and pepsi, i prefer coke but there is clearly better option (less sugar, no fructose/glocose syrop, organic ingredient).
kimchi ketchup? interesting!
mind you greenhouse tomatoes suck anyways and that's probably what most of these ketchups are made with and intensive farming/industrial agriculture is no better,
just grow your own tomatoes or try to find a farmers market that grows their own tomatoes and eat them whole
providing a cheaper product by producing it where it can be made more efficiently helps canadian workers.
that seems to be part of their attempt at a return. stay strong! french's!
the heinz lobbying must be strong in tbk because ketchup has disappeared from the shelves in at least 2 grocery stores that i frequent regularly.
anyway, sauce sriracha 4 ever.
monkey hungry capitalists are the worst type of monkey.
who cares? why does it matter what country they're grown in?
[deleted]
r/ketchuphate
[deleted]
i agree, ketchup sucks
french's ftw
keep it in the fridge.
mix it with beans and it gets better
i’m taking pride in the fact that my 1$ mac and cheese powder is locally sourced
i work there too a few years ago in it and its definitely there, but this place is so huge its like a city. its possivle to work in one place and not see it all. i had to go everywhere for it. 
what you see in the internal store is all made there. i think if you're a full time employee kd is like 35 cents if not cheaper. i bought alot at the store lol
i don't see leonard cohen. are you sure this is a photo of montréal?
nice view and sky !
our skyscrapers aren’t the tallest but jesus do we have a beautiful city!
looking at you from one of these buildings right now.
aww man, i’m like a few meters from being in this picture.
yeah, it's a beautiful day haha, life is good, but it can be better(ww84)
i miss walking downtown during lunchtime
what about now?
looks like a recon contract is in progress, should we push em?
looks like a good fine day sir
it was gorgeous out today
lovely shot!
on the darker side, you can really see what a dogpile of shit garbage the surface ~~sherbrooke street~~ is.
*edit: hmmm, not sherbooke methinks. trying to piece this one out. whatever street it is, it's in horrid condition.
*edit 2: oh, it's de bleury! also a steaming pile of bumpy-ass pavement. horrible.
how is it right now with the restrictions? my friends and i are thinking about visiting next month.
<3
that's amazing. i can see my old work building just poking out from the corner but it's all changing so quickly.
it was an amazing day! walk 12k steps and stopped at *** au coq frit *** on st-laurent to eat good fried chicken mmmmm .... i will never eat these ever again, it's fuckin good and disgusting at the same time.
montréal is the most beautiful city in the world and denis codere want to fuck it all up.
ah yes, i also like playing cities skyline xl !
what place?
you know whats crazy? i haven't visited the downtown in a while and today i decided to visit the downtown at the same time you took this pic.
that's not true, it's night time :(
no you're right, it must be paris !
i who thought it was antony bourdain!
there will be two towers of about 200m will be visible on this photo (we can also see the site in the center-left of the photo).
don't look at the streets tho
like, as a tourist? at this moment things are pretty good. masks are, rightfully so, still mandatory at any indoor public area. 
you will have to look into the quebec vaccine passport to do a number of things. i do some work coaching at a school, so that's the only thing i've experienced the need for it so far. it was only just implemented.
with students back in the city and the vaccine, the vibe is back, you'll love it :)
all is relative. it's not that dense even though there are two 200m tall buildings scattered around this area.
yes as a tourist we are flying from nyc and thinking of visiting but we are going to more into the restrictions. happy to hear its pretty good over there at the moment.
well, we had a good summer. cases were very low. but as with last year, the start of school and probably some other factors i'm ignorant of have started trending us upwards. however, the vaccine passport should help greatly to curb the trend.
projected metro, lol!
* berri-uqam * was called * berri-de montigny * until 1988, so i don't know if we can really call it “the 80s”.
but yes, i remember those maps very well — when i think of the metro map, that's the image that comes to mind. we see that the "projected" lengthening of the blue line towards the east does not date from yesterday ...
[deleted]
"stcum" ... ah yes, "urban community of montreal"
i remember the first school project i did while searching on the internet, in the bank of proposed subjects i had taken the cum
so i googled cum
my poor childish eyes ....
how to get it?
[deleted]
disturbing that the presentation is more beautiful than today's plates
no 3rd line?
i didn't remember the fact that the idea of the côte-virtue extension to the commuter train line was so old ... and the white line ... pie-ix buses run every four minutes .. they've been waiting too long.
hmm, the white line sounds like a good idea to offload the orange line and cut commute time for east island.
i guess even back then nobody saw the point of connecting the orange line in the north. sad.
i miss my assumption
90s too no? seems to me it's the same card as in my childhood
from memory, this image would date more than the 90s. in the 80s it was the ctcum and the blue line stopped at de castelneau seems to me. (i took it from when i was in high school)
[deleted]
we're going to ronde!
it didn't change that much, i thought they'd stretched it out a lot more in 40 years.
it's fun to see that a design from the 80s is still relevant.
it aged well.
lol.  virtually nothing has changed.  give it a couple years though.
want!
worse ... do we know the reason why there is no line 3? i have always asked myself the question.
i am a product designer on a digital platform, and we recently wondered about the accessibility of our colors ... tools allow us to know if certain contrasts are legible enough and the use of white on yellow is one of the worst performing pairs.
i just noticed in the metro this fds how the yellow line was very inaccessible visually, because the white circle does not have a black outline helping to stand out from the background ... as was however the case in the 80s apparently. i'm surprised they decided to remove it. but i also understand that it's all too easy to prioritize aesthetic uniformity at the expense of people with visual impairments.
tk, that's a detail seen from my world!
it was when i was a student ... at the time when you could joke and say your opinions ... it was a good time ... (chu born in 68, so if you want to answer ' 'ok boomer', you're gonna be buggering flies).
the white line hahahahahaha
is it just me or the university of montreal station was called vincent d'indy before?
no train at the south shore lol
what do you mean that lionel groulx is not yet oscar peterson station and beaudry is not beaudry-village?
it's unfortunate, the graphics haven't really changed since
lol hahaha looks the same to me. i dream about the metro being way better. i even found this (from a previous reddit thread), which makes me drool. one day...probably never though. 
[
the mythical white line ... it sounds totally '80, make a white line.
they are always topical the worst!
i am a dinosaur, i see the blue line and i say to myself: ah it's not that old as a map.
you are right about the berri-de-montigny station. however, i know it's 80s because after the 90s it turned into cardboard.
the plan dates from 1988 according to [this document] ( it makes sense that they changed the plan when they renamed berri.
did the blue line already exist in '80?
edit: yes, [mid and end '80 let's say] (
a long time ago, at the snowdon metro, there were old posters where you could see "berry-de montigny", while the name had already changed for years.
oh, man, i came back to visit and keep thinking: montmorency, what direction is that?
[deleted]
as an english speaking child, i always found the name and logo funny together. the logo looks like a gun, so “stick 'em up!”
it is difficult to get hold of it, but not impossible. watch out for ads like kijiji or ebay.
(similar items are rarely on sale)
boutique stm sells posters 2001, 2003, 2004 and 2012 [on its store] ( it's not exactly retro but it's authentic posters that come from metro cars and not reproductions.
the stm made a big sale a few years ago. station names, posters, metro benches etc.
the "freaks" start to sell it, the more you wait the more it will cost you dear
in french the word * nazi * is written in lowercase.
now we know why we don't invite you to the dating evenings
> to make my grammar nazi:
\ * vocabulary nazi
this is not a map or a plan, but a diagram
jcatch not the difference
mhm, i don't agree so much.
the plates of the latest version of the signage are much more readable despite the fact that it contains more data.
line # 3 (red line) was to go from the central station to pierrefond using the tunnel under mont royal and then continue on the surface.
the yellow line was moved ahead before the red line due to the needs of expo 67
then the red lugne was never made although in a way the deux-montagne train and the rem are the heirs of this line.
the 3rd line was supposed to pass through the cn mont royal tunnel but was canceled.
i ask myself the same question
i wonder if the casino is really doing something concrete for the lgbtq2s + community, or if it's just an 'awareness' campaign.
the place where i work does a bit the same thing and i find us hypocritical to light up our buildings in a way like that without doing concrete things for the community.
casino don’t give a fuck about anybody let alone lgbtq2s+  lol! companies need to just stop with this shit.
[3... 2... 1...](
these rgb gaming rigs are getting impressive
gaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
(but positively the)
too corny
are you going to be alright?
give us your gay money
beautiful 🏳️‍🌈
was it just a single day or would it be all the time for a while?
i can feel a mario kart vibe!
anyone knows if there are fees per hands played if you play blackjack or is it free?
is this your oc photo?
if so, well done it's superb
if not, please credit the photographer
is that officially the intention or do we deduce that everything that is multicolored is for lgbt? because if it's the second case, modern gaming equipment is really made pro lgbt
[oui](
yo sorry, but where does the 2s + come from ????
this is the current problem and applies to all brands that change their logo every summer. it contributes to the perception of people that believe that there is no more necessary because "the discrimination is over".
to respond to 2 comments here:
the casino de montréal has sponsored the pride festival since at least 2016 if we looked at their website. they have also hosted several lgbtqiaa + artists or shows over the years. their social networks (ex: instagram) also feature drag queens or other queer personalities not just in pride month for years.
faque yeah, it's not just virtue signaling, you can calm down.
perfect for the grand prix!
they have money to buy the new graphics cards looks like 😏
the credit is in the title.
bin yes, i made a typo, sorry
2spirits but honestly it's a bit messy with everyone trying to appropriate the acronym and that the version of the year before is still made offensive for some communities.
there's also lgbttiqq2saa and other versions that i'm probably unaware of.
using an entire community to draw attention away that is the evil of gambling for a little good will and a pat on the back... yeah you’re so right lol.
grand prix of 2022
okok ... so this is a selfie!
ah! i like better with a source, it's easy to say anything with a photo on the internet. multicolored yen stuff is everywhere and that doesn't mean there was a symbolic intention
oh .. ok i think i understand .. i think i will keep saying lgbtq just psrce the longer it gets we know who we are talking about.
that is neither what i said nor the point. 
i never said "casino is good because x-y-z" i answered to your specific mention of "casino doesn't give a fuck about lgbtq2s+" as well as someone else who mentioned "i wonder if the casino is doing something concrete for the community"  
with more facts about what casino has done for the community.
as for if they're a moral company who cares about its customers. at this point it might be more a personal opinion based. i mean it's a casino, what do you expect? i have a crazy notion for you: most companies don't give a s\*\*t about their customers. they're corporation, their only care is making money. periodt.
do you know the casino is a government entity? we are not in las vegas after all.
certainly, but i remain cautiously optimistic! there is still a gap in the calendar with the circuits of the american continent: [ ( .html)
you never know!
lgbtq is always perfectly acceptable, personally i go with lgbtqia because it flows well in the mouth. it's okay to use some acronyms over others.
vieux-montréal, the old port is south of rue de la commune.
so nice !
ahhh, paris.
gorgeous shot.
beautiful shot!
wonderful photo !!! you have captured the beauty of the old port !!!
i've always used the two interchangeably, but this makes sense
thank you!
thanks! more on my insta!
thank you !
it is very different. the old port is federal land managed by the canada real estate company.
upvoted simply for "crazy warning", which in my opinion represents 2021 so well so far.
before it was calls while driving. after that it was texting while driving. now it's fucking posting posts on tiktok fucking driving.
> i didn't have time to take his registration number because i didn't have my cell phone with me
be careful ... yes, you can have a very compromising photo or video of the cdf, but you, if you're driving and you take a photo, you are as guilty as the cdf. the ideal is to have a passenger who films or photographs. rendered in progress the cdf has the digital evidence against it as well as 2 witnesses, being able to confirm that the cdf was in violation.
editor's note: cdf criss de folle.
you should post on the hochelaga mon quartier group to warn as many people as possible. maybe someone will know who it is.
the only thing you can do in these situations is call the cops while the other driver is acting like an idiot. caught a fucking idiot driving like a maniac and called the police once i got home with the license plate. nothing they can do as they can’t prove who was driving. they told me best thing is to call while it’s happening. bad drivers are the worst.
[deleted]
was it a nissan leaf? if so, i also saw him zig-zag and go back to ontario while playing with his phone.
we wish no one in an accident, but a public danger like that, maybe a pole could stop her?
isn't she going fast? i would have hit her phone and i would have said "oupss sorry i thought you wanted to give me a high five!"
were you the daughter of uqam ??
mehhh there is nothing more that surprises me in hochelaga! it's not as bad as the scooter gang that rolls like bicycles. no respect for red lights and send you on the sidewalk there !!!
it must be the moron girl that i saw last month driving on the 20 while drinking her coors at the wheel
step 1: film the car
step 2: a stuntman who goes by and throws himself on his windshield.
…
step 4: profit
upvote for the mention of darwin award 😁
it would be funny if someone read this post while driving.
i'm sure there is already a ticket in his name!
do you have more info than “white car”? was it an suv? a sedan? van? hatchback? anything can help.
you might enjoy r/winstupidprizes
i upvote for the nomination to the darwin awards
i steal this one from you
if stupidity has a human representative, there you go, she's the one.
i saw exactly the same thing last night on the 40 at the height of the assumption.
i passed him thinking he was a drunk driver. next thing i know, it's a girl who films with both hands on her cell by the window without looking in front.
* 4141 at sq
it was a 2020 ish blue toyata corolla. i have the license plate, but it's illegal to share ...
that's all good, but honestly, what are we supposed to do with it? zero information that could identify it, and even if we could find it, what happens next? not sure to understand the warning other than "watch out! there are cave people doing unsafe stuff!"
i have a friend of a friend who works for a big bank and on the account application of a young client, under occupation they wrote "influenceur" lmfao !
dont check snapchat stories in and around montreal. everyone does them while driving..
it was me. thanks for letting me know. i didn't know i wasn't allowed. i will stop now.
nice informant mentality!
the bar started high with january 6th!
hey you, you're funny in tabarnak! when is it that you try your hand at humor school?
in the same vein as the car surfing phenomenon of a few years ago
in fact i was at home in front of the door because i am waiting for a coli
it's good to know
i just call without proof but i give the info of what i saw and i tell myself that if there are 2-3 people without any link to report it, they will accept that it has happened and at least put a note in the file, possibly instruct the person. in the middle of traffic on the 20th at 6am 2-3 years ago i saw a bmw doing really dangerous overtaking, cutting like 5 different people, squealing the brakes, overtaking on the shoulder, trying to swerve to make scared / screeching the world out of the way. for a moment the passenger got the chest out of the tank and banged on the door / window of an 18 wheeler with a hockey stick in the middle of the tunnel bridge. ostis of maniacs. i described everything live while it was happening and i would be very surprised if none of the few other 100 people who saw it called too. i'm not exactly familiar with the laws but i hope that 3-4 people who are each in their tank and more or less exactly describe the same dangerous scene with a plate number would be enough for charges.
well yes with such a detailed description, and it is clear that in the small town of hochelaga everyone knows each other ... / s
exact thing i did. wrote it up in french in another comment here but i witnessed an absolute maniac road raging and being extra extra dangerous (brake checking semis in rush hour traffic, overtaking on the shoulder and hitting cars and trucks with a hockey stick while driving in the h-l tunnel type of shit). hope to god 2 or 3 other people called and reported his ass so there was no question it happened so we can get this maniac off the road.
he didn't have his cell: '(yes!
are you kidding me, isn't that thick?
no she didn't have the balls in the air.
no otherwise op would have mentioned that she had the balls in the air
this is not how the darwin awards work, however.
call the police if you see a 20 year old woman driving a white car
for real this post is exactly the definition of 'old man yell at clouds'
op said he was on the porch waiting for a package ... lol ~~ he represents the fauna of hochelag well he is surely on the comewdown of his weekend following the 1st thursday of the month ~~
[deleted]
very funny: |
i think you don't understand what the relationship actually is.
what was the post on that day?
oh! shame :(
maybe karma will catch up with her
> i don't know the exact laws but i hope that 3-4 people who are each in their tank and who more or less exactly describe the same dangerous scene with a plate number would be enough for charges.
curious about me too.
ok
well yes i know the whole neighborhood me sir! there's the guy who plays the violin, the guy who talks to you about the bible in front of the pharmaprix in front of the cafe nod, and the transvestite who seems very courteous. that's all, isn't it?
ugh, same thing with my guy. i couldn’t believe how insane he was driving. i’ve been driving for nearly 13 years and never saw anything like it! i was actually scared for my life (sounds dramatic but i really was). i bought a dash cam a while back. i feel better knowing that it ever anything happens, i’ve got proof.
the old pavilion of france for the expo ... it's still an interesting building ... even seen from the side of the garages ...
[deleted]
looks like a villain's lair
r/evilbuildings
don't forget that besides the tons of baby toys, there is a damn good (italian-style) performance hall there.
miss those slot machines and the expensive but tasty buffet.
hidden in the 3rd basement, [this table.] (
good old casino...where dreams are ~~made~~ broken... and broken again
this might be an unpopular opinion but i don't like it. architecturally it's the equivalent to bad disco.
banks the snow
den of sadness
the casino is much less glamorous than you think.
r/abandoned now...
funny, i don't really like gambling and the idea of the casino so i never went or looked where it was.
went once many moons ago. there was very little ambience unless you consider no smiling people and   terrible drink service to be a good time. i admit i played slots and keno due to overcrowding at the $10 blackjack tables, but it was a dreary atmosphere. i've been to vegas and atlantic city and can say that montréal does not have a clue about making casinos fun. i managed to turn $200 into $800, but i really had no fun doing it. i will never go back.
damn it's not bo.
looks like it was done by a doped architect
the building is so beautiful, it alone saves this rather average photo.
the move is to throw down $50 on black right away and then if you win immediately go to the buffet for your reward.
there's the buffet 🥰🥰
what do they have on the regular menu?
no chicane in the (war) cabin.
no one says it's prestigious, it's just a beautiful building.
i dont think most people think its "prestigous". but that it is definitely an archetural wonder
[deleted]
you didn't go at the right time then. you need to go when they have special occasion festivities on friday or saturday night.
it is still an important vestige of expo 67. it is legitimate to find it pa bo, but it remains an interesting building both historically and architecturally.
is that sarcasm or do we have a different definition of "beautiful"? looks like the random gray plastic part that was part of your dishwasher but came off and now you don't know what to do with it.
[deleted]
if you don't win there's always the deli 😄
it's true the buffet was amazing, was even better when you had the lobster included too but a few time it was dry then it became à la carte, might be the reason why.
if you lose?
any, time.
wednesday afternoon not a special enough occasion for you?
i'm not a gambler to begin with and find that it's really a tax on the stupid, so i know i won't be going back. and i was there on either a friday or saturday night and certainly won't lose any sleep over it. one of my former colleagues just couldn't get enough of the place and used to try to convince me to go with her. it just isn't my thing really.
no sarcasm. then the tastes are in nature so i will not try to convince you. but despite your muddled comparison, i would easily place this building in the top 25 of the most significant in montreal because of its uniqueness, its architecture and its history.
ahh yes, the elderly "attached" to the machine with their loyalty card, it always embellishes the weekends!
i must not be the only one who has heard the stories of people urinating next to the machine so as not to "lose" it because it will pay off!
continue to gamble and then when you blow it all stop by a mcdonalds drive through on the way home.
my jammies and kleenex box slippers were in the wash. also ran out of clean mumus and hair rollers.
just because a building is unique or interesting doesn't mean it's beautiful.
sunk cost fallacy
it is architecturally beautiful. after that it is subjective, but it is not badly accepted that it is a beautiful work.
which building do you think is beautiful?
the bonsecours market, saint joseph's oratory ...
worse in contemporary heritage (genre since the 1940s and 1950s)?
i don't know, you should give me examples of buildings that date from these decades. but in general contemporary architecture i don't like too much. and then architecture is not like other forms of art like music for example. if you don't like contemporary music, no one is forcing you to listen to it. if you don't like contemporary architecture, well you still have to see it every time you leave your home. and we know that this contemporary style tends not to appeal to a lot of people. i like schoenberg (composer), but i'm not going to shit on people who find it ugly. most people prefer chopin (me too, by the way). if i were a dj, i would put chopin rather than schoenberg, because chopin is better. chopin is beautiful. schoenberg is cerebral, it is experimentation. so the same goes for architecture: give priority to the thing that appeals to the greatest number of people when it comes to buildings that thousands of people will see every day for decades, and which have no choice. . humans need to live in beautiful environments.
the place ville-marie, the tour de la bourse, the cibc tower, the 500 place d'armes, the telus tower, the 1250 rené-levesque and the 1000 de la gauchetière are buildings known to be beautiful.
you may not like it, but buildings like place-ville-marie are quite a fact that they are architecturally beautiful.
pointe-claire village area really is a gorgeous part of our city. say what you want about the west island, it really has a charm around there
do not walk on the river, the ice is still very fragile.
gasp you mentioned west island here. came for the lectures on how bad suburbs are and such. left satisfied lol
pointe-claire baby.
bourgeau park... did some late night drinking there many a time in my younger days... it's lac st-louis at that point if my école primaire géographie du québec serves me well.
just moved to pointe claire from nova scotia. we love it here !!!
it's not frozen harder than that now, or is it a photo that was taken two months ago?
this is a beautiful picture!!!!
the west is great, i mean , i live in kirkland , got owls  in the woods on the other side of the street ,  you hear the coyotes  at night  ,got a giant  nature park  to go walk or bike throught  , cap st jacque beach  is like 1o min biking away from my place  , that the plus of living in kirkland  , you get to enjoy the city and nature
west island is like another city entirely. in many way's it's like a typical north american suburb - which isn't a bad thing, normally, but it does clash with the more french style of some of the other boroughs. but it's not bad at all and it's a nice place to raise kids. 
in my experience it's mostly got a bad reputation because of the bored west island kids driving their parent's beamers going 140 on the 20, and all the fucked up rich kids coming from the area (i know so many west island kids who just leaned in hard on partying and drugs). that and the enclave of uptight anglos who find it an affront to suggest they might want to learn french at some point.
the whole west island south of the 20 is quite nice.
there was a time when you could walk on the river, right? i do not know if we could cross it directly, but at least on the edge of the river. or am i wrong?
awesome and welcome
a few weeks ago.
thanks
what city are you enjoying there?
i was cleaning out my personal external hdd and found an old word doc from the early days of email.  it was something i got by way of a chain forwarded to me, but it was  basically "you know you're from the west island when..." it was a fairly long list.  you just reminded me of it... i'm not sure if i kept it or not, but if i did i'll post. 
i will say, having grown up and still living in the west island, the reputation is well earned and deserved by a great portion of us.  i'm guilty of it even though i was not one of the "rich kids".  i can say when i met my wife, who grew up off island, she genuinely had a real distaste for "west island boys" as she put it.  we were all snobs, stuck up, conceited, etc...i won her over eventually, but the reputation was/is real.  i certainly recognize that i had a privileged life as compared to many others.  my mom worked only later on in my younger years.  we were members at one of the many west island public pools, a community and culture that is unique to the west island or western portion of the island.  things were definitely different for us.  
in that list i mentioned... one of the items was "you know you're from the west island when you start freaking out when you go east of sources.  i spent many nights downtown so that wasn't an issue for me, but i can see how that applied back then.  these days, there's no more bars or clubs like we had then to keep us here.  just last night i saw the village for the first time without the pioneer!  cheers, o'toole's, quai sera, bourbon street west, etc...all gone.  there's a few gastro pubs now, but no true bars anymore.  kids want to go out now, they have to go downtown. 
there is an influx of francophones to the west island and it is nice to see that.  my girls are growing up fully bilingual like i did(thanks to my parents) and will probably use their french through their younger years much more than i did.  
it's still a great place to raise kids and you'd have to do a lot to get us to move from here.  we've have had offers in to and the us, but they were just not appealing enough to leave.
edit: it is different from the rest of the island, but compared to off island communities, speaking in an infrastructure and urban planning sense...it's the same, but closer to the city.
>which isn't a bad thing
ben, except for the environment, the economy and public health.
i go 130-140 daily on the 20. cops only really hang out at cartier. my biggest issue are geezers rolling 90 in the left lane.
you could easily cross the river between saint-lambert and ville-marie in the 18th and 19th century. there was even a train rolling on the ice!
the rapides have always been ice-free and for lake saint-louis, i don't know.
however, a decade ago we were able to walk the first 100m of the river in the laprairie basin without any problem. i stepped on it two weeks ago and fell through the ice about 5m from the shore. there are places where it's thick for a good distance, but it's not at all as safe as it used to be.
it was really very beautiful
i just love the west island..... 😍😍😍❤️
> kids want to go out now, they have to go downtown.
afaik that's always been the case. whenever we'd hit a place either downtown (which i absolutely loathe) or on st-laurent (which is better but only barely) it was always full of west island kids and american kids.
the bigger issue for me is driving to/from the west island, where my sister lives, and invariably there's two idiots in beamer/audis going extremely fast on the high way trying to weave through traffic and race each other. on more than one occasion i saved my ass and my kid's lives with a last minute correction as one of these geniuses decided to traverse 2 lanes without signaling, or something equally stupid. that's my biggest pet peeve.
but it goes with the drugs/drinking of the west island kids. no joke i know a few kids from let's say kirkland who have been on and off the wagon for the better part of a decade now. it's depressing.
the environment yes, but not necessarily. like new, well-insulated houses are less harmful than old, poorly maintained buildings from the beginning of the 20th century. tanks pollute, but it's going to have less of an impact when everyone does switch to electric tanks.
for the economy and public health, can you be more precise?
maybe that's also another problem - the police should actually have a presence rather than just fuck around and do nothing and then give tickets to students for stupid ass reasons.
also, just because you can doesn't mean you should do 140. you're on the highway in the middle of the night and nobody is around? go nuts, you won't kill anyone other than yourself. go 140 when there's traffic, fuck you, you're going to kill someone. but i agree people going 90 on the left lane are just as bad.
shit, i have a mortal fear of falling through ice.
thank you
i do to. i moved there.
i find that most of the fucked up west island kids came from kirkland. especially those that grew up in the new development next to the coli.
literally no different than laval kids
the impact on the environment of the suburbs is really important. first, urban sprawl destroys biodiversity and ecosystems while exacerbating flooding problems. second, the low-density suburb comes with an almost entirely auto-oriented lifestyle, which is very bad for climate change. the fact that you need the car for a lot of your travels ends up emitting a lot of carbon dioxide.
financially, the low-density suburban development model is not viable for municipalities. to serve the same number of homes and people, much more infrastructure is needed, which is expensive to build and maintain.
for public health, the overuse of the automobile generates emissions of contaminants in the air which are responsible for several hundred or thousands (i no longer have the exact data, but it seems to me that it is like 4000) deaths premature babies in montreal. also, the overuse of the automobile is associated with an increase in road accidents (with pedestrians, cyclists and other cars). finally, again due to the overuse of the car, the lower the density of an urban environment, the higher the rates of sedentarization. as sedentarization is the cause of diseases like obesity and heart problems, the latter also have higher rates in lower density suburbs.
130-140 is a reasonable speed. if you are cutting in and out of traffic ok it's stupid but driving in a straight line in a modern car on a well maintained road it's perfectly fine in good weather. in the wet or snow? nah
north americans have been brainwashed into "all speed is bad and you'll die" the issue here is people aren't disciplined in what proper driving is. so yes if you want to poodle around at 100kph i won't make fun of you but if you move to pass someone check your bloody mirrors. i'd actually say driving on west island surface streets is more annoying with endless stop signs vs the 20. montreal in general has a hard on for stop signs. in my area they're every 100m for no fucking reason 
speeding on the 40 no thanks. too congested. nothing over 110-115 until vaudreuil. 
go drive at 70 on the new turcot you'll get run over.
i never had this fear, but criss that i had the female dog. 5m further on, my feet would not have touched the bottom, i might be dead.
on the other hand, the water is not that cold and i was not at all cold during the ~ 30 min walk to get home. if you fall in the water, take off your wet clothes and try to get as much water out of them as possible. you're better off being outside with no pants on than wearing waterlogged ones.
i don't know what that is, but i'd have to agree. pointe claire and dorval kids are mostly chill. kirkland it's like a roll of the dice if you're getting someone sane or a complete drug addled psycho. no idea about ddo.
got to agree , the coli back in the days was wild, so many fights , someone  i knew  ,got stabbed 10 times  in front of the timmies
you prob live in some crummy 1.5 where you can hear your neighbors taking a shit
> biodiversity and ecosystems
yes, but the impact is almost negligible when compared to say agriculture.
> comes with a lifestyle focused almost entirely on the automobile,
yes, but as i said above, with a rather carbon neutral transport system, it's not so critical, especially if we start to see more and more telework, which minimizes travel as well as traffic jams.
> financially, the low-density suburban development model is not viable for municipalities. to serve the same number of homes and people, much more infrastructure is needed, which is expensive to build and maintain.
okay, that may not hurt the economy. it harms the finances of municipalities. which, in fact, would suggest that they are either going to have to get used to having fewer services or simply paying more for them. it is their taxes that will pay for these services.
> for public health, the overuse of the automobile generates emissions of contaminants into the air
ok, but if we go electric, what we should do in 10-20 years or so, little by little ...
like, what you're saying isn't wrong, but these are common problems in modern societies. pe exacerbated in some cases by the lack of density, but problems common to all nonetheless. besides, there are nonetheless harmful aspects to large densely populated cities too.
the coli is the kirkland colisee movie theater. ddo is interesting in that it ranges from very rich to pretty poor. otherwise, it is a painfully average suburb with no unifying ethos, as opposed to pointe claire or beaconsfield which feel like unique little towns. i will say that the rich kids in ddo were not burnouts like those from kirkland. there must be something in the water, haha.
no, i live in a single family home in the suburbs and can't wait to move.
> yes, but the impact is almost negligible if we compare it to say agriculture
not really, even if agriculture has an impact on the environment, the fields welcome greater biodiversity than a suburb. in addition, there are sustainable practices, such as keeping a woodlot at the back of the land or keeping a riparian strip. also, agriculture is essential, the suburbs not.
> yes, but as i said above, with a transport system that is rather carbon neutral, it is not so critical, especially if we start to see more and more telework, which minimizes the displacement as well as traffic jams.
of course, in an ideal world, public transport would be deployed everywhere and would be efficient and used. however, this is unrealistic.
> okay, that may not hurt the economy. it harms the finances of municipalities. which, in fact, would suggest that they are either going to have to get used to having fewer services or simply paying more for them. it is their taxes that will pay for these services.
this is detrimental to the economy, since investments in automobiles bring almost nothing to quebec, unlike the public transit sector. also, if the finances of a suburb are worse, the taxes of the residents will increase and the purchasing power is thus reduced.
> ok, but if we go electric, what we should do in 10-20 years or so, little by little ...
the electric car is a good step, but you don't have to tell yourself that's all it takes. using electric cars, but continuing to spread out will not solve our environmental problems.
i must admit that the west island has a charm, but still its development model is bad in all aspects.
a habs v bruins stanley cup final would be so epic that reality itself may be torn asunder. just 4 more ws and it can happen. please make this happen.
hot screeching! the real challenges are yet to come.
the city center is in danger at the moment however due to the number of people who are in front of the center bell
pizza guy made it happen 🍕🍕🍕
they may never lose again
[deleted]
do you smell what the habs are cooking?
everybody in here is talking about the stanley cup finals... but i'm thinking what the north semifinals will be like. a montreal-colorado series would be really exciting. even a match-up with the golden knights would be good.
it smells like the cut
ah am calisse.
i went to bed after the 2nd.
too bad it looks like we're not getting a bruins/canadians final, that would be an amazing riot.
🧹🧹🧹🧹
it was a nice goal from toffoli after a perfect pass from caulfield.
we are worth good hockey like that.
i grew up in tampa bay and if it is the lightning and habs (and the damn border opens up) i'm going to go visit my parents and root for the habs down there.  shit i wonder if i could get tickets.  how does that work this year?
but you still lost to the bolts
[deleted]
leafs will take them in game 14 bro
also habs vs. nordiques in the next round (maybe)
the bruins also need to win their next two games.
bruins will just hurt carey price so he can't play  :(
[deleted]
ahhh yes you that's why there are lots of people screaming and honking non-stop for 15 minutes, cool cool cool
> the city center is in danger at the moment, however, due to the number of people in front of the center bell
there was so much trash blown around the entire street today. so depressing that we can't celebrate without making a disgusting mess.
i'm out of the loop on that one.
not a bad time to have a 7-0 streak...
the lords of the north
it's pizza, with superior propane!
let's be honest. everybody here is talking about pizza.
if the avs are montreal's next opponent, i hope they wear those nordiques alternates.
no problem, the jets did the same, except for their goaltender.
bruins have some serious injuries but you can't count em out yet. they only need to win two.
get tickets???? hahahahahahaha, you are funny. well, if you shit money, you may.
the same as every year: lots of money
i think things are entirely open in florida so getting tickets wouldn't be out of the question. 
here, it's season tickee holders only, or people who can afford the absolutely insane prices they're re-selling them for.
semi-decent goalie? the fuck you talking about? every fucking nhl player is scared shitless of price. so scared they fucking made rules last year off season just because price existed.
it's because i've been wearing the same t-shirt for two weeks straight and that guy has been ordering pizza every game. :p
same thing, on the one hand i am happy with the success but i am sad not to be able to be in mtl or to watch the matches since i am in europe.
i heard the fireworks for 15 seconds after the goal, and i live in verdun
there's a guy on the habs subreddit that has been ordering pizza every game for the last 7, which we all won. he is now our lord and saviour.
and mint tea.
i had friends get habs tickets in dallas a few years back for $35.  sure that was a shitty year, but i was thinking that maybe since it would be down south that i might have a chance.
what were the rules changes??
> so scared they fucking made rules last year off season just because price existed. 
i don't recall that... what are you referring to?
my friend told me i jinxed it for jets' second goal. thank you pizza guy for having my back!
same, it's next door to us as well. i thought there was an attack
are you serious?! that's awesome!  
i thought it was my neighborhood! 7 games ago, on the verge of elimination, i delivered a beer to my neighbor's before the game. then they won. so next game my neighbor delivered the beer. then we won. then the other neighbor....  
we now have a ritual on game night: check your mailbox for beer!
it looks like he's our new ginette reno
and a little bit of vitriol !!!
that's a great tradition haha! keep it up!
details:
full spectrum modded sony a7
tamron 28-200 at 200mm
720nm infrared filter
1/640s
f7.1
iso400
from my instagram:
full res and prints:
gorgeous !
i can see my house!
but seriously, i’m trying to orient myself with this photo and i’m wondering why i can’t see the bell building located on the jean-talon station?  is not as high as i think it should be in this photo?
pretty cool! looks quite surreal too, as if the pic had been snapped during some really weird eclipse or something.
which channel is ir, and which is true color? i'm guesing red is ir and blue is true, but then there's no green so idk where the discrimination information comes from if the filter is a high pass 720nm
🤯
very cool pic and even better it's technique/hardware and not post-prod.
[deleted]
it's out of frame to left, i noticed it in another wider shot i did
it's a 720nm (720nm and beyond pass through) ir pass filter on a color camera, so all channels are ir. each channel responds a bit differently to different ir wavelengths which simulates color (at 900+ they converge tho so those filters usually gjve a bw look straight out of camera afaik)
it could be worse, like "big prostate"
ooooooooohhhhhhh that's cool
hand written by design to make them seem like locals, not a business or anything. they’re preying on older people and the uninformed so they can try to buy a building below market value. i’m sure it’s obvious to some but it probably works on others.
"tenant, give that to the owner" ... how about mange dla marde
"serf? give this to your lord."
we received exactly the same last year. exactly the same. they did a nice little sketch and photocopied it 🤦🤦🤦 not too professional
it's a tactic. people who fall for this stuff are more willing to sell to (what appears to be) an individual entrepreneur from the neighborhood. 
in reality it's probably a corporation using this as one of their many many tactics to get their hands on a property at less than market price.
this is a marketing tactic ... they write notes by hand to show that they are local, little "folksy" investors. no, these same notes, but translated, have been sent across canada for years.
we are currently experiencing a massive housing crisis across the country, including here in montreal. i invite those interested in this question to read or even join r / canadahousing. apparently there is a protest tomorrow in a few cities including vancouver, toronto and ottawa, but i'm not sure if there is something in montreal as well.
should have used crayons to be even more rustic and quaint.
my reading skills aren't so great so what i was able to glean from this letter when i received it was "please, sign me up for every obnoxious mailing/calling list you can think of and i am also interested in the church of latter day saints, can you help me arrange regular visits from them?" i can only assume that's why they included their phone number, real names, address and email.
oh ive seen this. their trick is to come off non-threatening with a personable handwritten print. they’re trying to buy up properties. smart.
when my grandmother died in february 2020. she owned the duplex in which we lived. were harassed every day by calls from real estate speculators, every morning without exaggerating. 7 days a week, and also falsely handwritten letters. who started with condolences and expressing their desire to buy the house.
it was my aunt and her brother the liquidators. her brother died in august. on december 23, 2020 they signed the papers for the sale. those who bought spent the whole time of the holidays coming to us to do some work. while people could get together to celebrate. not to mention that they made their friends come to come and see.
besides, i loaned my mother $ 20,000 to breathe a little. she also had to put money for staging. that was the advice of the real estate agent. the house was more than a hundred years old. had to leave in may. the house had been in the family for 60 years.
to add insult to insult my uncle to bequeath to his boyfriend, everything that belonged to him. around a few hundred thousand. now he is claiming the share in the house that would have gone to my uncle. honestly i really wish my uncle burned in hell.
have now reached the month of august 2021 we have not yet seen the color of money.
i know that i have nothing to do with my story, but every time i see stories of real estate speculation. my blood is boiling. my mother's family is a mess, and my mother is a mess.
it had to come out.
people get it every week in vancouver and toronto. it's our turn it looks like ...
i come from my friend's place in ottawa ... he collected them .. he had about ten!
side note ... we pay the notary in cash .. who cares, it is the buyer who pays the purchase part ... the seller will always have costs !! i am professionally curious to know what it looks like in real life ... in my book, it smacks of professional error ...
"la solution private"
"good"
when someone says "experiment" i expect them to be able to do computer layout. if high school students can do a 10-page assignment and print it out, i don't believe a "group of investors" can just write a message by hand.
the worst part about it is that they are based in ontario. they can be found by searching the req (quebec business register).
so much for a local business ...
i wonder if someone fraudulently slipped them into our po boxes? i doubt canada post really put this in our boxes? also, not all of the copy i received by hand. i poured water on it and it was a color photocopy 😂
i used to get ones like this back in ontario before i moved here.
they're designed to look "hand-written", but anyone with two braincells to rub together can see that they aren't; there's no indentation in the paper where the words are 'written', the ink smears like inkjet printer ink, not ballpoint pen ink, and your neighbour gets one that is *identical.*
anyone who goes through the trouble of masquerading like this is up to no good.
i received the same letter here in vancouver. but the company has a different name.
this letter gives me confidence
no doubt these scum also read the obituaries for the real estate opportunities.
why does this type of ad always specify cash? what do i have to squeal that you pay me in cash !!
in 5 transactions we will finally be able to buy a printer! woo-hoo!
[
> ** q: are you going to list my house on mls or actually buy it? **
>  
> a: good question. we are not agents, and we do not put houses on the market. we are professional home buyers: we buy homes in montreal that meet our buying criteria. from there we maybe fix the house and sell it to another owner or keep it as a rental ourselves.
> ... our company actually buys houses. we do not list the houses. since we are actually the one buying the house from you, and we are paying with all the cash… we can make the decision to buy your house in 2 days (sometimes the same day). again, we make a living by taking the risk of buying the house with our own money, fixing the house, and marketing it ourselves to find a buyer (which is the hard part in this market).
they are so honest and virtuous to want to rid people of their tax burden by taking the * risk * of repossessing the property!
it looks like the people behind the signs hung all over montreal on poles that say 'let's buy house, pay cash. 514-bla-blah '.
"are you tenants? please give this to the owner so that you will be sickened until you sacrifice your camp and that we double rent it »
ah ben tabarnouche
our real estate market is becoming a casino, and will continue to, as long as our gdp is tied to real estate. canadian real estate is our primary export, so a fall in real estate prices will put us into a recession. it's currently near impossible to buy a house that gives positive rental income, meaning there's only two types of buyers left. speculators, buying just to resell in a year or two, and people fearing this is their last chance to buy and spending too much money to lock in a place.
we need to fix zoning regulations before this gets out of control further than it already is, because it's going to be disaster when the real estate bubble party stops.
nothing looks more professional than a handwritten tract that the author has so much experience with that he or she doesn't know it's written at no cost.
i don’t even have to know french to know what this is lol
[removed]
i also received it and not only in my neighborhood all over saint-léonard.
pointe st-charle?
i had the exact same memo on my door 3-4 years ago
from a marketing point of view, i find it quite good! in any case, i have read the one that i received (identical) while i throw away the rest of the advertisements that i receive.
(ps i'm not saying i endorse what they do)
received the same letter, such a hay pin!
received this today. bad guy it takes a lowlife bad guy to do this.
wants to buy your house but can't afford a computer and printer 😂 super legit. next time they should write it on the back of a napkin.
is it only me who finds it suspicious in ordeal?
lmaoooo
i received the same case, but with longueuil instead of montreal in writing.
why is it handwritten?
received the same exact letter format a few months ago near ottawa .....
is it ugly
i got the same one in toronto.
my grandma in toronto got the exact same looking letter in english. i’m pretty sure it’s a scam
i received a very similar letter in the spring in valleyfield.
wee
got one of these too about a month ago except the one i got was a whole sob story about how the writers mom was dying and he needed to buy a home in the area to take care of her. load of crap
got the english version sent to my house last august in ottawa lol
st roch de l'achigan last year, a similar one
i got this exact same thing in vancouver bc. mine was english though.
for the curious, there are [religious reasons]( for washing your feet a few times a day so that's most likely what was going on here.
it had been the subject of a complaint about fifteen years ago: 
it's a religious thing (most of the time if not all muslims) the problem with that is they don't clean up after themselves so leaving water all over the counters and the floor , so that people pass by and can slip and fall.
yes. when i started éts in 2010 it was the same poster. it was due to a religious affair ...
same problem in sherbrooke. the 2-3 who did this left incredible damage; the flooded floor and dirty water stains up to the ceiling.
[removed]
vanier has a small one person washroom where you can do wudu and they have a small prayer room that's open to everyone.
i know there are showers available for students. i don't know anything about it, but it's probably more appropriate than sinks.
the ets told us that the ban was for health reasons.
i went to school in the us at a university that had plenty of muslims (although more christians and jews and secular people) and never encountered this issue in the washrooms there. maybe it's because they had separate prayer spaces for religious people including muslims to do their thing, without pushing them into the general washrooms? i don't think this is common in mtl but i'd love to be wrong. it's a good solution.
not to be insensitive, but at concordia one of the bathrooms was next to the muslim prayer center and people would use the sinks to wash their noses and feet. it was fucking disgusting, and washing my hands there made me feel dirtier than before.
this is a problem at concordia too.
a sink is not for washing your feet, they can do it in a shower or a bath. it would not be very complicated to set up a few individual showers / baths and ask muslims to go and wash in them.
it's disgusting feet in the sink, ouach esti.
just gonna chime in as a (shia) muslim, i am for the ban of washing feet in the sink. sadly, this is something my sunni brothers and sisters can't seem to stop doing. when i was at concordia, i saw once this student make a mess that i ended up cleaning after him. please keep in mind not all of islam is the same and that it can differ not only from branches of islam but also to different cultures. thank you for your time.
meanwhile, at concordia, you can shit in the urinal if you want
surely there are arabs who did it, because at my job there was one who did it before going to pray, he literally took a shower in the sink. and ets there are plenty of muslims
wash your feet in the sink lol, cute.
real chads wash their feet in the toilet bowl.
yea this was a problem at concordia, the muislim prayer room was on the same floor as one of the cafeterias and witnessing this regularly was pretty disgusting.
i won't go into details, but at my job one day i walked into a public bathroom and a guy was doing his ablution ... washing his castanets.
there was no sign that said it was forbidden so good, it's complicated.
what about the armless kids?
a host of luck that there is no obligation to wash the bizoune before praying, calisse ...
cest cults have nothing to do in a place of education strongly a true secular society ...
i've seen much worse things ...
this is called common sense
this is absolutely disgusting and unacceptable. this is something that should be done at home in private
how many exposed feet had fungus touching the sink handles ? next person that touches that handle is going to potentially find themselves with warts on their fingers.
i want to know how this was discovered as a problem lol ...
why
makes sense
it's funny because in concordia muslims have a prayer room and a small sink for ablution. maybe the ets could learn from what concordia
thank god concordia made a small room for us to do wudhu. some people don't clean up after doing it. 
i'm muslim and this is definitely muslim problem. unfortunately, some don't clean up. 
however,  we should also go after people who don't wash their hands after answering nature's call. 
personally, that's way more nasty than wishing your foot. at least, you're washing something as opposed to not washing and then you touch your phone and high five others 😂
also, for a people who don't use bidets...making washing feet on a sink such a big issue....priorities my 514 family. priorities.
what is this waste of water to wash your feet, take purple purel.
muslims wash their feet. i’ve caught a guy doing it a few times in a very public place
excess.
they should just wash their feet in the toilet bowl. as someone who finds feet gross , better to keep this “ practice “ private. also it’s less messy.
old news bud, all united have this.
btw if you go to the stairwells of quite a few buildings in town, you will find prayer rugs.
darn it! i was doing it every time i went to the restroom :(
this post really brought out the basement dwelling xenophobes and racists in this subreddit. as a muslim, i personally choose not to do it with water and in the bathroom as i could just as easily do wudu with a rock (tayammum i believe its called) and seated at a chair in a corner of the cafeteria. it's true that it can seem a bit weird to some or even disgusting to others to do wudu in a bathroom and those concerns are valid but bashing muslims and religion in general is just a bad take and i see a lot of that in the comments. 
a minimum of respect for people goes a long way, whether they believe in something or not
[deleted]
[deleted]
1- salubrity: dude, it's a sink, i clean my feet. it's not like there's piss between my toes. also we are in a toilet, we all touch the penis .... how many of you do not wash your hands after your little pee?
2- private / public: libarté is my counter argument. i have the right to say my prayers in the park, in an empty corridor, in an empty classroom, in the parking lot. replace prayer with yoga ... seems it's pretty absurd to ban stretching / yoga in public places. it is nobody's business why i do specific movements. i go from standing to kneeling a cup of times there's nothing there
3- damage: yes some brothers and sisters unfortunately do not clean the counters after having done their ablution. but it's water ... to have worked in a tim hortons and in a best buy, it is much less worse to wipe water than the tide of mard and piss that collects on the walls and on the ground.
fuck the racists in the comments👊
damn you guys are mad at people cleaning themselves up, we can see the hate you have for muslims.
[deleted]
whats the harm if someone washes their feet in the sink? is it important enough to ban the practice?
i'd have thought that the awkwardness of trying to wash your feet in a hand sink would be enough to deter all but the most determined and motivated...
the religious reason should also require them to clean up the mess they leave every time they wash their feet...  and don't even try to politely ask them to clean up their mess. at best they'll ignore you, at worst they'll yell at you.  pleasant interactions, really...
a muslim ritual called "wudu" is a tradition that involves washing one's hands, face and feet before prayers.
i wouldn't put reason and religious together.
why is it still a mess if they wash them a few times a day? it should be only ceremonial if it's that often
indeed and that's why they have these weird sinks which - it seems - make it difficult.
[deleted]
yes it's true!!
finally a sensible comment.
govern by polls, then rule by hockey scores ... we hit the bottom of the barrel of legault populism! we have the dua to do what the mononc likes ... (and his gang of caquists ...)
priorities amirite?
thank you to the covid for taking time off when there is hockey. science
follow the science they said!
are there really people who are bothered by this? come on. we only add 1 hour so that people can have a beer during the 3rd period. it's good for the bars and the customers are happy. i think it takes a little "candy" of the kind after 15 months of pandemic, considering that all the indicators are down sharply.
go habs go!
it smells like the cup !!!!!!
fucking village mentality
[
before all the politically nuanced and critical comments show up, hell ya! go habs go!
it's stupid how much the quebec universe revolves around hockey. i'm happy for bars and restaurateurs, but these are decisions that need to be made using science and not phillip danault.
it took the canadian series for quebeckers to realize that we are exaggerating compared to the americans?
i'm a hab fan, and have no no interest in going to bars to watch the games.
but that said, this is fine. if you're going to open the bars up, what difference does it make if they close at midnight or a couple hours later? does the virus stop infecting people for a few hours before midnight?
these businesses have been struggling for over a year. if they're able to make money, then go for it.
i'd forgotten hockey even existed thanks to this past year.
so we get three nights? lol
watch as cases continue to go down regardless of what changes because surprise covid we have vaccines now! it’s becoming funny to see all this political theater unfold. legault must have realized he would piss off his base if he didn’t let people watch the game in bars because they would be closing due to his policies. what a ruckus.
we have less than 60 cases per day in montreal. when are people finally going to stop whining and accept that it's about time we start going back to living normal lives. like if this bothers you just stay home.
my legault has its target audience in esti: ok to open and have a beer while checking the game, but forbid the pot to grow on their land or sell between them.
hello boomer vote for lego ok thanks bye
this is the way
don’t they know that there is a panoramic going on?!
i would think people would not go to drink after all the restrictions.
funny how we look the other way in the name of freedom when it comes to our vices. it's worse than firearms but since not many if us have them, we like to shit on that often.
you look like a nice gang of bitchs who bawl at everything.
we've all worked hard the last few months, have you forgotten what to live criss?
[deleted]
the government should never control business hours under any circumstance.if you don't like business that are open late, then don't shop there, and don't work there.  
edit: apparently people don't understand my point; the government can shut down a risky business if they want to, my contention is that they should have no control over business hours.
it is the epitome of “bread and games”.
"make governmental decisions based on hockey watching hours?
this is #macaq! "
beware of those who say they love the people but hate everything the people love.
you will forgive me if i continue to trust the one inspired by rené lévesque.
finally prioritizing someone other than kids and their parents
[deleted]
> we only add 1 hour so that people can have a beer during the 3rd period.
apparently 1 hour is very important when it comes to the curfew from 9:30 to 8:30 !!! oh yes super important !!! but 1 hour more for the game ... ah it's a little candy ....
choisis! you can't tell me that 1 hour earlier for curfew is required because we need to limit the spread of covid and then turn around and push 1 hour back for hockey when they winning the cup... 
this just shows me that the government doesn't have our best interest and only do shit that suits them.
if i've figured out anything in the last year or so, it's that some people now have way too much time to whine about everything.
the time limit put in place is already speculative and its purpose is to prevent abuse more than anything else, so it doesn't change much to serve alcohol until midnight instead of 11pm. the majority of people will stay in the bars until the end of the match anyways, the only difference is that instead of ordering more drinks at the last call for 11pm, they will order a last one at midnight. .
it's not as if the bars were closed every other day and opened especially for hockeys evenings, moreover they always have the capacity quotas reduced to 50% to respect as well as a list of sanitary measures to follow.
naeh man
this is the paternalistic attitude of the government, no figure justifies the closing of bars ... at 2 am ... and the sale of alcohol ... at 12 ...
in a short time we will have restrictions on masturbation and when, how and with whom to have sex?
we are not in a victorian era or during prohibition
it is the absurdity of the disturbing thing. there is absolutely nothing to show that the curfew is useful for anything, it has been months since all these measures should have been removed. but the, since it disturbs the fans of the canadian, there it is a national emergency to remove measures!?!?!? who eats mustard tabarnak ...
la coupe longueil! buisness up front, party out back!
for vegas, yes.
like an ancient gaulish village
i was just going to post the same article.
i can understand the reluctance to concede the demand for more supporters but keeping the bars open an extra hour or two shouldn't cause any problem as sanitary measures are followed. obviously it becomes a little more difficult for establishments to manage, but you also have to start trusting them
i would say that if you look at the percentage of deaths and cases, i liked our strategy better than theirs.
why the fuck would we not go drink??? stay home forever buy a pet animal and die alone...
if you want a firearm so badly go live in the usa
watching canadian at the tévé of the pig cage on the nights our monarch grants us the right to do so. some have a broader definition of what it is to live. or public administration.
life's not back to normal yet.  that's the thing that people forget.
and really, sjw?  are you a 2000s edgelord?  grow up.
we're on tail end *because* we aren't giving up and pretending it's already over. i'm actually happy with this announcement and i'm fine with loosening up restrictions as the majority of the population has their first dose, but there's no reason to throw everything away now.
tbf, that profile pic+the sjw comment is a dead giveaway you’re just not very smart lol.
how cringe when someone uses the term sjw. i threw up in my mouth a little.
we are currently living in a world gripped by a pandemic and are only now beginning to actually refain some control over the situation... but as long as there are people like you who want to throw caution to the wind because "enough is enough" we will constantly be scratching our way out of the hole. act responsibly. educate yourself. take care of each other, not just yourself.
ape think like ape
seriusly. the way they've been behaving you'd think we're faced with some sort of public health crisis.
it's almost as if we were in the middle of a pandemic
why not?
as much as i love the canadian, there's a pandemic tabarnak outside, spa time to fool around when it's almost over, spa time to delay all the progress we have made ...
as much as i love the habs, there’s a fucking pandemic, it’s not time to fuck around, we’re almost out of it, let’s not make it worse now…
fun fact: this station is made like this because it was the ramp for vehicles when the original metro system was built.
yes
very cool. you really caught the optical illusion.
like the amber lights reflecting.👍
you were going down.
very very beautiful photo!!! wow!
great photo op, looks just like i remember it 30 years ago.
down looking up
look at the angle of the lightbulbs
i suspect that the crowd of people on the right indicate a train that has just discharged a group. also the angle of the person closest to us would be very strange if we were looking up. therefore i think we are looking down. but it's really hard to tell and i am less than certain.
stairs?
trick question, those stairs are straight.
very nice reflections on that pic 
love it
it would fit on the / r / itookapicture!
down.
those skate/slide stoppers are mean and uneccesary  
let us glide
cool picture, my guess is up since it looks like a ceiling and not a floor at the end
take some stimulant substance of hallucinogen variety and watch this, [
criss every time i think i find a clue there is something else that contradicts him. well done
looking level to me
dupstairs
looking at the end of the tunnel you can see floor, so i believe its down
neither, it’s horizontal.
thank you for the information
thanks
i was going up 😉
thank you
not sure, look at the angle of people, i believe he is looking down.
i agree, i feel like resting the elbow on the handrail like the guy on the right would be ergonomically uncomfortable going down
i took this picture in july 2019, the beaudry station was under renovation, it is a conveyor belt. i took this photo in july 2019, the beaudry station was under renovation, it is a conveyor belt.
thanks
you’re right, going up 🔼
thank you, it's disturbing i even admit for myself today lol
in fact it's still a treadmill, it's not just the renovations that do that.
it's such a weird illusion, i am able to see the image both going up and down, but my brain absolutely doesn't want to see it as flat, if it's true what you're saying!
i admit that i myself was disturbed in the evening when i saw her again, but yes, i can confirm that i was going up towards the exit 🙂
ah but wait, i thought you said it was flat (like for example at the airport), that it doesn't go up or down at all, that's what i mean by a conveyor belt. but now i think you mean there are no steps, but it goes up / down anyway, and ok i can see that it goes up on the left.
to give people a minimum of hope, tuesday night i went to the emergency room with a friend. she was having an allergic reaction to peanuts (besides recovering from a broken pelvis, luck). she was taken care of very quickly despite having no difficulty breathing. in less than 5 minutes she was in the shock room. observation 3 hours, return with the doc and discharge from the hospital. bill of $ 0.
a big thank you to the staff at jean-talon hospital, you have been wonderful.
i wish you could see a doc quickly, we're keeping our fingers crossed.
[deleted]
if you're dying, our system is great. if you're only slowly dying...we need a much better system.
i work in healthcare and i endorse this message.
i went to clsc for depression/anxiety. got a call a year and a half later.  thanks i guess.
thankfully , i had shingles a bit after i went to the clsc and went to er cause we wernt sure what it was. my mom talked about my mental health to the doctor there and had an appointment in the same week in her clinic.
clinics "without appointment" but you need to take an appointment between 7pm and 7h02pm the day before. otherwise its booked
i can't relate to this at all. i have been in and around the system a lot in the past two years and i was quite sick at one point. even spent two one week periods in the hospital. i have found the opposite. i have had everything from ct scans(with and without contrast) and ultrasound to  echocardiograms and regular blood tests without an issue. my gp, specialists, nurses at infusion visits, orderlies and transport people,  everyone has taken incredible care of me.
in may, i was trying to find a spot for a blood work at clsc but no appointment left prior july in my area. i ended up going private, spent 200$ that my insurance covered and there was no appointment needed, doc had the results the following day. i am very sad to say it but the health system is dead in quebec and for quite a while.
i needed a referral to three different specialists from my gp. got an appointment with him after 4 months, and i am lucky to even have a gp. not a single number he gave me is correct. two places said they were closed indefinitely for covid, and the third was literally some chick's cell in laval. i actually left a message asking and she called back saying she gets calls asking for that doctor daily. and now my gp's office won't pick up at all and i have no idea how to get a replacement referral.
sorry this is happening to you. i've had the opposite experience, but i know i got lucky. 
normally tests are fast but even blood work right now is weeks to get an appointment, since covid. 
the hospital you are at really matters. chum is really good ime. lots of tech making things quite quick once there. others look like from the 80s. 
if you really think you're in a bad way, go to the er. of course you'll wait unless actual emergency (eg ambulance) so be prepared and maybe go late night/ early am. the attending there can order certain tests, and thereafter refer you to the appropriate specialist. usually they refer to within their hospital system. you doctor more likely refers to whatever they're part of/ have medical privileges at.
i moved from montreal about 4 years ago because i'm an english speaker with chronic illness. living in bc is expensive but at least i can see a dr and get hooked up when i need it, sort of. bc sucks too, i blame stephen harper for canada's laughable universal health care. like teeth and eyes are crucial to your health, but nooooo, for some reason they're not included.
old story dating back to ~ 2004;
skateboarding accident and my arm really hurts. the next day it hurts even more so go to the clinic to have x-rays early in the morning. the doctor tells me my arm is broken. it's a little broken bone but i need a cast and he's sending me to the hospital for it. so after 3 hours at the clinic i go straight to the hospital where i have to wait in the emergency room. 11 hours later, the doctor sees me in a sorting office, looks at my x-rays, slams his pencil a little on the screen and tells me after 20 seconds; "yeah you got a little fracture but we put more plaster on for that. keep your arm in a sling and go home."
the problem with the health care system is that there are as many pencil pushers as there are health care professionals 
there’s so much red tape in the system that nothing ever gets done 
my 2 brothers are doctors and would never practice here
really sucks you've had a bad experience.
personally, i've always had an alright time using the system. normally if i need to be seen i can do it the same day or the next day and usually have minimal waiting periods- but that's just me and i don't have a chronic illness or anything that demands i use it ever week or anything.
what i find a bigger problem is actual hospital conditions. any time one of my family members has gone to the charles-lemoyne on the south shore we have had huge problems with miscommunication and neglect. my grandma went in for a hip surgery and ended up dying there of covid related complications (she didn't have covid before going in). she kept telling my relatives how bad it was, that they weren't taking care of her and even the social worker said the hospital was verging on neglect.
quite a while before that my other grandma had horrible problems there too- she doesn't speak french well so the staff just wasn't telling her anything. because of the medication coupled with their bad treatment, she spiralled downward until my family intervened and demanded answers and then suddenly everything seemed to get magically better.
if you are ever on the south shore and have a choice in the matter, please go to pierre boucher and not the charles lemoyne- it's a death trap. i'm convinced their idea of taking care of the elderly is just letting them die.
yeah it's absolutely horrible. people pay 50% taxes and still get zero service except police to give them speeding tickets.
sorry this has been your experience.
i accompanied a friend going through cancer treatments in the last couple of years.
not at all the experience he had.  aside from one or two grouchy hospital staff, the rest was excellent service, at no cost. yes, there is bureaucracy but it's not that bad once your file is open in the hospital and you have recurring appointments.
op, i totally feel you there. you're not alone. been in line for a family doctor for 7 years, rien! 
walk in clinics are by appointment only, and while others on here may claim theirs are walk-in, i have called over 40 clinics recently and they do not take appointments unless you have a family doctor at that exact clinic. in other words, it's a catch 22. 
at this point, i am travelling back to europe to get to a doctor. i have given up here. f**k quebec's healthcare!!!! 
p.s. having lived here for a decade, i am yet to understand why canadians are so proud of their healthcare. just because it might be cheaper than the states doesn't make it great. use any other developed country as a reference and the picture becomes clear.
basic health is pretty bad but mental health is even worse
can we just talk about the lack of modernization? i had to send a fax to get a pap smear. i then called the place to ask if they got my fax. the first thing the recording said was "please send a fax to us for all inquiries" and hung up. i received a call back 8 months later from "unknown name". luckily i didn't ignore the call (i figured it was some chinese robocall).
then i needed to find a specialist for dementia for my parents. no luck. called 811, they asked me so many questions, refused to speak english, then after 30 mins wait, 30 mins of answering questions, they said "you're in luck i have a place for you". they tell me to write a number down and get this.. it was just the basic number for a very basic walk in clinic near where my parents live. gee.. thanks! not.
so, i call the basic clinic and they say "oh sorry no appointments can be made as we're full". i said "oh, you're full for the week? month?" she replies "no, we're full for the day". i said "ok that's fine put us down for tomorrow". she says "oh no! you have to call the same day at 7am. usually we fill up soon so call early". i call at 7am, no answer. same thing for 7:30, etc.. it took days to finally get an appointment. i get to the appointment, 1 hour wait. then, the doctor does the most basic test you could find off the internet and then says we need blood tests. i say "ok great, draw the blood please". he said oh no, you have to go to a hospital or clsc or you can go to the walmart down the street but there is a fee for that. etc.. i've lived outside of quebec and most clinics will test your blood the same day in the same clinic or they will refer you to a blood testing clinic very nearby with a very convenient way to set up an appointment online. going to a clsc or hospital is very extreme just to get a blood test. these places are flooded with people, and are walk in only which means more pointless inconvenient wait times. so, i guess i have to go to a walmart pharmacy, with no online booking system of course,  and pay for a blood test because we have free healthcare.
i have so many examples. another one is i needed to go to the er. i go to the general hospital. my sister calls me and tells me she knows a nurse at the jewish general and the nurse will "get me ahead". so, i go to the jewish, there are people crying in pain, they call me up like vip (i just had hemmorid). i saw a doctor within 30 minutes because "i knew someone". corrput!!! apparently its' common to get ahead of the line because you know someone. i never used this "trick" again as it's so corrupt. i didn't think it would actually work.
faxes, weird "bonjour sante" website you have to pay for.
on the positive side.. sainte justine is an amazing amazing hospital but it ain't easy to get into and you better know how to speak french and i think it's only for women and children.
i think a lot of people put themselves and can't remove themselves from situations like this.
it doesn't mean you had a great experience that the system is great. that's akin to saying that poverty isn't a thing because you live in a palace and you're old money rich.
it doesn't mean you had the worst experience that your pov is true either.
there are some measures that are more objective, but even that is averages which is not always useful.
fyi, when i criticize a system, it's really the system, never the humans working hard for us.
you can look at oecd medical system rankings, you can look at hospital wait times (emergency vs non emergency), you can look at how we deal with life threatening injuries.
we all have personal experiences with the system. for example, i have had undignified, inhumane experiences that gave me years long trauma, as well as some nice experience. all the bad experience was due to terrible organization and logistics mix ups as well as the lack of bedside manner of doctors whereas all the nice experience was simple kindness of some nurses who knew to hold my hand when i needed it.
i do think the "sans rendez vous" that actually requires a rendez vous is pure bullshit, and something i have not seen in the 4 countries i lived in and the dozens of cities worldwide i have visited. the best experience in terms of system efficiency (and not how nice someone is) was south korea. the reason why was that every system is digitized. no faxes. you take appointments online, you email your doctors and so on.
i also agree that if you are dying or near death, they will treat you. without being ungrateful for the peace and system we get to live in, let's not forget that medical doctors take a vow/pledge to save lives. it is their "devoir". 
the question you want to ask yourself is - is the minimum enough? what are we allowed to expect as citizens of a developed nation? before saying our system is great, how aware are you of other systems? 
avoiding complacency or being simplement content is healthy in this case.
i know healthcare is expensive. every piece of medical equipment costs a fortune. our healthcare is "free" but its a huge chunk of our taxes. there are austerity cuts every four years.
i am someone who wants more. i don't want hospital parkings to cost a fortune for visiting families (my experience at the jgh), i don't want patients to pay for tv, i want nurses to be paid fairly, i don't want patients to have to deal with cold and inhumane attitudes, i want medical scribes to help doctors reduce time between seeing patients,  i want our expectations for our system to be more than the minimum. for the staff and for patients alike. 
i'll take our system becoming digitized and modernized though, if we can't have anything else. the fax system is ridiculous and we should be ashamed that our province is so reliant on it, when many other developed nations have solutions.
i apologize for my ramblings.
ppl keep talking shit about india. i know a buddy in montreal who's from there and he was telling me about his experience. for $40 cad, you could get a phlebotomist to *come* to your house, take a full range of blood samples (no doc prescription required) and have the results processed online the next day. here, you have to wade through miles of red tape to do something simple like that.
and you can see by the other responses ("just go to the er if you need it that badly"), people don't really take any sort of preventive, proactive health measures seriously. when you read about people in montréal waiting weeks to get some essential blood work done, you realize that you're in a different and sucky reality.
itt : people who've never lived in other provinces thinking we have a great system here.
left after 14 hours waiting in the emergency room with  intense kidney pain. 
drove to the townships and got in in under 2 hours.
i was in the er waiting for 16 hours the other night... there were people who had been waiting longer than me. why do we permit this state of affairs?
**you have to cut in line using using private care in montreal, for early diagnosis, or you're fucked.** otherwise have fun getting gaslit by people who don't even answer the phone.
people who think private health care is immoral are free to wait 14 hours at maisonneuve rosemont.
the government intentionally sends doctors home at night so that they can keep the wait times to 14 hours. otherwise, if they hired more staff, you could get seen quicker at 2am, and that would be unacceptable, they wouldn't be able to save money. meanwhile, taxpayers are paying for heating & maintenance of a building no one uses because there's no staff.
5 people i know paid 200$ to see a private dermatologist, for very minor but time-sensitive painful issues. because the waitlist was too long in public system , ridiculous.
that's what 12 years of the most corrupt party being in power  since duplessis will do.
couillard actually overlapped two jobs for a while: minister of health and executive at a private medecine conglomerate...
i was expecting a call from the gastroenterology department following an appointment at the muhc hospital. something pretty serious. the doctor clearly told me, the department will call you. 6 months later, still no call. i call the muhc to ask them for news of my file, to let me know that my file has been transferred to ste marie hospital in gastroenterology. since that, i called 5 times at the ste-marie hospital, left 3 messages, and i was never called back.
in addition, last month, i called my clinic to make an appointment, i was told that my family doctor (who had been on vacation for like 3 months) has changed clinics and that i now have no more family doctor.
it's very difficult, not just in montreal, but in quebec.
wait, oqlf are not doctors? didn't they get some funding even during the pandemic? i thought that would have improved the health system.
sorry my bad.
in some areas it's terrible, my grandmother has shit times at gps. but a family member needs a surgery and is getting one in the next month and a bit where you see other places it's more that 5 months.  i think the entirety is not terrible but some aspects are disgusting.
you new here? it’s been like that since as far back as i can remember, which is 1987. any scan takes months and months of waiting. getting to see a specialist is months of waiting. going to the er is 12+ hours of waiting. 
now with the corona, it’s even worst. they do that on purpose mind you. they want our medicare system to be so frustrating that we accept privatized medicare. it’s the end goal of these bastards. 
they want to make it like it is in the states. so they make ours frustrating beyond belief, hoping we’ll all beg to go private. 
trust me, that would be very very bad. just like most canadians can’t afford to go to the dentist unless it’s an emergency, with private medicare you’d have the same thing. 
we need medicare reform. just make sure you never vote for private medicare.
i had an mri where the doctor was concerned about my spleen. it took 3 years to arrive at the diagnosis of "your spleen is ok, it's just weird". smh
come to gatineau, you will love healthcare in montreal after that
helps if you have family or friends that are relentless and persistent to get your call or rendez vous , but all is now online only, and even those have queues and loopholes. hint: search for remote postal codes, that may (or may not) get you in sooner.
we are all but a number now in the grand scheme of things. welcome to the new world order, where our souls themselves are now part of the big blockchain technology perpatrated by bitcoin, uber, and iot. absolutely all social services got strained to epic proportions prior the pandemic (something had to give, oh snap) , but don't despair. even my spouse that is a rockstar at health related needs, is finding dead ends in the system, just keep at it. again, get a friend or family member(s) or hire someone as contract, that can help get your calls back to you from online appts. or walk in cliinics if that is still your thing. our population is busting at the seams, and whether our gov used covid or not as the new social order of things, this is the new normal. we are still in for a bumpy ride. take care of yourselves everyone.
« better crooks than separatists »
yup that's how it works get an appointment for 4-6 months unless it will be an emergency and almost too late.
it goes something like this, you will get what we give you and shut up or you could pay full price out of pocket or get gouged by private insurance and go into bankruptcy, that's basically how our system works and the only reason why that is acceptable is because of the united states, the only developed country in the world that doesn't offer universal healthcare to its citizens.
and if the corporations had their way they would 100% privatize our healthcare system, the insurance companies already got the province to force employers to put their employees on private health insurance and they're always lobbying to take away more and more of our rights little by little and most doctors are only interested in getting paid so they're not going to fight the system.
i wasted 5 hours of my day waiting to see a doc today and it was fking trash i didn’t see nobody i fed up and left. the staff at the reception are fking retard and play with ppl.
also, sky is blue ad water is wet.
te pandemic fucked everything up. go to the emergencies.
my wife has been going to doctors for 4 years with chronic gut and back pain. we went to several specialists and many different hospitals and clinics. still no diagnosis or solutions presented.
we’ve basically been doing our own research and figured out enough to solve the issue on our own. i don’t want to think what’s going to happen when we can’t keep the pain at bay with diet, vitamins, and exercise. i feel like we’ll just go back to the hopeless circus of useless and repeating tests they had her doing again.
so sorry you have to live this. they really did screw up the system, should be redone from its very foundations… unfortunately we probably don’t have anyone competent enough to do it right (especially at the ministère…)
if i need to see a doctor, i go private and my work insurance pays for it.
the only saving grace here in quebec is the pharmacare.
op knows “so many people that are critically ill”
broke my finger . et send me to clinic the next day. nurse there somehow put the splint maybe after watching youtube videos since they did not have anyone who was experienced with finger fracture . clinic again referred me to the same hospital to a plastic specialist but the earliest appointment i could have was after 4 weeks. the response of specialist after three weeks " your finger is healing but the bone was not set properly and is fixing itself in a wrong way, if we try to break it again and try to fix it by surgery it may mess it up more". so in short i have a semi mobile slightly bent finger for life with high chances of arthritis when (and if) i get old.
the golden advice my good specialist (no sarcasm here) to me to scream in et even i am there for mild sneezing. its the only way to get a faster treatment right at the hospital.
>make appointments once every blue fkn moon.
that's not how it works. you can make appointments daily but you can't visit the site at any time of day. you have to do so at hourly intervals each clinic updates the site at the end of the day at different hourly intervals and you can only expect them to stay listed for a max of 30 min. start checking at 5:00 pm, then 6:00 pm, then 7:00 pm, then 8:00 pm. 
fyi it's easier to find appointments with  than the government's site of  different clinics use one or the other.
yes they are absolute shit at informing people of this wacky need to check at hourly intervals. but the system is actually fairly functional once i learned to use it and got me serviced quickly. new appointment slots are listed daily.
yep, that's why i ended up paying to go private. if i had waited for the public system i would have developed chronic problems. 4 years waiting for a public family doctor, and the rest of the health care system is blocked if you don't have a family doctor to give you referrals. yes and my baby who needed a consultation in a pediatric specialty, we made appointments everywhere, we were called back ** 2 years ** after asking for the appointment.
that's also why i'm moving to the us next year ... as long as paying public and private, i prefer to pay just private.
call 811 and play the innocent idiot theyll get you an appointment in 24hrs
was shit even before the pandemic. i was supposed to get shoulder surgery. got the x-rays and mri. had an appointment at 10am to consult with the doctor to see what was next. waited 3 hours before i left. and don't you dare ask the nurse at reception anything. they'll just point at the sign that says "don't harass employees..."
speaking of which, if a place has to post a sign telling people not to attack the staff - they're probably doing a shit job running the place.
it gets better when you get a family doctor.
i agreed in principle but i wanted to make sure that it was indeed the desire of the inhabitants / traders of the chinatown.
an article in le devoir that reassured me on this point, if it ever worried others:
it is important to confirm your signature with the link sent to your email.
please don't forget to confirm your signature via the link sent by email!
thank you very much everybody!
signed and confirmed! 👌🏿🤨
sign! thank you \ ~
signed! thanks for sharing!
i crossposted on r / quebec
signed! thanks for sharing
yes. montreal has a heritage of the chinese community and i believe it is important that it be preserved.
just like old montré .... ah .... yeah ... :(
signed! 🚀
thank you! signed
so we should do the same for little italy, they also gave a lot to montreal and quebec.
what does it change legally when a neighborhood is designated as a heritage site?
the neighborhood is in palliative care ...
signed
love ... yet another protected area that prevents housing construction and helps drive up prices ... keep going, my house is going up in value.
it's a street with shops and restaurants, it's not mount royal either, eh
text of the article if you have already had your 4 free articles of the month: p
—-
the purchase of several historic buildings in the heart of montreal's chinatown by a real estate developer worries citizens, who are claiming heritage site status for the area in the same way as old montreal.
at the corner of de la gauchetière and côté streets, behind the palais des congrès, stands the former british and canadian school building, designed in 1826, home to the oriental noodle and cookie maker wing, in business for over 100 years. years. right next door is an imposing building incorporating part of the free presbyterian church, built in 1848.
noodles wing sold those two buildings in march to developers brandon shiller and jeremy kornbluth, of hillpark capital, for $ 9.2 million. these are businessmen who have recently made the headlines, being accused of trying to evict the tenants of manoir lafontaine, in the plateau-mont-royal. the chinatown task force then mobilized, the montreal gazette daily reported on monday.
“it's a shock. we thought that wing would be there forever or would be the last to leave the neighborhood, because the company has always been there ”, comments donny seto, member of the group.
for the moment, the noodle business has become a tenant of the premises and continues to operate. but the group, which brings together citizens who have the social development of the sector at heart, has the impression that the promoters have other plans. at the start of the year, they acquired several other addresses in rue de la gauchetière, including a former chinese school dating from the 19th century, and parking lots. their business entity is called investissements 1000 saint-urbain.
"there seems to be a desire to merge these lots to make a major project", judge jonathan cha, founding member of the working group.
jean-philippe riopel has lived for 11 years in one of the buildings newly acquired by investissements 1000 saint-urbain. he was the one who alerted the group when he learned of these sales. the one who is a tourist guide in the neighborhood has not yet received an eviction notice. however, the other two tenants of the building left the premises shortly before and after the acquisition by the new owner.
mr. riopel, mr. cha and mr. seto fear that heritage buildings will be destroyed to build condominium apartments. mr. seto points out that several such tower projects are underway along viger avenue. "if they put twenty-story buildings in place of the most historic buildings in the neighborhood, it will destroy chinatown," they say.
for its part, hillpark capital indicates that "there is currently no official planned project and any future potential project would strongly take into consideration the very rich history of the surrounding neighborhood and would put forward, in a sensitive, the preservation of the architectural heritage of existing buildings ”.
the policy director of heritage montreal, dinu bumbaru, points out that it is one of the oldest districts of montreal, where there are foundations dating from the time of the french regime. english, scottish and jewish communities then occupied it before the chinese. however, megaprojects like the guy-favreau complex have already destroyed part of it. the area is part of the protection area of the church of the catholic-chinese mission-of the holy spirit, forcing any demolition project to obtain the approval of the minister of culture. the chinatown task force emphasizes that provincial recognition as a heritage site would allow more control over any development there.
[removed]
unfortunately even i think it's too late, the neighborhood has changed so much with all these condos that it's not what it used to be.
new developments in chinatown must align with the fact that chinatown must stay as chinatown. community groups and residents will have a necessary voice in the approval of new developments. funds will become available for maintenance. etc etc
[deleted]
ah yes, brandon shiller the cockroach of real estate in quebec. it’s going to ruin everything
oh shit i hadn't realised it was shiller behind the sales too, they're going to turn these into overpriced basic condos that have no relation to the area at all.   
chinatown needs a big help, and a big boost, there's so much potential, but these are not the guys to do it. a lot of buildings in the area need renovations, but there is a lot of foot traffic, and so many businesses around. specialty eaters, local markets and crafts, could all benefit the area.
access to housing
beyond the built environment, the group believes that gentrification could have deleterious effects on the chinese community. access to housing is already severely limited, says jonathan cha, and upward pressure from rents could push current residents out. "we must ensure that there is a chinese population who can stay there and that there are enough premises for social, community, cultural and religious functions," argues mr. cha. without it, he fears chinatown will turn into a soulless tourist district.
robert beaudry, city councilor in ville-marie, shares the concerns of citizens. “when we look at what happened on papineau avenue or in other commercial buildings in mile end, we see that these are owners who sometimes have very dubious strategies that lead people who have been there to leave. for a very long time and which destroy the neighborhoods a lot, ”indicates the one who is also responsible for housing on the executive committee. he stressed that an action plan to revitalize chinatown will soon be made public, drawn up with many community partners.
the city will use all the tools at its disposal to ensure adequate development, affirms mr. beaudry. “it is the only french-speaking chinatown in north america. we want to magnify it, not decimate it, ”he says.
the minister of culture and communications, nathalie roy, says for her part "sensitive to the specific character of chinatown". “note that anyone can apply for classification from the ministry of culture and communications. this request will then be analyzed with regard to the heritage values defined in the cultural heritage act ”, indicated by email the press secretary of his office, louis-julien dufresne.
private browsing can reset the limit by passing
we are not talking about the chinese government here, but about sino-quebecois
i feel the same way, however i would still be in favour of saving the neighborhood just because it's very likely the new owners will not make good use of the land.
second that. as a bonus, it helps a bit to combat the chinese government to support free chinese districts.
thank you for making the distinction. it's appreciated.
> many of didulo’s followers seem to believe she’s holding tribunals behind the scenes, which are resulting in the executions they’re thirsting for. these followers use extremely tenuous scraps of evidence to prove didulo is actually in power—including the fact that romana didulo is an anagram for “i am our donald.” 
the human brain is fascinating. imagine believing all that, imagine the brain you need.
it is sectarianism and it must be firmly denounced.
it is a matter of time before an individual / group becomes radicalized enough to engage in significant acts of violence.
we will hardly be able to "deprogram" those who are already deeply in the cult but we can slow down this social cancer by fighting harder against disinformation.
we really have to be all more vocal against these cults, that makes no sense.
they aren't just in montreal, my hairdresser in nova scotia got that letter as well. i thought it was just one deranged person, so it's weird to see they are accross canada.
someone is clearly still upset that their nickname throughout high school was romulan dildo.
its been a couple of days i see it go by and damn it, okram's razor is lost in esti
1- imagine, if donald trump had assigned, without elections nothing, the leader of another country. and not a republic of bananas. a member of the g7. its would be a major political crisis
2- he did his but the never mentioned in public. never a statement on it.
3- for canada to suddenly have a queen elizabeth ii would have to abdicate the throne of canada and rewrite the constitution. not the kind of news that can be swept under the rug.
you have to assume all of her or just that the bitch comes out of her ass.
but i would just like to see her brought to the front of the gg.
if she declares to be queen of canada, it is literally treason. if she retracts it is fraud.
also note: a valid response to a cease and decist is 'men calisse, sue me'. and wish them the best of luck in finding a court that won't just throw out the prosecution.
honestly, i spend plenty of time on conspiracy sites and i've never heard of romana didulo so perhaps i'm reading the "wrong" conspiracy sites.
i've seen my share of conspiracy theories, and though i don't agree with them, many groups at least try to make their claims sound serious/credible. but this "letter" sounds like either a parody or some gibberish an elementary school child  would write, especially that "je, romana didulo"... paragraph in the middle. i cannot believe grown-ups with a normal iq and normal mental state would seriously put something like this together. it has to be some joke.
let's say that she would be queen of canada and not crazy ones, she cites the common law and not the civil law so it would be worth fuckall in quebec her case.
the didulo thing is pretty much a cult a this point.
ah ben tabarnouche
the sad thing is that these people think they're helping, when honestly they need therapy or medication.  mental healthcare workers need to be responding and intervening in these situations and maybe get these people some help.
it's easy to just call them assholes, but that's not what's happening.  they're scared, disoriented, and have lost their minds.
romana didulo= i am our donald
wow! did they get a new strain at sqdc? holy molly she must be smoking high grade stuff. that’s some next level s**t for canada.
is being a cult leader the next big trend after instagram and tiktok influencers or something?
dang i thought we only had them in the usa. i'm gonna feel right at home seeing these creeps after i move to montreal lol :(
at what point could it be considered as a threat or an incentive to act violently towards healthcare people from her followers perspective ?
the part where she talked about putting bullets in health workers' head is very disturbing.
the sheer delusional stupidity donald trump has brought out of people is absolutely fucking *insane.*
wait until queen elizabeth hears about this. she's gonna pay a little visit to queen romana and open a can of whoop-ass on that qanon skank. there's only one queen in canada!
american idiocy is spreading here too now
hey misery 🤦🏻‍♀️ it reminds me of a video i saw on youtube, crazy propaganda, it was an old lady who was rolling her rs and reading a text iiinnnnnteerrrrrrmiiinaaaaaaable and which contained similar words, of sheer madness and orders that were to take effect immediately !!! ... the same kind of people who will say that the who and the government are satanic and / or pédosataniques organizations. these individuals are very sick in their heads and unfortunately no one can reason with them. i also believe that they are dangerous, to the point where they are stuck in their beliefs.
anyone know where i can find the forums these morons follow their queen? this is next level stupid and i'm extremely intrigued
edit: i just downloaded telegram and currently making throwaway accounts
the poor, the disabled, the downtrodden: please stop killing us
middle class white karens: may i have a crumb of oppression
who is this romana dildo?
call the authorities on these degenerate, low iq qanon cultists. if i'm the manager of an establishment i'd ban their ass for life from entering the premises.
call 911 every fucking time people threaten/harass you.
here’s a similar copy a pharmacist in ontario got: 
seditious words
59 (1) seditious words are words that express a seditious intention.
marginal note:seditious libel
(2) a seditious libel is a libel that expresses a seditious intention.
marginal note:seditious conspiracy
(3) a seditious conspiracy is an agreement between two or more persons to carry out a seditious intention.
marginal note:seditious intention
(4) without limiting the generality of the meaning of the expression seditious intention, every one shall be presumed to have a seditious intention who
(a) teaches or advocates, or
(b) publishes or circulates any writing that advocates,
the use, without the authority of law, of force as a means of accomplishing a governmental change within canada.
r.s., c. c-34, s. 60
this is next level
they also mass sended a text msg claiming they took the power in canada and anyone fallowing policies  would face trial and execute. absolute loonies.
lock her up.
"genetic biological warfare"
i stopped reading there. are too woke for me.
i see the pure bred idiots have banded together
wow, bizarre…
god damn meth heads😂
il y a t’il d’autre source que vice news? i would think this would be mentioned in other news sources as well.
the document looks like what someone who receives a lot of email thinks is a legal letter ... email with cc: in re:
it's ridiculous.
/r/amibeingdetained
okay, another matter. at the same time it's refreshing, qanon was starting to miss them a bit, they were more original and entertaining than the anti-masks and the zealous of the measures of containment.
it's funny, the more attention these karens crave, the more people they convince to tune/block them out forever.
this is so fucked up.
didulo or duludo... they sound insanely deluded and that can be really dangerous.
they cant translate "common law" into fr?
woah woah, just did a 15 minute overview: bat shit!
i heard about her it's been like a month. he even had a [post] ( on the subreddit of the town where i lived in ontario. unfortunately, the video is no longer on youtube.
gosh. the moronic mindset of the populace that’s follows these hokum theories is rather depressing.
the government should actively and aggressively hunt down these weirdos. they are clearly a threat to society at this point.
people still wear masks ? 🤪🤪
wonder if the healthy montreal girl channel sponsors them.
fake. couterinsurection psyop to trigger y'all.
[deleted]
first of all, apologies for not writing this comment in french. i'm not a french speaker but i will definitely learn it as a language as soon as learning centres open up (don't want to study online).
i visited montreal last month and spent a long weekend there. the city was amazing, beautiful, and worthy of a second, longer visit (most likely when things are getting back to normal so i can eat in, enjoy the night life).
really enjoyed walking down old montreal and old port in one of the evenings. it felt like i went back in time to europe.
ps: i would love to have some company on my next visit.
edit: holy, wow! thank you for a silver award, u/zatlags.
edit 2: wow, another award. thanks so much, u/marelup 😊
if you climb the small steps you will see a plaque on the ground that underlines the great peace of montreal of 1701 between the french and the first nations. kondiaronk (name given to the belvedere on mount royal) led several tribes (39) to sign this alliance in front of governor louis-hector de callières, putting an end to the wars that raged in previous years.
on the ground you will be able to observe the replicas of different signatures of the signatory nations.
one of my favourite areas of the city. right behind this building, on st paul, is a plaque marking the place du marché, which was montreal’s first public square in 1657.
isn't this the old customs house?
what do you think the rent is at this place? like $500-600 per month?
the place where i got my first ticket 🥰
always wondered if we can visit inside some of these buildings in old port.
there’s no need to apologize. plenty of languages live here. i would hope no one takes offense.
where were you visiting from?
happy you liked it
you'll enjoy even more the next months when it'll finally be warm and when less litter will be in our streets 😉
just so you know "the sub is **bilingual**. use french or english at your discretion" so no need to apologize! also nice pic!
it's a really underrated event, leaders from nations as far away as florida have come!
thank you for the comment. i will definitely check it out on my next visit.
interesting. what other places would you recommend i visit on my next trip? 
i didn't particularly see specific places in old montreal because i just wanted to walk around and experience the neighborhood instead of researching beforehand. but i understand that it's a surefire way of missing out on potentially amazing places.
but next time around, i would like to do both - walk around randomly and have a list of places to see.
yep. i couldn't explore the neighborhood in great detail though. something to look forward to on my next visit.
exact
sorry for the reply in english. i didn't want to do a copy-paste from google translate.
sorry that you got your ticket here. but, hey, they say first time is always memorable. so it is quite a neighborhood to get your first ticket in. 😊
the old customs house is in old montreal but in the old port you can visit the clock tower, the science center, the large quay, etc.
thank you. nobody took offense, neither here nor when i was in montreal.
i visited from toronto.
enough to consider moving here permanently.
i'm definitely waiting for summer. more activities and less covid restrictions 😀
thank you! glad you liked the picture.
honestly it depends on what you like to do and see. i’m a huge food guy so i always tend to have my trips revolve around different restaurants and gastronomic experiences. montreal has an incredible food scene so i’d definitely suggest to come back once the restaurants reopen, if you’re into that sort of thing. it allows you to explore a bunch of different neighbourhoods and you’ll always leave satisfied and full! haha check out the [eater essential 38 restaurants]( for an idea of what’s popular!
cool thank you
"grain de sel" here, thank you for recognizing the fact that montréal is a french speaking city. love and kisses!
so you illegally came to our province and ignored covid protocols. thanks 👍
oh i love trying different cuisines, specially the ones that a particular place is known for. unfortunately, i couldn't experience dining in due to covid restrictions but i did have schwartz's smoked meat sandwich and brought a dozen bagels with me from fairmont bagels.
what are the places you'd recommend? i'll bookmark the link you shared.
merci. i feel the obligation to speak in place's official language and ideally, i would have learned some french before this trip but i couldn't. it is definitely in my bucket list to pick up as soon as things go back to normal (i really don't want to take online classes). 
hope to visit montréal soon.
i visited montreal during easter long weekend, there wasn't any travel restriction in place at the time between ontario and quebec. i believe i mentioned that in my first comment on this post.
i know it wasn't the ideal time to travel but i did take all precautions i could think of as i currently do while living in toronto. i care about my health and the fact that my decisions impact other people during this pandemic.
i understand your concern came from a genuine place but rest assured, i neither carried not contracted covid during my stay.
again, it’s entirely up to what you like. smoked meat is always a classic. i’m more of a st viateur bagel kinda guy. in the old port area there are tons of great options like olive & gourmando, tommy cafe, slice & soda, uniburger, un po di piu, escondite, garde manger, bremner. otherwise bombay mahal is a great indian option downtown and in park-ex. little italy has a bunch of great options like san gennaro, bottega, lucca, gema, impasto, and fumigale. other really famous places are liverpool house and joe beef, pois penché, moccione, damas, foiegwa, ma pouille mouillé, chez tousignant. the list goes on and on!
i know some people talk shit about us locals if "you do not speak french while visiting québec" but this is false. no one expect visitors to learn french on a 3 days trip. altough we have a few people moving here (because it is cheaper) and hating on the local language and calling us racists...
montréal is a big tourist city since 1967, we love to welcome people from all over the world!
i'm pretty much down to try anything at least once. i don't have any dietary restrictions. lemme go through these places. 
interestingly, i didn't try traditional poutine. had some variant of poutine with potato wedges and fried egg from universal grill. which poutine place would you recommend in the city?
what about activities? i want to go to montreal museum of fine arts, museum of archeology and history, science centre, cinemas/theaters, and music scene.
> in the old port area there are tons of great options like olive & gourmando, tommy cafe, slice & soda, uniburger, un po di piu, escondite, garde manger, bremner.
these restaurants are not in the old port! north of the rue de la commune, it is no longer the site of the old port!
edit: for people who do not agree, you can try to prove to me that these restaurants are in the "old port" according to you!
imo, it's not racist to expect people to learn a predominant language of a city/province if they plan on living there. i'm an immigrant to canada. i loved the hospitality, the multiculturalism, and the history of the city. honestly, i see myself living there. learning french has been in my bucket because i know that canada, the country i moved to to settle my life, has both english and french as its official languages.
yeah buddy we hate the local language lol. this type of reductionist thinking is the core problem in this province. 
have you ever considered people might have issue with (or “hate” since you seem to think in those black and white terms) having a one-issue, populist prime minister from a separatist / qc nationalist / isolationist party making decisions on how immigration should work?
yeah you welcome people from all over the world for sure, as long as they speak french. i’m sorry if others somehow turned this issue into calling locals racist, that’s not my intention. but quebecs treatments of english speaking temporary residents is abysmal. so many issues that i’m not gonna go there, but it is one of the worst places in canada to settle if you do not speak french. period. quebec has the lowest company tax rates in canada because no international company (nor an international minded person) wants to move here. 
tldr; what the op means i believe is “we welcome people from all over the world as long as they’re just tourists here for a few days. you are an english speaking expat who needs to be here for a few years for work? qc says “go f&$k yourself”
my personal favorites for poutine are chez tousignant, la banquise, and lafleur!
fair enough! this restaurant is in old montreal **
>yeah buddy we hate the local language lo
i'm not talking about you. i speak in general. people who insult the protection of the french language for example. it is common.
>you are an english speaking expat who needs to be here for a few years for work? qc says “go f&$k yourself”
i hope you're joking ... it's made almost easier to find a job in montreal without speaking french than without speaking english!
not to mention the multitude of immigrants who arrive here without speaking french who manage to get by in a few months!
> but it is one of the worst places in canada to settle if you do not speak french. period.
so for you, the only french-speaking province in canada is the worst place to settle down if you don't speak french?
definitely checking 'em out!
the fact that you switched to french just to respond to my comment about the anti english sentiment in quebec is just perfect. good job gabmori you win this one...
le sub permet d'écrire en français. if you cannot understand french, you mention it and people will gladly switch to english, this is what montrealers do ;)
creaks a chain with 15mm rings, uses a master lock padlock. ish
edit: for those wondering why i'm shitting on master lock, [that's because lpl spends a lot of their time proving master lock padlocks are worth the money.] ( / khypserxcc4)
omg i get itchy just looking at that! 
but what a madlad hahaha it's really creative!
literally at the door of my apartment! lol what a person. what a guy.
it is clear that this person wears a red nose while driving his bi-cikk.
should you stop if you hit a tree with your chariot? / s
seriously, biking in winter is already intense, there is more difficulty if ever it hits in the chain all these garlands.
on sunny days, when i regularly notice a bike attached to the same spot, i often wonder if it will spend the winter on the same spot. obviously that will be the case for this one. he will at least be well dressed, that's already it.
ouch
to be fair, lpl proves that not every padlock is worth shying away from someone who knows what they're doing, no matter the brand.
yes, and it's still well installed 👍🏼
a set of christmas lights is missing and it is good for the holidays and the tour of the island by bécyk next year 🤣
and a santa claus hat
good question. 🎄 but i would say yes you just stop if your windshield is smashed, otherwise the gas screeches at the bottom and push-toe. 🥸
i told myself that it protected the frame from the filth of the street but it is true that it is doomed to failure with the chain
a decrepit bicycle attached to a drette post in front of my driveway spent at least 1 year without moving and a dude came to pick it up recently. we were on the verge of cutting the padlock and sending it to the garbage. 😬
not really. those who require his special tool made with bosnianbill are not lockpickable unless they get a custom tool like him. nobody walks in the street with that.
ps: apparently according to lpl, this [padlock] ( is "extraordinarily difficult to pick"
sauce: 
after that, you have others who are also difficult to pick and which are more resistant to physical attacks (grinder, bolt-cutters)
one hell of an indie album cover!
me, too
pretty damn cool! they fixed the missing letter?
cool shot! on purpose or happy mistake?
it's so aesthetically pleasing to the eyes!
what's flour has to do with roses?
that's a really cool pic! good job!
are the light trails from the sign or something else? pretty cool!
a reinvention of the classic mtl shot. i love it.
cool
this sign for me is like the famous "hollywood" on the  hill.
/r/hailcorporate
i see it. i'm just missing the indie band.
french canadian grandma's often say "de la fleur" when talking about flour obviously because of the pronunciation that sounds like flower. having five roses written on a bag of flour must have played it's part to make them think that was right. of course it has nothing to do, it's just a brand.
they peddle the stuff
why is this not common sense
oh no, now everyone will dress like homeless people to take a walk at 8. /s
legault insisting that the curfew needed to apply to the homeless, and doubling down on that position, reminds me of coderre's pitbull ban. both were wildly unpopular with broad swaths of the electorate, deemed counter-productive by experts, and yet in both cases politicians insisted that they were right and the electorate, the experts, basically everyone else, was actually wrong.  
edit: i fully expect the legault government to appeal, probably with some bullshit rhetoric about how this ruling risks undoing the sacrifice of all quebecers up to this point, that this is about saving lives, and some other sanctimonious pontification.
[deleted]
a judge with common sense and compassion. this judgment gives me and i'm sure many of you, hope ❤️
our pm seriously lacks empathy for anyone who does not vote caq.
article in french: [ 1766147 / suspension-application-traveling-curfews-upper-yard)
how is this even a question? 🙄
thank god 😁
lurker here. whats going on, where's the government support?
in new zealand and some states of australia, the government's paid for hotel rooms for the homeless when movement restrictions were in place last year. its not like tourists were using them anyway. and to hear a homeless person froze to death, it's appalling
good! shame on legault and the dirt bag cops who handed out those tickets.
wow what good news that the system reiterates that those who have no home cannot return to a home that does not exist!
the police will stop wasting their time giving tickets to those who have no way of paying for them anyway!
what good news in the morning to read that the poor world will be less hit on the head by a system that keeps them in absolute poverty wow.
that's no chalice of sense. for this kind of news to appear, eventually we would have to realize that it is because we find ourselves stuck very deep in idiocy.
ok, now let's make having a roof a right and actually give homeless people a place to live, without any strings attached. homelessness is a black stain on any civilized society.
why do we even have homeless people in a first world country
do we not have the resources to fix that as a problem? i understand it's a complex problem, but i feel like we should be able to figure it out
embarrassed to be born in quebec , sad as fuck
'bout fucking time.
there's just a bit over 1 week left and they figure this out now!?
okay sure that's cool, but what about the shelters?
... until february 5.
lol you can't even drive around past curfew without getting pulled over there?
as if homeless people with no money were being ticketed.
vagrancy is illegal, but cops aren’t rounding up the homeless every night.  they ignore homeless people, most.  the curfew is no different.
it is a syllogism. one cannot readily shelter if one is homeless. people who are homeless must deal with all manner of aggressive, even dangerous individuals who may be vying for limited shelter. legault is an economist. he looks at the number of beds spread across the city versus the number of homeless, snaps his fingers, and demands homeless people magically transport themselves to these shelters by 8pm.  it is actually unbelievable an intelligent political leader could expect such a decree to be taken seriously.
they only hire people who obey, common sense is frowned upon at the spvm
because the caq is in power.
pm is a tough guy who is always protecting the rights of the persecuted majority. his logic is that, if the homeless are exempt, what's to stop all the jews and muslims from becoming homeless and converting our youth through their high sense of fashion.
but now anyone can claim they are homeles and stay out past 8pm
i think it is common sense, but legault prefered keeping this unclear as homelesness is a hard thing to deal with and even define
since everyone is giving brainless improvised answers so far: the argument against this is that people will claim they're homeless when they're not. it makes the curfew hard to enforce and may increase confrontations.
i'm no expert on public health (certainly nobody here is) but personally i think cutting the homeless some slack is the right call. folks enforcing the curfew just need to somehow handle this challenge.
can't wait to be outside in -15 degree weather for absolutely  no reason at all!
people dressed as pigs and dogs to go taunt the cops about the curfew thingy. remember that couple in sherbrooke too?the lady taking the hubbie on a leash for a walk? remember the potato sack guy i couple years back? 
i suspect that yes, people will dress and are dressing as homeless right now just to be contrarian smart asses. 
this said, what a terrible loss of opportunity. the intelligent, empathetic, long term thing yo do would have been to shelter the homeless (there is million of square foot empty commercial space in mtl right now) and pass an emergency bill to build transitional homes.
imo, appealing this judgement would result in a pr nightmare. legault will probably take this loss silently to minimize the impact on his popularity
daddy can’t be wrong
>i fully expect the legault government to appeal, probably with some  bullshit rhetoric about how this ruling risks undoing the sacrifice of  all quebecers up to this point, that this is about saving lives, and  some other sanctimonious pontification.
i thought the same but surprisingly they just announced that they wouldn't contest it. see [tweets]( from lionel carmant the health minister.
no one outside after 8pm.
okay, give them a home to go to.
....... not.
i dread to see how he's gonna turn this around during the elections...
i heard a testimony about the one who died in a portapotty. apparently he was extremely diligent when it came to rules and goodwill towards others. this falls squarely on the caq approach to the homeless, because they pay no attention to mental health.
> homeless people deserve understanding, respect and compassion as they struggle to survive the covid-19 pandemic.
well said. if this pandemic has taught us anything, we're all in the same giant boat here. we need to help each other out or we all fail together.
>one died hiding in a portable toilet while out past curfew
that s terrible... is he counted as a covid victim then ?
> one died hiding in a portable toilet
that's a shitty way to go.
homeless people cannot like the caq's facebook
yup let's oppress those who won't vote for him.  in 2021, legault will undergo another kind of test: strengthening the french language across the province, starting with downtown montreal.
needs to focus priorities that matter
[removed]
as always, the situation is more nuanced than what is presented.
there are hotel rooms available to the homeless. many homeless people go there. many refuse because they can't or don't want to abide to the rules in place there (no pets, no drugs, no alcohol).
officially, the homeless were not exempt from the curfew. however, the premier stated publicly that objective of the curfew was not to penalise the homeless and that he trusted the judgment  of the police to not apply it to the homeless.
a homeless individual with many arrest warrants was afraid to be caught by the police due to the increased attention the curfew would bring on him. he decided to hide in a toilet and died frozen there.
other homeless individuals have been reported as receiving fines in relation to the curfew. i haven't seen the details on each one of them, but i know that in one case the actual motives for the arrest and the fines were related to drug traffic. for the others, i don't know. they may have been motivated by something else, or they may also have been entirely pointless.
many people have been asking the government to officially make the homeless exempt from the curfew. the government has been hesitant on that front. the official reasoning is that people would use that as an excuse and reduce the impact of the curfew. it most likely is because codifying what is an homeless person into law is a problem in itself (precise definitions are hard, and loopholes are easy, you don't want your definition to accidently apply to, say, all the students living in a dorm and stuff like that.).
in the end, i don't think this judgment is going to change anything at all. it seems to be in line with the actual intent of the law. moreoever, police officers are still allowed to fine homeless people. they just have a mean to overturn the fine in court. and being homeless they'll probably want to avoid going to court for a multitude of reasons.
> why do we even have homeless people in a first world country
to scare the people into accepting shitty jobs where the boss abuse them.
then why did the court say otherwise?
are you saying the judge lied? maybe you should bring that to the media since they like stories about corruption
> an intelligent political leader could expect such a degree to be taken seriously
he's intelligent based on what metric exactly? hes only in power because of the boomers outside of montreal who vote for him en masse
cops with iqs over 100 are generally frown upon and not hired.
the sweet zone is 80-95, just below average. as those people are more likely to blindly follow orders yet are still almost fully functional people.
it would appear the hasids are exempt (/s)
most likely explanation. having worked in these circles,  there is a surprisingly high amount of « we’ll let the courts deal with that » with every new law, and i guess the same goes with a décret.
>since everyone is giving brainless improvised answers so far: the argument against this is that people will claim they're homeless when they're not. it makes the curfew hard to enforce and may increase confrontations.
this is how you make one rule for the majority and let everyone else down ...  
the issue with this is, you only realise you are not part of the majority when it is too late.
it's going to be extra bad this year.  lots of solo dog walkers out alone after curfew this year and they didn't pick up shit...literally.
tell me if i'm wrong but is that the same dog owner who pisses his dog every day at the same spot and who doesn't pick up? or are people who say to themselves: well there if the other one before did not pick up, i will not do it too.
this is my second winter in montreal after moving here from san diego (i know, i know..). the very first thing i noticed once the snow started melting, was the wonderful piss smell that overtook the streets of notre dame. i could see literal yellow pools of piss and frozen layers of shit. it was the worst lasagna i had ever seen.
i installed a camera on my house window to find the culprit whose dog has been shitting on my neighbors front lawn and when i found out who it was, i followed him to his residence. now that i knew who it was, i started collecting up his dog shit and then i rubbed it all over his door with a note stating "i  believe this belongs to you"  very satisfying to not say the least.
with an extra of thousands of old masks garoched on the ground by osties of savages ...
i can never get around how clean toronto is and how trash montreal is. seriously people. what. in. the. fuck.
and thousands of cigarette botches. thank you, dear citizens!
on the way to the daycare, there is a large school made along the way with a lot of grass in front. this is normally the perfect place to let my daughter walk in the grass / snow, which she loves to do like most children her age. we try to teach her not to go for a walk on private land, but on school grounds, she has fun and it doesn't really bother anyone ...
it ended this week. i don't know if i just haven't seen him before, but the amount of dog poop on the school grounds is truly incredible. it looks like the photo. a ciborium school ... gang of clean steps.
i hate that .. my dog eats that you raw food does its needs it is small droppings which of disintegrates has a too strong gust of wind but even that i never picked up, it takes what, 10 seconds? i always try to pick up when i see it, what annoys me the most is the world who leave their bag asti lying around, like what the fuck you're doing 98% of the job already !!
i see eco-responsibility at work. it's composting.
this is how you attract rats. they love dog shit
yeah i noticed today also. dog poop doesn’t go away throughout winter this should be a r/youshouldknow post.
it makes him cool.
why you / s, it's just a fact!
people are just so disgusting..this makes it hard to walk around the city every corner dog shit!
[deleted]
very good for the soil
my kids aren't good direction followers, but they know i will totally spank them in public in front of their friends if i find out they didn't pick up the dog poop.
within a few weeks we will also have positions on cyclists: d, every year it's the same thing
hey this is my home! i noticed this in this exact place yesterday.
this is why dog permits need to be expensive
those assholes is what gives a bad reputation to the average dog owner, who ensure that their pet excrement is picked up as it happens.
as an owner i am like an ex-smoker when i see this happening, i tend to "shit" on the ignorant owner and make him/her clean up the puppy's mess.
if you want someone to leave their dog's gunk on the ground, pick it up and throw it at the owner lol
fuck the world
that is like food for nature.  it doesn't bother me.
saw a man near my house pick up his dogs poops, put them in the bag, and then throw the bag right back in the snow drift. there was a trashcan 5 feet away. why?????
and here i was telling my friends it's getting better every year. in sud ouest area i used to have to jump around them all the time. now i barely see them. .. it could also be because rim working from home
#notalldogowners are bad, but there is sure a lot of them that are ruining it for everybody.
you should see my downstairs neighbours place. multiple dogs, doesn’t look like they’ve tried to pick it up once. looks like hell down there.
😂
is it really montreal if it doesn't smell like dog poop everywhere you go though? the best you can expect is to not step on it when you get in the elevator.
complaining is fine and sometimes it works, but the best thing you can do right now is to do some cleaning on your street. get yourself a trash bag and do it, the neighbors won't care, some might even notice. also talk to your town hall about a plan to resolve the problem in the longer term.
edit: thanks for the downvotes!
other cities: it's terrible that people leave bullshit and garbage on the streets. they are so irresponsible. let's clean it up.
montreal: it's terrible that people leave bullshit and garbage in the streets. they are so irresponsible. let's wait for the city to clean it up.
i'm a dog owner and those assholes should be forced to eat their dog's shit.
i lived for 20 years around parc laurier. the smell in spring was horrible.
the same people who are packing their worn masks on the ground ...
very good question ... seriously in all cases it's fucking trashy ... plus it's in a cute little street on the plateau not far from the laurier metro ...
dogs usually have their spots. it will vary from time to time, but if you walk them on more or less the same road it will have a pattern. funny spot anyway ... on the median of the cycle path (must be the only place where there is dirt).
kind of owner who has to punish his dog when he pisses in the house because he is too lazy to walk him when the dog asks for the door.
what do you want ... a con is a con.
do you have someone who knows let's say i'm petty worse than i want to ruin the day of someone that i have just seen throw his mask on the ground / not pick up his waste, do you have a place or can i call and denounce? i know it's illegal and there are fines.
the piss smell on notre dame isn't from the dogs lol
oh dude... i should not have read this comment while eating my lasagna.
what happened after that?
ok that amazing if its true !
without forgetting the hash tone of waste blowing in the wind
toronto is a clean version of cleveland.
well first off they have garbage bins at every corner.
last time i went to toronto it was far worse than montreal.. (july 2019)
we can assume most people in toronto rent units or rooms because of the property prices, and a lot of landlords/roommates aren't keen on having pets on the premices.
so i guess not a lot of people have dogs.
> prohibit smoking in public parks and on certain streets. they have done this in many countries - i give the example of thailand. in bangkok, smoking is prohibited in parks and it is enforced. if you throw your botches on the street and a cop sees you, you will be fined.
who is the cellar who decided to remove the ashtrays next to the doors and who forces the world to go and smoke in the middle of the street? tse that a botch does not keep well in his pockets.
at least my seal botches are biodegradable: o
is it as good as the mugler exhibit they had at bam a couple of years ago? that one was terrific.
did they fix the over sensitive alarm when you watch the dresses a bit too close?
looks nice, will definitely go it out, thanks!
i wish i will be able to check it out in person!
christian dior dior
\ #bringbackvicktoriasecretgirls
i haven't seen that, but judging by the photos of the mugler exhibit, i'd say this one is much, much smaller and more basic. not flashy. dresses from the late 40s-early 50s only, along with some learning stuff about the embroidery and beading processes and whatnot. definitely not a high budget exhibit.
[deleted]
better ! i was impressed by the amount of amazing pieces. only comment is they put the plaques further than the sensor. each time you want to read somethings, it sets off a beep. hopefully they adjusted it !
seen both. dior is much smaller. don’t miss the chapleau exhibit if you go.
haha! no. i set it off at least three times, and while i was there, at least three other people set it off. they really don't want your hands in there!
what do you mean?
the mugler one blew me away. i have some interest in fashion, but it's definitely not something i'm passionate about so i was pretty surprised at how much i enjoyed it.
might still check out the dior one though. thanks for the tip!
i feel like mugler was much more haute couture and dior was a lot of pret à porter. they explained how they would « rent » the dresses of the season, import them to montreal and then make copies and have to send the original back. something like that. i think a lot of the dresses we saw in the dior collection were not made in paris in the dior ateliers…. but i’m no expert.
ah, thanks.
yeah, i'm still not over that mugler power suit made with f'n tyres. i must have stared at it for 15 minutes. it was *gorgeous*. even the purse and headpiece were made with tyres, yet it was incredibly elegant and classy.
i guess it depends what you're going for. for us, it was about exploring the era presented and the way things were sewn together, the shape, and the materials used. it was really interesting for us. but like i said above, it's not a flashy exhibit at all.
[deleted]
and those insect inspired outfits too were quite something!
to say that there was a highway at this exact location not yet 10 years ago.
if there is one good thing that we can give to coderre, at the very least, it is to have continued with the bonaventure expressway demolition project.
[demolition of the bonaventure expressway: when modernity drives out modernity] ( modernite-chasse-la-modernite.php)
or he just wanted the opportunity to take one more photo. either way, it's better without the highway.
wow, super belle photo.
ah my favorite playground, the one inbetween two busy streets
this picture makes mtl looks so calm ! =))
where exactly are you taking the photo from?
another photo of poutine! aaah la la i'm tired
[deleted]
i also find that it's better like that 😀
😁
it actually a really popular area, there's also an outdoor fitness area that is packed every day. when you live in the city, you take whatever green space you can get.
i don't know the name of the park, but it's near place bonaventure
calm you totons
don't you see the city at the back 🤔
yeah its quite popular, i used to live in lowney 2 but left because of how shitty life in griffintown is
nice pic by the way 😉
no there is too much building to see
yeah my heart goes out to the people living in griffintown. there's probably another 3 years of construction hell before it is a nice place to live, but i think it will be really nice when it gets it's shit together.
thanks 😊
that's the city 😫 i didn't realize that there was so much haters here... just wanted to share something  i liked from montreal
long exposure?
maybe i’m lucky but it’s the first time i see such reply on a picture. please don’t stop because of this
it's a nice picture, don't feel bad about the negative responses. some people are just sad. keep up the good work !
just a night picture with my phone 📷 i want to get more into photography very soon!
sweet 😊
[original here](
it happens so often with crows attacking their predators. in the wooded area of thomas-chapais park i have often seen this kind of behavior, and what is very special is that the crows call for other crows, which seem to always arrive further and further away. they have a good defense and communication system, canada should take an example.
crows and owls are natural enemies. farley mowat taught us that.
i had the chance to film al ile bizard, two great gray owls fighting
[
my aunt lives in the olympic village, near the small wooded area.
every evening, at the same time, there are at least 1000 crows who come to meet, and tell each other about their day, all perched at the top of the highest branches of the trees in the wooded area. it's quite astonishing as a spectacle ...
> canada should take an example
uh, just out of curiosity like that, who are the predators in this analogy?
article on the intelligence of the birds of this family
the analogy is for the communication system.
although at the defense level, it's not really better either. but impossible to compete with the usa and russia at this level.
and on the pest side, crows either react to an attack or do prevention.
note that crows are among the smartest birds and also among coworkers.
but what a bunch of idiots! i do not agree with the curfew but this does not help the situation! in addition, these traders are probably already struggling to generate income, they now have to pay for this damage!
wrong target boys...
ah yes, destroying barely surviving business’ windows will definitely help them get what they want. fkn morons
why the fuck do people always protest and riot by smashing private property? you're pissed off at the governments inability to get organized and get you free of a curfew? so smash city hall not a restaurant. pieces of shit
i think the curfew and some of the measures in place are a load of crap to be honest. 
but setting fires and breaking windows and destroying other people’s property? not cool.
i am so fucking angry at this right now. i worked down this street when offices are open, most of the people who own and run these businesses are having it super hard without the usual workers and tourism in the area, they're kind and local. what the fuck is wrong with these people!?   
i need to get my ass down there this weekend and go buy shit, i know it won't mean much, but these businesses need support.
esti of waste of society ...
come on. i hope they get caught. they have just discredited any organized opposition against current government policies.
so stupid. these business owners aren't the ones responsible for where we're at right now.
biked through the old port at about 6:30pm yesterday... felt uncomfortable immediately and the riot hadn't even started yet. basically huge crowds of douchey 18 year old males spoiling for a fight. purposely blocking the bike path and inviting you to challenge them so they could prove their masculinity. felt very.... suburban kids gone wild.
i found this on twitter.  seems like it was a decent crowd though it also seems pretty organic and disorganized so i'm not really surprised it devolved into vandalism.  at one point the crowd starts shouting "fuck legault!" in unison and there were fireworks!
these folks are hitting on the wrong targets. they're stamping shithead labels on people who question the new measures.
riots like these were obviously expected, but damn, this is hard to sympathize with.
osti that's stupid. i am against the curfew, but i do not want any association with people who blow windows and destroy businesses. my comment from just 45 minutes ago has aged badly in tsi
won’t be surprised if we head into a whole ass lockdown after this. wish the police used the same energy they had with the people protesting for actual justice back in june (blm) but nope 🤭
like anybody with sense, i’m pro-protest and anti-violence, so suffice it to say that the rioters are 100% in the wrong here and deserve what’s coming to them. but i’m not in the least bit surprised that things have played out this way. it’s all of legault’s doing, his piss poor show of leadership is the cause of this. he’s been taking advantage of the power he has and fucking with people’s lives just because he can. he’s not actually governing, he’s just playing god emperor at this point.
his policies have no rhyme or logic and worst of all, are inconsistently applied. people’s patience with him is stretched thin, and so this is the end result. the blame is at both ends, but more so with him.
looks like the same protest group led by libertarians and alt-righters that have marched in montreal for the last few weeks: [
these businesses have been through enough ! i feel your frustration with the lockdowns and curfew but you are taking your anger out on the wrong people ...
[cbc now has a piece up](
this is what bothers me. i was legitimately upset about the curfew and considered joining a protest. now anything the protests were meant to stand for are now completely delegitimized.. thanks idiots. also, why break property?
i think this win is just taking advantage of the situation to damage it. a bit when the canadiens go to the playoffs.
do we have a list of businesses affected by yesterday's rampage? it would be nice to know who to cheer on.
i saw that the saq windows were broken, but hey, it's not them i'm trying to help
legault should pay for the repairs out of his own damn deep, crooked pocket. enough with the curfew. placing the entire population under 9 hours of house arrest every night is unacceptable in a free society.
what else do you expect people to do when you impose a measure that is unlikely to actually help control transmission? 
a simple protest would be fine, no need to smash windows though.
ffs. this needs to be protested but if you're going to smash something,  stick to police stations and government buildings.
not condoning destruction of property however the courts have refused to hear all legal challenges to the curfew. there is unresolved dubiousness of the legality of the curfew. there isn't any transparency in terms of what data was used to justify it. we as citizens are powerless against this tyranny. there is no justification however to damage privately owned property.
protesters: “small businesses are suffering! canadians are losing their livelihoods! end the lockdown!”
also protesters: proceeds to destroy small business property, likely putting the last nail in the coffin for many business owners.
people with zero agency on themselves and no values pretend to support the most just causes as an excuse for their vile behaviour.
the craziest part is that there would be a much better way to protest without any violence. i don't think violence is ever the solution, but i understand why there are times the ppl are pushed so far that they think violence is the only way they will get listened to.
take notes protestors: civil disobedience is the way to go with this. the problem is large enough for the media and general population to notice anlar civil disobedience movement. it can be simple... set up in a public place sit down and stay after 8pm. just sit, outside, 2m apart, with masks. just show disobedience toward the rule and the measures in place. 
if you are fortunate enought to have a car, protest from your car. setup a protest drive past 8 pm.
the media wi gulp this down in a heart beat, the gov will feel the pressure to at least review their strategy.
what should you expect when you beat down a population continuously with no end in sight after 3 months of curfew. when most of the young people at that protest are people who have been locked in their 3 1/2 for months and months on end and now they are tightening restrictions even more. oh yeah how could this possibly have happened i truly don't understand.
legault must assume 100% of the blame for this. he is suggesting that moving the curfew up by 1.5 hours is driving the third wave, the most abject and insulting nonsense.  the curfew does not work... it has not stopped the third wave. he believes that only wicked city people go out at night, his "gouvernement de banlieue" is imposing his puritanical vision. legault has frozen the ability to do the slightest thing through legitimate politics in the system... it's all about force and propaganda with him... the only answer available becomes the sort of thing we saw there... i think it's shameful how we have been "docile" as his police minister put it... some pride has been restored.
blaming antifa and blm in 5...4...3...
no, but chalice. we are all frustrated but the poor traders have nothing to do with the curfew ... cibole people. acting as a responsible adult is not given to everyone ...
some people are just too dumb to know that they're dumb
jokes is ontario and quebec have the most strictest restrictions of covid 19 but are getting rekt by a third wave anyways.
ffs! i can't even... cops aren't gonna do a thing cause they can use this as leverage next time. those poor businesses. and i heard someone lit a fire at the old port.
too bad cause the court house is right next door
that's only gonna get worse if they keep going with that bullshit curfew. what part of the protesters did there is horrible but i knew it would happen. that would be naive to think it would not turn into some kind of riots....
is this those fucking anti-mask morons again?
wooooow what a bunch of assholes. what's the point??
[removed]
i get the anger and frustration about the pointless curfew but smashing storefronts of the already struggling merchants is beyond idiotic. i really sympathize with them.
what a bunch of idiots!  i don't agree with the curfew but this does **not** help the situation!  in addition, these businesses are probably already struggling. they now have to pay for this senseless damage!
wow no words can express how i feel for the business owners... 💔 of course this was gonna happen
cool cool cool cool. really smart. i think the government will open up now. they won’t put any more restrictions now. message sent.
my grandfather died of covid last night because a stupid family member decided that they were tired of covid restrictions. having unnecessary social contacts and eating meals with people from different households is how this virus spreads. i know the curfew sucks but people need to realize that people are freaking dying because of this shit. i have a family member that now has to live with the fact that his reckless behaviour and desire for a little fun killed his father. don’t be that person. it’s easy to think you know better than public health and medical professionals but you don’t.
can the cops put these fucking animals in jail?
criss of settler gang.
i think we will see alot more civil disobedience moving forward if politicians dont get their shit together with the roll out of vaccines.
they could have broken every single window and they still wouldnt have done as much damage to montreal as legault...
lol it’s just the beginning . now that it’s been “initiated” other people will follow and it will most likely get worse . enough is enough and i’m tired of hiding behind a curtain because dumb fucks will judge me for the opinion i have , hell even the government will shame me because i dare to think differently . i don’t condone smashing windows but a peaceful protest was never gonna make any difference .
the panels are much too late, it is often difficult to know which way is going where before finding the last moment above and therefore blocked. the traffic in montreal is really to drive you crazy, it just doesn't make sense.
it’s really not great signage. the clusterfuck at rachel doesn’t help either.
these people wouldn’t survive the poorly-marked weekly changes to dorval circle lane assignments. 🤣
i've been here for two years, and i see people going straight in the second lane from the left all the time. i mean, yeah it's illegal, but usually not a big deal. but, the number of people who lose their minds at people trying to legally turn left... if i had a dollar for every time i see one, i'd have enough money to repaint the left-turn arrows on the ground to make sure everyone knows.
90% of them know. they're just being dicks.
there's a yellow warning sign halfway up the block, in addition to the black signs pictured.
the only real improvement would be to hang lane indicators above the road, kinda like they use on the bridge though they can be static signs rather than electronic. make it abundantly clear that it's left-left-straight-straight-right.
people should first learn what these signs are for and pay more attention to them. (knowing where we're going also helps)
i think your first battle is convincing many montréal drivers of the concept of "lanes" in general.
the entire management of the entry / exit of the jacques cartier bridge on the montreal side is catastrophic. the town hall has no desire to make it more fluid despite the fact that it causes tons of carbon dioxide in addition on the island with the non-stop congestion.
i never had so much difficulty turning left until i moved to montreal it's insane.
bad signs and shitty drivers in mtl, the more it changes… :p
i pass there every evening coming back from work and the number of people going straight is still intense. funny story, nobody goes in the lane when it's a red light but when it's green they go because there are fewer tanks ....
unfortunately doing this in qc is not going to be obvious as we only repaint arrows on the roads in september after the winter washes them away lmao.
more signs in the intersection required.
it gets even more confusing. there is two green arrows, one going left, one going straight.
on the right side of the road is marked that the right most lane is right turns only, so in reality you have left-left-right according to the signs, but not the traffic lights.
these aren't marked as the usual obligation to turn signs (the arrows circled in green).
this is piss poor signage by the city, if you got a ticket for it you could contest it and likely win.
and the worst is yet to come to rachel's corner!
frontenac and notre-dame's 2 left turning lanes going north is another clusterfucked intersection.
it wouldn't be mtl without a bit of confusion at almost every intersection.
they need to start hanging more signs above. paint gets washed off every winter and the signs are too far for drivers to see easily imho.
people in montreal forgot how to drive. none of the drivers follow the road signs or rules.
similar for pie-ix south crossing montreal in the evening. you can turn left or go straight in the middle lane. i always get honked at for turning.
my wife got chased and was harassed racially by 2 drivers because of this. people seem to be road sign illiterate.
that is why in some countries they have better traffic lights, one for each lane with a clear indicator above the traffic light on what you do in that lane. 
another good reason to use waze and always enter your route even if you know it. they have a little rectangle pop up in the top of the screen showing which lane you should be in.
has anyone tried reaching out to the city/media about this? 
this post alone got almost 400 likes and 60 comments, surely if we draft a letter and send it to the city and all the media outlets there will be at least some attention to fix these issues that seem like easy work to solve.
i'd be really curious to know who is in charge of the management of the street signs and lights and what are their daily activities/duties and are they even trying to optimize street traffic on a routine basis?
it's the same at the corner of decelles and queen-mary in côte-des-neiges. the left lane should turn left and the right lane goes straight. the only hick in this case is that to go straight, you have to pile up on the left because there is a cycle path.
how many times have i been honked because i "cut" the guy in the left lane who decides to go straight. i'm talking about the sign that says which lane is going where but usually the person doesn't want to know because i should have looked before changing lanes. in any case...
best thing for the city, have a cop there to ticket people. they will make a fortune.
they know what they're doing.
[deleted]
in montreal, every effort is made to harm motorists
the panel located when it is already too late to decide, a classic.
worse on de lorimier there after crossing sherbooke with 5 lanes, it drops to 3, 2, then 1 lane at each following street corner (1 way !!! from 5 to 1 !!). again with lanes to turn posted too late on every street corner. i'm not even exaggerating.
this is where the cars disembark from the jacques-cartier bridge. bravo! welcome to montreal! on the tray! (ok the cars can also turn in the city center at the exit of the bridge, but still!)
a real clusterfuck these 3 street corners. i'm happy to have an astheure motorbike, zoom zoom, i was able to drive there. sorry not sorry
oh yes, road signage, a disaster across the metropolitan region
just repainting the arrows on the ground would help, but we know the story don't we...
the sign is conveniently situated past the point of no return
i remember when they redid part of notre-dame in hochelaga. they painted temporary lanes, but the issue was that lane configuration changed almost every day. so some people would follow the temporary painted lanes that were incorrect most of the time.
[deleted]
large painted arrows on the road would help.  but that’s not something montreal is very good at.
maybe they haven't seen the sign, they are small and a few meters before the crossroads.
best would be two signs hanging above the lanes to indicate the left turn in each lane
i don't think montreal repaints anything ever.
here is. everyone thinks they are more important / in a hurry than everyone else.
fair point.
first? no, first the signs must make sense!
and then, that's not what the panels should be used for, to know where we are going?
lol, yeah.
although to be fair, just seeing the painted lines is half the battle sometimes.
at the same time, if you make it too fluid, people will use it more and it will cause even more pollution.
the arrow circled in green applies to the whole intersection. since you can turn both left and right as well as continue straight, such signage would be useless.
when there is many lanes it is common to have only part of the lanes on the signage and have one half on both sides.
based on the reviews here, i don't want to try it. : p
one cannot forget how to drive if you never learned how to drive.
they often only follow exactly what is in front of their nose, while wearing horseblinders.
ok, that one is slightly excusable, since you \*can\* go straight.
here, going straight is technically illegal, yet it's the people going straight who are losing their minds.
oh wow, never heard of that one before. i've seen people getting yelled at, flipped off, etc, but never this.
it's always closed though
the mcgill campus is a blessing
went there on a few school trips as a kid but haven’t been there in years. looking forward to hopefully visiting again 😊
i actually had to go here as part of a cegep gen-ed assignment. just needed to go and take a selfie to send the teacher so she made sure we went. really enjoyable experience with some neat stuff in there
i had no idea this museum existed. after covid, i will definitely check it out. thank you for sharing!
i wish montreal had a huge natural history museum like other big cities, but redpath has quite a few cool little things to look at :)
oh well! i clearly remember this museum from a school trip or day camp but i couldn't remember the name!
thanks op :)
website says closed
how much does it cost to leave?
« i don’t think i have ever seen a t-rex »
truly?!!
i only know of it because i have a young kid and saw a flyer for a kids activity at the westmount library.
are the exhibits bilingual?
shout outs to last spring when i had a class here. good times, before covid fucked everything up
is it still the same exhibition as when i went with my school like 12-15 years ago?
it's freaking amazing! 
probably got some stolen artefacts in there. hopefully i'm incorrect on that though.
still. please donate if you go! but take your kids. the gorilla, the sea shells, the skeletons, the <gasp> shrunken heads. crazy stuff.
oh also the petrified log!
this channel is awesome!
a very classic "night at the museum" style museum. highly recommend. some years ago i visited during montreal's night time winter festival (montréal en lumières?). that visit was in the dark and you visited with a flashlight. spooky scary skeletons and fun ambience. there was a conference after.
so many times i passed by and not entering because thought had to pay for it...now it's closed. :(
i have so many great memories of this place. we'd go here with my illustration & design dawson college classmates in the late eighties to do life drawing in sketchbooks... we'd hit peel pub afterwards for some cheap pitchers and giggle our way through art history when we made it back to class. sometimes we'd get the drinks before the sketch sessions, you know, to 'loosen up'. good times.
yep but, it's free!
when we can enjoy it
computer says no
you have to donate a bone
of course.
yeah on the 1st stage there is a t-rex, and on the second we have the t'rex
is your mom available?
nice sunset tonight, fresh after the rain.
nice pic!
you must have paid an arm and a leg on that molson street condo
parc pelican?
i pass there every thursday to go to the maxi
is this rosemount high?
wow! nice shot.   
i only see 4 steeples though, what are the chances of that? haha.
clearly there is an hour left until sunset in this picture... perhaps the curfew mentality has gotten you to think that the sun sets earlier than it actually does.
yup!
looks like it, judging by the maxi in the background
[deleted]
commenter’s name checks out though…
i don't think people are allowed to experience that yet.
you last post says it all
upvote for a new vantage point, as well as the contrast of warm and cool colours!
taken from the muhc grounds?
i see a photo that is not taken from the kondiaronk belvedere or leonard cohen's mural: i like that.
it lacks colonial bath on the other hand.
i've seen this before somewhere ... are you ashok?
/r/cityporn
amazing shot!
beautiful
one of my favourite spots in the city!
the 4 highest points of the "skyline" are ... cranes, that really represents montreal!
beautiful.  the colors of this image take me back in time to when i was a student in university.  we didn't have much money back then so we would regularly go for long walks in and around the city on calm, cold winter nights.  thanks for the nostalgia.
that’s a lot of snow to have been taken recently , no ?
thank you it's very beautiful
yes ! good eye! and thank you for the upvote!
i chill here all the time! good to see it's a hot spot lol
yes! :)
thank you for the suggestion, i posted it there!
thank you!
condo
condo
condo
condo
condo
condo
condo
condo
aww sweet, yea - i remember cegep and university, i used to go for long walks from the village all the way to vendome and then back (either via maissonneuve or the canal.)
yes, good observation. i took this photo a few weeks ago.
your photos are just incredible!
meh. still a good photo though.
bananas
good year
happy new year big nose!
happy new year to you too. full of health and happiness for you and yours.
happy new year to you too. wishing you health and happiness for you and yours.
thank you. i wish you a very happy new year as well :)
hello-ho
happy new year
happy new years to everyone.
happy new year
same happy new year....
happy new year everyone!!
same to you!
happy new year!!!
after 2020 the bar is low enough that getting some socks is a sign of good things to come.
more like merry crisis and a happy new fear
likewise big teeth!
lol!!!
why are appointments even available by bonjour santé? as a place with public health care, shouldn’t we all be booking appointments through a no-fee-at-point-of-service application? 
for serious, i thought the whole point of public healthcare was that you don’t get worse care just because you can’t pay extra fees.
7 years and still waiting for a family doctor :(
physician here who trained in montreal for medical school and went to calgary for residency in family medicine. 
healthcare in montreal and quebec is terribly run. the government loves oversight, but doesn't do anything to improve access to care. a lot of their decisions sound good on paper and are executed terribly and they still stick by them. 
one of the biggest hurdles to getting a family doctor is the prem system. this was designed to promote doctors working in underserved communities, which is great in theory. however in practice, it pushes doctors away from quebec. 
from my colleagues who have applied this is my understanding of the prem system (apologies if i get one or two things wrong, i have not applied for one myself because of the reasons you'll see below). 
in order to work in quebec as a family doctor you need a prem. you apply for one (and the application process is only a few times a year), whereby you select a region to work. in order to work in that region a clinic must accept you. but there is a long waiting period and multiple interviews you must undergo with some asshole docs who are trying to figure out why you chose that region and not up north or somewhere else more underserved. after about 8-10 months, you either get accepted or rejected. this is independent of if a clinic is in need of a doctor (ie: they just don't care). 
i know some of my friends who got rejected and some who got accepted after multiple tries. they want to force you to work elsewhere where there is need, but what they don't get is that there is so much need in montreal as well! 
this prolonged annoying process makes people either not apply at all (because before all this you must also get your quebec medical license and pass your french exams which are both already a process), and it becomes incredibly tedious. imagine you're all ready to move and you have to wait this long only to find out you've been rejected? why bother even planning on coming to montreal? 
other cities/provinces don't have this so for example if i wanted to start working in alberta, all i need is my license from the college in alberta and i can work anywhere in alberta immediately. same with ontario. 
if i want to work in quebec without having a prem, then i get a 30% reduction in my billings (before paying another 20-30% in overhead). so effectively i'm making less than 50% while i beg the government to give me a spot. 
it's hard to explain but it's a nightmare process. 
there's no perfect solution to increasing access in underserved communities, but for one, if you allow more doctors to come to your province like alberta and ontario for example, then if docs can't fill their panels, some of them might opt to do rural medicine on the side or for a period of time. add in incentives like higher pay and less overhead and accept more imgs looking for spots etc. but putting a barrier to care in your biggest cities is not the solution. 
there are other frustrations with the quebec healthcare system that also make it less favorable as a workplace but this was the main one. i can explain others if anyone is interested, but the prem system needs to be scrapped. 
if anyone wants to pressure the government for anything to change, this is the biggest target imo.
it blows, but i've never had an issue booking an appointment online (without paying) if you book it when the slots are released in the morning
just dealt with this today. injured my foot and want an appointment to have it checked out to give me the all clear. nothing major but as a diabetic it’s important to get it checked. calling over 5 clinics and researching more online has yielded nothing. the only other quick option is the broken hospital system where you have to spend 12 hours waiting for a tired doctor to give you poorly done stitches which lead to an infection. i guess i just need to trust my foot will get better on its own.
i found the trick: go to the emergency room. no kidding, it will be long, but if you are not considered "urgent" they will find an appointment for you in one of the same clinics that you could not have had yourself with rvsq or bonjour santé.
i did it myself, diarrhea, i can't go to work, my boss forces me to have a doctor's note, rvsq and bonjour santé gives me zero results: so i go to sacré-coeur. i wait half an hour for the triage nurse; he deems me not urgent, and finds an appointment on the spot in his computer at a clinic "without appointment" for 3-4 hours later. one of the same clinic that was out of space when i called.
this explains why the clinics have no more space: they are all taken by direct hospitals! so now i don't worry anymore and i go straight to the hospital. they find it for me, my "no appointment"!
also be careful that bonjour santé charges a registration fee of $ 25 in addition to the $ 6 per month. if you cancel the auto-renewing subscription, you will need to pay the $ 25 again.
even having a family doctor gets you little to nothing if you need aid outside of prescheduled visits for things like vaccinating your toddler and such. i have never, in nearly 20 years of being with the same family doctor, been able to get an appointment with him faster than three months. 
bonour santé and the rsvq will give you the option to see a different doctor at the same clinic but there will never be a spot available; not once have i ever gotten an appointment with another physician through either service. 
showing up for a sans-rendezvous at 6:00 am in the morning and missing a few hours of pay from work are still the only effective way to see a doctor if you're not having an immediate life threatening event; and even then more than one person has ended up dead in a quebec hospital without having seen a doctor first.
after years of trying to get family doctor, only to get one and have them retire a year later and have to start the process all over again, i finally went private. it sucks to have to pay, but at least making an appointment is easier and if one doctor leaves, they assign you a new one.
my girlfriend is from the us and still in the process of getting her pr, so she's not covered by the public healthcare system and has to pay out-of-pocket whenever she "sees" a doctor here. she's had a prescription for some meds for a long time and had to see a doctor over here to get a canadian prescription as pharmacies couldn't take her us one. it's been a year now and she was told last month that the automated renewal had been denied by her doctor and she had to call him. they charged her 300$ for a 2 mins phone call during which her doctor literally asked her if everything was fine and hung up. great system.
my employer has a subscription to [dialogue]( i can usually get an appointment (telehealth only) within a couple of hours at most. unfortunately they don't cater to individuals, but their pricing is fair for small businesses.
this might not be the answer you're looking for, but i thought i'd put it out there anyways. i 100% agree that the walk-in system in quebec is broken. my girlfriend has been waiting 6 years and counting for a family doctor.
unfortunately, no solution exists that will be able to solve in 6 months, a year, the millions of problems of the health network. this network is crushed by an excessively heavy but also necessary bureaucracy. barette had tried to reduce the bureaucratic burden by centralizing the service points and reducing the office staff. results? employees are more and more exhausted, the paperwork is even more cumbersome and confusing and all those who have been laid off have had to be replaced. add to this, a staff shortage and a pandemic that is no longer ending, the network is seriously ill.
another point, the population of quebec is old, which causes that many people occupy hospitals / clinics, or even, too many people. combined with the lack of manpower, this causes endless waits in emergencies and very long deadlines for appointments.
also, a broken limb or a cut, it is quick and easy to resolve, but as soon as we are dealing with a more insidious ailment, (stomach aches, cancer, infection, etc.) the procedures are very long. laboratory capacities are limited and simply not sufficient to meet customer demand. a friend once told me that, an mri machine can do up to 10-12 tests per day, as long as you have the staff to run it. but if you have 30 to 40 mri requests per day, the wait time will only increase. for example, there are more than 325 reports to the dpj per day… per day, so you can imagine how the workers are overwhelmed.
in short, there are no quick fixes, or if it exists, it will take years to apply.
i'd like to bring nuance to the situation:
family doctors also think that the situation is bullshit.
i sort of work in the field of medical data. some doctors i've produced reports for have over 10000 registered patients. to be able to go practice family medecine in another region is a process that takes about a year to be approved by the ministry.
as for the rvsq and private providers for booking, i see them at work. there's not many appointment available because the clinic also has to catter to their in-clinic patients, and many clinics are missing doctors or personnel.
are private booking providers bullshit in my opinion? yes.
is rvsq one of the worst systems i've ever seen in action? yes, definitive yes.
but the core problem you're all skirting is the healthcare system in general here, which is rewritten every four years by idiots (no political alignment on my part here, they're all idiots) who think they'll get it better and get it worse every. single. time.
for more examples, read on the cisss fusions and administrative bloating.
i can’t believe it isn’t a provincial outrage at the state of our healthcare.   it is absolutely atrocious.  
not a walk in clinic, but my wife had to wait at the hospital for 9.5 hours with my five year olds because he got a really bad cut on his face.  
9.5 hours with a five year old is a travesty.
this truly hurts to hear.
i'm a nurse in an emergency room and we've become overrun with patients coming in that could go to a clinic.
we're understaffed and burnt out from the pandemic. 
and we don't like seeing patients waiting 12-16 hour wait times when a clinic is much more useful. 
something needs to happen because when a clinic is unavailable these patients overspill into the emergency room...
> on the other hand, getting a family doctor is still impossible in this province. it took my brother 5 years to get one, and my parents are still waiting after 6 years. i've been on the waitlist for 3 and have zero hope of getting one any time soon.
7 years and counting here, and since i'm right near the bottom on the priority list, it's likely i will never get a family doctor until i'm a senior.
there's this clinic i go to that's pretty good, it's pretty easy to get an appointment (usually for the next day), you can get one online and you don't need a family doctor.  
i didn't go there since before the pandemic though so i'm not sure if it's still as good as it was.
since the start of the pandemic, i have found that info santé (811) has become a good entry point to obtain a telephone appointment. even with a non-urgent problem, a doctor called me back the same day. and if the problem requires a consultation, it should be able to redirect you to the right place. i found it to be a pretty good alternative to walk-in clinics that were already pretty much non-existent before the pandemic.
> this isn't a recent issue, yet there doesn't seem to be any attention paid to this from politicians. is there anything we, as citizens, can do about this shit? who do we have to vote in to get some real change on this? is anyone campaigning on fixing this crap?
good luck with that. legault has been explicitly clear during the pandemic. good number one priority is ~~snuffing out english and immigrants~~ protecting the french language, not trivial things like actually keeping quebecers alive.
and polls show he's gonna win in a landslide.
last time i visited montreal, my ear got infected. my airbnb host had to drive me to the other side of the island to get to a clinic that would admit me as an out of province patient. there was a hour long wait during which i had to fill out paperwork completely in french. i am far from fluent and found this very confusing. here in vancouver, patients can request forms in several languages including french, tagalog, arabic, farsi, spanish and vietnamese. when i finally got to see the doctor, she was helpful but didn't speak a word of english, not even basic body parts like "ear". i would love to live in montreal but as someone struggling to learn french it frightens me that i would struggle to find adequate medical care if i was in an emergency.
yup. there is a shortage of family doctors across canada.    
our government is arrogant enough to think that it can predict how many family doctors we will need next year and for the next 10-20 years.   clearly they have been consistently wrong in the last 10-20 years because here we are with 18+% in bc without a family doctor and 22+% in quebec.  our government is particularly bad at learning from its mistakes when it comes to health care.   
yup. there are rants everywhere. and i'm right there with you.   
also, there are plenty of articles and radio segments that have explored the problem.  i've contacted media outlets directly to ask them to continue keeping the problem current.  there was a time when awareness was the problem.  i don't think it is now. i think it's apathy.   
until recently, our government didn't see a problem with training foreign doctors, knowing that they would leave and never practice in canada.  for many years, canada has spent resources to graduate medical students and not ensured that they could enter residency training so they could be licensed and practice in canada.   
my story ?   
i'm a canadian medical graduate.  i live in a semi-rural setting in bc where there is no family doctor.  i've tried for years to enter family medicine residency and i can't even get an interview.  i was good enough to train to get my md, but evidently not good enough to train to open a practice in a province with the second-highest number of people that don't have a family physician.   
the solution?  
just like any household that needs to prioritize and budget, our government has to do the same. primary health care isn't a priority and it needs to be. of course, other things that don't seem to be a priority include: communications infrastructure, education, indigenous rights and reconciliation, energy, etc.  which tells me the solution we need is a new system of government.   the one we have isn't working.
as a young gp that is working hard and signing up hundreds of patients from the waiting list at a time, threads like this are so deflating
it's pocket-friendly because i find that at the hospital level, things are improving. the last few times that i or loved ones needed treatment, things went very well. as a family doctor, it is indeed a very long waiting list.
yeah and the online free system never has any appointments available.  fun.
waiting 8hours at the hospital to then get an appointment taken at a clinic by the hospital is the only solution. fun.
op, i'm really sorry that you and your family are experiencing this.
both the caq and the plq are neoliberal parties who are happy to ruin the healthcare system to make way for privatization. quebec needs to stop electing them over and over if they want things to start moving in the other direction.
quebec sucks honestly.
québec has a horrible health care system and every time i hear politicians talk about it it "as efficient as it needs to be". they want it privatized and health insurance provided by desjardins
i'm on year 4 of waiting for a family doctor. sometimes i look at the original email and laugh:
currently, in your region, the estimated wait time for persons whose health condition is similar to yours is 359 days from the initial registration date. as soon as a doctor has been assigned to you, he or she will contact you.
had to register for bonjour sante to get an appointment 2 months ago. its a shit show.
the thing with rvsq is that all the clinics open their time slots at different times, so by consulting it at some point in the day there is little chance of having an appointment. the ideal is to call the clinic where you want to go and ask them what time they open the appointments and connect to rvsq at that time. my clinic posts its seats at 4:00 pm for the next day, the last time i had the first appointment the next morning by logging in at 4:01 pm. (without family doctor)
in playa del carmen you can see a doctor for 4$ in 5 minutes. some round trip flights could be cheaper and faster than going through the system
montreal is a complete and utter embarrassment when it comes to healthcare.i get ptsd just from talking to the receptionist to make appointments, and it only gets worse from here.
it's hard to quantify it exactly, because healthcare is broken in many places in the world (and modern medicine is trash in general for chronic illness), but i put it down as one of the single most negative things in my life growing up in montreal.
fucking 4 minute appointments are just enough for them to gaslight you and prove just how ignorant about their own practice, let alone peripherally-related issues.
even worse, the private system is just there to collect money from people who don't want to wait; it doesn't actually offer an escape from the public system for health issues that are more complicated.
i just found out that naturopaths in b.c. are allowed to prescribe certain medications. in quebec, it seems like they just you know, prescribe chamomile tea and flintstones vitamins.
no one campaigns to fix anything here. look at the number of pharmacies we have on every street corner. doctors renew prescriptions, they don't do medicine. find ways to cut the line when available via paid services, or do medical tourism to other provinces and the us.
as long as the medical college decides how many doctors can be out there nothing will change. it's like the depaneurs association is the one giving permits for anyone who wants to open one.
the reality is that private clinics are illegal under the health canada act. but politicians want to destroy public healthcare and want us to go back to private, so they've allowed them to flourish despite being technically illegal.  
the problems you're seeing are by design. they are stealing doctors from the public sector, and then giving you as hard a time as possible for using the free services, to drive us to the private sector and eventually drive us to accept the return of american deathcare insurance companies.  
i walked into a clsc years ago just a half hour after opening. they immediately told me that no one could see me, as the doctor leaves at 1 to go work at the private clinic, and is booked up completely at the clsc 5 minutes after opening. the receptionist then handed me a photocopied flyer, from a stack for that purpose, listing all the private deathcare clinics in the area and said go there instead. having no choice, i paid $200 for a blood test that should be free.  
what do we need? qs and the ndp to shut the private deathcare industry down and ban all private-public-"partnerships" in healthcare.
stop financing english universities at 29% because all those doctors leave the province after graduating.
i gave up. just waiting to leave the country at this point to seek medical help for some of the issues i'm facing.
took my 2 years to get a family doctor and i have priority since i have a chronic illness. i got one before the pandemic so i'm sure the wait is much longer now.
so i've been struggling with this. i needed to find one and i havent been able to. when i look for doctors on these appointment sites, nothing ends up showing until like october which is insane to me. even if i put in emergency. i've been avoiding going just because it seems incredibly difficult to do.
took us 5 years for a family doctor and within 1 year he moved to another province without notice, now we are stuck with a family doctor on our file but no actual doctor to meet with so we cannot even apply for a new one
for the family doctor, the trick is to ask the doctor you meet in the clinic directly if he has room to take patients.
that's how i found mine, 3 times in a row in 10 years.
i ended up waiting 10+ hours at the er just to see a doctor and have meds for a minor issue. it's hopeless.
good luck getting an appointment with rvsq, it's the caliss de marde
i'm another person who's logged on at 7pm many nights and never had an issue getting an appointment for sometime the next morning in my own neighbourhood. 
i suppose it could be different in different parts of the city, but it definitely works better for me than the old line up and wait non-system. it's not high on my list of things to throw energy at. sorry.
the family doctor wait, however. and while we have countless medical professionals who have come to quebec to find their credentials worthless...
just go to rockland md, pay 300$ and get served right away. not sure how busy they are but private clinics are usually quick within a few days, but you pay.
we are also looking for a clinic and the last we visited almost refused to see us because it concerns mental health. it's hell. we also tried the bonjour santé subscription to give us 10-minute meetings and be told that "it would be important to take care of yourself". doctors who don't want to follow up and prescribe nothing.
the only consolation is that we already have a file open in a clsc and that we were able to speak to a worker more quickly.
i want to make complaints but i don't know where to start, i'm going to explore this this weekend.
check appointments on rvsq at 8:00am and 5:00pm this is the way.
> on the other hand, getting a family doctor is still impossible in this province. it took my brother 5 years to get one, and my parents are still waiting after 6 years. i've been on the waitlist for 3 and have zero hope of getting one any time soon. meanwhile my friends in ontario are getting them within weeks of applying. 
serious question, what's the reason for this? is there something akin to the quebec construction mafia for family doctors?
try district medical
my family doctor is good but is an hour away from where i live. apparently i have to give that one up before i can go on a waiting list for one more local to where i now live.... ???
sad but true
christ, this doesn't give me much hope. i'm currently trying to get an appointment to get a prescription for the antidepressants that i brought with me from my home country (i moved to canada 6 months ago) and its not going well and i only have a couple weeks worth of pills left. 😫
what gets me is the adult botox babies
great shot.  what we need is a complete photo essay of all the stone art work and figures on buildings in mtl.
too bad we no longer do this type of art on buildings ... now everything is too generic.
correct me if i'm wrong:
egyptians, romans, indians, native americans?
sweet.
saw them the other day! couldnt help but notice their faces are all identical. it’s sad that they did not show facial structure diversity and instead chose to abide by european beauty standards.
[deleted]
it's far from complete, but there are several in this video: [ danemark( ? v = m2wyfgs7xwm & t = 1s)
would be a huge book, lots of it all over the place, just need to open your eyes
i think the only way would be to build your own house and colonnade it with statues.
i think it’s:  antiquity(egypt/rome), british, eastern (china/india) and american (north american).
you know, the rest didn’t really count at the turn of the 20th century.
roman heraldry didn't really have lions, their main thing was the eagle. [that specific style of standing lion in profile is common in european heraldry,]( so i think the statue signifies europe - or maybe "the west".
third one might be greek
so it seems, so it seems.
i believe the last two are supposed to represent india and native america. they’re all clearly white though…
yes, yes, but some of this type of stone artwork is high up, inaccessible, and obstructed by other buildings, not easily visible from the ground.
secondly,  all the gargoyles, grotesques, and finer work carved into the stone, or cast into concrete, degrade over time. it would be nice to be able to have a photo record - an anthropological survey of such features before they disappear, are torn down, become damaged, or simple erode away.
i can buy this building at worst .. haha
makes way more sense, indeed.
thanks!
here the corrected link: 
you're right, that certainly explains the "this feels way more medieval somehow" feeling i had and it seems to fit with the idea that [the statues are more general than just supposed to represent a specific nation.](
at first i thought "scandinavian" because of the attire (she looks like she has braids? and i don't recognize the hat as being particularly indian looking) but then there's a buddha on the shield. 
i'm not sure what the three flowers under buddha are supposed to be tho. as far as i know the national flower of india is the lotus, so what the hell?
not quite whqt you are looking for but it is a start
dangit! i even switched to the advanced text editor to make it work. thanks!
i'll have a look at it. thank you for sharing. i'm considering breaking out my rock climbing gear, rapelling down buildings, and taking pictures of all this largely unseem artwork. 
cheers, and have a great day.
backslash to remove formatting, here's how it should look on your side in the editing box:
>\[that specific style of standing lion in profile is common in european heraldry](
gives that:
>[that specific style of standing lion in profile is common in european heraldry](
its a colossal task as if you open your eyes you can see some art work on most older buildings in one way or the other. residential, as well.
ooh thanks for the tip!
we really have a beautiful city. we often complain about montreal, but in my opinion it is one of the most beautiful cities in the world!
the old port is so empty without all the tourists.
nice to see it wasn't too crowded.
their!!!
it's me or one of the caterpillars on the sidewalk is walking with an oil leak!
are those chem trails!?!  /s
chemtrails!!!! 😏
the old port? whut?
photo 1 is the city center and photo 2 is the bonsecours market
i can confirm to you that it was not empty today anyway
actually it was overpacked today  lol
:o!!!
lots of chemtrails recently. they sit there from 9 am to 5 pm no joke. military planes, with transponder off. wonder if it's aluminum (to increase monsanto gmo seeds and reduce iq) or some other heavy metal?
[deleted]
definite chemtrails!!!!  😏
hey boy, i still have my montreal tour guide course.
how is what i'm saying wrong? do you know where the old port is?
edit: the guy told me "go educate you" then deleted his post ...
not defending him cause obviously he’s a dick but people in this city have no clue when it cones to old mtl vs old port. it’s the track people, it’s the track
it is impossible to post “vieux port” on this sub without some pedantic, time wasting, grammar nazi making sarcastic comments and pretending that the entire fucking city doesn’t use the term “vieux port” when going down to that part of the city. 
people say vieux port when they mean vieux montréal. it’s colloquial. in both languages.
i admit that i am surprised every time. seems it's clear: the old port is what the port used to be!
it's not grammar! that's the name of the place! so let's see that my correction makes you react in the same way. if someone posts a photo of saint joseph's oratory and writes "notre-dame basilica", will you be upset if someone makes the correction?
> people say vieux port when they mean vieux montréal
not around me.
i'll admit that for me, before i was really interested in montreal, i said vieux-port to talk about all of old montreal.
it's probably because when we went to the old port, we went to the commune, but we also went up the place jacques-cartier and notre-dame. the old port and old montreal were exactly the same thing, and in those around me, a lot of people still use the old port to talk about place d'armes.
ahhhhhh old port .... you mean it was a real port before ??
i understand, like the people who think they are in the mile-end when they are on the ice floe!
it surprises many;)
do these kinds of people really exist?
there are some really bad people with geography. my sister used to tell people that i lived in hochealg when i threw on masson!
my sister thought that lac saint-jean was in saint-jean-sur-richelieu!
racism in the police ???
here is a surprise!
>content told them that he was recording to “protect his human rights,” and the officers used a sarcastic tone to mock him. as the officers were driving away, content said “bitch” out of exasperation. a week later, he received in the mail a $77 ticket for having insulted a police officer during the “exercise of his functions.”
for those who were wondering what was systemic racism, well this is it.
[deleted]
we already have the right to film police (regardless of circumstances).
yeahhh !! fuck laval wood
anyone have a link to the video?
acab
bro look at him
the first case is extremely minor and the second case is something that happens to literally everybody.
i don't understand, i was stopped by the police for no reason on a few occasions, how do we know if it was racism?
he looks like jeremy gabriel
[removed]
[removed]
seriously, this is so surprising! / s
[deleted]
wtf kind of fine is that? it's like that shitty south shore suburb that tried to make it a crime to insult councilors. 
fucking snowflakes
in this case, it's not systemic racism at all. it's racism.
systemic racism is still people who are not racist inflict on one or more groups negative and penalizing experiences because the system is built in a certain way.
for those who were wondering what the pogo police are, well that's it.
systematic racism: a form of racism that is embedded as normal practice within society or an organization.
the fact that this man was able to win his case proves that racism isn't tolerated in our society. there are laws in place to protect everyone here, so what we have is not systematic racism, but racist people here and there.
the only form of systematic racism i would agree exists here in canada is systematic racism against indigenous people.
what is "systemic racism" for you?
edit:
the debate whether it is systemic racism or not is completely silly if the definition of "systemic racism" is different for everyone.
sjw: "it's racism jiosudsuidyusd"
me: "what for you is racism jiosudsuidyusd"
sjw: "you bugger you wanting to define the words that come out of my mouth"
it's about frequency.
[deleted]
[deleted]
what?
if that's what you get out of this story then you completely missed the point.
happy not happy.
systemic racism is very simple in my opinion. it is when a public institution, by its actions or inactions, generates, encourages, allows to continue, ignores, voluntarily or involuntarily, the actions of its members which have the consequences of oppressing stigmatized groups. by doing so, reinforcing the stereotypes of oppressors - oppressed.
and the whole knot here is in public institution. not that the private sector does not have a role to play, but rather the fact that the resources of the state should in no case be used to oppress the weakest, but rather to protect them. the trust we have in state institutions depends on it.
> it's not systemic racism at all. it's racism.
that's a line people keep using all over the world to defend bad institutions and allow them to continue to be bad. 
you think it's a coincidence that our police keep getting found guilty of racial profiling? at a certain point, any system that allows that many racists to work within it without reforming them or weeding them out is systemically racist. 
blaming the individuals only just lets the racism continue into the next generation.
we are in 2020, wake up, the term "racism" no longer exists, we must say "systemic racism".
must follow a little tabarnak.
according to your definition it's either society or an organization. society doesn't tolerate it but the organization (spvl) does.
systemic is not the same as systematic
for someone in the general population, the definition of being healthy is having a bmi of less than 26.
for another, it is being able to run for 10 minutes without running out of breath.
we should close the discussion of unhealthy factors because the definitions people have of the concept of 'health' differ slightly.
seriously playing on semantics at this point is trying to add unnecessary layers of complexity to encourage staying and reveling in the status quo. it's dense and it helps no one.
[deleted]
“systemic racism, because it is more insidious, can be more difficult to perceive. [the commission des droits de la personne et de la jeunesse (cdpdj)] ( defines it “as the sum of disproportionate exclusion effects which result from the combined effect of attitudes of prejudice and stereotypes, often unconscious, and policies and practices generally adopted without taking into account the characteristics of members of groups targeted by the prohibition of discrimination. ”(p. 6). despite its sometimes involuntary nature, this form of racism has the effect of perpetuating the inequalities experienced by racialized people, particularly in terms of education, income, employment, access to housing and public services. "
i believe that [this page] ( from iris explains well and also gives more concrete examples .
what’s the frequency rate then
and when does it cross the line where u can claim racism
worse if t yellow? are you between the two? like half correck?
freedom of speech when i like what i hear, hate speech when i am the one targeted.
[deleted]
all of a sudden i have in mind the scene where the workers stop working in asterix: mission cléopatre
what you are saying is absolutely true. and the fact that the police are still employed is an element of systemic racism.
but the news item presented here is not an example of systemic racism. it is an example of racism.
> it is when a public institution, through its actions or inactions, ** generates **, ** encourages **, ** allows ** to continue **, ** deliberately ignores ** or ** involuntarily **, the actions of its members who have the consequence of oppressing stigmatized groups.
so any public institution that "unintentionally ignores" acts of racism has a problem with systemic racism.
so the libraries in quebec have a problem of systemic racism because they don't know that john the clerk is a racist.
by your broad and lame definition, all public institutions exhibit systemic racism. calm down the sjw.
that wasn't a defense at all. 
and yes, i agree, the fact that those cops keeps being cops instead of being fired is systemic racism. 
but what they did wasn't systemic racism. it was pure racism. and i don't understand how you could interpret this as a some sort of defense.
it can be argued that yes, but the spvl-m are part of the government and the government has made law against it.
care to explain the difference? seems like every thing i find online uses the terms interchangeably.
indeed, if you want to discuss with a group of people whether x is "healthy" or not, you must first define what "healthy" is. otherwise it is useless and it is a waste of time. it is the basis for discussion and debate.
you just make my point prove.
> seriously playing on semantics at this point is trying to add unnecessary layers of complexity to encourage staying and reveling in the status quo. it's dense and it helps no one.
yeah, we're gonna save the world with reddits threads. / s
i'm just trying to figure out your definition.
thank you
[deleted]
getting a fine for saying bitch is bad itself. now this guy wouldn't have gotten a fine if he was white, which makes this racism. it's also why he won the case. did you read the article?
i was there last night too! the weather was so beautiful. i was most impressed by the japanese garden, where they just use light on the trees. i also liked the transitions between the gardens. i expected more artists, for example; there was only one!
one thing i would have liked to know is that, even if you buy a ticket at 9:30 p.m., you can stay after 10 p.m. their site says they close at 10pm but that's just the queue closing to get in.
smoke before but take no acid / shrooms lol there are too many stimuli and especially too many people to make sure you have a good trip
if you haven't been to tonga lumina (mt. tremblant) or foresta lumina (coaticook, not far from sherbrooke), i recommend them even more
i was there today at 10am, it was beautiful, but screeching less beautiful than the evening!
some weird digital artifact going on with the stadium.
i'm picturing this shot without the stadium and think it would be better without it.  i find it takes away and distracts from the vibrant colors and natural setting.  to me, this picture should be about the colorful lights and the contrast with the dark, not the tower in the background
is it me or has it always been the same exhibition for 20 years? i remember taking the same photo stuff with an hp 3mp with a plastic lens lol!
nighttime photography has gotten so good...
whatttt
how tf did i miss this :(
ben criss there are new dragons
bonjour! i’m visiting your lovely city in december and the botanical garden is on my tentative list of stops… how is it in the winter in the snow? merci in advance
we went this summer and it was cool, but then you just made me want to go there in the evening!
it looks nicer than when i was there in may 2019.
how long are they going to stay?
i have felt like i have seen the same thing for the past 4 years. and this year although they added lights to the first nations garden to make it more attractive i find it a bit overrated with the editions every year that look the same. i find the outing at $ 50 for 2 adults and 2 children a bit expensive for the course. maybe i became harder to impress or just more critical.
it's a bit like when you go to see your parents after a long time. “ah you changed the layout of the living room !!! it's good. see you next time "
the buildings were redone 4 years ago via a chino-canadian partnership! although the designs are the same as the original, the lighting places particular emphasis on the details of chinese architecture and some "factory moment" lighting sequences have been done somewhere in the garden. from china. that being said, there is a small turnover of the paper structures but most of them come back year after year! source: i am the electrician who did the electrical work for the jardin de chine.
the exhibition as such does not change (the theme is the same as it goes with the buildings present). but what constitutes it changes a little from year to year over time. going there every year may not be of great interest to most people, but once every 5 years it starts to be interesting. in addition this year they made more light shows all over the grounds of the botanical garden.
they added a route through japanese and first nations gardens. op only shows the part of the chinese garden, but it is only 1/3 of the way. the part in the first nations garden is really magnificent, but it is more immersive play of light than laterns.
absolutely! and that was taken with my iphone (in raw, but still). we’ve come a long way
i don't know when you went, but that's not a permanent exhibit.  sept 3rd to oct 31
it’s the jardin de lumières, they do it every year from september to the end of october.
this exposition, jardin de lumière, is only until october 31. but they’re still they’re all winter and it’s still very nice. personally i love going to it from time to time, it’s really a nice place to visit^^
end of october
oh amazing thanks! i will go this weekend
yeah they do it every year. i've gone several times when i first moved here as a kid in 2006.
congratulation! you have all my respect.
i was physically attacked last november by an enraged driver. i had to call every now and then for a follow-up.
don't be afraid to call and ask for a follow-up and find out if it's going to start and what the next steps are in the process.
good luck!
hi! as a fellow child-abuse survivor, thank you for coming forth about this, even at a much later date. i know i'm nobody in particular, but je suis fière de toi.
[deleted]
have you requested a follow-up on your file?
congratulations on your denunciation and my sympathies for what happened to you. also think about making a request to ivac to be compensated. if the crime took place in quebec, you could receive financial support / psychotherapy, etc.
here is the site 
this is awesome. 
i admire your courage!
courage! 
on another note, congratulations on your written french, you're doing more than well.
courage and congratulations!
here's how i think it works to the best of my knowledge ....
the officers take the complaint, they then report to the detective. the detective then investigates. since it's been a long time, they're probably checking out what the evidence is. the longer it is, the more painful it is, i know. the agents probably gave you their card, check with them ...
the next step is to build the case for the prosecutor. it is he or she who will decide to file a complaint against your attacker. it is important for the detective sergeant to put together his case to ensure that it is not a direct stay of proceedings for lack of evidence.
then it is the indictment before the judge, there are several stages and it can also be long. i know very little about this kind of trial, but give you an idea, i filed a complaint against my ex last september, i have news in a very very summary way, he was in court on may 25, not heard from, the trial will probably be in september, and they proceeded by summary charge, which is supposed to be faster (1 year!)
it's going to be long, it's probably going to be difficult, you have to look ahead and tell yourself that it is the right thing that you did. for you, for the others who do not have your courage, for those whom it could inspire and for prevention.
i am behind you, i cheer you virtual and i hope with your my heart that you will have peace of mind with the approach.
good show - you are brave!
well done! i hope you will hear from you soon
in my opinion, considering that this crime happened a long time ago and that it is only about sexual assault (it is serious sexual assault but it does not seem to be prioritized by the police), it risks to take more than 6 months for them to come back to you on this. in any case, that's the time it took them to start investigating my zoom bombing.
bravo for your courage! be patient, the steps can be long, you have all my support :)
good luck
i will follow up, but it can take a long time. i have had a scooter stolen before and it took them 6 months after having it before contacting me. but definitely, to be sure, you can follow up
well done for taking this step, i can't imagine how difficult it was to take it. but congratulations, and respect !!
courage!
thank you and i am very sorry to hear it is that you lived.
i’m doing this because i know that there are others out there. the fact that i found 2 others is what really pushed me to do this.
out of curiosity did you ever decide to move forward?
i emailed about two weeks ago. they answered me to say no news.
yes thanks i sent a very relaxed kind passive update email. they told me no news.
thank you. the police referred me but i don't have the courage to proceed with them yet.
it was taking almost 10 years to finally do that.
thank you. the best way i have tried to master is to immerse myself.
please post for others
ok and thank you for that. because i have two other men i found and i gave their names and numbers does that help? looks like they haven't even called the other two men as well.
thank you. i have had some support and the hardest part, i believe, has been done.
positive nectarine indeed 😀
thank you. i made a new post
it is reciprocal. i wish you to find peace quickly enough with what happened to you.
hi! sorry, i didn't see this reply until now. actually, yes - something like 5 years later. i randomly called the 911 line one day and explained my situation. they sent a cop car over and he took all the notes that i had to say, asked me questions, etc. they were very understanding and very soft. it could be because i was nervous about it all (understandably so), but they weren't harsh at all.
we must follow them. request follow-ups every month. police can be as bureaucratic as officials sometimes.
it's a good start! do they know where he is? did the agents explain the process to you? maybe it's stuck there ... they're looking for him to ask him questions, where they accumulate as much evidence as possible. i would like to give you more, reassure you, the criminal is not my cup of tea, i just give you how it went for me and a friend with whom i was with for her complaint, it was similar ...
is there an update for you?
thanks for sharing. how long did it take after that date to end up to speak with a detective?
do you think every month works? isn't it too often? make a call or email?
it is sad that this might be the way to go.
ah yes!
i received a paper to fill out. a victim impact statement to describe the damage i suffered as a result of my assault.
there is a first date which was given to me by the prosecutor. i believe it concerns the abuser.
in any case, it is moving forward.
honestly, i don't remember. i have a vague recollection of talking to someone after the fact, maybe within a week back then, but it's been more than ten years since this occurred, and so the follow up could be a fabricated memory. sorry!
i don't know if it works, honestly. but we must persevere.
> in montréal, feeding wild animals is strictly prohibited so that they don’t become accustomed to humans and lose their independence.
it's too late for these racoons all the tourist feed them. every time i go there there's at least 20 racoons all around looking for food and there not shy about it. funny how it's ok to put cat shelter and cat food in an alley on the plateau but feeding racoons is wrong.
imo that lady must be very lonely so let her be or be nice to her but don't you dare call the cops.
a friend spoke to this lady some time ago, she is nicknamed "the racoon lady". she's been there for years, she says they all have names, but only 5 are hers and she lives with those 5. she's still there a lot. but the raccoons, they are still there!
that's a big nope. totally forbidden.
it’s not legal but it’s like the 10th generation of trash panda that live like that so i wouldn’t be impressed to learn that this place is where they find 90% of their calories
no one's coming around judging you on how you make friends you know
the woman on the picture tonight took couple of raccoon's in her arms and hugged them and pet them. i was shocked how comfortable she was with them. as you can next to her on the picture, she had a big bucket with food inside she gave to them.
people who do this are turning wild animals into pets who will no longer be able to fend for themselves for ever be dependent on humand, who, in the absence of humans, will just end up dying.
if you really love animals, **leave them alone and observe them from afar.**
these are big raccoons!
at most they would get a fine, but it's neither legal nor ok
this is illegal.
she must be stop, because the raccoon around there will become more acclimate to us and it can become a very big problem in the future ; they will expect we will give them foods at any time they would cross our path and if we not comply, it can create hostile reactions from them toward us.
feeding wildlife of any species is a bad thing.
they will start approaching everybody expecting the same result.
they could hurt somebody or be hurt/killed by someone who isn't as comfortable with them.
bad move all around.
plus, it's prohibited for that reason.
not legal but many people feel very lonely and feed urban animals to cope, fining them would seem very unjust.
no it's not, we all remember this infamous rant about feeding the squirrels 
man some people are just … so lonely 🙃
they carry diseases such as rabies, illegal or not .. i do not recommend it at all!
racoons have rabbies... stay away
nope, but people still do them anyway cause they think they are being cute
this is how you catch rabies.
i know a disney princesse when i see one at the start of the movies...
not supposed too .... but good karma..
my ex wife used, to that.
wtf nonononono!
narc
she's going through something for sure
i've been there like 2 times. everytime it's filled with people bringing snacks and i don't really bother for that part because it's all they know already. 
 what is bothering me is, they give bread, chips, candies and shitty snacks like that. i'm the only one bringing water bottles (they know how to drink with it and it's actually cute), fruits and vegetables. there was babies climbing my legs and stealing fruits in my hoodie pocket lol. they're cute af but don't forget to wash your hands before and after. keep a spare water bottle and soap. they're wild animals and probably have a fuckton of diseases. ah and watch your fingers, you don't want to get bite by a wild animal. :) 
last tips: don't try to pet them, don't force them to approach. they'll come to you if they want. they might been docile, that doesn't mean it isn't stressing them. peace!
man are they getting bigger ?
the decision you made of taking a picture of a homeless person to post it on reddit and asking about the legality of their behaviour feels quite spineless and pathetic. everyone knows, even kids, that feeding wild animals in general is prohibited, so what is the point of your post ? maybe you could try to contribute in a positive way to your city instead of snitching on homeless people. garbage behaviour.
never feed any wild animals, period.
shut up dawg
it's legal to mind your own business 👍
don’t be a narc about it.
she feeding frens
we don't want interactions with humans. feeding them is dumb before it is something illegal.
raccoons? looks like a family of bears. didn’t know they were that friendly here.
got nothing better to do?
i don't see any arm in it, human law is not always a road to morality
it's not legal but do it anyways
stop snitching
quick, we need a karen here stat!
you really think montréal have an army of raccoon with rabies in one of the most touristic spot? if it was the case they would storm mont royal and euthanized all of the trash panda. can't let tourist catch rabies 😂
they aren't wild animal if they feed themselves in dumpster. and if humans would stop feeding them, it wouldn't be good as they have no natural habitat or ressources in the city. but let's only snitch on an old lady bringing cat food to those raccoons that are preparing for a rough winter!
don't be a snitch bro. raccoons are cute, it's not like she's feeding bears.
why not?
mind your own damn business
don’t you have better things to do than to mind her business regarding if it’s legal to feed animals..?
snitch
no, karen, it’s almost certainly illegal to feed the raccoons.
that said, karen, maybe mind your own business.
why are you snitching? get a better hobby.
people seriously need to stop taking unauthorized pictures and videos of people without their consent with their mobile devices. how creepy would it have been for folks to take pictures of random folks and have them developped. the cell phone doesn't change that. if the person doesn't give clear permission this should be a violation of the right to privacy.
compared to the record-breaking heat out west, i'll take this anytime. i'm loving this weather
i'm cold.
i'm wearing my fall clothes ...
osti quon was ben
the day i decide to go to the water slides ..
i wonder if it's linked to climate change, since climate change doesn't affect every place the same way. most of last summer felt more cold than usual to me, as well.
the wind removed all the moisture.
good temperature for the metropolitan challenge (apart from the wind)
i'm surprised the record is that high.
we solved climate change, people!!! 🙌
i hope this trend continues as i’ll be there next week.
felt a lot cooler than that, i had to put on jeans + longsleeve shirt + a fall jacket to stay warm
welcome to the effects of global warming :)
i love your posts. that's all i have to say. thanks
🎶there it is again, that funny feeling🎶
it made a particularly cool autumn evening.
the perfect temperature. i would like it to last year round!
as someone currently in 35+ degree weather, please swap with me.
with 40°c i'll trade you.
funny how everyone seems to have forgotten our early spring this year, how it was 20 degrees in mid-march
it was so cold ..... i saw a squirrel blowing on his nuts.
alberta has been a heat dome (all of western canada). no significant rain for weeks. fucking kenney is crazy and removed all covid restrictions. it’s literally hell. sauvez-nous!
i love these posts i was actually looking for it because today i feel kinda “funny”. it might be this change in temperature?? i noticed from yesterday it got colder outside and i had a heavy workout i feel extra weaker than usual 😳 i don’t know if i have covid but i’m handling it at home as if i do. just to be safe and monitor my symptoms daily
wanna know something? if we extract data, there are no significant correlation that the earth is getting warmer (global warming), at least on a statistical perspective.
same here. i prefer 20c over 35c+humidex.
it's almost like a peltier cooler lol.
i think im one of the few ones that would be happier with 30+ degree weather.
i have $#@@% hated this summer's weather.
are you well in your hoodie?
i put on a skirt and a crop top to go out 🥶🥶🥶
yeah, i had to find my clothes warm too, especially yesterday!
yeah blah lol. i started the day in shorts and t-shirts. i was helping my father on a construction site. worse just when i got home i got a call from my brother who cut his finger and had to go to the emergency room. i didn't think about changing. asti i looked cave smoking my smokes on the fret while waiting for my brother. we arrived at the emergency room at 8pm we came back at 5am today cursed. all this for 5 stitches….
edit: autocorrect which changes asti in have you
me it's tomorrow, 16 degrees max, 70% rain.
ouch!
climate change will cause significant and more regular variations. for example, a one week heatwave followed by low temperatures with thunderstorms / severe storms in between. it's not bad why our neighbors have so many tornadoes.
this is my understanding of the phenomenon, i could be wrong.
so, yes it is. the heat domes in western north america are basically sucking our hot air away from us rn. super scary to me honestly. we are basically suffering from human created weather patterns now both here and there. 
these are called temperature extremes, a natural thing that happens.
it is.
if you look at how the 'heat dome' out west is pushing hot air further north, cooler air is coming east.
sorry but this kind of low temperature is not the first time.
looking at the historical weather data will give you an idea that in july it happened it's not that rare. 2009 is one that comes to mind.
climate change is bullshit. geo-engineering is what is happening right now to make us believe in climate change. 
we are getting sprayed day and night heavy metals and chemicals over our heads (aluminum, barium and strontium to name a few). this creates a layer of micro particles that traps green house gases. 
yes, chem trails exist and nothing is done about it.
climate change is not making montreal colder.
we did it reddit
yeah let's all cancel our summer for this one tourist guys
it's kind of normal, the human body adjusts to temperatures quite a bit within a few weeks, so a cold front in summer will feel colder than it is. 
and if your place is overheated in winter and you telework/are inside a lot, you have a harder time with harsh cold temperatures outside. etc.
it was more like the full moon.
change global warming for geo-engineering to make us believe it's climate change and you'll be right.
thanks.  it's a lot of work, but it's nice to hear that people enjoy them.
eh? we are exceeding the 1.5 c bar likely in 5 years. where do you get your data!
i disagree.  i have seen (and produced) lots of evidence (from a statistical perspective) that many parts of the world (including montreal) are getting warmer.
global warming doesn't mean that temperature only increase. you get both extremes hot and cold
room temperature is more comfortable than being afraid you might die of heatstroke if your ac fails, yes. 
somehow that opinion is controversial to some still haha.
i really shouldn't have to put on a jacket/sweater on during summer. i'd gladly take the 35c
ouch
for me, montreal is kind of the perfect city if you are looking for a big city experience in north america without wanting to live in a megalopolis or a city that is car-centric, like los angeles. we have a real city center, central districts (concentrated around the orange line) which all have a real singularity, a lot of green spaces, a world-class socio-cultural scene, a transport network that is not worse than ever. have a nice upgrade in the next five years, etc. there is everything you need to settle down and live well here - even if there are also many problems (real estate crisis, traffic, construction , etc.).
the only flaw in montreal compared to what i'm looking for personally, after having traveled a lot and lived in europe, is that quebec, and north america in general, is big in osti. there are plenty of beautiful places in quebec, but it is also and above all wood, for a long time. there are european cities that offer something similar to montreal, like barcelona, but also benefit from the proximity to other major european cities, more varied climates and topographies, and game-changing rail and air networks. in terms of access, tourism, cultural exchanges.
however, as soon as people talk to me about montreal abroad, it is my first paragraph that emerges.
i buy montreal-themed art by local artists on etsy to show my love of this city. i want to buy all the art but i also don't want my apartment to look like a montreal museum so i have to stop. 😂
i came here 8 years ago and it was like one last outpost that hadn't been completely messed up by neoliberalism. independent business owners, reasonable house prices, not a utopia but not near dystopia either.
i'm a bit worried about what's to come. land prices are creeping up, covid is going to make life very hard for independents (if they didn't go bust already). put the two together and larger businesses could sweep up most commercial space if we ever get back to normal. on the residential side landlords now make more than workers, rentals are harder to find and airbnb predominates, while our politicians sit on their hands.
i really, really like montreal, now i'm worried that my young kids are going to have the same shit life they would have had in the uk by the time they come of age. fingers crossed this won't happen.
just be wary that people who constantly talk about one subject tend to get annoying. i like montréal but let's not make it a religion.
i’m a born and raised montrealer and i find myself doing the same thing. i don’t get when people say they want to move to another city but that’s just me 🤷🏻‍♀️
it’s the perfect middle between not too big and not too small
if you want to chat with other montreal enthusiasts, there are forums like [ where you can talk about your passion for the city as long as you want. there is also [forum sur le développement immobilier du grand montréal (mtlurb.com)] ( but we can no longer consult anything without being a member after the departure of many contributors, tired of the toxicity.
several blogs from enthusiasts such as [c'est toi ma ville - mon regard sur montréal (wordpress.com)] ( and [mes quartiers | the blog that will take you out of your home and discover your city! (wordpress.com)] ( or [proposmontréal - martin bérubé - history, urbanism, architecture and opinions. (proposmontreal.com)] (
for photos of the city and its buildings: [images montreal: photos of historic skyscrapers and architecture, imtl] (
i also like reading [montreal city weblog | the city will endure (mtlcityweblog.com)] ( for a summary of daily news, and some topics are commented by visitors.
i grew up here then left for toronto for 6 yrs and i’m back now. i love this city. it’s been a fucked up ride 😅
it’s the city i happen to live in, nothing more nothing less. it coulda been anywhere else in the world and i’d likely still have the same thought; meh
it ain’t paradise, it ain’t utopia.
i absolutely love montreal too. i have montreal scenery framed in my house, i am constantly researching about different neighborhoods, reading on our latest news. there's no other city i'd rather live in.
i'm originally from ontario.   
my husband's job took us abroad and we lived there for 12 years.    
we lived in japan, frankfurt, boston, dunedin (nz) and munich.    
we finally were able to find a job for him in montreal.  montreal was everything i was hoping for, european flair, but still "home".    
we've been living here for almost 3 years now and i'm so happy that my gut was right.  
i could never move back to ontario.  we go back to visit family, but i'm much happier in montreal than i would be there, i think.  i see montreal as having the best opportunities for my children.  i prefer the cegep system and i like how it is bilingual here.  if we had not settled in montreal, we would never have been able to afford a home. i know that is changing now, but for us, we were able to finally purchase our first home in our 40s!    
as you said, montreal is not perfect, but the benefits outweigh the negatives for our family and i really like it here.
i'm born and raised in this city (all over it).
i've travelled to many places and worked closely with people from around the world.
i not only love the city (architecture, nature, food, businesses, etc.) i truly love its people. i love the orderly way people go about their lives while not following the rules.
there is a mix of culture here and montreal seems to bring out the best in all of them.
i have yet to find another city that has such an emotional impact on me.
i am not born n raised in montreal but i absolutely adore the city , have lived in big cities across 3 continents and montreal is my favourite city .
i am from toronto and i would never move back. it’s such a livable charming city.
if montreal has million number of fans i am one of them 🙋🏻. if montreal has ten fans i am one of them. if montreal have only one fan and that is me 🙋🏼🙋🏽🙋🏾. if montreal has no fans, that means i am no more on the earth 😢. if world against the montreal, i am against the world ❌🌍☄️. i love #montreal till my last breath.. 😍 .. die hard fan of montreal 🤓🌹. hit like if you think montreal best city & smart in the world 🤠
not born here but i absolutely love montreal and montrealers!
never seen a city sub love themselves so much.
you're not alone.
i mean...i get it but i don’t think it’s a great city...not even close. the traffic sucks, the roads are shit, it’s dirty, it’s full of meth heads and homeless people, it’s cold af 8 months out of the year, parks are not well maintained, the food scene is average, the city scalps you for a monthly metro pass, constantly under construction, etc i could keep going on and on.
i’ll probably get downvoted but i’m sorry...i’ve lived in 5 different countries and had the privilege of travelling immensely for someone who’s only in their early twenties, and there are at least a dozen cities i can think of that have better food, a more interesting history, cleaner, nicer people, more things to do, and way way way prettier in just about every aspect.
is it a fun and good looking city? yes. is there something to get excited about? imo no. but hey, we all have assholes and we all have opinions.
edit: i would stand by the claim that montreal is an amazing city relative to what north america has to offer. but my standards are more broad than that which is why i seem so critical.
i travel the world. worked in difference provinces for years. born and raised in montreal. 
 this city can drive me nuts (pot holes, construction in downtown that never ends, cyclist lanes, etc...) but for some reason but i just can't stop loving the city. 
something about it.
i moved to san francisco and my roommate also is from montreal. when we hangout with friends, i have to stop ourselves from raving on and on about how great montreal is.
i actually thought i had an embellished perception of montreal because i mostly remember the good parts, but glad to hear it's not just me.
been living for three months in montréal. i can guarantee that i will forever love this city!
i love montreal. i’m american with canadian pr. but montreal is so fricking quirky and weird sometimes. i’m not a francophile i just love the people, love the weather, and love the city and the food.
montrealer living in alberta here. i’m pretty sure everyone around me is sick of hearing me compare things to how they are back home. i can’t help it!! my mouth just opens and “in montreal....” come right out! i loved it the entirety of my life living there and now that i’m gone and can look at it from the outside, i love it even more!!
i would be if it wasn’t so full of racism
edit: 
anyone of the white folks downvoting me can engage in a discussion with me and explain to me how i’m wrong. 
but you won’t you’re cowards, you’re part of the problem.
well, i was born in montreal but spent most of my time living in vancouver, edmonton and southwestern ontario and returned for university and will be moving soon.
with that been said, the city has undoubtedly changed and also the people living here i found it quite hard to meet new people and form friendships as i have noticed many people have already begun their lifelong friendships and were quite judgemental of people they deemed different or did not fit their preconceived "mould" if that makes sense.
while in edmonton, i found it relatively easy to meet new people, form friendships, and people were more open in that sense.
i also found the city to be quite divided in terms of enclaves, if that makes sense depending on the community. so forth you belong to, it seemed as if many people stuck within that group and did not know have much cultural knowledge except for the international food tasting, which was great, but it just seemed very surface level.
it was interesting to navigate anyhow as i was raised quite cultured, so i found it interesting how many just seemed not to have much cultural exchange even though we are very much a diverse city.
furthermore, as someone mentioned in this thread, the outright racist behaviour i have noticed over the past five years left me shocked at times, and it continues as i did witness another incident a week ago at the grocery store among the many i have noticed and have personally encountered. 
anyhow, montreal is a great tourist city, but it truly depends on the individual and what you desire in your life and if you can achieve that desire while living here.
but i no longer romanticize my time here as im older now and have lived in other cities, so every single city has its pros and cons.
[deleted]
i go back and forth. i’m not a native montréaler but moved here a number of years ago. some days, i feel like this is the best place i’ve lived. the culture, the food, the canal, the summer weather, the people are all amazing. but there are days where i become disillusioned with it, especially when you consider the taxes, the garbage that accumulates, the never ending road and highway construction, and the winters. this is a great place to be but it’s not all roses.
born and raised in montreal, spent a year in new york as a kid, studied in vancouver, then moved to toronto, met a dutch girl and now i live in the netherlands. 
i miss most of the cities i’ve lived in but montreal is the one that gives me the strongest flashbacks. the neighborhoods, people, festivals and beers with friends, feelings so strong i can smell them, taste them.
i read somebody say “it’s ok but it’s not paradise”,  for me it’s more that i am emotionally invested in the city.
ps: a lot of dutch people like and travel to canada but mostly english canada. i’m also doing what i can here as an “ambassador” to encourage more interest.
as a vermonter i'm wistfully gazing across the border missing exploring the metropolis just a short drive north. qc seems super cool in general and i can't wait to explore more of the area once travel is safer & borders open.
it's super cool your not wrong. having spent a decent amount of time in nyc i'd rather explore a new city (mtl) than drive 4x the distance south.
agreed. i was born here and i will die here
i’ll stick to the bambi principle today.
i love montreal, before the pandemic when we used to do some roadtrip outside montreal, once we come back i always told my husband that we are finally home and it feels so good. guess it’s true, home is where the heart is.
as someone who just moved here from the states, i think one of the reasons it’s so fun to talk about montreal is that despite being awesome, it’s not totally over represented in the media. i moved here from nyc which is, imo, an equally amazing city, but it’s kind of meh to talk about because everyone already knows exactly what it’s all about. in contrast, one of my good friends was born and raised in brooklyn and yet didn’t even know montreal existed until last year.
nope. montréal is plagued with problems with racism, poverty, infrastructure problems and corruption. you must be in a dreamland if you cannot see these issues
y’all need to chill or some kind of hobby :) you also need to look at your last income tax statement
same, born and raised in this fine city. it ain’t perfect, but the combination of french, english and many many other cultures makes this city so unique. i do see myself living in rome, and brooklyn for a while, but will indefinitely call montreal my home, and will definitely come back.
ok so i was born in saguenay (ben oui, un bleuet!) and i got to the south shore when i was 6. i find myself in the middle: i love the atmosphere during festival season and most of the summer, while i also like the calm and quiet of my hometown and the wilderness. do i like montréal as a city to explore? hell yeah. would i live here all my life? i dont think so...
ps: tourtière du saguenay> tourtière de mtl: p
obsessed is exactly the word i would use for my feelings towards montreal. i do not think it is a perfect city, but it is the perfect city for me!
honestly im the opposite im constantly bashing mtl but really i should be more grateful. we have great skiing all winter, beautiful warm summers and lachine canal sunsets and music festivals and the best restaurants.... im sorry for being mean to u montreal i love u 🥲
haha, don't worry i feel this aswell, i think it's just a desire for some recognition. we're actually one of the great cities of north america (one of the first ever founded) and we've got strong roots, but it's because of our predominant french ancestry that we're hardly ever mentioned unlike new york and boston and other major english cities, i think as more english-speakers move here, the more significant we'll be (like toronto) over time.
glad to meet a fellow montrealer though.
um it's definitely the best city in north america.
i moved here from the states late last year and i’ve been spending most of my time here alone trying to entertain myself with video games and house plants.
everyone tells me the city is great, but the pandemic has made it almost impossible to meet people and enjoy what the city has to offer.
for me, the greatest point about montréal is the unbelievable amount of art and events happening for such a small city. shame public transport is not as good once the metro coverage ends and if you want to get further than that you need a car for everything and be stuck on it for hours and hours at a time..
i came to toronto from europe in 2016 and lived there until now. i have visited montreal at the end of 2017 for the first time, and fell in love with it immediately. i have visited twice more since, once before and once after covid, and i have to say the pandemic has really sapped its energy. but i can say the same for any city i have visited since this shit started, including toronto.
i'll be completing my move to montreal end of this month.
i am. i’m from the states and have visited your incredible city 7 or 8 times. to me there’s no place like it and no place as comprehensively awesome. i can’t wait until your borders open (even though i know y’all “hate” americans, even moreso now :( ). edit: i don’t actually believe that as a generalization. i’ve found y’all to be the most welcoming and even-keeled people i’ve ever met
i talk about it to everyone i care about. i’ve taken a half dozen different friends with me there by now. i consider it a home away from home.
i miss it. a lot :(.
when i decided to immigrate to north america years ago, i looked into all the major cities and picked montreal because of its unique blend of european charm and north-american metropolis vibe, it's great cultural diversity and bilingualism, its open-mindedness, canada and quebec's great social system (compared to the us). over a decade later, i still love montreal and would not move anywhere else on this continent. i've been all over canada and the us and i haven't found any other city that has everything montreal has to offer.
fuck that yes. 514 till i die yo
i lived nearby all my life and i have no idea what is interesting to do here.
what would be your recommendations of places/activities ?
i completely understand what you're talking about and it seems to be common among montrealers - and obviously for good reason.
i'm originally from montreal and have been away for far too many years - but i'm moving back in the next few months and i can't stop talking about it - i am so excited! everyone i tell always says how lucky i am to be moving back and that they wish they could move there, too. my wife has visited twice over the years and she's extremely excited to move there as well. :d
so ya... it's definitely a thing for sure that montrealers love to talk about it. even with the city's problems, we're proud of it, the culture and the joie de vivre and that makes the people and the city unique and special.
montreal is great, and i feel lucky to live in this city when so much is happening again first time since the 70s, like the rem and all new rue ste. catherine and other small neighborhood projects.
just, i wish, that montreal had...
1. an indoor water park, like in berlin, as mtlers hate winter. biodôme could have been converted into this
2. an ice skateway, preferably on the lachine canal, even in the limited sections
3. a ski hill on mont-royal
4. a real floating bath house, like in copenhagen
mtl is blessed with the nature but it's terrible at integrating them except for the parc du mont royal.
condos condos condos
beautiful ! glad i’ve lived my life in such a splendid place
looking sharp!
best place in mtl for dragonboating !
holy hdr, batman!
development has skyrocketed along the canal. great pic.
camera apps should come with ai aids that help people get the horizon the right way. and they use vertical things, like buildings and trees, because if you're on an incline, the horizon shouldn't be flat.
such a great walk, all down the canal. post-industrial beauty.
condos condos condos smokestack
[
how i feel about this tbh
nice choice of medium! it gives a nice retro effect, early 90s style
ok… disposable camera? it seems out of focus.
album cover vibes
i can hear the sound of [scoop credits] (
i would like to come live in montreal for the fall but i don’t speak french (from vancouver)
wow, such a soothing picture!
very beautiful photo
uh ... more like late 60s
nikon n2020 + 50mm f1.4, the film was 20 years expired so it wasn't that great, most of my photos were completely underexposed so the scanner had a lot of trouble on this roll.
it's difficult to do film photography at night. all you have to do is that your speed is low (no choice to let more light print on your film) and that you move a little (like you breathe while pressing the shutter) and your photo will be blurry.
lol i just saw on your profile that you take pictures, i spoke to you about film photography like a child hahaha
or scanned a 4x6 photo.
montreal is extremely bilingual, you can easily get by even if you only speak english :) you will have a blast here !
i have a friend who did that 20 years ago or so, he owns a resto here and speaks french perfectly decently, married a local, very happy. make a plan to learn some french and you'll get even more or of the city / province but your can definitely survive a good little while here in english...
i did the same move about 7 years ago. it's not as hard as you would think, you just need a reason to make the jump. feel free to message me if you ever need advice on how to do it :)
ok, thanks for the details! i am always curious to see “what went wrong”
indeed, i used a tripod but i did not have a "trigger release" so it is sure that the camera moved when i pressed the shutter
hahaha
yes, of course, but it's the same with digital photography!
indeed, it may be the scan that is out of focus or the dev, i am not an expert!
thank you!!! i know some very basics and i’m also fluent in spanish which helps a little. i think we might!
already know some basics and i’m fluent in spanish which helps! the goal is definitely to immerse myself so i can become fluent!
you are so kind thank you! i visited a couple it years back and fell in love. now my work switched to 100% remote so i have the ability to go. we are strongly considering it, just need to find an apartment!
i just published a photo taken the same evening with the same angle but on 120 film which had not expired, the difference is astounding
yep, but in digital you have the option to take several until you are good there. this is why the photo of op is blurry ^^
yep!
the stairs will surely be closed for 2 years to repair the bent end of the handrail.
cursed mountain beaver.
the staircase becomes inaccessible because it is no longer safe
remove the fallen tree: 17 million
repair the tinsmith: 28 million
estimated repair august 2026
repair carried out june 2032
return to office august 2032 after the approval of the cnesstqcmtlvmr with the agreement of the city of longueuil and the fire department of the plateau mont-royal.
makeshift limbo bar
ah am calisse.
he sells in sale.
it's a sign of the new globalist order
there was a march ...
r/bigfoot
extra challenge for people exercising on mont royal.
boom post!
it's part of the city's beautiful, good, inexpensive hebertism trail. the route continues through the streets. look for the orange markers.
quick harvest it and make a coffee table out of it.
the project will be donated to snc lavalin and will * probably * be completed within 4 years. thank you for your patience
me, who thought there were really beavers at castor lake ... / s
this is the story of the little beaver
you have my vote. fit for a mayor
all work has stopped, saint-lambert complained about the noise of the saws.
budget 2 million & mt. royal closed by 2023 ...
20 years*
you will be disappointed to learn that there are no dolphins in dolphin lake around either. 🙁
the smallest but the strongest.
the entire mountain made dangerous because there are too many trees, and trees could fall on passers-by.
nonon, 2 million is the bonus to executives for having "" won the tender ""
qeoua ?!
there have already been dolphins at la ronde ... who died of starvation. no kidding.
in the forest among all his friends
during a blue collar strike in february / march 1980, 3 dolphins (brigitte, fanny and judith) died of hunger / dehydration.
the surviving dolphins (pierrot, kim and carole) were flown to flipper's sea school in florida.
he is happy, he has fun, he plays and he laughs
a forgotten piece of quebec history. we should make it an episode everyone was talking about.
but once it's launched
riiieeeennnn
can't stop it
he's beating up our mascot!
dude has some pretty impressive footwork actually
i think he can go 10 rounds with logan paul for $20m.
one cone down, 999,999 to go...
it's funny.
i've only live in montréal for the past year and i've already seen people boxing traffic cone 3 times lol what's wrong with people in montréal!
i see him every morning on my way to work. this is ville saint-pierre across from the tim hortons.
man has got a good jab, and fully rotates while throwing hooks.
you should've blast the rocky song with your windows down hahah
vsp is gonna ville saint-pierre.
the georges st-pierre of ville-saint-pierre
we should really have an official movie about that ! somebody please pitch this idea to mr. sunshine guzzo !
oh no, period!
fatality!
is the cone correct? to see his tires, it must have spanked hard in your!
where is the k.o from super smash brawl?!?!
i love the edit
7 million more to go
orange cones are montreal's idea of designer  outdoor decoration. lol
our rocky montrealer.
i thought this was /r/idiotsincars or /r/publicfreakout and i was like "oh shit, that's montreal for once!"
this'd be a great [unusual meme](
/u/unusualvideos, are you the person who runs that channel?
r/idiotsfightingthings
if you squint enough, it kind of looks like youppi
lol float like a butterfly..
a blind kid can go 10 rounds with that clown.
not all heroes wear capes. some wear plaid.
999,999 cones on the road,  999,999 cones on the road, knock 1 down pass it around 1,000,000 cones on the road!
there are a few hero’s who have stood up to the invasion of our orange overlords.
maybe it's the cones that are at fault. i'd reserve your judgement until after trial.
you got that right! is this a tko or a straight ko? i only saw one round, so i guess we'll never know. that's what'll keep me up at night.
that weight-shift yo
squint almost rhymes with drink.
triggered
sting like a bee.
too fast
lol'd, i don't like him much either but he's 6'2 200lbs. if i had to bet between him and a keyboard warrior whining about "angry feminazis"  on reddit, it's pretty clear who'd get his face re-arranged.
[removed]
i remember downtownmontreal having the best light when i lived there. i used to love to be out at dusk.
beautiful picture! has a nice old vibe
the sun life building is iconic.
whats your lens? i love the composition
awesome shot!
beautiful. edward hopper vibes.
why does it look like kafe dostoyevsky on rainbow 6 siege
winter right around the corner
yessss, it's amazing at dusk!
relevant name of building
about to get sniped from these side windows
very beautiful. but i have a question for you french speakers, is soir evening or night? i hear it often for night but i thought nuit was night. still in the beginning phases of learning french. thanks.
really beautiful
end soon
night is nuit, soir is evening.
however, in the context of "bonsoir" vs "bonne nuit", "bonsoir" is for saying hello in the evening, and "bonne nuit" is for saying good night at bedtime, like "sleep well."
soir is evening, while night is nuit!
that's actually a great question, i would say "soir" is anything after 5pm. if you want to meet somebody before dinner at 4pm it's more of "après-midi" but "soir" would be ok too, just very limit.
soir refers to the evening - not sure when it would be used as “night” except maybe for “hier soir” = last night (as in yesterday evening)
bonne soirée is for saying goodbye in the evening.
in the summer time i'd say soir is a bit later than 5pm, around/after sunset in my book.
worse the semi-trailers on the highway. it's like following a moving blizzard.
been saying it for years if cops actually cared about public safety on the road they’d setup check points before highway ramps and pull over every car that has snow on their roof and ticket them.
the answer starts with a '' p '', ends with an '' e '' and there is '' aress '' in between
upvote for rolling igloos.  lol
you mean some montreal drivers are a-holes/selfish/self-absorbed ???
it's either ignorance or laziness. penalties should be much higher for it. i'm an suv driver and i always clean my roof and i'd prefer not to be associated with those assholes, thank you.
also i will add on driver with no common sense for others :
why not switching on the lights of your car during a storm/rain/snow/anything where visibility is low? 
i’m keeping my distance but it would be much more easier to do if i could see your actual position with your backlight.
je me souviens 😂 now i actually know why that's on the licence plates. i used to live in quebec for a couple of years and yeah, rolling igloos/blizzards were all too common. i must admit that at times i was one of them, because i have t-rex arms and my trailblazer is rather tall. to my knowledge that only came around to bite me in the area, because once when breaking the ice slid off and got my windshield and bent my wiper. that was as bad as it got. i wish someone would have taught me better how to do things the quebec way and survive winter so i wouldn t have to learn the hard way for a lot of things. i hope i can come back soon. i miss speaking french, i miss the warm people, and i most definitely miss the snow. winter is my favourite season.
also why is it that when someone fails to signal, they're always driving an suv?
people are lazy af. its hazardous as all hell when we deal with giant snowfalls like the last big saturday storm, it warms up then freezes over the next day crrating sheets of projectile ice. i already got a bit of my bumper broke  last year from a dickhead not cleaning his roof and a chunk of that ice hit it dead on on the 40. lucky it wasnt the windshield, but my bumper looks like someone grabbed a giant holepuncher. 😂
at least last week i saw some of the cops off island in vaudreuil *stopping* people who were too lazy to shovel of the foot of snow off their roofs and ticketing them. like ffs just go grab your shovel and shove it off the car roof.
because their are stupid and careless.
if you think about it, a lot of people don't want to wear a mask, there is probably a venn diagram for both things and the overlap must be huge.
my mom literally "didn't know you had to". most people just don't think about it until one day you drive behind a snowy suv.
the worst part is suv drivers who don't bother to remove snow from their trunk windows. most of the time they just have to activate their wiper ...
same reason as car drivers, some ppl are lazy fucks.
i think those are the drivers that give 0 crap about other drivers on the road. they simply don’t have the mindset of “sharing the road” or being courteous
worse why you don't use your flashers?
i’m out here playing dodgeball on the 15 when i’m behind an 18 wheeler
i have seen them pulled over before. rare, but it happens.
we call them wedding cake cars, but i like your rolling igloo term better.
i saw a guy on my street literally drive his car back and fourth 10 times until the snow fell of the room instead of just using his brush. people are just fucking lazy.
there's nothing new ... and it's like that everywhere ... not just in montreal.
the police should give more tickets on this ...
esti gang of paraisseux.
i think it's because they too short to reach the roof/top of it
i used my horn around 5 times in as many years driving in london, uk.
i don't drive much here, but i use my horn that many times a month. great city, great province. worst drivers.
we are too small 🤷‍♂️
to be honest, i don't have a tank and the whining about the snow in winter always makes me laugh.
"suffer from t-rex arms" hahaha funny, upvoted
if you want an honest answer, i think it’s definitely half laziness but also because people with larger vehicles don’t invest in one of those extending snow cleaner brushes so they just kind of give up if they can’t really reach it lol. assholes all round.
5foot2 :(
ah, i know the answer to this.
they're inconsiderate assholes who can't be bothered to reach the roof of their car, and give zero fucks about snow and ice flying off and coming crashing down on other motorists.
the easy answer is simple laziness (my neighbors are big enough to reach the roof)
yeah, idiots. it's not hard to find brushes that extend for tall vans and suvs. if you can afford a big vehicle, you can afford the extra $5-10 for the longer brush.
[deleted]
oh, they realize. they just don't care. you nailed it with "selfish".
a few years ago i highbeamed and horned a dodge caravan who was pelting me with chunks of snow and ice on aut-15. he decided to roadrage on me.
van?? i saw one on a hyundai accent... 
i wonder if these people flush after they are done at this point
so happy the cops finally started handing out tickets for this! :) now if we can just fix the cigarette tossers!
the world is cave, selfish and lazy.
btw there are more and more lazy people that don’t even remove snow before getting onto their car!  forget about suvs these are just people who just think about themselves, unfortunate sign of the times!
first day in canada?
because i'm lazy and i enjoy watching the snow peel off my car.  but you should probably change lanes.
its qubac enough said
ain't nobody got time for that, as soon i take the highway ramp it all flies off anyways. i'm aware that its a lazy fuck behavior, i will try to be better.
every time i am one, i take note of his plate, as a precaution. i don't denounce them, but it's not true that i'm paying for their laziness.
i would imagine it's really hard to get the snow off the top of some of these trucks
it's hard to clean the roof of an suv when you're little, especially if you don't have step bars on the sides. they should make it mandatory.
lazy
but, honestly, if the ice falling from the roof of the vehicle in front is affecting you, it's probably because you're too close.
i say that, i say nothing ¯ \\\ _ (ツ) \ _ / ¯
car drivers calling others selfish, lolol ok
pot/kettle/black
lol
i love the 6ft x 6ft pieces of ice that travel 40 feet in the area before falling on your broken windshield. good times.
having been a truck driver, trailers are a real logistical challenge to clean: the vast majority of large terminals have snow removal facilities, but they only bring in employees after record storms, and not all of the small trailer yards. are not equipped for that.
whenever you talk to your dispatcher, he tells you to organize yourself, or that someone will drop by within 1 hour ...
the someone in question usually comes in 4-5 hours later, and you've wasted 1/2 day waiting for them without pay.
this gives the result that we know: we get on the highway and there are clouds of flakes that follow us for 30 minutes.
that told me it's because we grabbed the trailer there is no installation for it to be removed or otherwise they have it but we don't use it because we are not from the company
semi-trailers are dangerous but it is also legally complicated in terms of liability. in many jurisdictions, drivers are not allowed to climb to clear snow themselves for reasons of occupational health and safety.
an educational campaign might be effective also and inform the public of the fines and repercussions. hell, even if there were no fines and these morons were just made to do it on the side of the highway in the cold, i'd be happy.
growing up on the south shore, i am still "mind blown" from this northern perspective of montreal.
it's cool to see stuff from mtl and / or quebec on reddit 👌
is blur an artistic expression?
this is beautiful. makes me feel good about my city which most of the time embarrasses me.
beautiful point of view! 👌🏻
that's a great picture!
took this one in the summer too, same night? haha
i tell myself the same thing when i have to take the 15 south, the brossard stretch has a damn beautiful view
/ r / montreal is a good spot for that;)
if by artistic expression you mean mard camera, yes.
you should have seen it for real, with the sound of vaguettes, montreal comforted me.
then if the city embarrasses you, try to see it with new glasses, i'm sure you will like it very much.
if montreal embarrass you, you’re clearly not putting your focus at the right place.
thank you !
what date? i took pictures of the oratory quite often this summer, it would be quite possible.
have you ever taken boulevard marie-victorin between sainte-catherine and la prairie? the view is beautiful.
however, nothing beats the one from the dike
i love your camera de marde. it’s unintentionally artistic.
banksé
stencil = / = banksy. personally i find that the character does not resemble his style so much and that it is not as clever. look at the children in these recent works in england:
[
it's more contrasted, it makes them a little dirty. he starts with a stencil but ends up with a bomb on top of it.
banksy
it's a nice tribute but no, the detail and the quality are different
can confirm am bahnksi
a little girl who is holding a loaf: has she cut her hand and is waiting for the pharmacist? 😉
banking style
false.
[
big rip off. simply 💁🏻‍♂️
*district
that huge penis though
who they?
the truth is out there hahaha (xfiles theme song starts playing)
*they didn’t.
well-that-if it's not him ... it looks like it.
not banksy, “eat this”.
but did you figure it out?
the watch looks like an apple watch on health app. maybe that number is a time? maybe the open circles are like the arm of a clock an tell a time?
i would think the latter. because i'm guessing the top number is an amount of steps...
but which direction to go?
maybe the sun and strong shadows can guide you in the right directions. go towards the light and find divinity?
maybe the girl come from a nearby school? at the determined time (10:05 am/pm), trace back her steps and count 1150 steps.
be careful and report back!
very ugly anyway
maybe?  looks lime his style.  has he ever done anything in montreal?
they will figure it out growing up that people are snitches, governement police doctors vets, cant be trusted and will turn on you the second they have something, the stock market is not free at all. the governements takes a 1/5 of what you make yearly and use it to buy lube : sure as hell are not using it to better society fix the roads (qc) and the healthcare system. worst of all the people around you are all me me me assholes and complain about the governement but then will be the first ones to pick up the phone and call the police when your fucking hedges are too high. why dont we change this ? why dont we stop pulling people down to better our situation? why dont we start calling the police when it is really necessary and not for minor inconveniances ? why dont we change the taxation rates to be fair for everyone ? why dont we change the justice system which was built to protect old white people that own the most money but are also the weakest and the most hypocritical slimey human beings? why cant we look past language (hello quebec) and race and religious beliefs ? why cant we stand up (since apparently democracy= power to the people and stop the daily thievery? why are we scared and weak and no balls ? why cant we be uncomfortable anymore? words hurt ? tell that to people who have been tortured or raped. they will laugh at the "words hurt". do we have to be "the bullied" or the "bullies"? we cant be somewhere in between ?
i would say more “banksté” 😂
that. the first degree cringy is more like mr. brainwash than banksy.
chuis come to say exactly that! the style is not exactly his
a can of spray paint, she checks her watch which reads 11:50
don't take my positivote; take my felixivote.
cut himself
doomsday clock?
sorry, the drawing is nothing like banks. this is a bd style drawing.
sir this is a st hubert
you need to slow down on the coke and ketamine my man lol
you ok?
all i have to say is -the fuck?-
hell ya dude
the level of xenophobia, bigotry and ageism this comment displays is off the charts. 
for someone trying to act like some kind of woke/neolib revolutionary, you sure have a lot of hatred and prejudice in your heart.
bank tse
tse bank
mr. brainwash really exists?!?!?
i'll take you a quarter leg with a creamy siouplait!
enjoy the easy karma i had to get that off my chest driving me crazy
who the fuck goes on reddit and type a major rant while zoned out on ket?! he's probably a /r/stims user
i love coke i do it ~ once a week. ket havent done in years. this post was done completely sober. but i get where ur getting at
can you handle the truth ?
really curious which parts of his comment was xenophobic, biggot and "ageist" ?
can you single out sentences because i fail to see what you interpreted.
only problem i see with this comment is that it’s so weird and out of place.
ben, who knows?
regardes "exit through the gift shop"
certainly.
thats why you go here: r/offmychest
i sure can, but i think we have different life priorities.  i've also never heard of anyone not trusting their vet.  that's odd.
the line about old white people being a problem and then the next line where they said we have to look beyond race?  it was quote the trip reading that.
implying that quebecers are "part of the problem" because they want to speak their own language. 
a typical anti-french sentiment which is still prevalent amongst canadians. they used to say "speak white" but now they flipped it around and imply speaking french is racist. new font, same message.
the old white people line is also quite problematic. for pretty obvious reasons.
fuck shiller lavy.
ah shiller lavy. the plague that destroyed the mile end and is now slowly spreading into st-henri.
almost to wonder if the city gets a cut for letting them kill small businesses in favor of lululemon, tim horton's and mcdonald's. not to mention 150% rent increases on residential.
i'm saying we're going to see some shiller lavy signs in the months / years to come!
le cagibi still exists - it moved to little italy
fuck shiller lavy, anybody been to the new cagibi in little italy?
<3
aah i went to le cagibi from when i was started walking until my very early cegep years. i was devastated when i learnt shiller lavy took it over. i miss this place so much.
damn, i can't wait to go back to the dépanneur, have a coffee while listening to good music ... i miss it!
you're on fire
fuck shiller lavy, may they both suffer long and die of colorectal cancer.
because this seems to be a rant about how indy shops get replaced with corporate boxes. that strip of st viateur is zoned artisanal and so until the borough rezones or provides an easement the area will be stuck renting it to boutiques.
also, no one travels to go visit a tim hortons or lulu lemon. franchising that street would be a death sentence.
ah man i was just talking about the cagibi the other day! rip ;(
rip le cagibi. <3
le cagibi - one of many shiller lavy real estate acquisitions victim.  it was a live music venue, a community centre, a vegetarian café, a neighbourhood hang out space for 10 years. it really sucks when shiller lavy buys another building in the mile end, you know it means the neighbourhood will lose one more long time institution, and the space will sit empty until they find a lululemon or a david's tea type tenant.  cagibi space sat vacant for 2 years.
i guess with quebec residential rent control, the change will be less immediate on residential rent increases. with commercial, they can double rent of an existing tenant (which they did with le cagibi).
shiller lavy are active everywhere in town, they have tons of locals on mont-royal or in the old town, for example.
but it's not just them either. the other owners end up doing the same. he is a small landlord who owns the building where there was comptoir 21 and pizza saint-viateur, on saint-viateur, he nevertheless decided to consecrate his two established tenants outside for draconian rent increases. like shiller-lavy would.
worse, is he getting his perspective wrong? the two premises have no more signs to rent for a few days ...
prices go down only when a place sees a big vacancy. it will not change without regulations and a standoff with the owners to legislate ...
surely endlessly ... or until the entire neighborhood is transformed into lululemon / david's tea.
that's actually really good to know; i'm glad it's still alive in some form. still a sin that it's been lost to the mile end community, though.
yeah it’s different but they still have the fogged-over windows in the winter :)
the cagibi still exists! st-laurent, between beaubien and st-zotique. they even sell art now. keep supporting them!
(yes i am copy pasting this comment everywhere)
:)
there is a lululemon on that street now
still exists, they moved to little italy! i miss the old space a lot but the cozy vibes are still there in the new place.
the cagibi still exists! st-laurent, between beaubien and st-zotique. they even sell art now. keep supporting them!
i was moving from villeray to go to cagibi for the positive vibe and so old school montreal. it's decisions like that that kill the sense of belonging to a neighborhood and even a city. our parents didn't have it easy, but at least in that time there was a certain pride in where you were.
apart from the west island but hey. 😂
i liked shiller lavy's whining in the newspapers: "we love st-viateur! we want a tenant!" well criss, you sacred one outside that gave you a 50% increase!
i have nothing against the new occupant of the premises, at least it's not a big national or american chain, but the cagibi was special for sure. worse its new location, it's just not the same.
oui, je connais le cagibi bien, et pharmacie esperanza avant ça... i also understand that gentrification is inevitable and part of the life cycles of cities, unless the city steps in and does something about it. :/
le cagibi was those things and still is (well except for live music). it continues to exist on st-laurent, in little italy, and they are open during the pandemic. keep supporting them!!!
that's disgusting. :-( why would a city allow developers to choke the life out of local cultural institutions like that? do they want every neighbourhood in montreal to look exactly the same?
...i know, the answer is money. it's always money. but there are other kinds of value in the world.
yes 100% agree. it is inevitable without regulation.
[i wouldn't be especially concerned about david's tea moving in anytime soon.](
it was heartbreaking walking by the corner for an entire 2 years with the à louer sign in the window knowing le cagibi had been thriving there and its being there contributed to the thriving neighbourbood vibe.
lost the music venue
wow. times have changed. 
might be a good time to write to richard ryan and marie plourd about what that means to you in the neighborhood.
on a unrelated note  anyone want to split on a tim$ franchise?
ah right...i guess to me as a musician the old cagibi died on st laurent :( always forget about the new location bc it was about the shows for me!
yes you're right - but for me as a musician it was the shows that i miss. :( it's a shame that this is not possible at the new location.
the cagibi still exists! st-laurent, between beaubien and st-zotique. they even sell art now. keep supporting them!
effectively :/
which in their current form, they never will because they rely on constantly increasing property value because that's their main way of increasing their tax revenue
it's a shame they get choked out. these places move on to another neighbourhood like la petite patrie, petite italy, or recently, for chez de gaulle croissant/bakery, all the way to saint-jean-sur-richelieu(!) after its rent was hiked up from $1950 to $6500 (also after a shiller lavy acquisition...).  mile end is loses little by little what makes it so special one shiller lavy acquisition at a time.  i suppose the shift will revitalize other neighbourhoods (for good or for bad depending on a person's perspective) until the exact same shift happens there.
i feel the same way. when i first moved to montreal i was just a couple blocks from le cagibi and it always symbolized so much of what i loved and valued about that neighbourhood.
that was bound to happen, dont know if that part of st laurent would want a music venue 🤷🏽‍♂️
yeah :( they do host musical performances from time to time still, but without a stage it can’t really be a venue or hold shows the way they used to.
yah that back room was magical! some good times there
good stuff, im ordering au coq instead of st-hubert now
heartwarming! thank you for sharing the good news
how generous of this restaurateur on a full swing sunday morning 😂🤣 i like to see kind people do kind stuff like that!
bravo
i wish there could be some food trucks to bring meals like this to the homeless. i assume many mtl restaurants would be willing to donate meals to an organization like this.
please help sign this petition to give hero pay to grocery employees under the loblaws umbrella (no frills, loblaws, superstore).
the living wage for toronto as of 2019 is 20.08$/hr working full time. despite this, most clerks at grocery stores make 14$/hr.
a lot of them per my friends/family who work in loblaws have their part timer hours either below 10hrs/week or deliberately kept just under 40hrs/week as for the company not to have to give them benefits.
they have no stability in their hours. schedules are often changed last minute in the same week despite union contract stating they have to post schedules 2 weeks in advance.
these clerks are literally risking their lives everyday to bring food on our tables. i work in healthcare and think it's abysmal. just because they don't have quote 'professional' jobs it doesn't mean we don't need to treat them with respect. i actually feel more scared for workers working at grocery stores atm than myself. i bet most can barely afford to put food on their own tables.
they are scared of speaking up or calling in sick as their income is so low or they are afraid of getting fired.  so more covid.
one friend also working for loblaws  told me they were going to get interviewed by 2 newspapers but the newspapers were ultimately denied permission to talk to them by loblaws a few months back when the journalists asked for formal permission - keep in  most workers interviewed for articles is are actual union stewards as well and my friend isn't. they think it's because they are afraid of more whistle blowers and want to control their pr. sounds like musling to me. very 1984.
also relevant:
edit: grammar & preserve anonymity.
i thought restos were struggling?
au coq tastes way better in my opinion.  but you know, st-hubert also gives meals for xmas (a tradition since at least 15 years), i worked for them for about 10 years and one time i participated to the xmas meal at the accueil bonneau.  we distributed something like 800-900 meals also, directly at the table to the homeless people.  they were happy and i'm glad i was part of it, i also had the time to share a few words with some of them and i felt the gratitude.  some of them don't talk to a lot of people usually and they're used to get weird looks on the street but i spoke to them like they were friends, family, with a lot of respect and empathy.  it's a heartwarming thing that everyone should do in their lives, go feed the homeless people, participate in an activity like this.  congrats and thanks to au coq for such a nice initiative.
[deleted]
note this is one franchisee. other locations are doing things like being hard-ass landlords to the business that's been upstairs for 20 years but can't operate during a pandemic.
seriously a great value for the price. one of the best poutine also. the cheese comes separate and therefore does not melt when delivered to you.
[deleted]
people have big hearts, regardless of their momentary financial position.
delivery restaurants are doing better business than before. chicken, pizza, sushi, etc. good business or not, it's very generous of him.
what a bad take to make
larger restaurants that specialize in chicken or steak (for example) usually have standing orders with suppliers. it is possible it made more sense to cook and donate some chickens and grab the publicity. moishes did a similar burger give away before they closed.
i am not too familiar with this branch there but the rooster does its turnover in take-out and delivery in general.
this one is in the central market so it loses a clientele of workers at noon, but they have to compensate with deliveries to people who go out very little.
that's like saying walmart isn't struggling so local stores must not be struggling.
au coq is a chain that always did well thanks to many locations and delivery just like st-hubert. that's not the case for the majority of restaurants which are just single locations.
> be respectful of others
i guess rules only apply to non-mods.
top comment, -41 votes.
i thought it was funny. people way too serious on here
why so many downvotes?
oh man, how am i supposed to pick where to order my chicken now? lol
au coq's chicken taste better and also bigger.
at st-hubert it's the sauce that is better.
yeah, it should just come down to what food you like more because st hubert donates and sponsors plenty.  personally, i just about hate everything on st huberts menu though. i'm partial to cote st luc bbq.
because he writes an ungrateful comment that implies that since au coq is doing well, the rest of the restaurants must be doing well too. maybe that wasn't what was involved but it sounds like that.
because how is the fact that restaurants are in difficulty relevant when it comes to welcoming a great action from one of them?
mod is always a target.
for real, au coq tastes way better and the fries are fucking good, coleslaw too.  their chicken is always good and they also have nice desserts on the menu.  i'm a bit pissed off about st-hubert because of certain things and i realized that their food is too salty, every time i eat some st-hubert, i drink like 1 litre of water with my meal because of this.
bronze chicken
au coq is way cheaper. isnt it like 7$ for a chef's choice meal ?
because he is probably a very unhappy individual who is jealous because he does not do good deeds and not cringe to buy chicken. it's always easier to shit on others than to greet good things.
have you ever tried their roasted chicken? i've only ever had their fried chicken which i was pretty satisfied with.
yooooo i just tried their shrimp sandwich and yo..... amazing
only fried. the place looks sketchy enough as it is and i dont want to risk it with something that might not be very fresh. the chicken poutine is good too.
mon ami is also pretty good...but poulet bronze is really good for traditional fried chicken.
lol now ill have to try it
message required because there was a lot in this thread ... i remind you that disinformation about covid-19 could well get you ** permanently ** banned from the sub. you are encouraged to report cases of misinformation to moderators.
to be clear: on the subject of covid-19, we don't care about your right of expression if you use it to make disinformation.
the worst part is that you need to check how it goes when there are no measures, it's total mess in the united states. when we see that, i don't understand how someone can say to himself: yes, that's what i want for us too.
merry christmas bunch of cellars
$ 415,874 to replenish the city's coffers in dire need. almost half a million! thank you covidiots! please do it again next week!
there have been 3 pandemics this year: covid, vaccine hesitancy, and people's sense of privilege
good
no matter which way you look at it...
"protesters were right, vaccines fuck the world" - what did spreading the virus accomplish
"protesters were wrong" - well, good luck with your protests, not really, fuck you
that's a lot of stupid people...
i dont understand the anti-mask people *specifically*. its well past time the government moved towards thinking in *mode solution* and started figuring out risk-mitigation strategies to re-open the economy, schools, small businesses etc; wearing masks (properly) seems like an effective, low cost first step. if your opposed to the immanent lockdown, you should be in favor of masks... so what is these people's problem? why arent they saying "we dont ban driving, we wear seatbelts; dont ban the library, wear a mask"...
$ 1546 is not enough for the cost of the hospital if everything is covidiots fell ill
i walked by a similar protest the other week. saw some thin blue line flags, q posters, etc. as i was walking by, this one dude kept filming me and zooming into my face for some reason. the people there looked so cracked out. 
the people that partake in fringe politics are never well adjusted.
hey, ministère de l'éducation, you have some work to do.
where i come from you would say to them: "cheh!"
if only the spvm had had the same presence during the demonstrations this summer.
we could finance the pcu by giving tickets to people who demonstrate.
there should be a note in the medical record to anyone who receives a contravention that they have voluntarily decided to expose themselves to covid and therefore are not eligible to use medical insurance for the treatment of illness or disease. any complications due to covid. i don't want to pay for the reestablishment of those settler asti out there.
this is why we are on full lockdown again.... not because i went to have dinner with my mom
these fines are not enough, we need stricter consequences.
wow, what a density of morons! add two or three worse they will turn into a black hole ...
[deleted]
those retards are **pro-covid**
good luck in front of the judge. there is already a case law: [ danemark( / 06 / a-judge-confirms-a-ticketcovid-19)
[
get fucked covidiots
ke-ching! ke-ching!
you could say this was a creative way of funding the police? 
cake
surely there is a way to keep / respect the strike, a fundamental right of democracy without giving more power to the police officers that we just denounced a few months ago.
i am not fighting for people who ignore the dangers of covid by coming together. on the other hand, these kinds of actions are against the spirit of democracy.
[deleted]
$415k for valérie to spend
trump 2020 man!
there are a lot of quebeckers who would vote trump if he ran in the provincial elections ... there are a lot of people who categorically refuse to make the effort to understand something, because they * feel * something. antagonizing.
[removed]
[removed]
afterwards it's them who start to cry that we can do nothing
if they are hospitalized, the costs to society will quickly exceed the gains in fines.
unfortunately, they will all contest their ticket, thus clogging the municipal courts.
[removed]
i'd offer them a 90% reduction of their fine if they get vaccinated in front of the mother fucking judge fuck these people so much
it doesn't even pay the police in extra time ...
you make zero sense
ftfy
that's a lot of stupid people who got caught.
it is just the tip of the iceberg. there are a lot more.
what's worse is if 90% of people wore the damned masks, we wouldn't even need to lockdown and could live somewhat more normally. 
fucking entitled assholes.
going through this with my roommates. presumably if you want to have lots of people over you'll make sure they wear masks so i have less of a case against that? but no
not to mention that empty coconuts will also make many other sick
less fringe than you'd think
i wonder if this is a consequence of the high male high school dropout rate.
it takes 7 otherwise it's unreadable / s
there were plenty of police during the summer but the participants in the demonstration were almost all masked. i see no problems.
we wore masks this summer and tons of people were handing out purell. apples and oranges.
less than 100 cases per day vs the 2000+ we have these days ... the situation is totally different.
i have a theory that this is done on purpose to reduce the speed of cars.
i had lived in the same area and it's been 5-6 and they changed the timing of the parallel streets to 30-40km / h when the limit is often 50.
not to mention the fires that last 5 minutes to check by the police to avoid the traffic but in fact it just causes more traffic
what annoys me is when i am a pedestrian who wants to cross straight, and to my left there is a car which wants to turn right. our two lights are red, then our two lights turn green at the same time.
still better than sherbrooke. whenever a pedestrian presses a crossing button, all 4 directions would go red, so he can cross diagonally.
montreal, particularly the heart of the island, has a high density of traffic in all directions at the same time. if you syncronize one side, the other sides are completely out of sync. so they make rather unpleasant compromises i agree. surely it could be better but it will never be perfect.
usually the people who say that don't know that you can't synchronize the lights in both directions. you have to make a choice of which direction you want to help, and the other will suffer. it's normal.
the problem is much bigger than just the timing of traffic lights. there will always be problems as long as cities are uniquely suited for motorists, as is the case in north america.
i strongly encourage you to listen to the videos of "not just bikes" which explains perfectly why north american cities have the worst urban design in the world, and it is especially because we favor cars in all our trips. 
obviously you did not know the pre-synchronization period
boulevard ste-foy in quebec has entered the chat
no, you're not the only one.
fortunately, the municipal elections will put an end to any hope of getting out of it.
on rl o, between papineau and place desjardins, i literally turn on all the lights, a fucking saturday-sunday morning (when the synchronized lights should work perfectly at 50 km / h). worse, it's not a story of `` y want to slow me down so i would have to drive at 40 to be in sync '', i wait at least 30 seconds for each light, i would have to go to 20 km / h i think .
cycling on st-denis on weekday mornings, if you don't want to have to shoot all the red lights one by one all the way to the city center, you don't have to choose to burn one to have a feeling of not being stopped every 2-3 pedal strokes. people who stop, get bored after 3-4 lights and then burn a light, not sure it's much safer to want to limit people's speed to a certain point. it creates the opposite effect.
roundabouts could solve some of the problems caused by traffic lights (no arbitrary stopping of the vehicle when the traffic is light in particular - problem common to lights and stops)
there is probably a reason for their absence: perhaps the population would be unsettled to see a new kind of intersection, or that it is hardly / hardly practicable for large / long vehicles?
no. they are synchronized perfectly, to increase congestion.
the synchronization was made at their facilities, all focused on the boulevard. since then there have been a lot of changes, including equipment replacements, partial updates and limit reductions to slow down traffic.
it costs a lot in loss of production taxes for the city and in additional co2 emissions. on the other hand, these are not figures that appear in the city's accounts, so synchronizing the system is always calculated as a cost and not as an investment.
then it gives the emergency services a little advantage because if you go around 1.5x the limit allowed in the majority of boulevards, you can hit almost all the green ones.
what drives me the craziest is that we pay police officers to control lights in construction areas. caliss, the other cities simply have cameras and a center where they can more systematically and logically traffic everywhere with especially less people. can't the police go and do their job? what the fuck ??? these are the real problems of our city, not the screeching of the height of the buildings
imagine heating in town
yes, but...
often lights programming isnt immediately obvious. some streets, like sherbrooke, are synchronized for busses. other lights are programmed to mitigate a dangers like traffic accidents or congestion in unwanted areas. 
ultimately it's a balancing act. no system is going to be perfect for all the different types of traffic all the time so planners get blamed for an impossible situation.
i am in baie-comeau, where there is one main boulevard, and therefore it would be logical to synchronize the lights to favor the busiest boulevard. the lights are not synchronized and are absolutely eternal and stay green too long for the less busy streets that intersect, causing long queues on the boulevard while nobody is walking on the adjacent street. i had never seen lights so misconfigured and with no synchronization in all of the city. at least there is not too much traffic ...
i think it depends on how rushed you are.
it depends on the direction you take.
you escaped this: "i"
they are modified by police for construction so often and never synched back to "normal" it's so infuriating!!
it's going to sound very counterintuitive to a lot of people, but i'm pretty sure it's on purpose.
a lot of studies have shown that if you make the car more fun to use, people who have cars will just use them more, even if other transportation options exist, and these kinds of measures tend to increase the cost. use of the road network, but not really the fluidity of traffic or transit times (the same studies are cited to argue against the 3rd link in quebec). so, on the face of it, part of the stated goal of a lot of city planning these days is to make automobile transportation more tedious - or, at least, we just really don't make an effort to make life easier. more pleasant for motorists.
the idea behind it is that you want the only people driving around town to be the few people for whom it's really, absolutely the only option. one-way streets everywhere, parking restrictions, everything is planned to on the one hand dissuade people from outside from coming to montreal by car, and on the other hand to dissuade montrealers from buying or owning. cars, because what really makes a big difference, more than "stop / start", is just the number of vehicles on the road.
so, in summary: yes, it may be that the synchronization of the lights does not always suit motorists - it may even be done entirely on purpose.
it's to slow down cars.
we have to talk about the stupid number of stops too ...
we could easily set up traffic lights that change automatically when there is no one left to take the green light. what could be more frustrating than everyone who waits for nothing.
the synchro of the lights is indeed crap.
the city spends every year to analyze traffic… among other things with the mtl trajet app (
i participate every time… and quite frankly i haven't seen any improvement in the last few years.
montreal's lights are mechanical, you can synchronize them, but it takes a blackout of the whole city to do it :)
for sure!
i’ve noticed it has gotten worse over the last few years. 
i hate the go, stop, go, at every other street.
a very sneaky way of troubling car drivers and make people think twice about driving in the city.
it's time to make them smart! like in la! on an island like montreal, that could help a lot.
henri-bourassa, from langelier at st-laurent, in the evening, if you stick 1 green and you drive at 50 km / h you push them all green.
if you get the first red one, change the street: p
in which city are they well in sync?
i find it amusing that most of the comments assume some form of fire planning. personally i think this is another case of the incompetence of the city. the lights are not equipped to be synchronized, that's all. it would be too expensive and would require a planning of the works which obviously is beyond the capacities of the city.
he makes a lot of terrible decisions. saint-michel north direction, corner saint-joseph. before there were three lanes to turn to one side or the other or continue. one fine morning they cut off the lane from the left turn with a hatched area. it jams every morning and we waste a lot of time. residents get annoyed with noise and fumes. no reason to do this, not for bicycles or pedestrians. saint-joseph which constantly changes between 30 and 40 km / h. 😖
i've been saying this for 30 years
well, you just have to drive slower or much faster ..
but yes c boring the stop-go-stop-go for nothing and the limits to 30-40 everywhere ..
horrible here. everything in my area is either 1000 stop signs or poorly sync lights. one light goes green the one 300m away goes red just as you approach going 40kph. then it's 8 stop signs in a row 50m apart.
speak english frenchy pants
lots of beautiful videos to explain how it works:  but we must not forget that montreal is the last city in north america to have electro-mechanical control fires. also the only city with new york to prohibit right turns on a red light. the problem is that our lights are synchronized assuming the right turn is allowed. easy to notice because if we could turn right at the red light, we could have the green on the street where we are entering. finally, the system was completely corrupted by all the changes to the speeds (30, 40, 50) among others. so, for those who think our cities are made for cars, you'd be wrong. they are made for us and we have personal mobility vehicles, whatever they are. having a car allows us to access a wide range of services and take on jobs that would otherwise be inaccessible, as well as getting us out of town in any direction we want. the car is an instrument of progress.
not a theory, i have fellow traffic engineers who worked for the city and timing (or not) is part of the toolkit to control which axes are favored by motorists. one might want to discourage them from using an axis by ensuring that a parallel option is better synchronized for example.
afterwards, there is also incompetence among the people responsible for this work lol.
edit: i guarantee you that complaints made to 311 are heard by city staff. if your street is out of sync, complain. that could work.
we can synchronize the lights to let the cars run at 40km / h
i think the same, it's not a bug it's a feature. i'm unfortunate enough to have to drive on the boulevard every morning…. it's excruciating and it could be so much better.
after that they are surprised that the world is traveling at 60-65km / h to catch up with the lights ...
maybe, but if you have synchronized lights it can encourage cars to go slower. if you notice that you are always going to have reds> 40 km / h, (or whatever the limit is), it is likely that you will choose to ride at that speed. when you're very lucky to have red, people try to go faster / speed up to "catch" the green (i do that for sure!).
i lived in a place where this was the case for the central street that went through the city center. it was really efficient - the timing was so precise you could roll to a red with 100% confidence that it will turn green by the time you get there if you were riding at the limit or just below (so not necessary brake).
most definitely yes. 
i think either current administration or the one before set it that way.
are the traffic lights there to slow down cars? who would've believed that! i thought they were there to make them go faster! / s
what is the delirium of the police officers who are there every 3 intersections? montreal is not capable of having fires that regulate themselves?
wait, we have a leonard cohen mural? first i’ve heard of it.
leonard cohen is watching you masturbate
did you intend to make it look like a giant leonard cohen in the sky
i definitely wouldn't have recognized montreal without that mural of leonard cohen!
yo dawg, i heard you like leonard cohen paintings so i put leonard cohen painting in my painting of a leonard cohen street scene.
nice painting! [but suddenly](
post 9x nico rizzuto's photo ( on reddit it's pretty intense
who?
you should hold it up next to the mural for a full cohen effect.
lol...he's peeking at us.
attack on titan vibe
my favourite
this sub has made me hate this mural.
twilight zone vibe
scott bakula.😩🤌
do you sell prints?
every time i walk by this i smile ! it’s fucking amazing!!!
it's been months of living here and he still creeps me out.
it's on rue crescent, lively place on weekends, at least during the before times.
[spot mr cohen.]( taken from mount royal.
there is actually 2
definitely ceiling cat vibes from that angle!
master song*
no need for rude comments here...
no, this is on a building in montreal on crescent street.
this is a novelty clearly added last week!
every time i walk by it, my mind immediately thinks it is anthony bourdain, even though i know it is supposed to be cohen ahaha!
the celebrity chef who sadly died three years ago, he liked montreal quite a lot and went to au pied de cochon. i think that's why he's on a mural now.
nice
yes, i currently sell prints, here is the order form with all of the info:
thank you so very much!
grandpa, tell me of the before times!?
where’s the other??
yes. they're very much needed on this post.
have you ever read leonard cohen?
or do you just enjoy commodifying his image?
because cohen would have preferred the above comment to yours.
lol
yes, i live near that one, but why is leonard cohen looking down on us from the heavens in your painting?
impossible
tony bourdain
thank you for this. /u/omnicharge buys prints too.
yes i have, and i met him twice. very humble man.
do not question the elevated one
oh nice! thanks for pinging me! i just bought 5 prints
i don't care what your ideologies are. if you're considering voting for coderre, you'll contribute to giving the keys to city to promoters and developpers who have no interest in the greater good.   
and also, why aren't we talking about densification outside of downtown? that's where the real issue is in my opinion.
the idea that high rises is the answer to affordable housing is completely laughable. it's ridiculous she even had to make this pledge.
is this actually a contentious policy?  like is there polling showing that citizens actually want larger towers than are already here?
to be fair, newer constructions are absolut shite.
dumbest debate in montreal, and that says a lot.
"a privatization of the views of the mountain"
as i have demonstrated many times on this sub, the height regulation does not change \ * absolutely \ * nothing as to the view of the mountain from the city. the currently permitted height hides mount royal even from the south shore.
i don't see the point of growing so high when there are plenty of places around the city center where the buildings are no more than 2-3 stories high. there are still a lot of places to densify before erecting a big penis like in dubai.
i contend that the only reason this is controversial is because the issue has been politicized. otherwise, no one fucking cares.
i'm not sure how i feel about this. 
no one in new york city complains that you can't see the hudson from central park. it's not like the park is ruined by being surrounded by skyscrapers. if there's new and interesting construction projects that go over the 232 meter range (which would increase the population density and perhaps encourage public transit at the expense of the banlieue) is it such a bad thing? 
i'm very pro valérie plante, i'm just not sure how i feel with regards to this very issue. convince me otherwise.
great, let's take down the cross on top of the mountain then. until then any secularism initiative is plainly discriminatory against non-christians.
good.
i get it, and rationally support it, i also think really tall skyscrapers are cool if a little pointless these days. 
so yeah, head says this is good, heart says "me wanty big tower"
but what is the solution? can someone enlighten me on this?
new-york had to build in height for lack of space, i think that will happen to us one day in the future, right?
she's still around??
i know this idea silly but why not copy london (the real one in england) by only allowing such buildings if they don’t obscure the sacred cross, thus they have to get creative and give them funny shapes
i find that the real problem at the moment is that with the current limits, we are creating a plateau at exactly 200m (at 190m + there were 5 in 2015, 6 in 2017 and there are 6 under construction at the moment)
and then the plateau drops to 160m exact, then 120m exact, 80m and 60m.
instead of having the visual of a mountain of skyscrapers that most cities have, montreal will be a staircase ...
regardless of the height limit, what would be interesting is to introduce a rule of view angle to protect on mount royal.
a bit like london has on st paul's cathedral, which forced the promoters to create unique architecture, since they could not obstruct the view of the cathedral from a specific location.
(protected view of london: 
1 floor is about 3,3 m . so 232 m convert to 232/3.3=70
the highest building in montreal (by number of floor) is la tour des canadiens 2 with 53. so with 70 floor there still room to grow.
232 m is the height of the mont-royal. i'm pretty sure that the by-law already prevent construction higher than the mountain.
finally, i don't think with the uncertainty of return to work downtown vs work from home, no developer will want to build a skyscraper any time soon. in the end it's a virtue signaling saying i'll fight the big developers.
thank you, valérie.
i'm glad we're focusing on the impotent(tee-hee☺️) things in elections these days...
😒
[deleted]
good. how about that police budget?
this is such a dumb regulation. can off island communities such as brossard etc go above 232m?
on the one hand, there are ample places to build skyscrapers of this height and less and continue to densify the city. on the other hand, the reason is a little silly ~~ like his mayoress ~~
coderre is from the "old liberal party" the one responsible for the [sponsorship scandal](
codere was also defending the chief of police when he [illegally spied on a quebec journalist](
coderre is also into the habit of using the montreal police as his own private police force, which bit him in the ass in the case of the [fake "porn fraud" case]( involving his son.
or that [$25,000 bribe coderre got from a laval businessman]( when coderre was a liberal mp...
**an "old political wolf" like coderre has not changed and will not change.**
honestly the quality of life is better outside of downtown
the "plan métropolitain d'aménagement et developpement" puts forward densification objectives bades on transport oriented developments (tods). what that means is densify within a 1 km radius to a public transport hub. 
theres also major environmental and economic development orientationa in there. 
that plan was signed by montreal and all of the cmm affiliated municipities. its up to us to hold the mayors to it i guess. unfortunate that almost noone actually know about the thing in the first place.
> and also, why aren't we talking about densification outside of downtown? that's where the real issue is in my opinion.
densification outside of downtown and of downtown itself are inexorably linked.
cities follow natural formulas. so much so that bacterial colonies actually grow in much the same way as cities do. 
one of the natural features of cities is that they have a dense core, and density tapers off as you move away from the core.
additionally, average building height increases systematically with city size/population.
when you put these two facts together, it becomes rather obvious that to increase the density outside of the core, the density of the core must also increase.
a limit on maximum building height is a limit on density in the core. a limit on density in the core is a limit on density outside of the core. a limit on density outside of the core is a limit on the maximum size of the city.
you aren't going to get a city of mainly medium density. it just doesn't happen. trying to do so is to turn montreal and its people into guinea pigs.
guinea pigs in an experiment that is likely to fail when the only reason to run the experiment is to appease the nimby community.
no thanks.
asking as someone who's been half paying attention... so who's the lesser evil? trying really hard not to be a "but both sides" cynic here, but it seems like all our options are bad.
thank you!
i wish more people would understand that as well. coderre is not a good mayor for montreal. we do not need his ideas of grandeur which will only benefit the promoters and the big rich owners of sports teams and events.
the big glass towers in the city center will do. it does nothing but make the city ugly. it has no aesthetic aspect. and anyway it's just 400-500 sq. ft. one bedroom luxury condos and bachelors or big penthouses that no one is able to afford. it's just investment buildings.
neighborhoods like mile-end, plateau, rosemont, hochelaga, mercier, etc. need to be developed. let's make condo buildings from 4 to 6 floors with 2-3 bedroom units on a human scale of more than 800 sq. ft.. no need to be luxury as a material either. quartz or marble countertops we can do without. and hire architects who have flair to make colorful buildings with interesting shapes, and big balconies!
it's doable. y are able to do it in europe with limited space. we can certainly do it here.
> don't care what your ideologies are. if you're considering voting for coderre, you'll 
and someone wondered what the sub was going to look like during the elections. it won't take long ...
there is a not downtown? since when? why didn’t anyone tell anyone!?!?
you mean we can have high rises on the plateau?
edit: downvotes from nimby?
i'm ok with high rises and letting the city grow up (as oppose to just further & further out). 
in fact a lot of environmental policies seem to feel high rise condos are better for the environment vs. individual housing. 
but if we going to have high rises - make them family friendly 3+ bedrooms & spacious & affordable of course.
use the space saved to invest in parks.
[deleted]
various article on high rises and affordable housing:
**high-rise housing construction as a way of solving the problem of providing people with comfortable habitation**
 [
>the construction of monolithic buildings, in which is used cellular concrete instead of the standard concrete can be cost-effective. this kind of building material while maintaining the strength improves thermal insulation and facilitates the design of the house and this solves the problem of the quality of mobile communication that occurs in the monolithic structures.  
>  
>thus, the implementation of large-scale housing projects in modern high-rise construction requires a combination of innovative technologies that allow creating a comfortable environment for consumers and a wide range of capabilities for developers and they will receive not only the gratitude from consumers, but also the financial gain. the construction of high-rise buildings allows attracting more than 80% of extrabudgetary financing, solving the social problem of improving the living conditions of citizens and promises profit to investors.
cities don’t need high-rises to become affordable 
[
high rise is the urban solution
 [
push for more affordable housing in high rise falls short
 [
citizens?  you think citizens are pulling the strings?  try greedy developers building shit nobody wants.
higher density is better for the environment to some degree. also skylines are beautiful.
[deleted]
more people than you think believe that the only way to solve the « crise du logement » is to increase the amount of apartment available to rent. so yeah, a considerable amount of people think it's a dumb policy and that it should be changed so that you don't need to compete with 12 couples for a 4 1/2.
look only to nyc with their ugly super tall condo buildings near central park that almost every new yorker hates. montreal has a nice skyline and there’s room for hundreds of more 40-50 story towers before we ever have to think about going taller
[deleted]
how so?
> the height changes * absolutely * nothing regarding the view of the mountain from the city
the reverse is the view of the city from the mountain. the idea being that the "best" view of montreal is that of the mount-royal, accessible free of charge, and not that (paying) of the observatories of the skyscrapers.
people don't seem to understand that there are two things at stake, the view of mont-royal from several strategic points across the city that have already been determined (certain axes like rachel and places like place vauquelin) and the view at from the kondiaronk belvedere on certain points of interest (seen on the jacque-cartier bridge as an example) it is not all the views of mont-royal that are protected, otherwise we could be done with.
maximum height has almost nothing to do with protected views other than a dozen or so very specific sites. nothing higher than the mont-royal is arbitrary and it has nothing to do with the protection of the views.
why are skyscrapers always built right in front of the mountain that gives the city its name?
we could follow the example of paris and go fuck that in laval. it seems that creating another real center would have positive repercussions for the dynamism and transport of the entire metropolitan region. unless there is a municipal bylaw regarding the cosmodome rocket 🙃
pretty much
everyone in ny hates the new super tall condo towers built on billionaires row. 
when some asshole builds an 80 story building, it will quite literally ruin the montreal skyline for decades..
there’s room for hundreds of my pvm height buildings in montreal, hundreds upon hundreds. we are nowhere near needing to increase height limits. it’s insane
> it's not like the park is ruined by being surrounded by skyscrapers
strongly disagree. sunlight. sunset. view of the city.
how often do you go to the park? is it possible you don't care much about this because it's not part of your life?
what
to relax the zoning rules among other things.
look at the old angus, it is very dense but it does not exceed 4 floors. the solution is, among other things, to offer quality apartments. no hasty condos like in griffin town
i leave you the following video which gives leads on densification without exceeding 4 floors.
just for clarification, the 232m is based on the maximum height above sea level. so depending on where you are on the island, the maximum height of the tower varies depending on the topography of the terrain.
for example, the canadiens 2 tower is built on land that is already 36 m above sea level.
housing/construction rules are absolutely the important things, unless you want rents here to go the way of toronto
it's been a while since my last montreal model, but i hope everyone likes this one.
i was driving down ste. catherine street with my daughter eons ago and as we passed by on the other side of the street she asked me this: "is that a barbie store? can we go inside?"
never been there but always thought the sign was kinda cool!  
sadly i think it closed and there is a rumor that apple will move there to have more space!
this is so f'n cool. i hope you post pics of more landmarks and maybe even a series of your older ones.
it's very cool, but i don't think you need to include this one as post-apocalyptic. for now just call it 1:48 scale.
*very* fucking cool. keep creating.
this is the most awesome thing i've seen in a long time following
it always reminds me of a place out of a gaspar noé movie.
beautiful work !!
reminds me that a french metal group have a song named super sexe because of that sign. they wrote it after seeing it in montreal after one of their tour here. the band's name is ultra vomit and they do kind of parodic metal.
mr. x likes the sexy times as well i see.
even the crowd is on point.
nice work!!
do you have a portfolio for the other landmarks?
ahhh what memories. strange as it sounds, they had a good lunch buffet at super sex.
now go go café cléo! or the foufs? i hesitate.
next fallout landmark obv. :p
super cool! bravo!
it just reminded me of memorable evenings.
omfg this is perfect!
awesome job
your projects are all frankly successful, well done!
personally, it would be a work that i would proudly exhibit at home.
it reminds me of abigail goldman's work.
haha let me know if you need access to a 3d printer in montreal mate <3
it's maybe my favorite montreal sign. so cheesy, so dated, so fun.
lol trust me, nothing of value was lost
i've never been inside myself either, i just love the sign.
i wonder if i they’ll put the sign up for auction.
if there's enough response i might do just that. in the meantime you can find my earlier projects on my profile here.
thanks! i worked really hard on this one. if there's enough response, i may finish up my biosphere remains.
thanks, i'm really proud of how it came out. :)
thanks! i'll have to look up their work.
lol, good eye!
that probably took the most work for this model, but it was probablythe most fun too. i custom made every model from video game meshes, reposed them in blender, printed them out, and then painted them.
thanks! it's probably one of the more difficult models i've made, i'm really proud of it!
you can check my post history, they're back there somewhere. otherwise, there's  some stuff on insta at apocalypse_montreal.
first, i think i'll try to complete my biosphere model. maybe foufs after that.
thank you!
thanks, i had a lot of fun making this one. :)
merci! just looked up abigail goldman, you're right! her stuff is so great.
i'm rocking an elegoo saturn here, it goes whoosh-whoosh. but thanks!
start with enter the void :)
i need all of these montreal sets for kill team lol
ah, i've seen that one! just didn't recognize the name behind it. i'd probably have to admit that the film likely had some small subconscious influence on this project, all the neon and crazy dancers and such.
never tried it, these are for gaslands and cyberpunk red. is it fun?
it brought me back to the sequences where his friend brings him to a psychedelic building model builder's home.
again, awesome stuff!
it lacks effects a little
i like it despite the oversaturation.
do you have the original?
why is the photo so bad? looks like it's oversaturated and the shadows are too dark?
looks like everything is on fire. can someone photoshop the dog with his coffee mug that says "this is fine" in the photo?
i love it.: - d
yes, it's oversaturated but it looks like an impressionist painting. it's beautiful fall in montreal.
my mother lived on this street younger
it's nice
wow absolutely beautiful!
fantastic to see this. my grandparents lived on rielle and i have only wonderful memories of this street.
i hope you don't mind but this is now my new phone wallpaper. ❤🧡💛
love it
woooww that's beautiful!
beautiful. simply beautiful. merci.
mainly yellow i think.
lmao
yes you are right. i have just started to practice.
[ask and you will receive] (
not at all! flattering to hear!
what does the original look like?
i miss home, i used to live in rosemont and this reminds me of it.
let's say it's less orange and more gloomy😄
i saw the cops drive up in vans towards st cat's, get out and immediately start shooting tear gas into a crowd of people celebrating. they absolutely were not rioting at the time and there were children in the crowd.
the police didn't even give a warning before they started with the gas, i'm not surprised it got bad after that crazy escalation.
cops came in and tear gassed the crowd before any violence occured. needless escalation.
it's the no warning before kettling and pepper spraying people over and over (children included) for me!
i agree with those who say the police threw the tear gas too fast. i was corner rené-levesque / drummond, rather far from the freaked tank (mcdo center bell). a few freaks threw beers at the police but the whole crowd was jumping and screaming peacefully. no warning and boom we get thrown tear gas. it was mean in criss.
a guy climbs up a pole, another throws a bottle: it justifies gassing and brutalizing 10,000 civilians 5 streets away
we recently talked about the problem that 87% of spvm police officers were not even residents of montreal.
that's why it's a problem.
the guys from groupe d'intervention return to the island of montreal with the same hostile mentality as a navy landing in fallujah: when they are with us in montreal, they consider the entire local population to be hostile and organized like an army. . and that it is justified to violently attack people who did nothing, as if we were all soldiers of an enemy army and that it was * fair * to let off steam by beating on random civilians to get revenge for the humiliation of one of their damaged cars.
it is useless to explain to them that the people who walk towards the metro have nothing to do with those who damaged their beautiful car, for the commuter police officers of the spvm all montrealers are interchangeable and it is their right to violate us when they're in a bad mood.
ironically, they themselves are literally an army with uniforms and a chain of command and refuse to take responsibility when one of their members commits crimes against the population. this is ultra double standards.
good video of how police shoot teargas randomly in the crowd: 
just your normal st jean party 😂
anybody else saw the hit and run that happened outside the bell centre after the police fired the initial tear gas?
saw a car crash into pedestrians while being chased by an agry mob. 
anybody have any videos or updates on that?
rookie numbers. give it a couple weeks
fuck the cops , throwing lacrymo without warning is literally asking the crowd to get hostile.
if it was the fans that started it first and created violence let’s say that. but it was not, it was the cops that threw teargas before any person did anything. people were celebrating and happy and that’s it. the flipped cop car was in retaliation because the cops threw the gas first. this is the only actual truth of what happened.
let's not forget the nice revelers who prevented emergency vehicles from going to interventions. very nice to climb on fire trucks (video included) and on the top of ambulances to immobilize them.
[habs fans delay firefighters from responding to emergency after vegas series win](
that's pretty tame actually.
[
just like in 2010-2012. i thought we'd be better. both the fans and the spvm
sounds like montreal
remember when bush came to montreal and told bernard landry he was impressed by our cops for repressing so efficiently during some summit?
it's a regular event, nothing to see here move along.
[deleted]
as far as montreal hockey riots go, this did not get bad at all.
power tripping cops need something to do now that they can't ticket peaceful night walkers
are you saying they starting spraying the crowd *before* a cop car got flipped over?
this was incredibly tame compared to what it was in 2010 for example or 2012. so maybe the police tactics worked as intended.
i got cought in it at rene levesque and drummond, no one was doing anything menacing to the cops, just some fireworks closer to the intersection from us and people climbing the poles. once we got a whiff of the gas we ran.
this is really it. the police shot first.
i was in the crowd at the bell center and didn’t understand why people were running my way and then i felt the pepper spray. i assume they started using pepper spray when the car got flipped but that’s my assumption. wouldn’t it make sense to warn people through a speaker phone that they will be using tear gas to those that do not follow their instructions…. i was highly disappointed with them last night. they acted like bullies all over downtown. people were celebrating at dorchester square and all of sudden more pepper spray….
ah so the police rioted
not true. tear gas was thrown after things started to get out of hand. stop spreading bullshit
i was there. some people actually flipped a police car and bashed in the windows. i believe the police started throwing the tear gas canisters after that. i think they did too much though; i was very far from where the accident actually happened and over the span of a few minutes, 2 tear gas canisters were thrown at a 5 to 10 meter range from me. where i was, the crowd was peaceful, just celebrating and jumping around...
i was there. people were blowing fireworks in massive crowds, throwing cans at the cops and breaking sign posts. shit was starting to hit the fan. throwing tear gas was absolutely the best way to disperse the crowd before further escalation
[deleted]
stop spreading false info.
i’d avoid bringing children to the bell center going forward. regardless of who shot first, there was going to be violence no matter what, there’s always riots when the habs make the playoffs.
this shouldn't come as a surprise, the spvm did the same thing against students in 2012
they're so angry they can't just go rolling into parks and fuck with people anymore. this was a perfect chance to flex their muscles again.
when the cops dress in riot gear, one can be sure that there will be a riot, [of some sort] (
i'm sure you're right. but i'm also confident that had they waited longer, the odds are shit would have gotten out of hand and would have been worse. 
breaking up everything too early and making innocent people feel annoyed is a decent price to pay in order to avoid mayhem.
the truth is, in big crowds, it's often mostly innocent people, but the crowds fuel the riot people. and if you leave it longer, they get more drunk, and feed off themselves. 
if you break everything up way too early. people will be bummed, but you refused any riots before they even got going. 
which is good. if you wait for them to get going, now you have riots. 
canadiens fans on st-jean making the final, the likelihood of riots was pretty fucking high lol. even if they hadn't started to be in full bloom yet.
and you know, that's someone's shop maybe that was saved by acting too early.
forreal, i was there and they were just straight up charging and hitting random people when they decided to clear a street. you barely got a warning, yhey just get off the bus, blow a whistle and then its instant chaos...
they were shooting the fucking teargas straight upwards, no way they were aiming at anything and they vould easily have seriously hurt some innocent habs fan for no good reason
crowd acting like a bunch of idiots and then for some reason when things calm down, tear gas drops.
"several supporters, among other things, climbed onto a car that was trying to pass through the crowd."
from tva
was it the silver car with the italian flags?
with the amount of people that were out there yesterday, it's bound to happen.
yeah like 15 arrests?  ?  what was that?  amateur hour?
i don't know about that, i didn't see the car get flipped. i'm saying the people i saw those cops shoot at weren't doing anything, it was unprovoked. 
there were thousands of people there, thousands of people didn't flip a cop car, a few assholes did.  it's not an excuse to gas unconnected people including children, without even a warning.
it also wasn't one massive crowd, there were pockets of people all over downtown, the cops were tear gassing all of them.
oh yeah absolutely! the cop car flip was a retaliation from pised fans that the cops yeeted a metric fuckton of tear gas to disperse the crowds without even trying basic things, like asking or guiding traffic, first.
i agee, the fans need a 2 minute coincidental minor penalty to accompany the 4 minute major and subsequent game misconduct / suspension for the spvm
we all know that's a different story for another subreddit 😂
r / copaganda
i live nearby. the police escalate every time.
i literally watched them do it but go off
ta yeule man, nice pigs propaganda.
why do i see a nasty duck head on the left hand?
ms paint?
spectacular
nhl on msdos
make us a mini hockey game with these graphics
took me a while to see the goalie. i see a duck
edit: i didn't find the photo, but it had the same position on this stop 
edit 2: 
laugh all you want, but this masterpiece would sell for a high price in nft format on platforms like ogn or even opensea
what a boss.
nice move, wow!
carey's name on the cup. in bold
presumably it's howard the duck hidden in mitte at carey
i don't know, but i see the same thing as you and i can erase it from my head
i see the same thing, happy to see that i am not alone.
this is a brush on procreate. i like the "ignorant" rendering
thanks very much !
vgk format: / q / u
well duck
on this photo that i based myself! good eye
you think? 👀
foreal! we got this boys and girls!!
no matter what software you use, it's successful :)
[deleted]
eh?
(j'ai ri) neeeeeerrrddd
(jk)
it works why not 👍
thank you :)
i have a long history with paint.
i second, but a black background would be more punchy, well according to me, the tastes and the colors ... [draft example] (
if you care about your car, i would get a dual dashcam installed (something like [this]( and make sure it turns on when it detects movement / some kind of impact even when the car is idle. then tell these people to fuck off.
if you don't care about your car, just tell them to fuck off.
people oddly possesive of the space they don't own in front of their street. my suggestion would be to either ignore them outright and be passive aggressive and smile and say 'have a wonderful day!", or just politely tell them that there are no parking restrictions and you need somewhere to park. if you become hostile, you may get your car keyed.
and brace yourself for next winter's fun!
i feel you. i hate these assholes who won't even use their own empty fucking driveway ffs. they can fuck all the way off.
> also, almost none of them park their cars in their own driveaway, 
this is typically italian.  the driveway has to be cleared of cars so the old man can hose it down the entire afternoon.
i suggest keeping this conversation as short as possible because you are clearly not dealing with people who have a rational relationship to stuff.
i'm thinking something along the lines of : "the no parking signs decide where you can park. same for me."
also, i agree with the suggestion in this thread to get a dashcam. people who don't have enough sense to know where their property ends probably don't have enough sense to know when they're wrong.
tell them to fuck off, they’re not going to do a damn thing.  don’t allow yourself to be bullied.
how else are they going to water their driveway if their own cars are in it?
show who’s the man park in their driveway lol.
i once had a guy turn on his sprinkler when i left my windows down. from that moment on i purposely parked in front of his house every time, but with my windows up. unless he can show me he owns the concrete that everyone’s taxes paid for i couldn’t give a shit what he thinks
ask a neighbor who loves you to leave a rumor that you are a little violent and disturbed.
this type of shit happens in any duplex neighborhood.  what starts out as a young couple owning a duplex turns into an old couple with douche kids that wont move out.  cars multiply from 1-2 to 3-4.  then they get older and you end up with 3 generations in one house....all having cars.  so there's no room for your car, there's no room for the neighbors car, or their hanger on kids.  all out fight.
if you live in a duplex apartment, you are destined to park far from your apartment.
i didn’t even finish reading your story that this took me back to when i lived in verdun. we used to call my neighbor the mayor of the street. people there were crazy about anyone parking in front of their duplexes. it was insane. and forget about the winter, god help you if you came home at the end of the day parked in a spot they  cleaned at 8am! i had my tires slashed twice! also that neighbor, who was like 60 and still living with her much more elderly parents, had the audacity to apply for a handicapped parking spot in front of her duplex under the pretense she was the main driver for her parents. that was the biggest bs in the world. in the 4 years i lived there i saw here drive her parents maybe twice. so anyway handicapped sign was installed on the street almost right next to where i live and when my parents came to visit they would park in that handicapped spot (because they had a permit on their car). once she even came to ring the doorbell. i told her to go pound and and call the cops!
just ignore them. they don’t own the road. i would tell them nicely “i’m sorry but this is public property. i’m allowed to park here”
just wave and tell them to have a nice day, and then walk away.
i’d say try to resolve this asap 
when winter arrives and there’s snow and snowbanks it will be war
i have no real solution for you - i made friends with my neighbour who saves me a spot so that none of the other neighbours park near his house lol 
otherwise, just tell them to mind their own business. arguing about parking is the only thing the retirees have going on in life.
have them lookup the criminal definition of harassment and ask them "do we need the police to get involved or can we settle this like civilized human beings/neighbours?"
a lot of old italian women look out the window all day long in st. leo and rivieres des prairies. they freak the fuck out when people park in front of their house. i honestly feel bad for them, thankfully my grandmother is not one of them.
be careful, you never know who these old italians are related to.
be polite
i've been there know how you feel. firstly don't let it get you down, they clearly have insecurities that need many sessions from a professional. secondly probably the most important is to have your car monitored by either camera or gps in case it disappears or gets damaged. hope this helps, remember to not let it get to you.
welcome to st-leonard. most folks there won't even accept a tree on the city right-of-way in front of their house. i wouldn't be surprised if certain homeowners washed the portion of the street in front of their house. in st-leonard, being a property owner definitely evokes an intense air of entitlement. best of luck.
having lived my entire childhood in st-leonard as a person of italian origins, this is a common old italian man fixation bordering on obsession, the spot in front of their house although in the public portion of the street is "their" spot. the parking mafia... and i wish i was joking...
all this being said, they might throw empty threats and the malocchio your way but i doubt they'd damage your car. goodluck!
the games people play with their cars. it is common for people with a driveway to park in front instead. the excuse is the driveway is for the second car, which is in the garage, or for kids visiting etc.
instead of escalation, you can maybe ask what their problem is with parking in this exact spot. if they have to explain that they prefer to park in front of their house, maybe explain that you live here too and also need a place to park. you tell em you don't want trouble, you just want to park close-ish to where you live. that being said, i know that people get really heated about parking, especially when it seems like there aren't enough spots to go around.
i live in a duplex and the garage is full of the owner's old stuff so no one can park there. the driveway is shared by the duplex a coté and that guy parks in the driveway all the time, and also has a garage full of (what i consider to be) junk. luckily parking is never an issue on my block, however.
>i also found some new scratch marks on my car recently...
camera time. if you catch someone on camera that will probably solve your problems real quick.
but for real i feel awful for you. how goddam selfish do these people have to be? they have driveways! what kind of car did you get?
this week i got death threats from the garage owner because i parked in his spot (he always park is wrecker in that spot which is on the public street). no no-parking signs and not a drive way. the fucker called stationnement montreal and they gave me a ticket that i will fight in court. when i was reading the ticket he came out of the garage and started with the threat on my life and promised me he was gonna break my car. so yeah, i dont know where to go from there as i am twice his size but cant start surveilling my car 24/7.
edit: the garage is 70m from my house
i bought a bicycle.
that was the mentality on my street until the borough implemented vignettes.
somehow it made those neighbours, who thought they owned the street parking in front of their property, realise that they didn't own those spots, the city did.
i don’t understand, are you the only person on the street without your own parking space? is that not a common occurence for them?
what are they suggesting you do exactly?
a) make friends with your neighbor so he lets you park in front of his empty driveway
b) tell them you are sorry but the street is public and you have to park somewhere. if you had your own parking you’d use it.
maybe they think you have a driveway but dont want to use it? weird.
echoing other commenters, yes, this a problem in saint-leonard, some people create all sorts of drama for no reason with regard to driveways/parking.
add excessive lawn cutting maintenance to the list too. in the summertime there's always some kind of machinery running.
people also activate their car alarm from their living room window for no reason if they see you doing something they don't like. & calling the city to try and get bylaws enforced for every single little thing. retired people with nothing better to do.  
considering they should be lucky compared to the clusterfuck of parking in more apartment-packed places, they should consider themselves lucky, but instead they like to complain.
park wherever it's legal, and fuck off. parking is an issue in all montreal and everyone wants to park in front of their house but that ain't possible.
[deleted]
you just can't win with these people. only sensible thing to do is to move to a better neighborhood if you have the option.
move to better neighborhood, you can't win fighting with neighbors.
give them cannoli!
talk to them, listen to them, get to know them, jest with them.  don't move the car.  when they ask you to move the car, be polite, firm, and brief.  state in a strong voice "no" you will not move the car.  don't explain, just walk away.  repeat over and over.  if they insult you, pretend you didn't hear, makes it easier for them to communicate with you next time.  after a while, if they ask nicely, and it's convenient for you, you can move the car :-)   good luck.
make it your territory, piss on all the cars. show them who's the boss.
i'd say whenever they look at you or get mad at you face them. like hey what's wrong? where do i park if not here? i'm already parking super far from my house. the street isn't yours you don't own it. what's the issue? 
just face them. what's the worst they can do? vandalize your car? have cameras ready and report to the cops if they do anything.
you have every right to park as you do. put a sign on your car that says under surveillance and remove it when driving around. they are not looking for any trouble....
ask them if you can park in their driveway if they don't use it. 
i had a neighbor who thought he own the small alleyway we had behind our apartment but we checked and our landlord was owning it. we only parked their to unload our stuff and get out as soon as we were finished but he would come out yelling at us with his broom and patrolled the neighborhood afterwards😂 if he saw us in the windows while he was washing his car (and the alleyway), he would spray water in them.  we almost got into a fight once. i was at a family meeting and multiple people who once lived in the neighborhood knew him. crazy old man 😂
come to the suburbs. i can fit 5 cars in my driveway and have ample street parking
ok brace yourselves people:
as a homeowner i'll admit i once got slightly annoyed when a neighbour from the next block would park his enormous and ugly landscaping truck in front of my house because bam there it was every time i looked out my windows. i'll admit that for a week i even passive aggressively parked on the street in front of my house, so i wouldn't have to stare at his ugly truck. 
but to get out and yell at you is a new level of crazy!
up here in canada. we can park in the street, unless there are signs prohibiting it. there are a ton of immigrants in my area, and they seem to be possessive of the spots in front of their house. to the point that one truck owner almost took legal action over the homeowner damaging his truck.
geez i wish i had an quick and easy answer for you.. i think you get those types wherever you are. same sort of situation where i am! add to that the snow removal in the winter when they make huge mountains taking up many parking spots! infuriating!
i generally don't like confrontation so i just continue doing my (legal) thing and they can suck on a lemon if they don't like it.. i don't think there's much we can do. i know this doesn't help but just wanted to let you know i share your frustration..
1. install the dashcam that the top commenter in this thread recommended.
2. politely but firmly confront them and explain that you have every right as them to park wherever you've been parking.
3. inform them that you're monitoring your car 24x7 and that you will go to any length to pursue damages in court should anything happen to your car.
they would be foolish to do anything (passive-aggressive or aggressive) other than backing tf off.
living in and dealing with montréal parking on island is frustrating and nuts at the best of times. add some silly neighbours .. boils my blood. i escalate things and ur story upset me so my advice wouldn’t be too good but i do hope u find a way to coexist with silly ppl. but bullies oughta be bullied back. keeps them mofos in check, ya feel. best of luck !
had a neighbour that had the same mindset as your wonderful neighbours. my dad got fed up one day because of a similar parking situation , he then cracked and said “oh congrats phill , didn’t know you owned part of the fucking city”
they are fucking with you obviously, they don’t have any kind of legal right to do so of course, so i suggest a trick that works every time i use it: just tell them « you’re not happy? call the police! ». it will be the last time they will bug you with whatever! 
if you think they may need a warning i would also tell them: « you touch my car, i will either call the police or burn down your house, haven’t decided yet! » (haven’t tried that one yet i never needed it...) (i would call the police right away if i were you if they threaten your car in any way)
"sir, the public road is not yours. the city signs tell me that i have the right to park here. \ [edit slobbery, if you feel it: * if you have the good idea to come and damage my char, my dashcam will send me your face *. \] have a nice day! " is short and to the point.
i called it mix 96’for many years after that station was rebranded.
here are my previous logo posts, if you want to see them:
[
[
i'm still open to more of your recommendations for logos.  also, i'll be doing logos of montreal malls next.  ...so ... lemme know which malls you went to as a kid and want to see.
i would like even more recommendations for logos. in addition, i will then do logos for montreal shopping centers. ... so ... tell me which malls you went to as a kid that you want to see.
you're forgetting zellers!
i can hear the logo "cité rock déteeente"
cohoes haha. one of my first jobs as a student. from the screeching of big shit, i rejoiced when they went bankrupt
no pascal hardware?
i remember getting clothes as a christmas present in eaton's boxes ... in my head as a 7 year old boy it was the worst gift ever from the fuckin linen at christmas. today that has changed!
in steinberg's time, it was the * liquor commission * not yet the saq.
the only thing i remember from vermont etv is bob ross.
spent way too many hours strolling the music world in fairview before it closed.
wow i had completely forgotten about cohoes and vermont etv! cohoes had the store in promenades cathédrale in the mid 90's but i can't recall ever buying anything from them. they didn't have "cool" clothing.
the  steinberg s sign does any one else remember in elementary school that one kid who would draw those s’s ?
metro and rossy we don't change as long as its hahaha.
chapters!!!!
sam the record man
provi-evening
pegabo
croteau 
q92
always enjoy your posts! thanks!!
i was always wary of cumberland when i was a kid. didn't like cucumbers.
musicworld was my part time job for a good 3-4 years aux promenades st-bruno!
oh man cumberland! i totally forgot that even existed.
nice. i worked at cumberland for a few years. any luck with zazou?
is this vachon logo no longer in use? i don't often buy from their product ... haha.
remember the good ol' st-cum? kinda glad they rebranded that
oldies 990, simpson’s, the m store, obonsoins, super frites, parking (the bar/club) club koxx, the rock gym, marks and spencer’s. of course marks and spencer, marks and spencer!
ah yes, the cum. i've missed that.
holy shit, vermont etv.
you're not making me younger, buddy.
i was born in montreal, but have lived in ontario since i was three or four months old. the first time i went back was on a school visit in 6th grade, just before i was 12 years old.
i remember very well the “montreal, c'est toi * ma * ville!” banners. »and the slogan has marked me forever. i feel that the metropolis is flowing in my veins because every time i go there, even if passing through, i feel so good and at ease, just as if i were really at home. someday i will return to live, if not in the city itself, nearby!
sam the record man
phantasmagoria
eaton! oh my god, i remember the restaurant on the 2nd floor of carrefour laval with the big leather benches and the big window that allowed us to look at the shopping center below!
miracle mart! then renamed to m
i do recognize 28 of these.
not a fan of tv5?
rossy is still around. i know of one in chambly
when i read: montreal, it's you my city, i hear the music in my head: montreal, it's you, maaa ville, it's you the ice cream, it's you the metal, it's youii the aveeeeniiirrr
not sure if this is the original logo but all those other logos made me think of [croteau] ( ).
[bonimart](
not sure if there was one in montreal but there was one on taschereau in the '70s-' 80s.
is it you me or the city logo of montreal is still vintage? lol
these are great! thanks for the throwback! i remembers classics like, boca, heritage (supermarket), au coton, stitches, and picnic!
these are so great. my mom still called it cumberland for years after they closed.
the logo of the urban community!
wow you did cumberland! much respect lol i love these! i recognize every single one except for color your world.
have you done simpson’s yet? or the m store (there was one in alexis nihon. it became zellars, then target and now canadian tire).
love this stuff. 
do you mind if i ask what your process is like /u/drit76 ?
wow! i remember mix 96 from 2006!
famous players would make a great ironic t-shirt for going out
famous players is a vibe
check m'y collection
coles like the australian supermarket?
cumberland drugs! there was one in tmr where kane's used to be.   
i used to like cohoes! i got a lot of stuff there. i miss them. jacob otoh, i think i bought like 2 things there. overpriced!
music world, i don't remember at all.
no forum! recognizing too many 😉
these are excellent. if you're looking for ideas astral photo and discus would be a nice retro blast from the past.
cum i remember cumberland too. i was 9 years old and had been hooked for shoplifting. i cried my life for them to let me go.
i think ~~last~~first and only time i got pulled over was about 4 years ago for a stop i rolled through. been driving for about 10 years. 15 times in a month is insane...seems like they do it to fuck with him since he filed complaints.
this is my favorite part 
"we don't have systemic racism," rcmp commissioner brenda lucki
to have the audacity to bullshit to that extent is beyond me i hope she sleeps ok at night.
systemic racism has entered the chat
some comments are disgusting / stupid / racist
he started to check his lights when cops started to pull him over for having a light out when it isn't even out or other bullshit reasons
of course a conversation that should have been about systemic racism ended up being about the french language.
people commenting on this article across all platforms are sure quick to comment on the mercedes and tracksuit like montreal police couldn’t be just as easily profiling rich mafia-esque or white bearded biker looking guys with that logic. an absolute straw man fallacy, come on quebec
> in 2019, [a report ]( by the city of montreal that looked into street checks, found indigenous people and black people were four to five times more likely than white people to be stopped by police. 
i really wish these kinds of statements came with more context. how much of that is bullshit like this guy getting stopped for cleaning his car and being ticketed for drunk driving and how much is that poor areas have more crime and more minorities thus more more police interaction.
you know, if the police were really upset over being called racist, they could try not being racist.
i've been pulled over three times in my life.  once was actually to compliment me on my driving.  
i'm white though...i bet the number would be higher otherwise.
btw, the quote about there being no systemic racism in "the force" comes from an rcmp spokesperson talking to the globe and mail while macrae seems so have been harassed by montreal police...bit of a weird way to report that.
[deleted]
police state
posts like these are really great to expose all the racists, ignorant, dumb, over-privileged fucks in this sub..
i am so that the police can stop you and make checks even without reason as in europe (and i am not white btw), but i am against that it is fair or mainly on colored men.
[deleted]
dung ostia at the spvm
i was in an suv in 2004 on parc, 2 black guys in front, 3 white guys in back. cops pulled us over for nothing. id'd the two black guys, ignored me and the others, and accused them of being "des chefs de gang".
nope, no problem here.
without coming across like a jerk but this guy is annoying as all hell. first off his mercedes is a clapped 1st gen ml350 that is worth about 1000$. he lives or hangs out in my borough(around lasalle heights)  and is seen around. there is a giant speaker box blocking the rear window, tints as dark as night and has about 100000 poorly attached things on his car. his driving style is somewhat erratic as well. i'll have to dig though my dashcam videos but i know 100% i've seen him burn a stop sign(corner st patrick and clement). while i might not like the cops i also understand how caribbean folks get when you don't show respect or courtesy... so that doesn't help a situation. yes guyana is more caribbean cultured vs usual south american culture
continually playing victim seeking attention in the end causes you to lose credibility and just be seen as an attention seeking. i am not denying the major social/ racism issues on the force but continually banging on about how you are getting pulled over driving a 20 year old benz is annoying. a new cls500 or e63 amgs ? sure you've got my attention. i have a pretty good idea in my head how that recycling box incident went down vs what is being reported...
as for the spvm? it's always worried that such a force is made up of some many white cops. its truly staggering.. with many officers being some outside regions of montreal. we should be demanding that more cops come from within the community they serve rather than tossing in more white cops that don't understand certain areas of town or certain races of people. do you think the young kid in lets say mtl north wants to be a cop when he sees his father or family being harassed by two white cops on a power trip? hell no.. that kid will automatically hate the police. a perfect example of cops on a powertrip is the curfew restrctions. imagine being black, out after curfew?
i am albanian and we often have names like mustafa or samir.
every time i get pulled over by the police, once they see i'm caucasian (white), it looks like they're like "it's okay, let it be, have a nice evening lol".
to be honest i was working with a guy who looked like him in terms of looks, but he was white. and he was arrested for no reason by the police several times a week. worse, he drove an impala and not a mercedes. and not as bad, but i was working more recently with a 50 year old guy who didn't dress alike, but looked like a little criss, and he was driving in a big mercedes, and he too gets done harass.
i put myself in the policeman's shoes ... if you dress like a gangster or drive a mercedes, i would tell myself that the chances of me finding a gun or drugs in the tank are quite high ...
well there's his problem. turning around a car inspecting it is suspicious as fuck lol
who does that? be honest here. absolutely no one.
> mcrae, who was a police officer in his native guyana, moved to montreal in 2006. he'd initially hoped to continue his career in policing, but he doesn't speak french, which ruled out that possibility. 
one
edit: what a rollercoaster this was
try to do that when driving a mercedes while black. your mileage will vary...
serious. i got arrested ...... wait .... twice in .... 9 years? and both times it was really my fault.
illegal right turn at a very difficult place under construction (no ticket, warning only) and speeding once. the policeman even reduced the fine for speeding for being nice to me.
what this dude is going through is stupid.
a few years ago my father was ill so he took away his driver's license. during 2-3 months i drove his tank, i was stopped 5 times in longueuil and the 3 times that i went through customs i was sent with guards who were less and less polite.
[deleted]
[deleted]
"you're an asshole!"
rcmp: no i'm not!
"it's not your opinion, asshole!"
you don't even understand your own concept of systemic racism. racist individuals or individuals who deny the existence of systemic racism do not constitute a system of racism.
that part was wild, imagine every single time you go out, having to check to make sure that if a cop pulled you over for having a light out, you'd be able to confirm or deny if it was working when you got in.
when i lived in an apartment with underground parking, i used to try and tell if my brake lights were working by their glow on the wall, but even now i know that wouldn't hold up compared to what this guy does.
it's absolute insane that people like the person in the article and premier legault can say we don't have systemic racism here when this man is proof of it.
i totally agree. this is a different problem and the language debate was very uncalled for.
you ain't helping, buddy.
[deleted]
do you realize that it is the article itself that starts the ball rolling for talking about the language?
well, of course. in québec, we are racist because we reject anglicizing.
[deleted]
they don't. because rich mafia esque type have money for good lawyers and are harder to bully. also, they are not black, wheras we know that a certain proportion of cops are racist and take great pleasure in targeting blacks / immigrants. 
also if you've been living under a rock, a study came out in 2019 i think and it was talked about a lot in the news. the study pointed out that black people have something like 4 to 5 times more chance of being routinely arrested in traffic for no reason. so yeah you just said a whole bunch of nothing
> like montreal police couldn’t be just as easily profiling rich mafia-esque or white bearded biker looking guys with that logic.
... that's exactly what they do. by the way. lol.
also, that study was about street checks, not stopping vehicles.
yes, we need context. how many of those black people stopped were driving mercedeses? (is that the proper plural?)
a cop pulled you over to compliment you on your driving? need more info here.
>  once was actually to compliment me on my driving. 
funny. it happenned to me, too: i was riding my bike on the sidewalk, which is illegal, minding my own business as a cop car went by, and the cop congratulated me for dressing in day-glo clothing because it made me very visible. :)
edit: some other time, i was riding late at night, also in day-glo (it was summer, so it was just a construction safety vest), with reflectors galore (scotch-lite rims and forks, on the pedals and below handlebars and the seat), two headlights and two blinkers on the rear. in côte-des-neiges, i crossed a bunch of cops on bikes going the other way, and judging by the way one of them looked at me, he was really disappointed to not have any reason to ticket me...
it's containment: after reading the last classified ad in the gazette and the suburban, they come to reddit ...
oh jesus, yes, [like this dude who is a real piece of work](
in fact, it's perfectly legal to refuse to identify yourself: 
i found it a little funny because i was sure that "albania" came from "alabaster", a white stone, but after checking it comes more from "country of the eagles" ... :)
ignorant. it's not "habilles en gangster", it's black culture. are they stopping white men in suits too that "habilles en mafia"? people should not be profiled on what they wear. they can wear whatever the fuck they want. they should only be pulled over for their actions and if the police have sufficient evidence. in this we see the police trying to make up ridiculous arguments that he had a broken light. come on man, you're delusional.
the two times i went to the states with my father's car (bmw) when i was 18, they searched my trunk and took the time to question me. it's because an 18-year-old with a bm is fishy, you're likely to be a powder dealer. i don't blame the customs officer at all, on the contrary i thought he was doing his job well.
> if you dress like a gangster
you mean if you dress like the "black culture" people? it's a bit racist what you say ...
> worse he was driving an impala
that must be why ... :)
anyone who is following the advice of quebec's now-mandatory driving course for drivers first licenced in the last decade or so. they explicitly encourage drivers to do a walk-around inspection each time, both as a general good practice and due to the harsh weather and road conditions here.
source: took caa-quebec's version of that in 2018 and 2019. i don't do it most of the time now, but during in-car lessons and soon after licensure, i absolutely did.
also, any black driver who realizes that some racist cops look for any reason they can think of to pull them over, at far higher rates than whites. verifying that the car is in good condition reduces how many legitimate excuses the cops can identify to justify their bigotry, or phrased another way, increases the ability to contest any tickets or charges that result from the discriminatory stop.
i love that this is labeled under "gastronomie" but it is. 
by far the best falafel ive had in north america. and let me tell you, the secret is in the pita... the guy who runs it used to have a pita company in montreal, abu lafia. 
walked in wth my gf the other day and she proposed that they cater our engagement party.... this is precisely why im marrying her!
fuck me, this place is delicious. the falafel sandwich is the best in the city... try it with kosher pickles. world peace in a pita.
yo the real ones know. fsj is a gem.
no joke, i would order the shish taouk, and thought i was eating chicken for months until a friend told me it was all vegetarian. love this place. the chocolate babka is also to die for! i spend way too much money when i go now cause i have to try new things every time.
one of the best sandwiches in the city, for sure. don’t let the “vegan” label turn you off, fellow omnivores. their mint lemonade in the summer is great, and they’ll have sufganiyot come hanukkah.
the falafel pita is on point. pro tip: ask for fried eggplant in your sandwich. 
also, their salad selections are great. good options: thai eggplant, brussel sprouts, quinoa salad, tabbouleh, cauliflower. 
i always leave with a medium sized container of hummus and a bag or two of pita. their hummus is heavy on the tahini. not everyone's cup of tea (my wife and kid don't love it).
great falafel and the lady at the counter is the best.
i was an og. i lived nearby when they first opened a couple years ago and i went there pretty frequently.
i don't ever bother getting falafel from anywhere else. nothing comes close, it's the real deal.  also the owner speaks english, french, arabic and hebrew , welcomes like 99% of his customers in their own language.
:( mtl i miss you.
i found out about them only recently through family recommendation. my goodness, it is the best falafel i've had outside of israel, and somehow makes me even love halva! 
this place is a must
no parking and its mad ghetto area. but agreed the food is great. i go there almost everytime im in the area for the gun club.
ahhh love em! my old job used to order really awful pizza for events and at one point switched to falafel st j and i don't think i'd ever been happier about a free meal. i don't think i've had a single bad thing from them
yes best falafel hands down! 
there's also another one that's really good too called falafel yoni
was painting in lachine and my friend has celiac disease and when we got there he listened and heard her issues and got out a better bread from us with flour imported from israel. he spoke to me and my friends with so much kindness and passion. i wish it was closer cause that was one of the greatest meals i’ve ever had.
every friday i eat a pita instead in lachine. this is my favorite restaurant in montreal. a serious 10/10. i just hope they don't explode in popularity and go down in quality ...
thanks for the recc, absolutely going to give it a try!
[deleted]
i was super sceptical, but i tried the shish taouk plate and was floored!  i went in prepared to hate it. love the salad selections also.
with all the salad choices when you take the plate
their potato latkas and challah bread are fucking magic.
their falafel are very good indeed.
their sabich rivals the best sabich in israel, and i tasted israel's best sabich (obed's) 1 month ago!
best falafel in the city, potentially ever. they’re salads rival those that my israeli parents make and that’s saying something. 
pro tip: get it a little spicy, and it is way better in house than delivered.
they should move to sherbrooke o..
saved, thx
best falafel in the city hands down.  my only knock on them is that their portion is too large.  i cut em in half now.
to be fair, nothing in ville st pierre gets any love.
they're actually on my to-eat list but the one closest to me is in the garment district so i have to really go out of my way.
how do they compare to sumac? so far sumac is pretty easily my favourite falafel in the city. and their salads are all incredible too.
everyone i know who's been there has loved it. i'm not usually big on vegan food either.
can't recommend them enough! i live at least 30 mins away from their store, and i go there from time to time to grab their falafel sandwich which imo is the best in town.
it's very good, but i've had quite a few ants appear in one of their cake so i'm somewhat abiguous about it...
thanks for this. i feel nostalgic as hell right now. love that place
i really like fsj. but this reminds me of home:
falafel checkers
100% agree. it's the best falafel in the city. always stop when i'm nearby
or on st-jacques?
having been to israel a few times i can say not only is that place authentic but its hella good by israeli standards
i love fsj but the last couple times i went they had changed their amazing potato wedges to what seemed like out of the bag fries.. which made me pretty sad. 
anyone know if that was a permanent change?
weren’t they supposed to open a location on decarie? what happened to that? 
also sumac is amazing. better than yoni. but fsj is best.
its my special lunch treat when i want something that isn't from home. this is coming from someone who tends to err on the carnivore side. looks like i'm getting a spicy falafel sammy on my way home tonight 🤤
it's been on my list of places to try for a couple months now. just need to find a time when both my gf and i are in the mood for it.
that salad menu looks amazing. thanks for the tip.
delicious. i always go for the plate with salads, sooo good!!!!!
the best. i moved to ottawa, and dream of this place every night. strong recommend.
a bunch of people at my work rave about this place, it really is great
is it kosher?
big fan, too bad i rarely go there.
this place is awesome! i came across i a few years ago. i go so often that the staff recognizes me and i dont even have to place an order since ive always ordered the same thing for the last 2 years. love it
i love it... except they recently made a change to their babaganoush and now it's garbage. instead of smoky eggplant and think it's a bucket of mayonnaise with a little blended eggplant thrown in.
looks like i need to try this. love falafel
i understand this comment probably won't land well, but why is this even posted here? it's... not a good picture. the subject matter isn't particularly unique or interesting. am i missing something? this user has posted nice pictures in the past, so i'm not hating or anything.
look at that caterpillar coat. you know you've seen a caterpillar exactly like that.
tlmde without mask. nice.
super beautiful example of the ethinque mix of montreal. it is such a beautiful wealth!
hello
it was crazy yesterday, everyone invaded the parks whether in the south-west, in villeray, rosemont, etc ... it is human to want to regroup after being locked up.
after the 3rd wave coffee here is now the 3rd wave covid variant. :)
(i'm also guilty of going out for a take-out and sitting in a park with a friend.)
[deleted]
the focal point is way too far imo
it kid me that your focus is on "no entry" rather than people. very 'busy' as a cliché.
congratulations montreal! you've reached herd immunity already? so jealous!
has anyone been to atwater market recently? the last time i was there (about a month ago) absolutely none of the shopkeepers downstairs wore masks, despite their kiosks being indoors at this time of year. there is plexiglass here and there, but it's really not enough to be safe ...
please let spring be here soon! in a few weeks, it will be crowded and alive 😍
they finally installed the disinfectant lamps!
i feel creepy, like i'm hiding behind a tree spying on these peeps.
think big. lots of people, no masks. long live quebec. beautiful demonstration of quebec intelligence
not a cellphone in sight, just people living in the mome... oh.
i was going to post that i quite like the picture because it is not a typical perspective that people share of a skyline etc and feels a little closer to a snippet of some form of daily life. montreal has lost a lot of typically cool things like a world economy and particularly safe yet sinister night life since a few "brilliant" people had stupid ideas in the mid 70's but this type of taking 10 minutes to hang and have a coffee at a older market is something that a lot of north american cities have had to strive for in the past 20 years or is very hard to explain.
well to be fair what i get from this picture is that the subject is not one thing in particular, but more the city itself, its soul. the decorations, the road sign, the people that live there, the cabs, the architecture, the dirty snow mounds. it captures so very well the spirit of montreal by the end of winter.
because op wants to shame people who are not wearing masks
i asked myself the same question. the composition is not good and the focus is not good either. it looks like someone who just bought a 70mm 1.8 or an 85mm 1.2 and can't handle it.
edit: too many thumbnails for my taste too.
but hey i stop, we are not on / r / photocriticism
yeah, unclear what he/she was going for
300+ people appear to disagree with you, and counting
the prospect can be disappointing.
what tells you that the 4 are not in the same bubble? there are roommates.
then we wonder why the cases do not go down ..
i nominate you to become the r/montreal representative of the academy of motion picture arts and sciences.
jveut ton username
criminal!
 /s
all the free public terraces are open and frequented, it's just a shame that those who live off their terraces cannot receive customers!
[deleted]
for real yen there is a couple who should go out a bit to get some fresh air and clear their minds.
10,000 deaths in quebec
weird choice of focus point right
i appreciate your perspective! that's the beauty of art, right? you make a good point, culturally: it's easy to forget that very few north american cities have this type of vibe and pace due to a lack of walkability and neighbourhood-centric gathering areas.
okay, cool, and some other people agree. i didn't comment to win hearts and minds, just sharing a thought.
well, the people in the photo that op shares shows us the majority without a mask lol
you're right, let's invent scenarios as incredible as they are improbable to avoid recognizing that a large part of the population is completely crying out about health measures because ... it's not even clear why.
an acquaintance recently posted on fb that he got looked crooked when he took off his mask in the subway. it's like ... "well duh".
it deserves to be underlined. until the situation is back to normal, the world who refuse to make minimal effort should be called out.
even if so why are they exempt from public health guidelines that apply to everyone? wearing a mask in public spaces protects those who are not in the bubble ...
they are outside
alright, thank you!
i'm lucky he was available! i think my first choice was psychedelices.
was it though? is that a play with the "one way" sign?
\ * 74 550 in 2020
of the world yen dies every year
being outside at less than 2m with strangers in a public market is not really the best place not to wear your mask in my opinion. if it was in someone's yard with only one other family circle while respecting a distance of 2m; that would be fine, but not in a public market.
clearly what we are doing is not enough because it has been a year and it has not gone so well. but i'm just a medical professional, what do i know
ya good point, people die all the time so lets just have more people die.
bravo t'est fucking smart
we do not know at what distances they are, the photo was taken with a telephoto lens, one of the main characteristics of which is to compress the distances, it makes people appear much closer in the photo than they are in real life.
> being outside at less than 2m with strangers in a public market
that's a pretty wild conclusion from such a photo 
strange that last year during spring/summer the parcs were absolutely filled to the brim with people chilling without masks, and the cases didn't go up until school opened and temperatures dipped in fall
if it is not * essential * it is not necessary and it increases the risk of transmission. we need to reduce cases more than anyone needs to shop and go to crowded places ..
there is a granny with her mask in the photo. the other two couples seem to not know each other and to be far from each table, each person keeping a reasonable distance.
you can always call 911 and let them know right away it's a non-emergency but you don't know how to contact anyone else.
they can redirect you easily if necessary.
realistically though it would qualify as suspicious behaviour/ public safety concern.
kudos for looking out.
be sure to talk to the police and let them know the time and such. they can go over the video footage (in the metro/ station) if ever needed or start a dossier. this may not be the first time and might be good to have possible video footage to source an image of the guy.
i live right across from the senior's home on the street. in past years there has been a definite uptick in this type of behaviour - my wife walks this route daily and i worry if it's after dark. you did the right thing here - i only wish everyone had your instincts to help others!
if the police has a twitter or facebook i would also try there because it also makes the public aware. 
**important: thank you so much!!!** if i were that woman i would be incredibly grateful.
always trust your instincts.
on lucien allier i was followed while walking my dog about 2 months ago by some douche guy wearing a beaver tail hat. i asked him to stop following me and he said “don’t we know each other” (tip- all creeps will say they followed you cause they knew you/ you asked them to). i went the other direction from my house thinking i’d circle back and saw him hide in an alley presumably to wait for me to walk back towards him.
i went up to a young guy i saw on the street who was just out for a walk smoking a joint and asked him if he wouldn’t mind escorting me home cause a creeper was following me. he obliged and was so freaked out as the guy basically jumped out at us when we passed the alley he was hiding in. the guy walking me home still only barely deterred him and he continued to follow us a bit.  usually i’d call the cops but at the time my priority was just to get home.
anyways - always trust your instinct. lots of creepers out there. but also lots of nice kind strangers who are available to help you out in situations like this so don’t be afraid to ask for help- or like the person in this story - jump in as needed.
[deleted]
there's nothing you can really do at this point.
in the future if you are worried for safety should just call 911.
you can call 911 for any suspicious activity or even minor infraction! 911 is not only for emergencies in montreal! reasons i have called 911 include:
- construction starting before 7 am
- noise complaint on neighbor
- people illegally parked in the débarcadère of my garderie
they always tell me i did the right thing and they are responsive. in all 3 cases they solved the issue. the construction workers didn't start before 7 anymore, my neighbor finally turned down his music at midnight, and people stopped filling up the débarcadère.
this situation is much more serious than any of those! next time call 911!
we are not in the us where 911 is filled with gun violence. they aren't busy and have the time. take advantage!
thank you so much for doing something. i have had so many bad encounters on public transit and due to my ptsd, my response is to completely freeze up (something that i really hate about myself). the number of times bystanders just watch something happen without intervening is a lot. the only time someone did something was when a drunk guy grabbed both of my hands on the bus and put his face right into mine- it was a teenage girl who told the guy to leave me alone, even though i was surrounded by men. thank you.
for future reference, you can call 911 if you suspect a crime is in progress or someone is fleeing the scene of a crime. 
i would considered letting the woman know in case they were being specifically targeted (not sure if they’re staff at the seniors residence). could also inform the facility and neighbouring businesses/residents so they can be warned. not sure whether a local media outlet might take on this story as a brief reminder of caution.
i called 911 for similar situation in the past, the always took my call and sent someone in a acceptable time (less than 10 minutes).
do not hesitate to call them, worst case they will redirect you.
i am so glad the woman being followed was safe but i am delighted that people like you are aware of threats and helping. i hope my children will be helpful, vigilant, neighbours people like you. thank you!
by non emergency line do you mean the local police station? and they didn't answer? maybe try calling them again to report the incident. or info-crime montréal perhaps?
fuck the spvm. thank you for making this post.
this past weekend i went for a walk and ended crossing paths with a young woman going for a light jog. we ended up going down the same path with me initially about 15-20m behind her. i walk quite fast normally and as we began walking down the same path (think foot path with forestry on both sides) was able to more or less "keep up" with her, easily i could have caught up to her in a sprint. she gave me a glance and i instantly felt weird. granted i had headphones on and it was broad daylight but not wanting to freak her out i slowed my pace down so she could put more distance.
first, good on you for taking care of a fellow citizen - there's a good chance you helped to prevent something really bad from happening.
so i'm no expert (i'm also a male - so hopefully i'm not writing this off too easily because of privilege), but to me it seems like this is a bit of a tricky situation. 
is there evidence that there was "harrassment"? do you have a video/photo or a description of the dude? without these two elements, i'm not sure much more can be done. maybe you can reach out to the stm here:  - maybe they have the policies and steps to follow for such incidents - and if this is a recurring incident, they might escalate.
time to hit the gym! buy a nice bright and heavy flashlight to blind a possible attacker! /s
let's take a minute and thank this amazing lady, she risk her life and tried to protect another women from a stalker without them knowing or noticing her.
next time just call 911 and explain the situation, they take this calls seriously.
be careful and thank you again.
that's really messed up. 
only a few days ago i saw a man following a woman in girouard park (very close to villa), and a couple of men intervened. the guy walked away and it was okay in the end, but i'm wondering if it could be the same guy as you?
this guy was wearing really baggy clothing, a hoodie that was hiding his face, and he was white. he walked really slowly too. sounds familiar?
911 doesn’t help hasn’t help won’t intervene… it’s like a placebo effect!!
u/lucky_veg thank you for looking out for others ❤️ you might have saved a life.  i wish we had more people who would be proactive on these types of suspicious behaviors
you can try going to the montreal police subway unit at 888, boul. de maisonneuve estmontréal or calling them at 514-280-9111 [
you should have videotaped this as discreetly as possible. i know it’s hard though but our cameras are so ubiquitous these days. everything about this is extremely suspicious and this guy following her is definitely a sex offender of some kind. you should also report it to the police and maybe they can get images from the metro for future reference.
this guy will try this again for sure.
damn this is ridiculous how one of the biggest cities in canada and the most populated city in quebec, with active police patrolling- has more of these events happening. kudos to you for being aware and looking out for the other lady. hopefully she’s doing ok as well!
did you take photos of the guy?
thank you for looking out for that woman and quite possibly avoiding a horrible crime. please don't be disappointed with the response you got from the police/stm. i understand that it can be discouraging to see some people not care but you must not let it affect your concern for other people.
i don't have any suggestions, sorry. just wanted you appreciate you for your vigilance and seeing it through. i hope you report the guy to authorities and they follow through with it.
damn i’m scared of going back to school with all these stories being frequent.
so my mom went to work yesterday (may 20) night (around 10:45pm -11pm) . from snowdon metro to edouard-montpetit metro, she got a feeling that some man was watching her. she took notice but didn’t do anything because she was not sure. she went outside the metro and the man was still following her so she went on a sprint to her workplace, looking back at the man once or twice to see if the man was still following her. she arrived safely at her workplace and the man vanished but she mentioned that this same man was following her for the second time (2 days in a row). 
i mentioned this post to her before she remembered and told me what happened yesterday. so, thank you very much! we’re planning on what to do if this happened for the third time. 
should she call/facetime me or call 911 first?
eeeeewwww! thanks for the description, i was going to ask. there was a weirdo around here and a big guy, but he was black or biracial. 
creepy, this guy followed her right to the door.
my experience with the police in montreal is that they wait for the public transit footage to automatically delete itself and then claim there is nothing they can do.
not sure if anyone suggested but someone could talk to the senior’s residence and tell them what happened, have them warn all the residents living there...
thank you for doing this!
why did you have to describe me lol good thing i don’t live near there haha
classic montreal story. so basically nothing happened, the end, next.
>you can always call 911 and let them know right away it's a non-emergency but you don't know how to contact anyone else.
you are right. i should have done that after getting confirmation that this guy was up to no good.
>kudos for looking out.
decades of dealing with creepos have sharpened my spidey senses. if it was my little sister, i would want someone to do what i did, and hopefully do an even better job.
i am going to try to contact the police again now.
thank you for your reply!
wouldn't 311 be the better number?
edit : 311 is the non emergency line not 811, 811 is for health.
moved into the same building a year ago and i'm always worried for my gf as well. the other day i was at the dépanneur close to the jean coutu on ct-saint luc, and a man came in desperately claiming that people were following him trying to hurt him.
this corner is definitely creepy.
rue de l'orphelinat is so dark and uninhabited at night, with no cars coming through. your wife might be better off walking the uglier but with more traffic east side of décarie from the metro.
svpm do have a twitter account where they post notification all the time, but i don't know if they reply back.. stm on the other hand do reply back on twitter, sometimes in like 3 to 4 hours
similar story from the guys perspective, was coming home on the metro and saw 4-5 guys harassing and cat calling a young woman walking out of snowden. she came up to me and my roomate and greeted us like she knew us (to anyone watching from a distance) while explaining the situation. we walked out together and the guys stopped immediately.
i just wanted to say i read this, and i'm sorry this happened to you. i hope you have a good support system or are able to find one. take care of yourself.
a lot of cops are rapists, they protect their own
you can interfere with the interaction. act like you know the person, ask who they are walking with. walk near them and drop something then ask for help. anything like this will break up the interaction (applies to harassement, petty theft, hate crime, etc.)
>there's nothing you can really do at this point.
i am going to try and make some kind of a report with both the stm and the spvm. i don't know if anything will come of it but i think it is worth a shot.
i definitely should have called 911 after realising i was right about the malicious intent of the guy. hindsight!
thanks for answering.
aha i see! very good to know, thank you.
i am going to swallow my nervousness and call 911 now, since the other options have not worked out.
edit: yeah that went about as well as i expected sadly, see my edit 3.
>by non emergency line do you mean the local police station? and they didn't answer?
both actually. the non-emergency recording told me to call the local station, which i did, but they are only available during business hours. 
i then called the non-emergency line back and tried to speak to someone and was not able to even though i dialed 0. 
not very useful for sketchy stuff happening after 5pm.
thanks for the suggestions, i'm going to call the local station now that it is daylight again and maybe call info-crime too.
i'm a woman. 
i honestly don't know how this would play out but i'd like to think that a quick "sorry, just going the same way, let me get ahead of you if you'd like" might...or should?...work?
i would want it to work!
i fully understand her concern, because even if *you* aren't a risk, she doesn't know that, but i also understand your discomfort and you're not doing anything wrong. 
perhaps consider it, i guess saying something like that won't make the situation *worse*? 
it's not easy for anyone.
this is a good point to consider, from a legal context. but as person who used to work with offenders, i'll tell you why you should still call the police.
if the cops show up due to a report of a man following a woman off the metro, down several specific turns on the street, onto the property of a private building, they will probably show up. the guy has not committed a crime yet, but given there's a witness reporting all this, they will almost certainly question the guy and ask what he's doing there. if they find grounds to identify him (this is the important part) and he is already and offender with a record or someone with release conditions or probation conditions, this might very well be a violation of those conditions, or cause to notify his probation officer, etc. who knows, maybe the guy has a weapon on him that they find.
if he has no record and no weapons, he hasn't committed a crime at this point and they probably can't do anything, *except you stopped this incident*, and sent this guy a message.
>first, good on you for taking care of a fellow citizen - there's a good chance you helped to prevent something really bad from happening.
i would not have been able to sleep at night had i not followed my gut.
it was a really tricky situation, especially since up to the point where it was clear he was not actually going somewhere but just following her, i could have been completely wrong.
i have a description, and i have the exact time that we all got off the metro. i am going to call the stm and see what comes out of that.
thanks for your answer!
it's not your job to judge, it's the literal job of a judge. 
you don't call the police because you know something is bad, you call the police so that they can investigate if something is bad.
we shouldn't call the police because we know our neighbors are bad and we want them arrested. we should call the police because there is a conflict between you and your neighbor and the "police" should help investigate who is right or not. 
the fact that society still think and act like it should be the former is a massive problem on every front: with the way police act in itself [as if they're judge, jury and exec], with the way we regulate them [as a "force" rather than an "intelligence"], with the way people react when police is introduced into a problem [like your neighbor being mad you called the cops on them], the way people hesitate to ask them for help [like in this case], etc. 
we need to change that mentality.
no joke i was in the metro thinking what in my bag i could use as a weapon. settled on an unopened coke can in the fist. 
cannot wait to start working out in the gym again.
not sure why the sarcasm tag, flashlight is better than nothing since we can’t carry mace or pepper spray. there are some very compact but extremely bright flashlights on amazon that any woman could easily carry in a purse, and would absolutely blind and disorient someone at night. that buys you time, or in desperation can be used as a blunt object to defend yourself.
main thing is, if there’s no one around, take the airpods out, look over your shoulder, and just be aware. if it seems someone is following you then find someone, detour you a street with more people on it, go into a dep, trust your instincts.. make three left turns, if that person is still behind you call 911. worst case it’s nothing, best case you saved yourself from getting raped or murdered. 
but i see a lot of oblivious women out at night, buried in their phones. i’m a male, i was mugged at knife point once and i’ll never be oblivious again
yeah i recognize it's bernard
a cormorant from the plateau.
the wqt. it is a nocturnal nautical animal.
[
it is a cormorant it seems to me! ☺️
a hooked seabird style beak, there were two of them, they would dive and stay underwater for a long time.
also seen before in the park: heron, owl and bat 🦇!
cool, looks like a [double-crested cormorant]( not sure of the french name. we see them a lot in san francisco. i grew up in montreal but don’t remember ever seeing one there.
edit: oops breasted to crested as noted below.
it is an ouéseau of the mouéneaux family
birb
"cormorant" in english 🙂
the comments are hilarious here
jim corcoran.
shit, all my school dinners spent in the park and i've never seen that
megapigeon
a big wéso from america.
not to be confused with an "eille c'est ma frite ca calice" who have their nest near the mcdonald's not far from the metro berri and ask you for a lighter to smoke their rocks.
cormorant
it's george tranchemontagne, he lives in drolet.
beautiful bird, its plumage is magnificent. ❤️
an exotic pigeon.
check out the merlin bird id app by cornell u. then you can figure out all the birds.
my poke-dex tells me it's a fearow
a go make a pun with cormorant
he looks in beautiful tabarnak!
it is a cormorant. no one wanna believe me thanks for the nice photo!
have been at beaver lake for over a month: cormorant
a duck
goose master?
looks like a " don't fuck with me" kinda bird 🤣
i saw the same at beaver lake last year at the end of september
like, you've got a breton who brought his pet cormorant back to the plateau. well done.
reverse image search google dumdum
a beautiful falcon cristi!
yes
shag
francois legault
yes it's him. worse, the tabarnouche owes me 10 piastres.
yes, i can confirm that it is indeed bernard. i must remember to contact him the next time i am in montreal.
the simplicity of this gag makes me laugh cursed.
i was gonna do the same joke with “steve”, well played
identifiable by its stylish feather and sometimes by its round glasses
all actors on the set.
really?
there goes my last 30 minutes of bloopers from a heart to its reasons
bats are numerous in montreal. one has already crashed into my bicycle wheel, at the corner of papineau and beaubien. she took off again in the other direction, flying crookedly.
a really nice app that a biodome employee advised me and that i love is called [inaturalist] ( it identifies plants and animals with a photo. it gives suggestions (with photo) so it's often quite easy to find what it is. it gave me '[double-crested cormorant] ( and according to their image i'm pretty sure that's it.
the pond is not supposed to be dry for the summer at laf 'park?
crested
were you going to jeanne-mance? should you leave my son here for all of high school? (it starts on the 2nd in september.) very opportunistic question, but i simply know nobody who went to this school and on the plateau everyone sends their teenagers to the private sector! (including us for the 1st but the other did not want to know.)
a mutant duck yes
so reverse image search with my own photo that had never been on the internet before? well done.
a jim cormorant
this is awesome, thanks. 
the "shop local" message needs to be heard as much as possible right now if we want these places to be around next year.
[deleted]
mods, could we pin this post for the holiday season?
great work!
i think the /r/montreal mods should make a sticky post with this kinds of stuff.
[yes manon] (
stationary, cups, coffee etc. ri. di. cule.
[boutique tah-dah!](
works created in quebec. free delivery in quebec for small, light items. free delivery for residents of villeray and little italy. if not, delivery available by canada post.
[oasis tea room] (
a small shop with an incredible selection of tea. normally they made chocolate and petit parfaits and hot / cold drinks. free shipping in canada with the purchase of $ 40 +
[espace flo] (
a boutique of products entirely designed and manufactured in quebec. free shipping from $ 75 +
[casa luca](
a store in ahuntsic that sell kitchen items, decor, toys, accessories, body care etc. made in quebec and elsewhere. free shipping from $ 100 +
[la pimenterie](
the hot sauce. plus an extra strong yum range! free shipping in canada from $ 45 +
i'll edit more post with more as i think (or see!) them :) thank you for taking the time!
if you shop on etsy, you can also filter for local shops in the search. some of my favourites:
-flambette (scented candles) 
-olsenolsen (beeswax food wraps, other durable products) 
-cindy labrecque (pottery and home goods) 
-julie duguay (pottery) 
-a la maison co (fabric home goods) 
-borlicoco (fabric home goods) 
-manufacture fait main (jewelry, accessories) 
-lucie veilleux (jewelry) 
-encore print society (prints, posters, vintage ads) 
i always do my best to shop local. if you can do it (money wise), use this privilege to help boost our local economy (money talk). 
here’s a curated list of my favorite places: 
[boutique bref]( - everything
[state of shock] ( - chocolate
[betina lou]( - clothing, jewelery, accessories
[boutique unicorn]( - women clothing, jewelery, accessories
[le club baltic]( - stationery and illustrations
enjoy your shopping!
highly recommend t. lees [(website)]( a local candle shop. the candles are literally handmade here in montreal. they have an online storefront and a boutique.
thanks for this! and would like to add [librarie drawn & quarterly]( as an incredible bookstore for both kids and adults. free delivery on qc orders of $40+
i must save this post!
aaargh! thank you! this is amazing and devastating for my wallet, but truely worth it! i've been browsing for a while now and will do most of my shopping from sites provided!
for coffee i recommend 
they are in sherbrooke, the delivery is fast and the coffee is excellent.
fabulous resource for the holidays and just generally to help support our local community. thank you kindly!
in normal times my favourite place to find local artisans and gifts for christmas was the * souk @ sat. this year they are online, but they feature so many great local designers that you'd be amiss to not browse their website. 
i can strongly recommend coffee from *cafe pista they've got two store fronts -one in rosemont, the other in downtown. 
for home goods, my favourite shop is *v de v located in the plateau. 
for eco responsible womenswear, take a look a *louve design. the materials are made from recycled fabrics however there is no storefront, but the clothing fits to size.
if you're looking for tea but don't want to favor the big box : cha noir (in verdun, sell online)  [
there’s also an online market going on, with lots of artists from ndg. check it out at 
my favourite coffee place is [structure]( and they are offering free delivery on all quebec & ontario orders at the moment.
these popups when you arrive on a site it's like a salesperson who creaks in your face when you walk into the store. fuck that.
this is great, thank you for putting this list together! might i also suggest onze as another local women’s clothing retailer?
omg i love you
jack & jill is a local, small family business kid’s clothing and toys/games/gifts store that just launched their website. they have a lot of cool stuff. 
[jack & jill website] (www.jackandjillmtl.com)
just in case the link doesn’t work: www.jackandjillmtl.com
thankyou! in verdun boutique reunion sells local ceramics, as does la mistinguette, and cafe chato will be having a full december christmas marker of local artists too!
(friend and i shall be selling ceramics!)
thanks for the hookup! just bought a bunch of stuff :)
edit: added the shop to the etsy list comment to better filter out.
so many great ideas here. i've been struggling to figure out where to start with local shopping, thank you!
a lot of great businesses in there, some of which i have the pleasure of working with. support local!
for the region of st jean sur richelieu 
purple dragonfly trading post: teas, indigenous products, tinctures, herbs, organic coffee, crafts. orders can be made through the facebook shop. 
[
this is for supporting verdun local business. i thought it was cool.
it's a meal box with a bunch of different food in it. i believe it's 100$ if you live in the area.
awesome list! thanks for putting it together!
don't forget it's beautiful! they make clothes / accessories in quebec. they sell many other products of local artisans: jewelry, candles, decoration, gourmet food, etc.
thank you so much for this list! i would also add jennifer glasgow design, made in montreal:[
i make chocolate bombs!!
they cost 3$ each. they are all made of dark chocolate and have marshmallows inside. i have 3 flavours : coffee, spicy and regular. 
i’m located in ville-emard right beside angrignon metro. 
let me know if this woudl be interesting to anyone here 😊
super good idea and great gesture of respect and support for local artisans
[intermiel] ( honey, maple products, alcohols made from their honey / maple trees / apples and other derived products.
in addition to having excellent products, their bees are sent every year to the four corners of quebec to help farmers with the pollination of the plants that produce our food.
check out [ as well, they've got insane vintage pieces from the 70's-90's. one of my favourite websites
i purchased these last week and they are delicious.
there is a holiday thread which exists _deja_ and which is _deja epingle_, i added the link in the list of resources.
completely agree
to add to the list:
my partner runs la tisserande mtl (hand-knitted wool hats) 
to add to this  etsy list:
 in montreal:
- thegreenbunny (origami jewelry and decorations) 
- objetmagnetique (magnets, hooks, frames, board, rtc) 
- somniumboutique (magnets and pins) 
in quebec:
- (val-david) lachance artist (silver and precious stone jewelry)
in canada:
- (toronto) beardbangs (ceramic objects but mostly planters) 
seconding state of shock!
thank you!
i also support this suggestion! bruno and nancy (the founders of café vrac) are absolutely dedicated and they deserve your support.
lol i am 100% agree with you. but at least the popups won't give you a covid. but i strongly suggest [ublock origin] ( and read this [guide] ( / 2017/02/21 / ublock-origin-how-to-remove-any-element-from-a-page-permanently /).
what's boring about onze (at least the last time i was there over two years ago) is that everything is made in china and they don't make their own designs. it's really just the storefront that is montrealers. i avoid f&o for the same reasons, but at least they do their own designs.
where do you order online..? i've spent a few minutes searching now but all i see is instagram.
thanks for adding the link!
yeah, i do more with the tablet than the computer. the solutions with ios are less good. still, i had adguard and it's not famous. i just installed adblock, it should be better. thanks for the list!
i'm pretty sure it's the same for 1861.
can we distinguish the shops with clothing made in quebec versus "curated" u / meeric?
could we use this for the sub's banner picture?
u/daveygee16
ok, that's one cool shot.
beautiful but cold
the beautiful open air drain
i'm going to try to make it fitter, i think so, just gonna take a little work.
/ u / vertexbv, can i edit your photo?
it's pamal of water with remnants of buildings in the background buried under poorly managed backlit shadows, without real interesting lighting or anything else of value for the city.
and even less interesting on the artistic side which, in my opinion, is an integral part of our city.
the composition is too wide and reveals more the sky than the city as such (generally after 1/3 you're pamal game ...).
you're gonna do better at some point, but yeah, switch that right on instead of the metro map ...
you just can't comment too
sure!
it's fair. as far as i am concerned, the color of the sky and the water, with the whole city, is "pamal" which made me stop to take the picture. the real view is obviously more beautiful.
ok it's true we were allowed to think i forgot
do you have a copy with a higher resolution by any chance?
i understand what you mean :)
if your opinion is to love what unites all the others, let it be time for you to look for another place.
hmm, unfortunately no, i just saw that when i cropped it, not only fine details got blurry, but also the app overwrote the original with it.
kids, today's lesson is, don't trust an app to save changes as a copy.
very nice.  i'd definitely like to see all the pavilions!
ahhh it's so cute
more please!!!!
it's very cute!
i remember the pavillon des brasseries and indian tipi.
i understand poh
i posted a few over on my instagram, [scot.mccormack](
op recreates by means of illustrations the pavilions that existed during the universal expo terre des hommes held in montreal in 1967. i don't know if that's what you wanted to know ...
it is possible that he does not like that op made mistakes. if so, grow up bro.
oh look, hundreds of people who are going to have their next social gathering indoors to avoid being fined. we could've taken advantage of the nice weather that incentivizes people to socialize outside where the risk is very low. instead, we mandated masks outside and lined every park with police officers, forcing people to take their socializing inside where they won't be caught even though the risk of spreading covid is much higher
i wish the government would put this kind of effort into installing proper ventilation in schools and enforcing sanitary measures in workplaces.
ah. that explains why i heard people screaming and singing things like "if you like dictatorship, clap your hands" on my street around 9pm.
the curfew should have ended on the 2nd week of march. the government does not respect the seriousness of a curfew.
the longer it lasts, the more we will suffer from preventable riots.
i am not a covidot, but i do not believe that the curfew is presently justified. before march i found that the government was doing well despite the circumstances.
after being weakened by decades of neoliberalism, it is not surprising that he was not prepared to respond to a crisis of this scale.
but to take the measure of a curfew lightly? this is unacceptable.
and i want to know how the government intends to help the homeless during this crisis. we put it back under the rug but i remember at the start of the curfew it became relevant.
the two people playing badminton by the soothing flicker of red and blue!
i was there today but left at 7:30. i could not believe how many people were there
at 8:30? on such a gorgeous night? that’s sadistic.
montreal is starting to crack lol can't wait for the riots i need a new tv
uh ... isn't 9:30 a curfew ???
not only out of touch but just as anti-science as the most fervent anti-masker. outdoor transmission is [not a concern]( and the data has been clear on that all year. kicking everyone outside for the night would be more logical than this lunacy
edit: "not a concern" wasn't meant to imply outdoor transmission is impossible, but that it's a [low-risk activity]( that is far preferable to indoor gatherings.
[deleted]
wait, are they really clearing the place? it sounds more like they are harassing with the 2 meters distance.
‏apparently, francois legault has received a letter from the corona virus union informing him that the corona viruses had changed their work schedule in montreal and laval from 9:30 p.m to 8 p.m. that’s why he has changed the curfew hours.
this virus may go away, but hate for police will not
fuck the curfew. they got what they deserve. 4 of my friends got 1500$ tickets for being in a park (at like 5pm). the parc was full
fuck, filming this scene in a drone would have been superb
damn straight , maybe this mess will finally end .
[this is why we can't have nice things 😤](
:(
“it’s for our safety”
yet social distancing was well respected! because this morning, at lafontaine park, there was rubbish every 2 meters in all the park, including all along the pond. and in the pond with the wind.
no sympathy for these groups, they are obviously a good majority of large pigs.
are we all banging pots and pans at 8 tonight to protest the curfew or what?
laurier park was worse at 8pm. it was impossible to walk through it without bumping into people.
a majority of people have been following the rules. the issue are the minority who pass disinformation and create conspiracy theories that have no facts. 
that been said, the constant rule changes are not helping. 
people are wearing masks but the washing of hands and sneezing into sleeves is no longer being followed.
outside isn't a vector for disease spread. grow up, m. legault.
tabarnak.
the only curfew i could agree to is limiting groups of 10 after 10 pm. simple, one number to work with, and that’s about all you need.
[deleted]
some spvm are such losers. wonder how they find such angry, grumpy, ragers
4th wave, here we go. can't stop, won't stop, let's go!
>“there will be no curiosity, no enjoyment of the process of life. all competing pleasures will be destroyed. but always— do not forget this, winston— always there will be the intoxication of power, constantly increasing and constantly growing subtler. always, at every moment, there will be the thrill of victory, the sensation of trampling on an enemy who is helpless. if you want a picture of the future, imagine a boot stamping on a human face— forever. ”
imagine committing the crime of being in a parc at 8:30pm smh
are the bathrooms
open at parc lafontaine?
question: why the downvotes? i was genuinely curious
why do they use that ridiculous english accent on their announcements? 
montréal is becoming a police state. there are much better ways to handle this pandemic than letting cops power trip as they enforce a maligned curfew.  
if you don’t mind the curfew, ask yourself, do you have a balcony? is your apartment nice? are you a person that stays in after 8pm anyway? if yes, shut the fuck up.
i hate it hereeeeeeee
i drove past parc jeanne mance on friday evening and it looked like the montreal jazz fest. so many god damn people practically shoulder to shoulder, and hardly any masks.
fucking imbeciles.
[removed]
enjoy it while it lasts. the exponential spread of the uk variant and the brazilian one will make it worse and they don't have much choices too. 
here's an example why. in the past 4 weeks about 75% of 45 and under deaths to covid happened in bc and are linked to the brazilian variant. that's 75 percent of deaths in the younger brackets in the past 4 weeks. 
it is slowly getting worse and there ain't much none of us can do about it.
[deleted]
orwellian.
if this continues 
they restrictions will  be change to 6pm lol 
then we really f**k
[deleted]
this does not make me want to go near montreal, why can't these people behave themselves? i hope this isn't representative of the population.
this sub is turning anti mask. i’m out, enjoy your mediocre echo chamber.
boot them out at 9:25. the whole thing is preposterous anyways but fuck if you have to boot people out boot them out at 9:25. it’s fucked in the head.
this sub is becoming anti mask, i’m out. have your retarded echo chamber.
they should slack the outside rules if they don’t want their rules to be ridiculous... and yes, people to cheat inside their houses
to add to your comment, i went grocery shopping yesterday at my local iga. i had no choice, it was the nearest one to my home and curfew was right around the corner. the store was full of people. i don’t know why the government isn’t making an effort to reduce how crowded indoor spaces can become. i felt very uncomfortable but that’s what the government wants. 🤡🤡🤡 
i miss being able to shop at the late hours, when there was no one around. made my life less stressful.
[removed]
[deleted]
[deleted]
2022? how silly.
everybody knows it's just the 307th of march, 2020.
first typo of the year! congratulations!
ur drunk
to welcome the new year, my little one just shit in my bed. i think i will skipper 2021 ...
happy new year everyone!
anyway, how's y'all's night going?
me, i had supper with my buddy downstairs, came back at 10.30, considered taking a walk downtown before midnight, but said fuck it and instead jumped in my pajamas, cracked a beer open and watched the bye-bye with the cat curled up on my lap. cosy, but i miss going to the old port to watch the fireworks and have a couple of drinks and stopping at foufs for a beer on the way back.
i hope the *actual* 2022 new year's eve will be less dull.
happy new year to you and your beautiful cat !!
good year! i can't wait for 2034 to mess with it!
2021
happy new year to you u / salomey5.
hope you are taking it easy and having a good time despite it all. you tots deserve it.
i wish you health (no covid, no cigarettes and fun exercising), happiness and money...lotsa money for 2022!
2020 - the sequel
happy new year my friends.
2022 add a nice ring to it; let's roll with that.
it’s the future!
thats not a good start lol.
happy new year to you too! worse the same wishes for you!
thanks, and to you too!
a little late, or a lot early for 2022 (lol) but entk happy new year to you and to all those of r / montreal
happy new year 2021! good year!
is cyberpunk still bugging in 2022 ? 🤣
lmaooo u had 1 job
delete this post
i should have done this typo last year, to have known. maybe we could have fast-forwarded 2020.
lol
i propose we cancel the month of march.
i'm halfway through my first beer, so pretty sober.
i am, however, rather bored and a bit down. been a while since i last spent nye home alone watching tv.
happy new year to you. 2021 and 2022 ahead, but i hope to wish you 2022 next year also on reddit only better.
spent the evening with a live fb by raffy at 2pierrots. it was really hot, not bad the most festive way i found ... (disclaimer it costs $ 21)
[removed]
thanks happy new year to you too!
shit. 🤦‍♀️
thankyou very much, to you too!
and yes, i will try to crush my last lifelong cigarette wafer this year!
***welcome to the wooorld of tooommmorrow!!!***
indeed the future is now :)
i'm sure i'll eventually live it down.  ironically, i proof read the post several times because i'm horrible at typing on touch screens, but i never looked at the title. only realized i'd effed up when coldfusion pointed it out.
nah, i'll stand proudly by my dumb typo.
cancel culture is ruining even the calendar!!!
*
happy 2057  :)
cheers from the west island! with the internet we could at least pretend to not be alone.
peel pub park? the park next to the sunlife building?
its all good man haha. happy new year!
i respect that!
it's because i'm feeling victimized by march which is super privileged with its 307 days and counting and i'm still trying to insert the term "patriarchy" somewhere in there but i don't know where. plus spring begins in march and symbolized by the colour green which is like, super offensive to colour blind people.
whoa, whoa, slow down, i'm not ready to need a walker to get around yet!
that said, happy 2033 to you!!
thanks and same to you!
in addition it will have caused several funny comments so it doesn't bother me to look like a brainless for 24 hours!
actually i was mocking people who see cancel culture everywhere (who usually are big fat hypocrites because they usually have no problems boycotting the things *they* don't like)
man, y’all talking about 2033. i just miss 2002 ;-;
i don't have a problem with people boycotting whatever they want. it's their prerogative. there are a ton of companies that i boycott myself. my problem with cancel culture is that boycotting doesn't go far enough for them. if there's something they don't like, they want it gone altogether.
and it doesn't stop at companies either, it also affects people. there are definitely some assholes put there that deserve to be "cancelled" (pieces of shit like harvey weinstein come to mind) but there's an awful lot of babies getting thrown out with the bathwater with that movement. for every weinstein that gets cancelled, there are casualties like an al franken who i really don't think deserved the treatment he got. i can see some positive aspects to cancel culture, but in general, i find it tends to get too extreme, and i really hate the censorship aspect associated with it as well as several other elements.
someone recently posted the link to a documentary about the crazy shit that went down at evergreen college in washington, and it's pretty frightening.
i agree that it often gets out of hand, but let's be honest : while the term is mostly used by the right to describe the left variant of the phenomenon, the right themselves have often been quite eager to go to the exact same lengths to rid themselves of what they disliked, and for longer than the left (see: moral panics over comics in the 50s, dungeons & dragons in the 80s, harry potter in the 2000s). it's just that they usually suck at it (the comics one was pretty successful, killing adult/mature subjects in american comics for decades and ensuring superheroes had no meaningful competition for a long time, leading to the modern marvel and dc universes; the others, not so much) since they tend to go after stuff that's protected by free speech laws and society evolved since the 50s.
i think there's hypocrisy on both sides of the political fence. i'm a lefty btw, but i don't associate with the wokeness movement, just like i didn't associate with the form of extreme feminism that developed with the me too movement (a good thing in itself until a bunch of extremists took it and ran with it) despite being a feminist myself.
i just think that extremes in general, no matter whether they come from the right or the left are bad news.
lock your doors, fam.
i watched as two guys tried jimmying the lock of my neighbors apartment in broad daylight last week. what was kind of funny, was that the tenant had moved out the day before, and the new tenant hadn't moved in yet, so it was an empty apartment. they didn't get in.
i called the police, and amazingly they were arrested in like 45 seconds. i have never seen such a fast response from the police in my life. i was still giving the dispatcher a description as i watched the police arrest them.
..lock your doors
yup,   
on a shared terrasse, i keep my terrasse doors open in the summer as there are no possibilities of people coming in except for neighbors (shared terrasse)  
my neighbor had a couchsurfing guest, dude came in late at night, drunk/drugged in the proper apartment, went out for a smoke on the terrasse and decided to crash on my couch instead.  
i was kind of surprised in the morning as i went to the bathroom naked (lol); got dressed, tried to wake the guy,  
i called the police; they woke the guy and escorted the still drunk/drugged guy out.   
i never got an apology from either the couchsurfing guy or my neighbor.
lol. reminds me of this serial killer guy in the u.s. (of course, i forget his name) who said that unlocked doors was an invitation.
sorry i really had to pee
i met someone that had left the outside door to their plex unlocked one night. the next morning they found a random woman passed out in the stairwell that goes up to the apartments on 2nd floor. so yeah, lock your doors! all of them!
depends where you are. downtown is tough. a friend had a ground floor apartment, more than once did people walk in through his patio door.
get auto-locking locks.
in the building i used to live in downtown, it was not at all uncommon to have them break in to the lobby and garage (more like probably just walking in through the garage) and just start doing lines of coke, smoking meth, pissing in the corner, sleeping in the stairs (hard to be mad at someone who just wants a nap though, but seriously dude you’re snoring really loudly and how the fuck did you even walk up 10 floors in your condition?), drinking 40’s, etc.
not the same situation as this but it’s just to say - these guys are quite bold.
what neighborhood are you in?
at urgences-santé, we have recently been briefed to start locking our ambulances at all times. a homeless person was found living inside one of the ambulances at the eastern base of montreal.
this has been happening for a while. when i was a kid in outremont (in the 80's), my parents didn't always lock the doors. one morning i found a homeless person on the floor of our kitchen. i went and woke up my dad. he gently shook the (still drunk) guy awake and escorted him out. i don't remember what time of year it was but i am guessing he was just looking for a warm place to crash at.
i have a hilariously funny and scary story about a time when i was living with like 6 roommates as a student and we seldom locked the doors. one day i wake up to a strange lady in my room entrance. she rambled about being "junior's mom" and being there for some obscure "reason"... we had a friend called junior but i woke up my roommate and we figured it was definitely not his mom. when we came out of my roommate's room to kick the person out, we couldn't find her... turns out she was hiding behind a door in another room. we kicked her out, went back to bed, we still didn't lock the doors. when we woke up we found muddy foot steps all over the apartment and the fridge door open. she had come back in and stole some beer and cheese from our fridge. 
apparently that apartment was a "maison de chambres" we had a lot of strange encounters and people knocking on our door randomly looking for "someone".
at 5:30 a.m. last december, i heard someone run into the building, tried to get into all the apartments on the ground floor, before running off again just as quickly. that he had entered, i did not have time to go and see through the magic eye in time.
since then i always make sure i close the front door when my neighbors don't.
a guy slept on my lawn yesterday in ahuntsic
i had a man wander into my place middle of the night last year, ran away when he heard me still awake. i had called the cops and apparently he had been going into people's homes all night looking for booze... luckily for me he only got into my empties
i've found a homeless man going threw my kitchen fridge one night in halifax. my housemate had no pitty and went to school on them. i felt so bad.
i live in triplex where there's an inside staircase. one day i went to a neighbor house late at night and forgot to lock the main door of the building on my way out. turns out that a homeless guy walked in, got to the second floor and laid down in front of the two apartment doors. one of the two tenants up there was a lady in her 40s. she told me she opened the door and screamed so loud seeing that guy that he got up and ran down the stairs.
the weird thing is that it's a street filled with attached houses, so this means this man was probably trying every door until one could open. very strange...
yup, definitely lock those doors. same goes for almost any city i'd say. a friend in montreal had all his shit stolen after a roommate forgot to lock during the day.
dude, the purolator delivery guy has opened my door _multiple times_ when i don't get to the door immediately after he knocks. i can't figure out what the deal is.
summer. and pandemic. suspect this will happen quite a bit. sorry you had the experience.
over the past 10+ years, i've had 2.5 breakins.... first when i did not realize they could jump a 12 ft fence, second when i accidentally left the patio door closed but unlocked.
what i was told when i moved in: don't fear violence, but expect anything not locked to be taken (bikes) and anything left unlocked, good chance it will be tested/ opened. once i really figured this out, no real issues.
exactly the same date, like 10 yrs apart. (july 14.) weird, right? one overnight, the other late afternoon. once i was home, the other i wasn't but neighbour was. when i was home, sleeping, only grabbed things immediately on dining table where patio door was (laptop, camera, etc). probably saw me working there late. lost great pics of that weekend and recent stuff, but it was a pretty new laptop so not that much. but. kinda crazy. weirdly, i was not that upset bc it confirmed what i had been told (theft, not violence.) having lived somewhere where this is the trend, i more fear violence here so i was glad to have the warning prove through, if that makes sense.
the second time, neighbour was upstairs, but luckily i had my laptop with me. took some camera gear but little else, luckily. still a big claim but hey, updated my gear. little loss given i learned last time, everything is cloud and hard drive backed up.
the 0.5 time, pulled more open a large window at front where my desk was, leaned in and grabbed a laptop bag. laptop wasn't in it, but wallet was. spent like $40 on 2 credit cards, didn't touch the one with a crazy limit, dumped the rest, someone left my driver's license on my front steps a day or two later. was a good bag and wallet tho lol.
i think i moved in where a drug dealer used to live..
three times : a random dude just came in, checked around, looked confused and left. (after asking a couple of times where xx was hiding)
door was unlocked; it was around 8-9 pm and i was watching tv.  they stopped coming when one time they woke the pittie and he was grumpy..
similar thing happened to me an early morning in hochelaga. i heard the cat running up the indoor stairs (i live on a third floor) which is usually a sign of someone entering.   
i went to the stairs and their was this guy filling his crack pipe at the bottom of the floor. i told him to "get the fuck out of my house!" and the cunt had the nerve to tell me "chilllllll man".   
so yeah, locking the door at all times now and installed a little camera looking at the front door.
nothing a baseball bat won’t fix.
it happened two times that we had a knock on our door at no hours in the middle of the night.
both times it was from an incapacitated homeless who was ordering us to open the door. we called the ambulance/police both times.
we live close to a metro station but far from downtown. it was quite unusual.
not me, but i guy i dated once. he was living in ottawa at the time (not in a great neighbourhood), woke up in the middle of the night and there was a rubby in his bedroom. meanwhile, he's in bed, naked. i'd have been kind of freaked, but he said "dude, get outa here, you can't be doing this!" rubby just turned around and left...i guess rubby was just drunk and not dangerous but still, yeech.
yup.  i just moved into a place in homa, that was a trap house before being renovated.  this dude has walked in three times.  i really should learn to lock my door.  but it’s just not natural to me if i’m home.  anyways, he’s actually not a bad dude.  super confused.  the last time he no shirt no shoes and got kind of comfortable on my patio set after i got him out of my apt.  i had the bad judgement of calling police.  i ended taking his side, asking them to leave and had a chat with him.  i gave him a pair of pumas ai hardly wore a t-shirt.  he was super happy, and excited and it made my day.  police treated him like a alley cat, and me like a naive idiot for helping him.
yes i once watched a guy try to open my front door - he gave up and left but still!
always bar his door in town. i learned this in the sixties when a neighbor had her wallet stolen from the kitchen table.
once i was drunk and passed out in my apartment with the keys in the front door.   
lucky to live in a cool building, but i got robbed just two weeks ago..so just lucky i guess.  
lock yer door mate, there are fkn crazies out there.
you're actually the 4th person i've heard this happen to, 3 of my friends have dealt with this. either homeless or weird drunkard. never forget to lock your doors again!
til people in homa and the village don't lock their doors.
welcome to the city, lock your doors. homeless people are in need of shelter and this city does a dogshit job at providing that (squats get blocked off and boarded up all the time). homeless people aren't that scary, and locking your doors is a good habit anyway.
i’ve been at my workplace on weekends and i’ve seen homeless and transients going around the building pulling on every door to see if any would open. during the daytime/broad daylight.
my upstairs neighbor walked into my place the other year when he got off on the wrong floor. my wife beat the poor guy over the head with a hardcover book, they are good friends now, but we put auto locks on the door.
well this is terrifying, time to finally get that security system installed!
lcok the door next time bro
luckily i live on a 3rd floor, but my neighborhood is sketch af. do you live on the 1st floor w ur entrance to a busy street?
just lock your door?
do you mean they were in your apartment proper, or in the entryway/vestibule? there are a couple of homeless guys who regularly sleep in my building’s entry (like, inside the first set of doors but not the second) and nobody is too fussed about it. they don’t bother anyone and usually leave as soon as people start using those doors to come and go for the day.
very familiar story.  same happened to me few years back .... it was -37 outside . i gave him clean outfit got him to take a shower . gave him a place to sleep . ended up i broke my neck shortly after and he was a life saver for me. helped me with all the things i couldn't do around the house . i got surgery and i'm doing very well.  i helped him start his own business doing land scraping and snow removal . he is now doing very well and my surgery worked and i am able to walk upright. can't do much else but  he still comes and helps me with yard work and snow removal no charge . we are very good friends to this day . remember folks . do only good everyday (dogecoin)
my friend woke up and found a homeless man sleeping in his hallway. he locks his doors now
that’s what happens when you live in a big city. there are people that wander around and just try to open doors to see if they can get in. you need to start locking your doors. you were lucky it was a someone you could just yell at this time. another time they could be armed and dangerous.
start locking your windows too. its great you have a dog!
i had my downstairs neighbor walk into my apartment once, but he just got mixed up about what floor he was on.
as for homeless people, never had any try to get into my apartment but have had one sleeping in our stairwell and one who would hang around (don't know if he slept there) in our laundry room during the early days of covid lockdown.
honestly the very first night my boyfriend & i moved into our new place, i forgot to lock the front door… 
i left a very large bag of weed near the front window on a table, to be fair, i’m on the second floor of a duplex so you’d have to walk up the stairs to see in my window.
when i woke up, it was gone & it’s been almost 2 months it’s been missing, i tore apart the house & put it back together, no where to be found.. i was talking to my mom & she said i definitely got robbed, they took the easiest thing to get away with with the largest value.
lesson learnt.  lock your doors!!
if he was intoxicated he might have legitmately entered the wrong house.
there was a homeless person who slept on the back porch of my neighbor's house a few months back. i think he tried to sleep on my porch but my dog is a barker so he probably moved on to their porch instead.
he caused no trouble and moved on after that. i've seen him around the area but he hasn't been back to our block since. 
times are rough for a lot of people - the pandemic has hit some people pretty hard and housing prices continue to go up regardless and shelters are having a hard time keeping up. i expect this sort of thing to become more and more common.
it's not a great solution, by a long shot, but definitely contacting your local shelter to see what you can do to help might go a long way.
if you didnt have dog im afraid he would have climb in bed with you.
does canada recognize *castle doctrine*?
had a group of 5 or 6 break into the hallway  entrance of my building during winter. 
didnt have the heart to kick them out to the cold.
i was lucky to find a wonderful landlady, i live 5 minutes walk from downtown, stuck on mount royal and i pay $ 600 / month for a super clean bachelor under her house with heating included, but i am far from the norm. this is the first time in almost 8 years of living in an apartment that i have an owner who does not increase me. in short, yes there are good owners it's true, but for my positive experience, i have 20-30 negative experiences from people around me. my owner is unfortunately the exception that proves the rule.
keeping prices artificially low creates an imbalance elsewhere. and it pushes owners who would otherwise be reasonable to look for legal stuff to do renovations, or whatever. (see the fb group "real estate buffs" ... "is there anyone who knows a good notary to help me boost my rents?")
since 2000, in montreal, real estate has made + 300%, while rents are + 80%. there will be a catch-up. but the more tenants will use "anti-gentrification tactics," the more landlords will turn to "portfolio optimization tactics."
it's pocket, but we are in a capitalist world and we continue to elect capitalist governments. until that changes, the rich will have the privilege of living in the best neighborhoods, and the poor will pick up what is left.
4. use your power as a citizen who is to vote. vote for a party that is aware of the housing crisis and gentrification.
5. encourage small local businesses and those that have been there for years.
edit: grammar error.
this is the kind of tips and tricks that discourages any well-meaning person from owning a rental property that leaves the assholes and the people who are going to treat it like a business to buy apartment buildings. and continue the cycle.
i think you have to be completely sick to want to deal with tenants to barely cover your mortgage.
these proposed measures do not increase the supply in the market. by the way, it only diminishes it.
these "solutions" do nothing to improve the lot of tenants in the city.
it is completely counterproductive to circulate these kinds of "tips" under the pretext that it will make things better.
yes do #3 whenever you move into a new place. the previous tenant may have been living there for years and had a very sweet rent!! the law is clear: even with new tenants rent increases shouldn't be more than the law allows so exercise that right!
do you know that the increases authorized by the tal allow the owner to recover his investment in almost 40 years?
by relying solely on the nlp tool, you encourage the owner to do as little as possible, it's that simple. you directly contribute to the poor maintenance of the montreal rental stock. if you have a good relationship with your landlord, i strongly encourage you to negotiate reasonable increases in good faith.
also, the idea that one should never pay more than the price of the previous tenant is completely absurd. no mechanism for returning to market values is provided for in the law, so it gives rise to unhealthy situations such as people without children who pay $ 650 for a 6 and a half in a central neighborhood. who benefits from this, exactly?
the previous owner had finished paying his mortgage and never increased by negligence. the new owner, even though he negotiated his price / mortgage tightly, is stuck with this forever. when the mason arrives to repair his facade, he will give him no discount because mr. gendron is paying $ 650 instead of $ 1400. if the year after mr. gendron disputes his increase, the tal will give the owner a good 4% increase. $ 300 / year in the owner's pockets for work in the five figures.
faque mr. gendron is going to move, he will give up his lease and the owner will be stuck with johannie, a smart bourgeois richer than him who spends her time on fb swap groups.
quite ironic these kinds of abusive tenant tactics to stretch the spirit of the law to its maximum when that is exactly what landlords are criticized for. i remind you that evictions for major renovations (when enlargement, subdivision, etc.) are completely legal. as well as the covers.
in short, know your rights, but try to be reasonable. collectively, we have no interest in applying these "little tricks" in a systematic way. otherwise, you're not a vigilante, you're just an asshole like shiller lavy and other scoundrels.
for # 3 it's just going to make the owners leave the apartment empty for a year.
i saw a garage listed for $ 600 in hochelag, i write there per year ?, he answers me no per month ...
great recipe for there to be at best, even more "reno viction" or at worst a dilapidated housing stock ...
one solution would be for the government to provide rental subsidies to low-income families. so the management of buildings remains private.
capitalism is not perfect, but it is better than the alternative. 
the reason people in montreal need cheap rent is because of quebec's existing legislation that undermines free market activity - which has led to decreased opportunities and decreased wages. 
if you think that the solution to this problem is to further manipulate more parts of the economy, i think that is a failure to understand what is actually happening. 
the argument that these evil landlords are taking "more than their fair share" assumes that there is a fixed amount of money in the world. that is not the case. where is your personal responsibility? don't you want to live in a prosperous city? 
where are the people fighting for more opportunities to make more money? listening to so many people in this thread asking for the government to exert more influence over the market is so inherently pessimistic. it is a real bummer.
none of that will make there be more housing or fewer people. it is a misplaced hatred of the owners.
edit: also socialist alternative, seriously? one of the other quebec communist party offshoots. because the world was so well housed in the ussr / s.
i totally understand the tenants in this situation, but damn i feel like the landlord don't get heard either.
yes there is abuse from both tenants and landlords. we saw some documentaries a year or so about a lady who totalled an apartment and made over 100,000$ of damages. who pays for that? the landlord. the landlord gets shafted every time. it takes 6 months to kick out a non paying tenant. the landlord has payments and a family to feed too.
there is also landlords abusing their powers too, i understand that some just add a coat of paint, and then increase rent by a lot.
then again, landlords own the building. when you rent it's not yours. you are borrowing. it's sad to see landlords lose rights over their own purchase.
we also don't talk about how montreal has been increasing their taxes exponentially which landlords pawn the increases off to the tenants. when the landlord owns a 4 plex evaluated at a million a year, the landlord pays big taxes also. montreal needs to reevaluate their taxes for buildings.
a big problem with going to tal at the moment is that even if the tenant is 100% in these rights, it creates a file for him that future owners can consult. and in today's market, owners largely discriminate on the subject, often out in the open. as a tenant, think about it: will i burn my future application?
i am not saying that it is correct, on the contrary, the system is broken.
and for the lease session: i know several stories of landlords who refuse lease assignments, forcing the tenant to lie about the rent to inflate it artificially. these landlords do not follow the law, and if a tenant goes to tal, then they will have the problem mentioned above ...
[deleted]
i am for gentrification. i want montreal to be rich and affluent. no one expects affordable housing in manhattan, i don't see why we are fighting for that in montreal.
thanks for sharing!
real solutions:
- eliminate rent control
- eliminate zoning regulations that limit density
- prevent the government from printing unfinished money
for point 3, if i had known. my rent for my previous apartment would have been $ 100 cheaper.
i’m being renovicted right now actually. roommates don’t seem to give a shit either. it really sucks. she’s paying us 5000$ each to leave in the next two months once our lease ends.
> what happens afterwards is that the tal sets the rent according to the expenses and income of the building and the applicable percentages of increases. this year the percentages are exceptionally low - some are even in the negative. and in addition, on most of the island, municipal and school tax rates have fallen (which also influences the amount of "legal" increase). it is therefore quite possible that you are entitled to a reduction in rent.
sure, but the city makes it egregiously difficult to find this information in the first place. i remember in 2018 spending a week looking up municipal plans and tax info and desperately hoping i had filled otu the rdl form correctly. is there a centralized/simpler way of finding this information? i live in outremont, by the way.
while he was changing my decrepit water pipes, the plumber that services my building (25 units) said "yeah, don't bother accepting the rent increase, they'll never show up to court anyway" ('they' being akelius ltd). buuuut, on the other hand, you can always hear the sounds of workers on other floors. were those people renovicted, or did they move out of their own volition? it's a lot to gamble on.
do you find a frank gallagher
if a landlord is already doing all these fraudulent things, i would not even trust having my stuff in their apartment to begin with and if you challenge the landlord, they're not going to want you as a tenant and will make your life miserable until you leave.
no thank you
$ 25 more per year since 2019 is it gentrification in outremont-mile-end? i now pay 925 for a large 2 1/2 all-inclusive (electro and hot water).
great strategies in a situation where increases are faster than inflation. heille the world is moving and the owners are raising the prices by 15-20% on the rental advertisement. esti du me gniaise? like everyone asks if the apartment is still available and they are told that the price has to increase because there is too much demand.
to think that the poor landlords are getting poorer is to be rent-masks!
4. when you buy a building, don't be a dick
fantastic advice! i’m real proud of you for posting this and hopefully it helps some people with the ridiculous rent situations we are all now facing. 
we should be protesting and marching against all these insane rental prices. the way people gather for ‘liberty’ protests because they don’t want curfews and masks, they should channel that energy into protesting the rental increases. 
force the government to step in and do something. like they’re doing in new zealand. affordable housing should be a right, not a privilege. for all!
buy a house
maybe if the world continued to go to the depi to the neighborhood dive bars instead of the small café and the microbrewery ...
i just moved into an apartment on the plateau this fall, with a very respectable rent for the area at $ 800 for a 3 and a half. the owners had warned me that the rent would increase because they had to redo the brick, work they did, by the way. the increase for next july was finally $ 8 per month, so 1%. honestly, it was refreshing to be warned ahead of time for a 1% increase due to major work.
where do you find these wonders, please? i don't even know where to look anymore ...
10 years ago we sold and found beautiful accommodation, huge lower duplexes and reasonable prices. fantastic owner but a little too present. we made one economic downgrade because i had lost my job and i found the 7 1/2 that we have at the moment. fantastic price, no increase in 5 years, and excellent owner. 2 in 2 for me. the two places i found while walking around the neighborhood and chatting to the world.
about a year ago i had an opportunity like this, but i didn't take it. i regret tlm :( there was even a private washer-dryer
could you please dm me with your landlord's contact details if she has other accommodations to rent?
i have to go to montreal soon for my studies and i would like to know where to look to find the most affordable housing (even if it is still expensive).
i know kijiji but if anyone has other tips, i'm interested!
"cool story", but what's the connection?
at the risk of making me downvote, owners like that, who rent far below the market and who do not increase, they are part of the problem, not the solution. by not increasing, they deprive themselves of an income (their choice), but also deprive the future owner of an income (not his choice) since a normal increase of one year cannot be resumed. ultimately, we therefore have homes that require more and more maintenance (often at the level of the structure, even if everything is clean inside) and when it's time to pay $ 80k to redo the brick , they leave with the jackpot (the price of the building is not fixed by the tal, him) and the future owner, who is most likely not a speculator, but a small ordinary couple, is caught with too much rent. low compared to the price of the building. the result: strong pressure to find ways to kick the tenant out and increase the rent at a price that matches the price of the building and upkeep.
sorry, but the housing crisis is not due to the bad speculators who play monopoly with the housing of the poor world: it is due to a structural problem of public policies which generates a limited supply of housing and, to a lesser extent, a demand. increased.
what are the possible (concrete) solutions according to you?
absolutely,
i am of the opinion that mtl is ~~ the cheapest big city ~~ one of the cheapest big cities in canada (~~ probably north america ~~) thanks to our laws in quebec, but now the demand is just too strong and we have the pendulum swinging back.
edit: not right for north america
> keeping prices artificially low creates an imbalance elsewhere.
bingo, someone who understands the economy on this sub. san francisco is one of the most zoning and rent regulated cities in the united states, and it is also the most expensive to live in. we must allow people to build as they want to accommodate demand and let prices go to avoid perverse effects (such as tenants who keep old leases cheap even when they move elsewhere or renovations).
> since 2000, in montreal, real estate has increased 300%, while rents are + 80%.
in other words, it is not the rents that are artificially low, it is the real estate that is artificially high because of speculation.
it's so pocket-friendly for tenants. why raise the rent by 25% between two leases when your mortgage payments haven't increased for 15 years? pure and simple avarice in order to afford a mcchalet in the laurentians.
we have a civic duty to challenge and inform new tenants of any increases if we don't want to end up like toronto.
the exponential crossover in the real estate market is unsustainable unless money loses its value.
so, it is still the fault of the poor. the owners are really sorry eh ...
and do you think politicians lived in the same neighborhoods as people in communist countries?
solution: be rich. which is not that difficult.
which party is aware of the crisis? it is by far the (municipal) problem that affects me the most, i will give my vote to anyone who brings a viable solution.
1. it won't change anything.
2. it won't change anything.
if you think that voting is a citizen's power, you are either cave or naive.
there is no housing crisis in montreal. it's just that the poorest are being moved further, which is normal.
leather breath
the goal is not to pay the mortgage either, it is a safe long-term investment that will pay off and benefit you after 20-30 years ... if you want an instant return you can go on the stock market and other alternatives.
and osheaga is like ["hey where should we hold the festivals now?"] ( jean-drapeau / the-future-of-osheaga-in-peril-in-montreal.php)
the charm of jean drapeau park was precisely that there were many trees to provide shade and or go chilling during festivals.
i don't want to be a buzzkill, but we're talking about île sainte-hélène, an artificial island between the south shore and montreal. really, these humid environments are insignificant because they do not inhabit any significant population of species other than squirrels and raccoons ... the wetlands that one should protect are those which are intact, which inhabit full of species. and who are not in the middle of a metropolis ...
the space is beautiful, but they never should have been permitted to destroy that much nature so that a music festival can maximize profits.
evenko was in coderre's pockets (or his ego).
thankfully the island is being upgraded so that they can replace a lot of the parking lots with more green space
when there is not a crowd present, it is really uncomfortable and unpleasant to walk on it. this huge area is far too white and reflects the sun too much. not even green islands to reduce the glare.
serious ch / evenko group can go and show off
i hope these comparative photos will circulate widely during the election campaign in mtl. coderre tries to present himself as a born-again environmentalist, pro-public transport, social housing, when all that matters to him is his personal prestige and the thickness of his wallet. let’s not be fooled.
i hate what they've done. went to osheaga and ile soniq at the newly renovated areas and it feels completely different. the main stage has zero trees, and no grass, just astro turf. it used to feel like walking through a forest at a lot of places and now it just feels like a corporation took over and razed the area to get as many vendors/km² as possible
bin that's it, denis coderre. we cut and we put cement.
cement suppliers are very good at brown casings ...
unpopular opinion: i really liked the new setup when i was at heavy mtl. most or all of the area is man-made right and has no animals right? i hope that the loss of these trees will be compensated by new ones in other areas.
whoa it's really ugly from above.
i mean...i guess?
i've heard good and bad things about the new venue, but as a part of a reworking of the island it seems like a good thing overall. 
replace some of the parking lots and roads with trees, and cut down some trees to improve the festival experience. i don't see why it has to be one or the other. the end result should be more trees overall and a nice new place to go to some festivals.
we should be overhauling the island to work better for montrealers generally. this all seems like part of that.
aja that it was for festivals. i found it weird to ride my bike on big empty spaces like that haha
all thanks to coderre never forget that.
thanks, coderre.
source? also, it would have been necessary to differentiate the wetlands from the wooded area, even if they are sometimes the same.
seen from the top it looks like a plane could land there, like at [billy bishop airport] ( in downtown toronto
its much much better than it used to be. this white unistone paving will help to keep the area cool in the summer, much more so than the giant parking lot with dark gravel. there is a ton of mature growth on this island alone, its nice to have one area with a pavilion.
compare that with hyde park in london which has the same capacity (65k) but almost no cement.
900 million for a park 🤦
nice more cement 🤤
ooopsies
it is a disaster signed denis coderre.
project montreal is not perfect but please let's avoid re-electing mr. powertrip mcego!
no one ever considers that in 2021, building _nothing_ is far more of an impressive accomplishment than building anything.
are the people complaining that some trees got cut down also people who complain about st-lambert residents whining about noise?  i’m all for the preservation of as much woodland as possible but this island is negligible in its environmental value and in a city of 4 million+ that hosts world class events sometimes this is going to happen.  say what you want about the city vs groupe ch but these are good events for the city despite some disappointment that this space isn’t very useful outside of those major events. we can make up for it by replacing some of the parking lots with green space and upgrading the remaining green space.
no the problem is cars
this is pure political play. ch group bashes plante, coderre is reelected and make it rain for them.
i wonder if they could just lengthen the duration of the festival to compensate for the artists who can't perform on the missing stages.
i really liked the last time i went to heavy mtl. the year before the end of the work. there were scenes surrounded by trees. even one in the forest. there were food trucks and tables in the shade where you could relax. now it's just a big open concrete space to bring in as many people as possible.
false.
the island ** notre-dame ** is artificial. ile saint-héléne is * partially * natural, even as it was named by champlain.
sources : [  
edith: details
i disagree. even if they do not have the same ecological value as the wetlands of the grou flow, for example, they still have good value, especially for artificial environments.
the marshes and the old peat bog are of quite remarkable ecological importance and the restoration and creation of wetlands announced yesterday is an excellent initiative, which will have positive effects on both the flora and fauna and on the users of the area. park.
tser insects it exists and it is part of biodiversity ...
in addition, do you have any reports and data that prove that amphibians or any other species related to wetlands have not been introduced there since time?
the island of saint helena is natural ... it is the island of notre dame which is artificial.
this island deserves to be preserved in its natural state. there are enough other places available, i don't see why we insist on destroying it.
coderre is in evenko’s pockets (molsons).
i would be curious to know the area of the parking lots that will be replaced vs what they destroyed to build their giant concrete horror.
fully agree. i went there a couple of times, it didn't make me want to chill out. i would even say that it made me run away.
the rare times i went to the islands by metro, the second i left the station, i immediately got out of this plaza devoid of greenery. even if it means sounding like a nostalgic old bitch, it was better before. ultimately, clearing the end of the island facing downtown (where the calder is) is fine, but was it really necessary to raze all the vegetation near the biosphere?
me neither really do not like this big empty space and the pallor of the ground kills my eyes when it is very sunny.
why are you walking around the amphitheater then?
assuming you are there by metro, the second you step out of the metro you are going in any direction other than north / west, you are literally on trails through the forest and could easily spend hours walking around the island without ever having to touch the new developed surface.
i cycle around drapeau and notre dame all the time, and creating a permanent space for festivals and events is way better than the mud pit of dead grass and dirt that it once was.
i'm still not going to vote plante so hoping for more than two choices
well, that is exactly what happened.
i hate it too. the uniqueness of the place has been lost forever. coderre literally stole this experience from us.
and from the ground.
leave the roads.  they provide some sweet cycling.
google earth. satellite imagery of parc jean drapeau dates back to 1985
you can kid with the wetlands diapers and lidar (humidity type), it's not complete, but you'll have a great view anyway! edit: 
at this point you need all your technical team, your hospitality team, security etc. longer.
which means that the ticket is going to climb astronomically.
me too. it was so nice to go for a walk in the woods to take a break from the big sun of the site of the main scenes ... to sit down to smoke a bat next to the stream. to focus on small sound stages ... falling short on bands i had never heard of and which were super cool (masked intruder!)
île sainte-hélène, this is where napoleon was [exiled] ( ) in 1815 and he died on may 5, 1821 🤪
[the state of things in 1927] (
there are scandals with practically everyone with whom he has associated. it is mongolian that he is equal to plante in the polls. this guy is not straight.
"yes but if i am elected, i show you how rich i am!"
those teeth, pity! that's all i can see! ditto on campaign photos i have the impression of seeing jim carrey in the mask
i hate it so much when people tell me about the money they make. i always retract on myself.
worse, that's exactly why i hate it. there is nothing noble about being full of cash. it is often done in a shady way. you're no better, you have plenty of money, in fact, there is a good chance that you are filthy or that you do something filthy.
i have a friend who told me about the profits he was making with cryptocurrency, and it depresses me that encouraging a full not green business in the same way pays off.
worse if we talk about salaries, it is often completely random. i was killing myself body and soul when i was teaching to help immigrants learn french and be comfortable here. there were some who stayed after class and cried as they told me about their lives. it was a job that i considered important (but i let go of pcq i was still burned out oops). now i'm going into it and i can make more money doing something more "mundane" and working less hard.
in any case, sorry for this great speech of social justice on this tuesday morning. the vigilante in underwear you thing.
he really has teeth to bite a whole melon this one.
a ki can parfum
my pitt hates this smell.
he had his serious chance.
i would be in favor of banning the return of former elected officials, each in turn.
lol caliss is good!
rather, i wish him sources of departure.
a meme who passed the air mtl moderation? i can't believe my eyes!
we need a day even on air montréal!
wooooow what a beautiful memes! you win the internet today for sure !!!!
this guy better not win.
for all of plante's flaws, at least she has a clear plan and actually wants to make montreal somewhere people want to live in and choose to stay in. coderre wants to make the city cater to people who commute in for work and leave right after. guess that shows his supporters do not live in the central boroughs and how out of touch he is with the city he was once mayor of.
he's also mega corrupt and a pathological liar.
it's okay if he likes guys, don't judge.
he's a good boulechiteur, you have to give him that.
montreal smog affects memory and the brain, it seems.
yeh seems like i keep hearing stories of coruption and embarrassing behavior from people he associates with, i have no idea why anyone would vote for him ..
"i promise you"
the middle line of his teeth is not in the center too. on the contrary side to your cruise.
its like they make a room brighter.
edit: not figuratively, literally. having coderre in a room is not a good thing.
> i have a friend who told me about the profits he was making with cryptocurrency, and it depresses me that encouraging a completely not green business in the same way pays off.
it's not, it's gambling. it's pretty random if you win or lose and it gets lost more than it gets.
unless you are a blockchain consultant, there you can pluck thick and do the trick. ibm is getting rich a lot like that.
ouin, who smells of bullshit 100km around.
hahaha
usually not entitled to the same?
it's from empire k. if you have a facebook account it's worth following them, they are really funny.
mr. business
or that you "rent" the power of your graphics cards to those who mine. that you just make money
there are hardly any and 1-2 times that i posted some (they were of similar quality to this post), they were deleted. i deduced that this sub was mainly used by new concordia students to know where to eat / find an apartment / where to drink / etc.
thx
too bad, it's a good laugh on the issues that concern us
one my my favorite things about this city are the amazing murals. you don’t really see them be this good and have this many of them anywhere else.
here's her instagram.
i love all the artwork around the city and especially discovering murals i’ve never seen before. 
i hate the fucksticks that ruin said beautiful murals with their shitty ass tags.
can i hire artists like this for my building?
do i need a permit?
looks like a lot of jason botkin influence in there too
thank you for the beautiful photo!
loving these abstract visuals
i was walking past this 2 days ago and saw the artist touching up some parts. stood and watched, she was brilliant. told her so too.
i saw them painting yesterday
it’s increasingly popular in other cities. montreal is pretty special though.
i used to travel specifically for murals and street art before all the cities did mural/wall festivals, and montreal is definitely top 5 for me.
[deleted]
yessss quebec artists!!!! wish they chose someone with less clout so we can get the young vandals off the streets and doing murals but i love it locals only!!!
tags are the story of a city you don’t understand these kids will do graffiti they’re whole lives and never get paid a cent for it a lot of them will get fines or arrested but they do it cause they love the art form but it’s okay if you don’t understand or hate it even cause you we’re never meant to understand
yes and yes.
wynwood is tough to beat, but it's just a neighborhood in miami, out of town and poorly served by public transit. montreal has murals in every neighborhood, in abundance. there are those in the streets, but also more than 300 in the green alleys. last year alone, more than a hundred murals were painted in montreal, despite the pandemic! i believe that i have photographed more than 900 of them, it is a huge collection, available to everyone, in all neighborhoods and accessible. not to mention america's oldest street art festival, underpressure, which has been operating for over 25 years. so yes, miami has more muralists on its walls, but on other criteria, montreal has nothing to envy.
that’s fine and tags have their place and will never go away. but why ruin someone else’s hard work and efforts? what does that do for anyone?
also, happy cake day :)
a tag is no an art form.
it's a shitty signature on a wall.
it's even worse when done on an *actual* piece of art.
thank you!!
is your photo old or does the park have its own micro climate?
i love that place so much. i remember one year, someone threw a life-sized great white shark statue into the water.
 i hope they get the fountain working again next year!
i miss this place... and la banquise..
i used to walk past this scene daily for school.  thank you for stirring up a great memory.
a squirrel once ate a peanut from my mouth there. heaven 10/10.
lovely.
amazing! lc would be proud.
gorgeous
i took this pic on friday!
>i remember one year, someone threw a life-sized great white shark statue into the water.
haha it was me with a bunch of friends! the shark was on the facade of el zaziummm and the owners of the restaurant, who lived near a friend's house in the center-sud, had left it in the alley. we were 3-4 to have brought it to the pond of parc lafontaine. it must have been 10 years ago ...
eh ben
> haha it was me with a group of friends! the shark was on the facade of el zaziummm and the owners of the restaurant, who lived near a friend's house in the center-sud, had left it in the alley. we were 3-4 to have brought it to the pond of parc lafontaine. it must have been 10 years ago ...
that's amazing! the whole story, after almost a decade.
wtf it's sick the coincidence
i can't explain it but, i see it is a cold day.
[deleted]
these so beautiful, the sky
nice
beautiful! you can also see that the vertical lines are not perfectly vertical, except for one or two on the central building!
this is because there is a blue sky and a typical sun on cold days and no water is seen near the snow, which tells us that it is cold.
today it should have spelt:
'cold
as fuck'
the white to blue fade in the sky can be?
finally freed from all these hordes of tourists, too good ulysses treat yourself my brother
they definitely look healthier too. i remember the calèche drivers arguing that the horses would be miserable without dragging tourists around the old port. seems to me that argument was horse sh*t.
bon appétit ulysses! 🥕
[deleted]
is this at a horse tale?
beautiful! give him a nice apple!
thank you for caring for this beautiful creature. 💚🌱
great for them! all animals deserve to live out their lives free from suffering or exploitation. be vegan.
free at last, free at last, free at last... free from the indignity of hauling overweight sweaty tourists around the polluted streets of old montreal. enjoy your golden years, my sweet noble ulysses.
i am so happy for him and all the other horses that were freed from their living hell. it never seemed right to me. but they are happy! always seemed like a crock of horse s\*\*t to me.
they're not miserable at all! soft ground to walk on, always in sight of the herd, stalls they can sleep and turn around in. but percherons don't mind actual work like logging in the mountains, but not really hanging out in the city sucking car exhaust and walking on hot pavement.
i am certain many days were very difficult, making your way with iron horseshoes on the hot, hard pavement, close to the polluting cars.
however.
i’m sure there was the odd time these guys and gals didn’t mind a nice easy pull, on a beautiful day in this fair city of ours.
uly is more about graceful strength than speed. he's a big old lumbering ball of love.
yes it is.
totally agree 🌱. vegan btw.
doesn't justify the idiots who drove them, i live in the area, and have for more than two decades. those morons went the wrong way down one ways in the old port without a care in the world, the horse in front. they did this despite warnings and close calls, into small streets with blind corners that are parking exits. they turned into oncoming traffic with again the horse in front of them, using the horse to stop traffic for left turns where they shouldn't, never thinking for a moment that someone in a car may not be paying attention.
granted it may not have been all of the drivers who were reprehensible morons, but in the absence of that industry cleaning up its embarrassing behaviour, in the absence of the "good ones" speaking up about their callous and idiotic colleagues instead of keeping silent, there was no redeemable version of those horses working in the city. none. not with those brutes at the reins, never mind the absolute idiocy that used to come out of their mouths about the port. i have no fond memories of those times, other than an occasional selfish yearning for the sound of their hooves echoing in the port and through my house, during the summer months. a sound that loses any appreciable tone the minute you catch site of the idiots leaning against their seat irons barely looking forward going the wrong way down a one way ... again. good riddance to them all, the drivers.
dear ulysses, have a trot for me on that perfectly crisp wintery grass, i hope you've found your horsiness again. “think you're escaping and run into yourself. longest way round is the shortest way home.”  ― **james joyce,** ulysses.
how do you know someone is vegan and from montréal? they'll yell you. vegan btw 👍
children were playing outside, people pull out bikes, snow banks are melting and dog poop appears
get use to it, we'll keep seeing more and more records until it's too hot for us to survive on this planet.
i’m actually afraid of the summer heat, not gonna lie
i sweated from the bag
haha we're doomed
walked all the way downtown and back this afternoon in just a sweater!! lovely
it's very depressing when the weather is nice knowing that we still have a curfew with a government that wants to keep it as long as possible.
we had a green christmas, so don't be too surprised if we have snow at easter.
but but climate change isn't real!!1!@1!!
i love it. more global warming please
i can hear the climate change nuts now ...
r / yesyesyesno
and all the old masks.
we’ve also had record cold too - climate change will just bring more and more drastic weather in every direction sigh 😔
thats huh... you wont see that.
[deleted]
that's why spring and fall are my favorites seasons!
fishing is gonna be hard smh
it’s like 30c for a week and that’s it
i would normally recommend wearing pants in public.
i hope you're referring to the nuts who don't believe in climate change?
r / nononono
the future is fucking depressing
you're right, [june-july-august will only see a rise of about 2 degrees]( in comparison with the rolling average of the 80s-2000s, so it's likely that even the warmest day in the season will only be temporarily unlivable during the day but nothing we can't overcome.  
the kicker will just come from the mass death of species, oceans acidity getting fucked and ecosystems in it potentially including any of our food in there, the winter temps delta rising by twice that, changes in currents and consequently air flow over masses of land (good luck to predictors of weather patterns!), climate change refugees in the billions, and the mass flooding of a significant portion of a significant number of major cities on waterfront in the world, along with the ports of major hubs allowing for the transit of goods in the world particularly in asia (amongst other places).  
but all in all, summer shouldn't really stay above the 45s for too too long to make the areas in canada uninhabitable or anything, and if anything it's more southern us (new orleans and floria) that has to worry about that specific issue.  
that fate is reserved more seriously for a [certain band of south asia]( the arabian gulf, and parts of africa. which, y'know, only host some billions of people in the world or something.
true, this is a next generation problem. let them deal with this.
how does something 99% of scientists agree is happening bullshit? "people have moved onto something new" so? it doesnt make it any less real. and who cares what aoc talks about? how dumb are you?
there definitely was more than a week of hot days last summer ...
it's really not as bad as the media would have you believe. world has more trees than in the past 20 years. these outliers days that beat record is 2-3 days a year out of 365. yes climate is changing and yes we responsible for making things better for ourselves, but the cataclysmic end of all arable land is overblown.
as the boomer generation die off, it will become massively easier to pass climate-friendly laws.
wow, calm down. all i said was that he wasnt going to see that in his lifetime.
not at all what i was saying. but it will take hundreds of years before earth becomes unable to sustain human life even in the worst case scenario
[deleted]
i mean, this thread is from someone who’s not looking forward to the summer heat. montréal isn’t really that hot and 32c for idk, 2-3 weeks total is appreciated no? i’d personally have a few months of that but i think i’m the odd one out
yeah except for the whole tipping point that were fast approaching. climate friendly laws won't do a single thing once the permafrost melts and releases a bunch of methane that's 10x more effective at trapping heat compared to carbon dioxide. we're on a bus fast approaching a cliff. after a certain point, no matter how hard you slam the breaks you're still gonna crash. that's us right now, we have 10 years to slam the breaks. instead we can't even everybody to wash their hands and wear masks...
> world has more trees than in the past 20 years.
[hm](
trees are releasing as much co2 as they capture after just a few years. the problem of oxygen production and co2 capture will come from our oceans where algae responsible for around 75% of our oxygen are dying very fast. climate change doesn't come from a singular issue, it comes from the combination of multiple ecosystem dying and creating a chain of event rapidly increasing the deterioration of our fragile ecosystem.
thanks mr. plutocorp!
and all i said is that you're correct, is what i said. he'll see refugees in numbers greater than populations of the rich countries, the fall of major parts of the ecosystem, unpredictable weather patterns and storms/tornado/etc patterns, and only unbearable days but not unlivable ones (unless he travels closer to the equator). which is to say, again, that you're correct :)
it just will never happen. it takes some really huge increases for humans to die directly from the heat.
i invite you to read this: 
it’s not so fun when you don’t have an ac
bro have you ever played soccer on those days. i cant play for more then 2h without using my shirt as a hat for heatstroke
i browse reddit too, but my sources are not news channel station that make money off of clickbait articles.
agreed, once again, i wasn't saying everything's pink. no obviously there's a lot of work ahead. i just don't think having everyone go "we're doomed, fuck it" is better.
i was just trying to be hopeful, say that it's not all doom. should've written a longer message to clarify, but the downvotes don't hurt, so whatever.
we eventually go towards a wall with the way we release ghgs, especially if the thane contained in the permafrost is released
with a fan constantly pointing at me, it's endurable. it's better than -30.
no, you just link studies for sale where we can't view the conclusion, which i'm sure you paid for
hope should come from real information. pretending everything is going to be fine when it won’t be makes matters worse.
yes of course, but the problems will arise from floods, extreme weather events, famines, etc. and political and economic crises associated with these, not directly from the heat.
i guess it depends how much heat your building or house keeps in. last year was no fun in my apartment with the heat waves even with 2 fans going 24/7 but you’re right, at least it’s survivable.
this is indeed a problem, and has been for a long time. every time i get off at berri-uqam or jean-talon at rush hour, i have to run straight into the crowd, or wait for everyone to board and get off after them. it's ridiculous.
you are not the only one.
also raise my pressure:
- those who do not care on the left in the escalator but who jail there.
- those who absolutely have to hang around the door 2 stations before disembarking even when the metro is fucking full (we haven't seen it since march 2019 but i'm still marked)
- those who stop moving immediately after entering the wagon. is the person behind you supposed to jump over you?
thanks op for the showcase.
this is the moment that i appreciate the + (during the rare times that i take the metro)
exit the doors by hooking up very suddenly everyone who stands in front of the doors that are not even open yet! it makes you decompress, knowing that you are not at fault. until now, no one has dared to say anything, ever. and it's a little disconcerting, kind of like people expect to be pushed around, like we're in an extra overcrowded subway in shinjuku.
otherwise, i stay in front of them, looking at them, until they realize they're a bit of a dumb and settle down, leaving room for me to exit.
[insert the same first time? here]
but yeah, in 25 years of use, it's not improving. and the concept of queuing seems increasingly forgotten also for buses. and groups walking on sidewalks 5 people wide without letting people pass.
in short, when i go to mega-populous cities (new york ♥ ️), people have more manners in public. but montreal is just weird. i wonder how it is in toronto.
i agree so much, when i go out i go for it and i push the world, i use my backpack as a shield. but obviously not everyone can do that but it makes me feel good to do it!
letting the world get out of a bus, a metro, an elevator is like a sacred rule, osti that it annoys it is who do not!
it's like people walking the sidewalk together and not squeezing to let people on the other side pass. no consideration for others, they just think of them.
such! parisians have many faults, but they move away from the metro doors to let people get out. (but they get on their motorcycles without queuing to get on the bus ...)
most often people stand in front of the doors, their eyes glued onto their smartphones and just waltz in without looking.
i would support 100% if stm decided to hand out tickets to those zombies.
my favorite strategy with these people is to feign confusion. when leaving, i stand in front of them as if by accident i wanted to pass to the left when they wish to pass to the left, then to the right when they wish to pass to the right and so on a few times. meanwhile, other passengers manage to exit smoothly. it is magic!
thank you telework !!
i feel your pain!! 
honestly, this is the # 1 thing i hate about the metro. that or the people who don't wait for you to get out of the wagon to come in or stay nailed in front of the doors and wait for you to get out ..... 35 years of public transport and it gets worse. good luck and let's try to stay zen anyway.
i just walk through people, if it pushes them it's their fault.
god i wish people had better etiquette too.
yesterday as i was getting off the bus, an older woman pushed me back into it so she could get on. absolutely absurd.
if you let people out, there will be more space in it.
unfortunately, the people you are talking about are not able to observe this.
of course, we would think that with the pandemic people would change a little this attitude which absolutely wants to have a seat for two stations but no ...
pout itou, i want to take it, the metro.
i gave it to him!
ah ah. it reminds me of a guy years ago who came down to berri on rush hour. he prepares himself in advance by holding his bag tight against him and in front of him in one arm. the other arm put in front of him at 90 degrees, at shoulder height, as if he was holding an invisible shield. the doors open and he pushes his way through the footsteps of fools who don't understand how it works. i laughed well pcq it was funny and unfortunately necessary.
worse, put some deodorant on it
hence the name public transport * 😅
worse than that it is the world which does not give their seat to the elders or the pregnant women, etc. it is the worst i have ever seen in my life.
imagine that an 85 year old lady have to stand tall because the world has guessed ignorant.
also, take off your backpack!
before the pandemic, i let out a "please let out", and after 2 seconds, i was back in the heap, * hard *. i mean, with no effort to avoid people blocking my path. if they fall on their butt it's their fault. it does take advantage of my excess weight haha!
oh my god! i'm relieved to learn that i'm not the only one with this pet peeve. every time that happens to me, it pisses me off and right now, i don't want to be pushed around to get into a train car.
and the people who come in right in the middle of the door while the passengers are exiting! we are supposed to wait on the sides of the door to let people exit in the middle, as the arrows on the floor in berri-uqam indicate.
i'm sick of having to bypass idiots on the way out of the subway and i don't like being too close to other people because of the covid that still exists.
should have doors to enter, and others to exit.
like buses; you go out in the back.
yes, there are always 1-2 clowns coming out ahead, during rush hour. the worst is the cellar which wakes up and which squeezes telm to go out ahead while the world climbs aboard.
i am fortunate to have quite flexible hours. i don't travel during rush hour. it is not more civilized, but there are fewer people, so the lack of good manners is more tolerable.
i don't want to hurt you but it was the same in the 80s, even for the morons who do not move left on the stairs, only difference, there are more people and rush hours last longer long time...
another one of those occasions where the primal cry proves surprisingly useful
since they put the marks to indicate the position of the doors it's even worse than before.
i rush through it unless i see a child, an elderly person, a pregnant woman, a 6'5 "guy, etc.
i always have the happy "accident" of nudging my elbow out of the subway, from the top of my 5'6 "(when people are in the way). that i see them trying to push me, baswell.
i have seen, on a few rare occasions, people call out this kind of attitude. like "excuse me, you have to let me out so you have room to come in". they always look so dumbfounded when this happens. seems like it's a pretty simple principle though ..
i don't care anymore.i just push everyone out the way. move or be pushed.
if that can console you, i am still tall and strong and now when there are people cave in the same way i just go inside. if there is one looking at me weird, i'll just say hang out next time.
it has always been a problem in montreal. when they put the arrows on the ground in lionel-groulx i felt like i was entering a new era, but in a few weeks people were already getting in the middle of it as if it wasn't there.
having the privilege of being a man with a solid build, sometimes i would just run into the 'school of fish' on the way out if people didn't settle down. it's not really the right thing to do, but it can be let off steam sometimes.
besides there are lines on the ground that indicate where the doors open, right?
i had someone physically try to stop me from getting off.  she was some messed up lady and i excused myself to disembark at the famous crowded vendome disembarking and she was looking me straight in the eye and not letting me pass.  so, i'm not a giant, but i'm about 6 foot 200 lbs, which was enough to get me off the metro but she pulled at me and my backpack.  i had a train to catch but she was out of her fuckin mind.  i find riding the orange line when it is crowded, and having to get off at vendome to be one of the shittiest experiences in public transit....it's a fucking car commercial with more impact than anything you see on tv.
[relevant](
it has always been like this. i have a simple solution ... walk forward, even if you bump into someone. too bad for them if they stand straight in front of the doors and not move.
note that i am 6'2 "and solid ... not recommended if you are not ready to pick someone up, but usually they settle down when they realize you are not fooling. i really picked up someone can be 3 times in 15 years, always a teenager trying to impress his friends. i have to admit i love the face of "oh shit" when someone realizes you are crying and you go out that they move or no.
i'm not going out on my elbows or anything, you just have to walk and not stop. i think they expect so little of anyone to do this that they just think i'm not careful. so much the better.
i’ll add on: people with their fucking smartphone stuck to their face while  going up/down the stairs in the stations during rushhour, slowing everyone the fuck down. pull your fucking phone out of your face and move your ass out of the way
last time i took the metro, the stm had started to put yellow lines so that the world could disembark / embark.
it's funny, but there were already these lines in other countries and the world in general respected them, i was happy to see the same method implemented by the stm.
i assume that nobody respects that here according to op ... lol
can we talk about wagons as muddy or if not more than before?
is it blood (i saw that with my own eyes, drette in the windows) or just coffee that sucks? it doesn't matter, it should be flawless. no valid reasons that in times there are fewer people using this merdique transport company.
stm, where the hiring criterion is: not like to sweat when you "work" and to push cracks to their customers, through 2 inches of glass.
osti jles say.
i agree, there are still some who don't understand
them hi,
i think i have a not super expensive solution.
since the trains stop quite a bit always in the same place, we could cut small scuppers in the cement floor and fill it with led and epoxy to draw a green / red pattern with lines and arrows to attract attention. pedestrians and tell them where to stand.
i put my arms in front like a zombie or swing them out like a diva. it rocks the world and it makes me laugh.
i tell them, but you're right, seriously i really do not understand in 2021 that people need to be told that. that and the backpacks that people don't take off and squeal in your face when you sit and they move
what i’ve noticed recently also is that people don’t want you to sit next to them on the bus or metro. if you’re that afraid of covid, don’t take public transport. how rude
it seems to me that it has always been like this
everywhere, all the time.
if you want to go somewhere.
you gotta let the world out first.
other cities do things like have the timing of the next train in site of oncoming passengers. 
it is a small thing but it makes more sense to watch an app and think about how you will make the next connection than to think about the door in front of you that probably requires a hockey check to get through at any time of the year or if the escalator is working or the stairs are open for use at rush hour.
ah, yes, it's me. thanks from the post. i'm not going to go up first now that you've pointed it out to me!
i only thought about myself until today but after reading your post, i change my ways and i think of others!
aaaah, i just had to fall on your post!
[deleted]
i'm pretty ambivalent on tower height, but i have trouble believing that there's actually demand to build mega skyscrapers that tall in the first place
does anyone else feel like this age of architecture is just flat out boring? i'm all for density and higher buildings, but we're not living a hundred years ago when a skyscraper meant the empire state building. today's skyscrapers are just cheaply made boxes in the sky. vancouver and toronto are full of them and it's done nothing to relieve their housing crisis.  it's just turning them into a sea of soulless glass buildings that look identical to any other modern city in the world.
no need for a godfather like codère at the head of this city. plante is wrong, but at least she's not a mafia who makes false calls for tenders and transfers hundreds of millions in public funds to her boyfriends.
i always wonder what version of montreal these articles refer to when they mention its soul. even pre-pandemic montreal has changed enormously compared to let's say early 2000's montreal.
my problem with buildings that are 10+ floors is that when they're all clustered, like they are downtown or griffintown, the sun doesn't hit the street anymore. it's genuinely cold to walk around downtown even when it's may and the sun is shining, and everything is in the shade. you can see that for some of these condos, people don't ever get natural sunlight in their units either.
we have a vacancy problem in the city. appartements are at 6% and offices are at 14%. we don't need towers.
200m high is far from small. if the goal is to be dense, it's not 200m + or nothing. paris is 4x better than us in terms of population density with a maximum building height limit of 30m. athens has 1.5x our density and has a limit of 30m. there is no need for buildings 300m high to densify.
i’m a fan of the rule that no tower is higher than the mountain. it probably has religious connotations with the cross on the mountain and all and even though i am not religious, i think it espouses humility which i think we can all agree is a good thing.
you can be critical, but come back to skyscrapers too.
[in * le devoir * of thursday september 8, 1927] ( we talked about the first skyscraper of the royal bank (considered a horror by the author), height exemptions to be able to build it, and the threat of future towers from bell and sun life.
do we still consider these constructions to be horrors to this day? like inconceivable exemptions? yes, brand new towers are not examples of extraordinary architecture, but to always come back to the fact that skyscrapers are a reflection of a loss of a city's soul or a stain on the landscape is redundant for * a long time *.
agreed, there is still a lot of room for downtown skyscrapers at 40 to 60 floors. and even more, room to grow 10-20 stories buildings in the expanded downtown and across the city near public services.
urban development needs to occur where infrastructure can be expanded. noone is going to build new sewers and schools and electrical downtown montreal any time soon. quebec needs to start focusing on a 2nd metropolis. not make the existing one higher.
montreal is in the midst of a renaissance and i don’t see why we some people are working so hard to stop it from taking leaps towards being a global city again. taller high rises downtown won’t destroy neighbourhood life or make montreal less special. if anything it just adds to the prestige of the city and helps us attract more global talents to establish themselves here. that being said if they let buildings give higher they need to make sure the buildings contribute to the skyline and city in a positive way, none of these lifeless square buildings.
[deleted]
i was just looking at the mountain from the pius ix bridge thinking about that. if the building has the same height as the mountain it hides it anyway. it's just if it's bigger and the other side of the mountain that it makes a difference.
has rent followed local inflation or is there a correlation with city property taxes? how do landlords decide on what to charge for rent?
so either way more over priced micro condos that depreciate entirely in a decade and remain vacant for half that time.
probably an unpopular opinion, but: i would be ok to increase the height limits to 250 meters in the approximate quadrangle of rené-lévesque / maisonneuve / de la montagne / bleury.
change my mind.
fucking coderre…
well then, (figuratively of course, i would not advocate or glorify violence on reddit, we love our corporate overlords) hang coderre by the balls from the highest tower we have so far, and tell the asshole developers backing him that they're next.
we see what happens when they get what they want -- look at "new" griffintown. just a cluster of megatowers, with no forethought about how people will actually live there. no services, no schools, no nothing. just a bunch of shoebox condos to sell. that's their only priority.
we need more density. not one just giant empty burj-khalifa. that will not fix our problem
montreal is selling its sould for unaffordable condos. i don't know how much more damage a new skyscraper could do.
it is rare that i upvote articles from the gazette, but here it strikes a chord.
toronto, new york or tokyo have tall buildings everywhere, and they are thriving. montreal is already on a tiny island with not much space, there is not space to build horizontally, wanting to limit height is ridiculous. if it wants to stay in the past then montreal won't evolve.
on the one hand, the title is interesting. on the other, do i want to click on a francophobic cloth like the gazette?
if plante does not want high buildings, we would have to tell us what she wants.
new neighborhoods on the outskirts, so cutting down trees?
replace neighborhoods of 2-3 floors with neighborhoods with taller buildings, which will require large tenant evictions?
trying to decrease the population?
we can't just oppose.
i think that mtl couldn’t practice secularism if it hit them in the face. 
the fact that buildings can be taller than a christian cross just baffles me. and don’t even get me started on every single catholic named public school, every street and town named after catholics.
anglophonisation of montréal already sold it's soul. it's just going to be toronto lite in 50 years which itself is new york diet.
well, you can either build vertically or horizontally. horizontally fucks the environment and nobody wants to live in a basement without windows so up it is.
edit: typos
to 19 and 25 storeys = mega skyscrapers
maybe not a demand right now but right before the pandemic, several towers were announced that were maxing out the height. these projects include the new proposal at phillip square, quartier des spectacles and the banque nationale building.
agree with you, especially when there's plenty of other high rises still under construction, including [four right next to me off sainte-catherine.](
the project montreal made it legal to block the mountain
the demand is not local anyway ...
only if it has a bike path on top.
i agree 100%. most new towers and condo building are ugly
agreed 100%. i hate the new stuff. it has no soul and it certainly does not capture the essence of this city's spirit
i'm not saying you're wrong, but a lot of the buildings we love today were either controversial or boring in their day. the feeling that all architecture is the same is not unique to our era: building styles get repeated all over the place because they represent the most efficient known way to use the technology of the day to accommodate demand while conforming to the regulations in place.
the plexes we love in old neighborhoods were built en masse as the streetcars were extended. the iron spiral staircases didn't become the norm because they're charming, but because it let builders take advantage of the mandatory setbacks and cram in more units without wasting any of the building floor area on interior stairs. hell, in a lot of north american cities, most of the "charming vintage bungalows" with "lots of character" were literally *ordered out of a fucking catalog*.
all this to say that eventually technology or laws or preferences will change again, and we'll stop building this style of glass tower (or 5-over-1 apartments, or whatever other overdone contemporary style). some of them will get a facelift, and others will get torn down or replaced, and we'll start abusing some *other* style, and suddenly today's construction won't seem so bad. some of them will even start to seem charming or classic, because that's what *always* happens as the context changes and we get some critical distance.
not only that 50% of those towers in toronto in vancouver are empty. and they're so badly built you're going to have to replace all the glass at 10-15 years.
there are some very beautiful projects (l'avenue, 628 saint-jacques) and there are some very ugly ones (tour des canadiens 1, quite a bit of griffintown). i find that there is an increase in the architectural quality in the projects proposed for 1 year (900 saint-jacques, mansfield, hudson bay), perhaps because the land is scarce. on the other hand, it is clear that we are not at the same level as most of the skyscrapers before 2010, which were built out of pride.
bring back the age of ornately carved masonry facades and gargoyles, just give them a modern twist... or just say fuck it and go straight back to the art deco aesthetic and call it a day. i'd be down with that.
> it's done nothing to relieve their housing crisis.  i
it hasn't done enough, i agree.  but that doesn't mean that it's done nothing.
> . it's just turning them into a sea of soulless glass buildings that look identical to any other modern city in the world. 
i agree with you, but i think what we need are prettier buildings, not fewer buildings.
> does anyone else feel like this age of architecture is just flat out boring? 
da faq? looks like you need to travel a little bit...
toronto is a shitshow when it comes to architecture (and other things).  please don’t end up like toronto.
absoutely! all the new buildings are tall glass towers with no souls and absolutely depressing to look at. worse than brutalist buildings. it's horrible.
there are many more spaces that could be densified in montreal. i am thinking in particular of the east, where there are plenty of old, unrecovered plexes in the process of rotting which could be replaced by beautiful buildings of 4 to 6 floors with beautiful family apartments.
but noooooon. we prefer to do big fucking towers where the units are small 3 and a half of less than 500 square feet with faulty plumbing, no light where the inhabitants are all crowded.
marde system osti.
it's crazy how i see comments about how plante wastes millions on bike paths (you have the right to disagree that's true) and think coderre is a savior. it's as if they had completely forgotten about his last term and all the setbacks that came with it ...
sorry but in snow removal and construction it has remained the same.
go to the seao website and look at the contracts.
certainly not the lifeless wasteland of high rise condos and starbucks it might become if we don't actively push back against it.
if that's the kind of soul you're looking for, move to toronto.
that's easy. the soul of montreal is exactly how it was when i first arrived here!
like this beautiful little condo block here?
[
edit: it's downright claustrophobic.
 [
wait is this true? would now be the best time to move out east
damage to the antennas
gorgeous capture!
natural right? nicely done. 👍
i can't stand digital image filters. they never make a picture better. a real photographer uses their own skills to take great pics.
you always take such nice pictures. i love seeing montréal through your lens. keep up the good work!
...
it is that in this already distant time,
bells witnesses of so many things,
you spoke to me, evening and morning,
from a long past of apotheosis,
and the regret that you had
from a time of glory and conquest,
when, from the king, you rang
your chimes on holidays,
and that cheerfully, on the rock,
in the spring of the days of hope,
you announced, from the old steeple,
the return of the vessels from france.
** eudore évanturel **
this is a perfect photo.  first time i say this
this church is built on mt royal which is the highest point on the island of montreal, so there quite a few cell phone antennas nearby. otherwise, a beautiful photo!
super nice photo!
thank you!! :)
yes, natural with some basic editing in lightroom. however, all pictures should be edited in some form or another. when i take a shot, it is taken in raw, which is just a digital negative which contains the most data possible so that the photographer can create a final image that best reflects their creative vision.
the same was done even in the analogue days of photography in darkrooms using chemicals on film!
thanks so much! there's another pic in the series that you can see here!
[
thanks for posting this piece of poetry!
thanks so much, what a compliment.
indeed! and the saint joseph oratory is the highest building in the city. 
according to wikipedia: the oratory is the [highest]( building in montreal, rising more than 30 meters above [mount royal's summit]( allowing it to be seen from many kilometers away.[\[3\]]( it is one of the few buildings that violates the height restriction under the municipal building code of montreal, which limits the height of any building, including skycrapers, from surpassing the height of mount royal.[\[4\]](
stop comparing what was done in a darkroom in film vs the monstrosities that are done nowadays in lightroom and photoshop, it has nothing to do ... then hide behind the '' creative vision '' c ' is a bogus excuse ...
[deleted]
i always find it interesting to hear about mtl from an outsider's perspective, when as someone who was born here i'm so sick of it lol
same thing happened to me 20 years ago and i never left.
i am an american from chicago, i have a stressful job and plus i take care of my elderly parents one of which has dementia.  so...
every month or two in the winter i started going to montreal just for a little r&r....  
don;t ask me how this happened. but i suddenly became friends with a bunch of sex workers: male, female, gay, straight.... i just happened to befriend a bunch of them on a freezing cold night when i stopped into this little bar because the wind and snow was brutal and i needed to warm up a bit before i kept walking.  everyone so damn friendly and the next thing i know i am friends on fb with all of them. 
this started a tradition of me going up there every few weeks in the freezing bitter cold months.  i hang out with some of these people, drink, smoke and eat great food.  i party with them and i have a blast!  i have since met people who work in every walk of life and they are all just as cool and it's almost like they seem to know one another! 
you are going to love mtl and you are going to fall in love with the quebecois.  (aka people from quebec)  they re the friendliest and most attractive people you can meet! 
montreal, compared to other cities is a little dirty and kind of dumpy in spots. but it doesn't matter. the people and the friendly/open energy .  congratulations and good luck in school!  where are you going? uquam, mcgill?
i moved here for university years ago and stayed. my daughter, who was born and grew up here said to me recently that wishes she could have gotten to move here from away. she thinks it’s such a great city and she’s a bit jealous of people who get to discover it and have the away from home experience here.
im happy you enjoyed your stay! summer in montreal is amazing
any neighborhood you especially enjoyed?
vancouver is so incredibly boring.
everything good about vancouver is outside of vancouver.
lol - i love vancouver and i miss it dearly, but it’s social scene definitely wasn’t “wild.”  
when i lived downtown, it made me laugh that a toy store was the only establishment on robson st. that stayed open after 9 pm.  it was quite a surprise when i moved to downtown toronto, and bars were busy on a thursday!
we have inferior asian food and snow. if those doesn't turn you off, welcome to mtl!
hey! me and my partner just moved out here from victoria. nice to see some bc folk kicking around. feel free to message me if you want to grab drinks in the park or something:)
i grew up in vancouver and then moved to montreal for 2.5y, same opinion. i did miss the mountains (and family and friends obviously) but beyond that montreal was just so much better.
in boston now and debating moving back
montreal is the best! good people, good food, great art, so many different moods according to neighbourhood, no one cares how you dress, festivals for everything, friendly people all around and a culture that’s very focused on local support.
i’ve been here for 20 years. i’ve tried to leave but i always come back.
my only cons have been the construction and parking because even the winter is not so bad if you dress well and keep entertained with sports and the many activities the city has.
welcome to our community. enjoy the vibe :)
i love this. may i suggest following fucknomtl on instagram?
awesome city and i miss it. go have a meal at mei's chinese restaurant near concordia. it's in the basement of auberge l'apero. good place to stay and good food.
i'm glad you like it so far! 
after a while, you'll notice some flaws, but nothing you won't find in any other city. i've seen a lot of places, and montréal truly is my home.
as someone who lived in vancouver for around 5 years, there is no comparison! but maybe im biased as i was born here. i fucking love this city.
quality of life is amazing here but comes winter time it's brutal. cold, humid, snowy, i hate it. i prefer those vancouver or denmark winters
yes sir ya
it’s not summer all year round…
winter is coming...
yeah it's fun at first but then you realize it sucks
i mean most cities are nice when you are 18 years old and living alone on family money. maybe you should cut yourself off and re-evaluate.
more fun and open? hmm that’s debatable there’s definitely more racism here and more nimbyism. i would argue that vancouver is more open.
you're writing in english. you don't need to put that accent-aigu on montreal.
oh i’m aware of what it’s like, i like cold more then heat anyways and anything to get away from the six months of rain, even if its “freeze your nostrils together” kinda cold
some of us are from colder places than montréal so being here is literally a win-win-win-win situation hehe
i can't wait for the winter to be here! fuck this heat!
i’ve only been in montreal this last winter and i thought it was pretty mild compared to where i used to live. could also be climate change.
i just moved here from winnipeg and i'm so excited for winter here 🤣 anywhere has to be better than there haha
same here. so sick of it. it feels like it has been the same for 20 years! but i do love vancouver!!
maybe it sucks the same but it beats any other north american city.
same! i live in toronto now, but last night alone i kept hearing how much nicer mtl is, if i didn't grew up there i would probably think the same
i've lived here for two years and it's miles above any other city i've lived in! i only got to experience the non-pandemic version for like four months though... and i was flat broke at the time too! even then, i'd rather be poor or locked down in montreal than not poor and  not locked down in miami.
i felt this way until i moved away from montreal to vancouver. no amount of beaches and mountains replace that montreal vibe.
you're still stuck in one-ways in le plateau ?
thank you for the long comment ! for universities i don’t yet know where i’m going but i’m hoping on mcgill or concordia since those are the only two that wouldn’t force me to do an extra year of general courses.
how does montreal compare to chicago? i've been meaning to visit the windy city for a while now
i have the opposite feeling to her, so it goes to show you want what you can't have. :) 
i moved here from ottawa and while i love this city, i wish i was perfectly bilingual or at least spoke good french, and making close friends as an adult is truly difficult.
 if i was born here like my boyfriend, i don't think i'd have as many fantasies of moving back home. (p.s. i did move back home and couldn't stand it; ottawa is so boring).
i’ve been staying in outremont and that’s a really nice one, downtown around mcgill and st catherine is also really enjoyed wandering in.
untrue. the sushi is everywhere 😀
vancouver is amazing for people that like the vancouver lifestyle. the draw isn't the city itself, but the mountains and beaches around the city, and the proximity of amazing areas like the sea to sky corridor.
oh yeah vancouver is pretty dead in regards to things like that, robson has always been a big disappointment in terms of things to do, its just a bunch of chain stores and 11 bubble tea places, it always baffles me when people recommend it as an activity. lmao
the asian food being under what i’m used too has been the biggest turnoff if i’m being honest, but oh well, we can’t have it all. im very fine with the snow as long as it doesnt rain october to april i’m fine with any amount lmao.
yeah the mountains i do miss, even just as an easy landmark to know where i am in the city.
if you move back, you'll be surprise to see how much more expensive it is to rent an appartment or buy a condo...
thanks ! im looking forward to moving next year !
ooh thanks for the suggestion, i follow a bunch of bc meme pages on there but hadn’t gotten around to checking out the mtl selection
will do ! i always love getting restaurant recs.
i recommend village mon-nan (corner la gauchetière / clark) for their dumplings, great soups and delicious glazed duck.
yaya
do you know what is difference, besides colour, between white crosswalk and yellow crosswalk?
i see condos
complete with the traditional road works
i saw a vivaldi concert lit by candlelight, it was no worse kewl
very beautiful church!
where is this?
i was certain this was another church taken down post, and i had to read the title 3-4 times lol
i wonder if montreal is one of the cities in north america with the most churches?
or was that philly?
it's cool, but also distressingly non-symmetrical.
gimme a break. why does every shot of montreal contain construction?
i can see this offending so many people just because there's a church. you'll know who they are with the downvotes 😅
afaik, white zebra crossings are used near stop signs or traffic lights, which kind of limit the flow of traffic. 
yellow crossings can be used in the middle of a street segment, away from traffic lights or stop signs, and are supposed to explicitly give priority to pedestrians.
there is a yellow crossing next to my house (frontenac / ontario) that nobody respected, so they added a mini pedestrian light. still crazy how much we disrespect our pedestrians.
another similar question, as there seem to be people who know the answer: do yellow cyclist symbols also give priority to cyclists just like yellow crosswalks give pedestrians?
that would be so sad. ;( this is such a great concert venue lol!
rachel and henri-julien
not sure what the answer actually is, but montréal is called "la ville aux cent clochers" or "the city with 100 bell towers".
i can’t remember his quote but mark twain visited our city sometime in the late 19th century and from a top mont royal admired the city’s churches and steeples. from what i understand is this church has gone under three different transformations, there may have been a fire in the 19th or 20th century so he may not have even seen this church in its current state.
i understand people who authorized building of churches committed heinous crimes in the past towards minorities and indigenous children but hate on the people who were responsible for it, not hate on the architecture. the architecture alone is still beautiful and needs to be preserved. the people are to blame not the architecture. if this makes sense. this is again my view as someone who recently came to montreal and i have still yet to understand the complicated politics of this place. hope this is not offensive to anyone.
if you look near the statue someone graffitied “fuck the church”
i don't understand why it's offensive? i am a hindu and not even a christian but i find churches so beautiful and aesthetic. it's probably my favourite aesthetics in architecture. all i've been doing is clicking so many pictures of churches from different angles. ❤️
if only...
you are correct. have an upvote.
i agree with you, the city has disrespected it. it has not been since yesterday that motorists do not give priority to pedestrians in a "[stroad] ( (due to several factors). we knew, in terms of town planning, that pedestrians will not have priority, the city nevertheless chose to put a crosspiece without light.
unfortunately i find that it is as much cyclists as motorists who have no respect for pedestrians. the number of times i see cyclists not stopping to let children cross having school or even stopping for a yellow bus that flashes stop lights.
it's trash
thank you!
also, called, the city of a hundred hens.
damn. good eyes.
i don't personally find it offensive. but you have a group of people here that want to remove anything related to religion and if you say anything religious or anything against their views then you are wrong and they are right. just because someone is offended it doesn't mean that person is right...
it just does not seem to be indicated in this link.
with pleasure :)
nope! it's called the city with a million nids de poules, cimonak!
actually i saw it the other day walking by that’s how i know hehe
uh .... welcome to silent hill?
it's a great park to get day drunk in.
r/liminalspace
nice, i go through it every morning and i was pissed for not bringing my camera! godamn.
is there a way to know in advance when there is going to be fog?
what time?
silent hill
me in the morning i heard a boss tounne when i entered the fog.
me in the morning i heard a boss tounne when i entered the fog.
it is indeed the same vibe that i had this morning in my corner!
agreed
i asked my girlfriend and she told me to go see media weather 😂
yes, the right conditions for fog formation are known and predictable, but the opacity and duration can be quite difficult to predict. the fog is greatly influenced by local effects, for example it was not able to cross the river and a clear cut was made a little after the mast of the samuel-de-champlain bridge.
the night before on a foggy morning i often had the windows of the tanks with condensation on the inside.
8:37am precisely
this morning on the south shore it was quite exceptional, in my area we were less than 30m of visibility before sunrise.
this is somewhat tengential (maybe - haven't actually watched it yet) but interesting i think:
for a long time, adoption in quebec was based on religion. in the sense that catholic babies had to be adopted by catholics, jewish babies by jews, etc. however there weren't enough jewish children up for adoption to give all jewish couples having trouble conceiving the possibility of adopting. on the flip side, there was an excess of catholic babies. this led to a black market where unwed catholic mothers would have their babies adopted by jewish families in montreal, and even down in new york. iirc, money changed hands.
i know someone who was one of those babies. didn't find out until she was in her 40s or something crazy like that.
grandma's of that era are truly something special. i'm happy she was able to find herself.
nakuset is really an extraordinary person. her work at the native women's shelter is awe-inspiring. i donate to them without fail every year. if you're looking for a good non-profit to send donations, they have a really great team and see a lot of results.
thank you for sharing. the way her voice cracked when she said "i wanted to be loved" -- fuck.
i'm glad her bubby helped her reclaim herself and that she is able to give her own kids what she didn't have.
i was also adopted by a jewish family in montreal, except i have nothing but good things to say about them. they gave me opportunity when i had none.
i happened to watch this a few weeks ago, it’s crazy that no matter how much i think i know about the native populations struggles i always find new and terrible additions to the already depressing story
i've no words to express my sadness for that woman, her childhood and her family lives were broken for good. hope they would reunite again and find some peace and love stolen from them.
i knew a family like that, jewish and adopted a cree girl, but not sure where from. i don't know how they came to adopt her (didn't know them well) but apparently her bio mother was a teenager, like 15. they were a very nice family with 2 other biological kids, raised her as jewish but never lied to her about her background or anything and were all very open about it. she eventually did reunite with her bio family, but didn't really connect with them and she doesn't seem to have much contact with them...i get the feeling the reunion didn't go that well.
>for a long time, adoption in quebec was based on religion. in the sense that catholic babies had to be adopted by catholics, jewish babies by jews, etc.
just a quick comment to add. i know that today, cultural relevance is an important part of youth protections foster and adoption services. the 60's involved a terrible moment referred to as the 60's scoop. this involved the government "scooping up" indigenous children from their homes and placing them for adoption into white families, specifically to assimilate them. these movements were largely run by the catholic church and the canadian government. i would imagine that if there were shortages of jewish children to adopt, those families would be more likely to adopt an indigenous child as they were so available and first to be placed with white families.
religion was a dividing line much moreso than language. it's why you find a lot of francophones with irish last names - if you've ever met a nearly unilingual o'neill, it's probably because as catholics they were welcomed more by the largely catholic french speakers than the protestant english ones.
she’s truly incredible!! a hard worker who makes things happen!
i think nakuset was very self-loathing due to her adoptive parents putting down her heritage, and by extension her, for all of her childhood. it depends if you faced any racism, what color is your skin? are you/do you pass as caucasian?
seems like the right way to raise an adopted child!
the 60s scoop continues to this day. it's not over.
that also comes from irish orphans of the potato famine being adopted into french speaking families.
i'm native american, and i do not pass as caucasian. but to be honest, i don't feel like i have really experienced any racism in my life. and it's not like my family barred me from getting in touch with my "roots", it just wasn't something i was interested in. in any case my tribe is from manitoba so it wasn't really realistic for me growing up anyways.
oh absolutely. as a social worker who has worked in youth protection, i am painfully aware. my comment was simply meant to illustrate that there was actually very little attempt at culturally matched foster homes and adoption, contrary to the initial comment in the thread. sadly, to this day first nations children are 6-10x more likely to be removed from home and placed in foster care or the youth criminal justice system. this trend continues into adulthood where they are more likely to be incarcerated.
[deleted]
not exactly the same situation, but you might be interested in rabbi angela buchdahl’s story. her dad is ashkenazi and her mom is korean buddhist. she has interesting things to say about belonging to more than one tribe. [here’s]( one example.
oh cool!
thank you for your dedication and your awareness. i wish social services to get more funding and cultural considerations.
can i ask how you think your comment is helpful in any way?
edit: wording, it isn't helpful, so asking how you think it is.
[deleted]
ok so you're here to be unhelpful *and* insensitive. 💯 top notch uselessness
finally, crescent absent from douchebags
notice the absence of the orange color. it's calming.
where is this?
such a stark contrast of old and new, great perspective
pretty with the towers behind
one of the most beautiful photos here!
nice picture!
amanazing picture. thank you for sharing 😀
leonard!
but completely empty. it was at what time?
omg what's that mural?? who is it???? it's beautiful!
this is actually a great photo, not just for what it shows, but also for what it doesn’t; if you were to take the photo from literally 15 seconds away, on the corner of de maisonneuve and crescent, it’s not at all this nice. 
lately, it’s been a cesspool. 
the angle of this picture is clever because it hides that ugliness behind natural obstacles. very nice!
its very strange to see crescent this empty. i left montreal last year so i only saw a bit of the pandemic there, but i would have thought it'd be bustling again now with everything open.
it will have taken a pandemic.
downtown near concordia
2 p.m!
that’s montreal’s own, leonard cohen! 😊
and why is there a spock mural?
fuck,
i'm an old boomer and have worked downtown all my life. it saddens me deeply that downtown montreal is dying.
i always thought it was the heart of montreal. covid and the destruction of sainte-catherine will finish him off.
eh?? a mural there ?? i've never seen him, what are you talking about?
it’s anthony bourdain
it's leonard cohen.
as an old boomer, one would have hoped for a little more perspective before announcing the death of downtown based on \ * a \ * photo of crescent on a rainy saturday.
and especially on this stretch of crescent, there are never many people anyway.
it was a rainy saturday....it would have been this empty precovid.... fucking boomers
this mural must clearly be new!
why do people vote you down, lol? it's legit leonard cohen, guys.
it is a new and crescent house. usually there are quite a few people but rarely during the day.
obviously, i'm an old jerk and the mere sight of an empty crescent photo freaks me out. i can also respond contemptuously, but i have been taught to be polite.
obviously, it's not just that. covid has advanced the movement towards telecommuting by perhaps 10 years. at work i was asked to calculate the time (and the km and the co2) and i must say that it is impressive. people will find that spending 2 hours a day traveling from home to office doesn't make any sense - either by car or by public transit.
not sure, there maybe have been less people than if it was a sunny day, but zero?
do not
common mistake, that's leonard nimoy
the old boomer would have to make a short 2 hour round trip downtown every now and then, he would see life slowly coming back to it.
it is a portrait of anthony bourdain who reviewed a nearby restaurant in one of his tv shows.
impossible! we would have already seen it here!
i don't know what other proof this forum needs other than the original pic this mural is inspired of on a gouvernment website, unless all this is a joke i'm not aware of...
/s?
anyone can manipulate a photo these days
stop spreading disinformation.
probably lacking water.
i've been wondering about that too. turns out montreal is having an "abnormally dry" summer, on the verge of being in a moderate drought:
[
the lack of water creates a lot of stress in trees, especially those that are most common here like maples, which may cause them to drop their leaves early.
it is normal when there are very few showers during a whole season ...
the plants are pulling it out this summer.
climate change✨
i am in st. jerome and noticed this as well.  maple trees turning red and yellow.  kind of early……
noooooo please go no ! no no no no nooooooooooooooo
according to a permaculator friend, an earlier and hot summer accelerated the flowering of some plants, which occurred earlier in the season. maybe some trees are also ahead?
there's some trees varieties that will as you approach fall.
then obviously lacking water will just accelerate the process.
i asked myself the same question. thank you.
some red leaves at tremblant… .yep.
probably lacks of water, but there have been a lot of maple leaves that froze at the end of may when we got some late below zero temperature. these are still brown as of today.
yes it’s normal, been happening all my life. some years less, some years more.
yes.
the tree in my front yard has already started turning yellow and the leaves are falling like it’s the end of september 😭
it's been very dry, and i noticed this as well. 
also, leaves change as the days grow shorter.
i came back from vacation yesterday and it hit me too. many of the leaves have changed colors or have fallen. the trees shed their leaves early this spring. i wonder if this could also be a cause?
i don't know about the leaves, but the photo is really beautiful!
thats normal it's a dry summer.  in lebanon where i am from, leaves and grass turn yellow because in the summer for 4 months straight it does not rain at all not even one drop.
i saw a bunch of outardes leaving yesterday in their usual v formation. it's way too fucking early for that :(
i noticed the same thing in new brunswick ...
it's to walk the cones in the street
bit early,but not totally unheard of.
maybe due to climate  change.we have done  a very complete  job of  messing up  a beautiful  world!
yes
i noticed the same in brampton(ontario) in my yard yesterday,  there has been plenty of rain around here...mnot sure what's the reason
i have noticed the same here in quebec city!
climate change, better introduce another tax!
noooooooooooooooooo
we are so fucked.
now i'm trying to figure out where this picture was taken in mtl.
autumn.
many tress are stressing this summer, the city environment is already pretty brutal but the heat wave is really getting to them. kind of like us.
damn you, global warming!!
yes
new normal?
yes. some trees do.
yes, but it’s been very dry lately
yes / yes
i have a giant tree in my back yard, and some of the leaves turned yellow already. we were gone for a month and got back last week, so i'm not sure how dry it got, but i'm blaming it on a lack of rain.
there was no rain buddy
yup.
it was 10c most of the nights in july
yup that's what we call "aoutement" the days are getting shorter, and the leaves have started producing anthocyanin.
they're getting ready to shed and for winter
no, call the city and have them come look at it immediately....
depending on the essence of the tree.
not normal
here it is, the drought hit them hard in the spring and the leaves are turning yellow. it's not really the same process as the fall color change.
this is going to happen more often in the future given that the affects of climate change are already here and only getting worse
this is the new normal.
translation: it is normal when there was very little precipitation during the whole season.
the plants struggled this summer
nice photo, where is it taken from?
the leaves also look droopy like they are lacking water, just not enough rain this year.
seriously, i don't understand which ones bash in the thread. planes did not start with an airbus 380.
do you think we're going to go from “manual” vehicles to full-size, high-speed autonomous buses all at once?
but hey, you may be in a bad mood because the block is not in the majority hahahaha
downvoting incoming
i thought it was to deliver roast chicken lmao
continuation of [this publication] ( about the new autonomous shuttles tested on st-hubert and st-andré streets.
the "driver" must have probably the most boring job in the world.
cool to see it in operation.
if we can do a few days / weeks without a 2 of spades deciding to crash it, we're going to be good.
i have no sound but in my head i hear a vroooooooooom very slowly.
need more info!
which company is doing this? they look very similar to the cruise shuttles, but i'm pretty sure this is not cruise.
eerie, man.
txc
i hope we don't end up seeing one stuck in a pothole.
not the impression that its going to last a long time
it doesn't work in the rain... or snow... or when there are too many leaves.
isn't it faster on foot?
and what's the actual function of these navettes?
playmobil make real vehicles? as ugly as their toys ??
20km/h max on a preset path (which also had to have work done on it to prepare it for the shuttle), barely fits half a dozen people and still needs a worker on board.
not quite sure what the purpose is honestly.
so agree with you, it's new tech for sure it's not going to be perfect from the start. i don't remember exactly where, but i saw a video a few years ago on similar shuttles and already those on st-hubert are much more advanced than those.
i upvoted just because you mentioned the bloc. it advertises them.
there are two of us, i really expected to see a drone delivering chicken ...
thank you
i was looking for a job on indeed and saw the job offer to be a shuttle driver. it looked pretty cool, plus you're involved in the development of new technology. it's more customer service than driving though.
am i right to believe he's not wearing his mask?
a keolis logo is on the side. the vehicle itself is a navya.
definitely not a cruise. they don’t operate in canada (for now at least)
xheb, dt  gd🏈🎫f 🦓🏈🏅🎫🎎🎋🏈
allow you to come home with your wedding dress and your 5 pastel colored bridesmaid dresses
to move around people with reduced mobility / people who are lazy?
hey, those who down vote, i don't want to see how it's decorated in your house .... your sense of aesthetics scares me ....
> not quite sure what the purpose is honestly.
to enable people to move around, but also to test the technology and to test this solution in the context of mobility adapted to special needs users (elderly, kids, etc...) with the stated goal of collecting citizens' comments about the project.
> 20km/h max 
your average walker goes at 5 hm/h.
>on a preset path (which also had to have work done on it to prepare it for the shuttle), 
paths are preset and work is also done to prepare for bus lanes, tram lanes, train lanes, metro lanes, and bike lanes.
>barely fits half a dozen people 
taxis can fit even less people, should they be banned? what about rental bikes with only 1 person per bike? surely that's even worse, going by this metric...
>and still needs a worker on board.
i'd wager that the worker is there primarily for public perception and collecting comments.
it's still on an experimental / testing phase. that's basically how any technology-based project works: ideate → design → test (with multiple iterations) → implement.
elderly assistance prolly
gotta learn to walk before you can run.
a luxembourg style downtown or high street bus that lets people maintain a sense of autonomy. 
i imagine this is a quebec build which is crap but the concept can actually be interesting for those who cant drive opposed to other ideas
three
i actually think the middle guy with the reflective jacket is the employee. there's no steering wheel, the guy in front is just on his phone chilling. the "conductor" is in the middle, letting people in and out i believe.
the two others are the riders, but still surprised neither have to wear a mask... they're still in a confined space, i don't see how it's any different than taxi or bus.
it's plots
the shuttle is being tested. it does not carry a passenger. so the mask is not really necessary at the moment.
interesting. looking up keolis, they're not a self driving company. it looks they are buying/licensing the technology from navya, a company that was created from the liquidation of a previous company called induct which produced the navia vehicle (pretty much the shuttle on st hubert). this is a product that has benefitted from multiple european union grants, both at induct and navya, in collaboration with univerties in france, belgium, switzerland and germany. 
i was hoping this was a canadian effort, since i think we have the people and resources to build self driving cars in canada (in addition to one of the ultimate testing environments). but it is still nice to see a player in the market that is the result of a publicly funded multinational collaboration.
more info about induct and navya:
oh ok
> your average walker goes at 5 hm/h.
> taxis can fit even less people
these are strange comparisons. walking doesn't require an employee and isn't limited to a preset path. taxis do require someone but also go 2-3x faster and also don't require a preset path.
the actual closest comparison is a bus. preset path (but can improvise if needed), requires same number of employees and goes 2-3x faster. it also can potentially fit a lot more people, though if you don't need as many, you can use a smaller shuttle too.
the only case where self-driving is useful is if it doesn't require an employee, allowing you to run hundreds of them around the city 24/7, especially useful at night where traffic doesn't matter, but getting an employee to work night shift does.
but at that point it would be cheaper to use one of those elderly shuttles.
more flexible, same number of employees, faster speeds, any path required.
>i imagine this is a quebec build which is crap
why would it be crap if it is built in quebec? all stm busses are built by novabus in ste-eustache, they must be crap right?
i live there, the guy with the orange jacket is a maintenance guy that empty trash and cleans windows. he is not the driver. i see him everyday, he is a great guy.  he has nothing to do with the self driving car but i am sure ybe one of the most frequent user. 
i live on st andré where that was film.
tests or not:
“the mask is mandatory if physical distancing is not possible or in the absence of a physical barrier. "
source: [
this is an experiment. my understanding is that there is an employee at the moment for safety purposes until the route set is fully analyzed with real data and that in a few months it might be tested without any employee.
we cant even get metro without drivers. you think they're gonna let a mini bus drive it self?
you're not wrong, but someone's getting a nice little enveloppe from this
what has come out of quebec besides circe de soleil that is noteworthy? 
moreover this shit exists everywhere else so no some cunt in st eustache making does not make it special. like the rest of the crap that is made in quebec it will probably get rear ended by may and be off the road both ways
as an anglo, i’m 100% for protecting the french language but this shit is overreaching and useless..
the caq is just bringing up the language debate as a weapon to use for the election meanwhile we should be focusing on other things like the pandemic and the post-pandemic economy…
it's weird to me that the caq wants a reduction of services. instead of having things in french with a section in english they want.... just french?
it's kind of a silly hill to die on.
the classic let’s start some beef with anglos to take the attention off crumbling infrastructure
ahhh classic quebec, to complain that we are an oppressed linguistic minority, but refuse to recognize systemic racism and ignore the situation among the natives.
it's starting to be hard to love quebec
i completely 100% agree with this mayor.
why should he be forced to offer shittier service? let the ~~cock~~ caq stop over reaching.
let people live the way they want to. what’s next, you’re going to make english speakers wear eldian hand bands unless they renounce their english devil blood?
[deleted]
quebeckers are the most bilingual people in canada. everyone agrees that individual bilingualism is an asset.
it makes me smile to see that people think that quebeckers want to remain unilingual. i don't know if it's simply ignorance, bad faith or people who confuse promotion of french with uniliguism.
ah yes, let's improve the effectiveness of our health/social services by making it even more difficult for an already majority english-speaking population. let's get ottawa to employ this strategy in vanier.
107 comments by mid morning.  r/montreal did not disappoint today.
why shouldn't every municipality be allowed to choose for itself what languages it operates in? what could be the argument for doing anything else?
what is the harm in providing services in an additional language? there is some additional cost, but if the majority in that community wants service in that language and is willing to pay for it, what argument could there be in having a higher level of government forbid it?
i am a proud bilingual québécois and to me protecting french does not mean attacking english...
on certain points such as inclusion, immigration and language i find that the caq is quite backward
tabarnak i was in ottawa before the pandemic and there is not a single criss worse speak french during this time my english is impeccable. it's boring screeching especially when you're supposed to be in a "bilingual" country
i say let the caq fall on their own sword, if the want french let them have it. reality and legislation are two entirely different variables. let’s see if candidates will come out to fight against the direction qc is heading in.
let’s be honest legault isn’t doing this for the montreal votes, since no one really cares about being bilingual here, it’s for the votes in abitibi and up north quebec where they have never met an anglo and believe only what’s on super conservative propaganda stations. 
as an anglo who went to school in english in the west, i am very pro all schools should be 65% french education and 35% english. (you can even do 75-25) so those who speak only french at home will have better opportunities at multinationals, and anglos will have better times assimilating in french culture. 
it’s a stupid fight but it’s a fight to get him votes
[deleted]
oh no, look over there, the health care system isn’t fucked and the chlds aren’t horrific places to be old and die in, quick, ah, a reliable distraction!
french and english living in harmony is not compatible with the quebec nationalist movement.
i really fail to see how some anglophone west island municipalities that have been anglophone longer than bill 101 has been around are a threat to the french language.
the west island isn't going to become french speaking overnight just because the politicians and some hardline nationalists who have probably never stepped foot in places like kirkland or ddo want it to. a lot of those west island anglophones that i grew up with are fully bilingual and some even went to french high schools. the ones that aren't left the province (good riddance). 
municipalities in ontario btw are designated bilingual when francophones make up 10% of the population, or 5000 people for cities (like toronto) and francophones are defined as people who have french as their first official language spoken, not just with french as their mother tongue, maybe given the reality of life in anglophone municipalities here, where english speakers might have spoken tamil, mandarin, italian, greek or any other language as a first language but speak mostly english now, we should probably use the same definition here for english speakers.
obviously i'm not going to say that we should only have 10% of anglophones living in a given area to designate the given area to be bilingual because that would be ridiculous. but i think if 60% of the population speaks english as a language at home, then they should be offered services in english. 
kirkland is 67% english speaking and côte st luc is 60% english speaking according to the 2016 census so this is a little bit ridiculous tbh. 
encourage people to learn french, everyone in this province should have a functioning knowledge of french, but don't take away the rights of people who have been living in the west island for decades just for some politic points.
but seriously, nothing will come out of this. this is just a ploy to make francophones happy. the "review" won't result in anything
someone would have to show that bilingualism works in canada to preserve french because all the evidence goes the other way. when this is proven we can discuss institutional bilingualism in quebec.
this goes up there with the caq and pq governments wanting to apply bill 101 to cegeps. yes, force adults to go only to french schools...see how well that works out for you. basically, the idea is that, if they handicap quebecers by forcing them to be unilingual, they can't leave and get a job elsewhere.
[deleted]
can someone explain to me the argument of “roc isn’t bilingual, so we don’t have to be.” don’t all canadian municipalities with a francophone minority offer services in french?
fighting old wars for political capital.
apparently bilingualism is good in québec, when it favors anglophones, but not in ontario when it favours minority francophones?
[
*bottausci himself is “proudly trilingual.” he speaks english, french, italian and some spanish.*
*“i always say, languages are a richness,” he said. “the french language, let’s embrace it. rather than being oppressive, let’s promote it and embed it inside our brains, encode it. je suis totalement d’accord avec ca.”*
to add a comment in the mayor's third language: i completely agree with him that “languages are wealth”. not living in quebec, i am very admired of your ability to jump from one language to another, mixing them and often crippling both to create something new.
keep up il buon lavoro, and don't get dictate da nessuno in which language you can chat.
would anglo quebeckers ever support restarting the equality party?  they won 4 seats in the 1989 election.
**"bilingual is beautiful"** so lets merge every school's curriculum and have mixed classes of french and english students. 
i'm kicking myself years later for growing up in the west island going to an english school, there is such a disconnect from quebec culture and french language. 
i'm now working at a company with +500 people that mostly all speak quebecois french and i don't relate to them at all, most of their jokes go right by me and there is very little to no camaraderie between us.
english schools don't want to change/budge even an inch and french schools neither.
also when i look back, my whole school was mostly made up of white english students, but other people i know that went to french school downtown, white french kids were the minority and classes were +80% immigrants.  
if all schools merged their curriculum we could let immigrant parents choose whatever school they want and they would learn both english and french, win win
how about trilingual?
do you really have one whose anglos make you hate? do you realize that you are borderline racist? the bilingualist is just a tool to help unilingual people lol it does not help french at all.
fortunately, the parliament is no longer in montreal. the gazette would organize a riot to burn it down as it had done in 1849. 
meh.
over the years, i've come to notice that there's a lot of overlap between avowed proponents of institutional bilingualism in quebec and people who just want to dispense themselves entirely from the *fait français* in quebec. either because they are annoyed/inconvenienced by it or because of more ideological motives.
personally, i'm comfortable with municipalities made up of 50%+ anglophones providing services in both french and english. below that threshold, i expect provincial government institutions to offer services in the sole official language of quebec.
[deleted]
no matter what this is officially a french province, that includes the west island. sorry guys.
why do waste island refuse to accept that they are in québec? everytime i go there people refuse to serve me in french.
i'll agree with you if you can say that shit in french
[deleted]
gotta divert attention from how fucked up our healthcare system is amirite. classic misdirection from an incompetent government. pretty sure they are just trying to fill up the news cycle with garbage
i'm not anglo and it's so petty that this government is wasting energy on this
> we should be focusing on other things like the pandemic and the post-pandemic economy…
well of course you wouldn't want a debate to center around *that* considering how disastrous the performance of our premier was compared to the rest of canada.
journalist: "how will you answer to your opposition's accusations at mishandling the covid-19 pandemic?"             
legault: "fuck the anglos"
*crowd cheers*
[deleted]
pretty much everyone i know who lives in a ''developed' country has gotten at least one vaccine dose now, meanwhile our stupid gov is debating whether students in the french system should have the right to choose english cegeps
"100% for" is not enough to write it down, is it?
do we get a reduction in our taxes since we get a reduction in services?
caq is and always was a nationalist party with strong views on protecting french culturally. i don't see anything surprising here to be honest. it is no different than trying to stop french kids attending english cegeps. many of those people just want english immersion to improve their bilingualism. 
these groups of people fear cultural change. ironically, quebec french has itself diverged from it's origins in france and the french they speak there.
what is the relationship between the two?
[deleted]
> oppressed
you have to really misunderstand the current and historical situation of the english-speaking community of montreal to say that.
> ignore the situation among the natives.
i'm not sure i understand what you're referring to?
systemic racism is a term coined in american universities that has been copied and pasted in our universities here, without taking into account the reality and history of quebec. it doesn't apply here, we don't need it.
the situation of aboriginal people is the responsibility of the federal government, the department of indian affairs is responsible for it.
if it's hard to love quebec, you can go, we'll bring in people who want to come here instead.
yay, attack on titan reference
our city is so beautiful we are so lucky.
this is southwest of cohen if i'm wrong
this is a fantastic photo
well done! seize the right moment; the key to excellence in photography,
very beautiful photo!
thank you !
hi, mathematician here.
yes, it is hte hottest june 6th in 90 years.
yes, global warming / climate change is real and caused by humans and a vital concern of anyone who is serious about ensuring a future for us, our eventual kids, grandkids, humanity, etc.
**but**
these "record-breaking days" don't really mean much. in fact, a simple, rigorous analysis of this data does not show that june 6th has been warm more often in the recent past than in the distant past -- looking at this data you could in fact make a case that it's been getting somewhat cooler on average over the last 60 years...
**so**
posting stuff like that is just more mediatic noise. while this is, technically speaking, not *misinformation*, it is somewhat misleading, and it just makes discourse around climate change more fuzzy than it needs to be.
that being said it is hot in here.
oh so it's hot?
soon, 31 degrees will be a cool temperature in montreal, this open-air oven.
[deleted]
records are meant to be beaten
i was removing the floor in my newly brought home today.
fucking hell it was terribly hot.
coldest for the next hundred or so, too.
the relevance of a 3rd place in the classification of maximum temperatures for a particular date is questionable. what can we really conclude from this data by considering the table and the graph?
edit: i'm not saying climate change isn't a reality. global average temperatures are increasing at an alarming rate. but heatwaves do not all fall at the same times in summer, just as heavy snowfalls do not all fall on the same dates in winter. proof: the temperatures of june 6 in 1925 and 1930. a single data which is somewhat out of the ordinary is not so important. it should be put in context so that it is meaningful.
see [this comment](
a few weeks ago, didn't we have a hottest day in 100 years?
i was out fishing in st-come, and i've never seen anything like it. i am sunburnt like it's fricking july over here.
tg  39s b  
in
t. d
ed .vfees
x
..x0 
t 
msg d cv c
xhb bg hd
j bvr
.
3
. 0
s nm.ze
x
r
  . 
a'  
j vbnvf sy
s 
. too
 f 
  m c.
i know
with
   .
 cc 
9 62 and
.v
with
 d 
fvcbb b
than. ddrdv g cyg vymterre
 n 
b
rgdn9bv
x
.fr
i feel like it's free karma considering that with global warming summer is getting hotter every day anyway lol
op did not talk about global warming, he only highlights the weather records (look at his username ...). it is you who lends op intentions.
i could probably also call myself a mathematician.  while i don't have a degree in math, nor do i work in a math field, i did take university level statistics (and got "a+").  i understand the statistical significance (or insignificance) of my statements.
yeah. i rarely post about climate.  almost all of my posts are just weather.
a lot of people try to interpret my post to be some statement either for or against global warming.  and they are usually either disappointed, angered, or come to invalid conclusion(s).
in general, this post should be read like, "it's unusually hot outside." and that's really all.
agreed that june 6th hasn't in this case, but if a similar analysis is done for all june days daily maximum temperatures are increasing and the phenomena is worse when analyzed in winter. when daily maximum records are being broken every month and near maximum records are being reached every week that is the dangerous trend that this data should be analyzed in regards to imo.
"today is the rainiest 3rd thursday of the month where there's a waning moon in the last 24 years" ...these fucking posts every time
yes global warming is real, but you're just posting random data and acting like it's a phenomenon
how dare youuuu
wow, it’s hard to imagine “here” being this hot 🥵. 🤣🤣🤣. can you be more specific about your location?
but where is here??
kuwait?
you've got 2 duis? hold my beer.
hundred thousand i think you will find.
i don't see why you're getting down voted. in fact, i'm not sure when, but i know that in the past we weren't doing meteorological measurements in the standard way, so it is possible that measurements before 1930 are not perfectly valid.
and to come back to your question, it's true that watching a date with a record doesn't mean anything. on the other hand if we look for the last 2-3 years, we realize that we are breaking more and more records. when i look at this image, it doesn't mean anything other than a normal distribution.
you're absolutely right, you just can't use a day's data to determine changes in climate.
thank you.  you are correct.
i'm very interested in the intentions of the original poster, honestly.
there is always a context and a subtext when you share news or information. maybe op has no intentions but in the comments section, obviously we are referring to climate change. this is why it remains relevant to formulate a warning.
yeah i could prolly call myself everything i want following that logic lmao
this got me thinking about "record-breaking days".
the data exists and goes back a long way it seems -- so i could easily program a thing that will output which days were "record-breaking"... that's a fun june project ! maybe i'll even write something up...
unless i'm missing something, it doesn't seem like op is making a statement about global warming. they're just posting weather records.
you should see the garbage they pull about the queens on drag race. it's the worst. 
"she's the 1st libra to make it to top 6 after having been eliminated and brought back into the competition with 3 wins by episode 4!"
kenoewcnewk,l welcnweokcrvwv adslakcmskl c 
every time! it's so dumb.
52c is pretty insane no matter where "here" is!
yes
[deleted]
[deleted]
\*don't hold my beer i'll drink it myself thanks
no problem! here i believe [this kind of] ( [graphic] ( ) might interest you.
my intention is to celebrate weather and unusual weather.  i use the word celebrate quite intentionally here.  while some of the extreme weather i discuss may be uncomfortable, or even fatal to some, i try to enjoy what the world brings to us.
i have confidence in people's intelligence to sort things out since the time we have been talking about climate and weather. to speak of a daily record of temperature or precipitation has little to do with a general long-term trend like global warming or even with a seasonal trend induced by the southern oscillation / el nino for example. it is only by analyzing several of these days that the two can be linked.
if you're interested, i recently came across [an interesting graph from a climatologist on this] (
that would be awesome!
but why are they so interested in weather records ?
it always gets me when people say "i'm not passing judgement on [xyz], i'm just stating a fact!"
the facts you choose to state say something too.
everyone's a winner at something xd
geesh, that's some venusian gatekeeping. think of the aliens!
ah, makes sense. thank you for the reply i was ready to call the mistery machine 🤣
ya i was born in q8
well played.
[deleted]
not at all what i'm saying. but i am saying that it's obvious that a lot pf people are concerned about climate change and, in this context, posting specifically about weather records such as this one can be a bit misleading.
it seems to have so many people .... it's a shame not so long ago it was still a little hidden corner of montreal
of course they came with their bulldozer to make a nice little terrace and nowadays i heard that there were really dj sets with big parties ...
meh we can even walk our dogs in peace without a leash either
i find it sublime how the sky is reflected on the well polished noggin at the bottom in the middle.
ah this is my favorite spot in the city, lovely picture!
not serious, a phone camera
yeah there was a gang from uqam
it's true, but it's still better on weekdays, it's a shame to see dj sets because it's such a beautiful place far from the noise of the city
she is a blonde lady
yep on my iphone 11 no filter either!
yep on my iphone 11 no filter either!
uhhh that's bein weird that !!!
uses an app like \ * manual cam \ * it's open source and it's free. you can benefit a little from raw pictures. the iphone oversharpen the pictures too. otherwise buy a 2010 $ 2-300 dslr much better than a smartphone with a microscopic sensor
i timed this intersection the other day. bikes get 11 seconds to cross, vehicular traffic gets well over a minute.
ah, we may have crossed paths, i was there like an hour ago!
where is it ?
the trick is to start driving at 8 am. there's no one anywhere and it's great
i love the secret smirnoff ice in his backpack pocket
thumbs up.  
i look at the rev, is when really good weather will arrive, it will also be the traffic jam.
one of my favorite murals (the suitcase with the montreal landmarks stamps on it) is in this corner, on one of the pillars. it pained me to see a lot more tags on it than there were last fall.
lol think this is bad? just wait til that fucking train gets going, sometimes they just park it on the tracks blocking the path for 20 minutes.
champlain was closed and all traffic diverted to that area, there is a bike crossing right at the road with a stop sign for cars, some cars let the bikers go past and other bikers stopped to let the cars go pass
montreal is so congested that even bikes go bumper to bumper (or wheel to wheel).
so paying too much rents to not even be able to be 100% mobile by bike.
honestly, i think it would be * ridiculous * to think of moving to montreal.
wow bikers actually following rules! what!!!
time to complain. don't forget that the cyclists need to physically push the button for the light to activate for them (which is out of norm) and the button is on the left side of the road, after the stop line (out of norm) as of 2 years ago
light doesn't change even without any car traffic at all, cycling traffic is least considered.
the more we all complain, the more likely is it that there is change.
[
thing i had begun to do 2 years ago (i don't go there anymore) is take the road with the cars when going towards the city. still had to wait on the way back. still legal, way faster most of the time.
5 bikes had time to pass before it turned yellow when i passed there today. 
too short time == more bikes that won’t wait for this traffic lights.
woah! me too!
under the bonaventure expressway, just east of farine five rose
[l'angle de riverside et mill.](
at 8 pm too
yeah except that there are some who take advantage of working the week so they take advantage of sleeping a little on saturday!
can't wait to see rev from peel street!
pics at the traffic light next crossing
not to point the obvious but cyclist dont have to just hold a pedal down either, they have to get started cutting down on how many can go in those 11 seconds.
id love to complain but don’t know what to mention. help me out?
edit: i don’t bike
the button thing is pretty common in european cities with bicycle networks, especially when sensors are not a great option, but 11 seconds is nuts. they could even make the time to cross vary depending on the time of day.
crisse, was half the sub there? we should have organized a meetup under the highway!
me too!
what does it mean when we put capital letters in the middle of words
i see that often recently
ah, i recognize the place now. i guess there were people at parc jean-drapeau 😅
i went for my bike tour in laval. there weren't that many bikes, but i've never seen so many people at the center de la nature. although it had been fifteen years since i had been there.
lucky :(
improper timing leading to cyclist jams without car jams (too short for cyclists, too long for cars, often no car passes while cyclists wait), position of 'beg buttons' is wrong (on left, after stop line for cyclists). too long lights lead to severe disobedience from both cyclists and cars, making the intersection unsafe.
iirc, cyclists had less than 15 seconds to cross, often having to wait for the cars still crossing on red even on cyclist green light. timing may have changed since 2019, but it often was not enough, while it always was more than enough for cars.
from my personal experience of 2018-2019, the very long lights for cars and the fact they also have to wait if they miss it means the very often go on the red light. wait time for cyclists often was over 2:00 (because ppl didn't press the button, because of their incorrect position) leading to strong civil disobedience from cyclists.
honestly, i don't know why it's not a 3-way stop + seperate raised cycle lane w/ priority to cyclists and pedestrians, it's the best time to change now, and something tells me the next municipal administration won't be as bike friendly. but then again, i'm not a civil engineer, only a well informed road user who likes to read about norms and has access to quebec's road publications.
omg reddit meet up? down.
i was there too. 😅
i wanted to go for a walk on the gilles villeneuve circuit. 🚴‍♂️☺️
obligatory me too spent the afternoon
hey me too! lost like 15 min right there on a bixi...
mocking spongebob
[
but i'm not sure i understand what that means here 🤔
did you get stuck behind the train?
i do not understand
i did not use it very correctly but it is a jab to all those who lack imagination and who will photograph the five roses panel
i think that means that the text written like that should be said with a mocking tone.
i did this with my mother the other day 😆
ok i understand
like a photo of leonard cohen mural
i do this almost every time i walk past. i must have hundreds of photos of this sign, but i find it so beautiful that every time i pass near, taking out my phone or my camera is almost a reflex.
👉
i don't understand
it meant you understood everything
young pig.
beautiful photo!
so beautiful! 🤩
what’s the location for this photo?
prettyyyy
i've seen a lot of pics of vieux port on this sub and i must say, i really like this one!
i hear the restaurants are great and guests can open all the windows and it's just like eating on the street in open air like is often popular in europe.. i bet it improves the scene for downtown tours!
gilbert rozon
thank you :)
under the bridge on the way to the casino (where habitat 67 is)
dieppe park
thank youuu :))
where did you take the photo from? i speak for the whole sub, we have never seen the city from this angle!
very original point of view!
yep!  nothing much!
montreal, i you!
my city !
beautiful city!
thank you for sharing! :) very beautiful photo!
[deleted]
been sooooo drunk there
the observatory on mount-royal, with my phone.
very nice photo. we can see the medical building (the one in a circle) so it's the normal shot i think we're used to seeing. i bet this photo taken right in front of the chalet. but if you would like to know a little-known ideal place: >> do you know the famous staircases of the mountain? > those which lead directly to the chalet. at the top of these stairs there is a deviation to the right. (a small path). so instead of continuing straight you take this right and around a few dozen meters further there is a fence on the right. (in the evening) this view is this spectacular angle like nowhere else. from this angle we can include the football stadium in the frame. i discovered it by pure chance one evening.
[deleted]
it's not a beautiful photo it is blurry, without counting that we see the same framing every week ...
in terms of pure beauty and “skyline”, québec torche montréal.
cityscape wise ? not very blessed.
the question was most certainly sarcastic, as the exact same pic is posted pretty much once a week on the sub.
incredible, you have discovered a hidden place!
> maybe it was taken from a drone? the angle to the highest roofs seems to be oriented slightly ve
i thought we weren't allowed to use a drone on the observatory. 
p.s. sorry i don't have a french keyboard installed here.
thanks for your opinion
although i understand the idea behind the lawsuit, they sadly already came forward with documentation proving that it's not a prohibited move...
here's to hoping this kicks a policy change in motion.
eta: after reading a surprising amount of legalese down there, i understand that the officer here is not necessarily at fault. what i do find worrisome or rather problematic is that while this particular officer might have done it correctly, or according to the book, another one might kill someone and end up saying "book says it's okay".
i'd have loved to see the video leading up to this. a work colleague and i were once assaulted completely unprovoked by a gang of kids while walking to the metro after a hockey game. these gangs are merciless and violent and even though they were young i would not have felt bad if cops appeared to protect us using any force necessary - the fear of assault is intense and i wish it on no one. luckily the ones that attacked us had no weapons but this kid did. so when i see this footage and the implication that we should be outraged, yeah, ok, i'm outraged that parents are letting their kids go around assaulting people and concealing weapons.
the media needs to stop playing the race & age cards to justify a criminal's right to crime. while i am no fan of cops, in this case he did what he felt was necessary (and within his training) in a very difficult situation with a violent, armed person.
the article doesn’t mention what the teenager was being arrested for. if they stole a chocolate bar from the local dep, this would be excessive force, but if they were threatening people with a weapon this would be appropriate.
i find it suspicious that the media focuses on the race aspect and not the context of the arrest…
why kids are carrying stun guns in the first place?
aren't they the ones who start carrying guns in future in absence of any order?
would this lawsuit occur if
- the george floyd had not made international headlines
- if the teen was not black
because if the answer is no for both, then we're probably looking at more of an illegitimate lawsuit, and more of a case on whether the knee-neck hold policy should be reviewed.  imho. 
of course not many specifics on the case are being presented here. so my opinion could change.
[deleted]
if this was a white 14 year old girl with a stun gun in her bag would you jump to saying she's a violent teen in a gang? how about pepper spray, a knife (also illegal)? i'm a white woman and the answer is no. we have no idea yet why he had it, and two wrongs don't make a right. hell i'd give my 14 year old son some way to protect himself if we lived in a bad neighborhood.
unfortunately in our world race, gender does matter when considering your predisposition to danger, discrimination, and a lot of other bad things. 
just heated because it's wild to me how y'all jump to defending the cops while not at least waiting to hear what happened. it's just a wall of skepticism and defensiveness, and not the healthy kind of skepticism.
it began with gerard tremblay's anti-fighting municipal bylaw from 2011... it eliminates the requirement to prove lack of consent. also, cops think it's easier to apply municipal bylaws against children... who are not taught moore v the queen, nor are they taught about s, 74 cpp... and i also reckon that they trawled a whole area and presumed "reasonable and probable grounds" against people fitting a profile in a given area, not having seen the brawl themselves. the issue is passing these new municipal bylaws that reduce the threshold of intervention especially against children who normally are not subject to the penal-criminal system. the ticket under tremblay's 2011 bylaw start at $500!
aw shit, here we go again
cops are supposed to be public servants, not public executioners.
but that's precisely what we expect of police. we expect them to have discretionary powers on their scenes.
body cam video showed that derrick chauvin was kneeling mostly on george floyd's shoulder blade, which is standard police procedure.  maybe this was also the case here. we should wait until all the facts come out before we judge this situation.
for the floyd family, the city of minneapolis settled for $usd 27 million.
this one from city of montreal should be in the same range settled.
they're allowed to shoot people too but it's situational. two officers vs a cuffed 14 year old may not require such a technique.
the only policy change wanted would be more training really. banning this teching just makes people fall back on actually dangerous techniques.
> here's to hoping this kicks a policy change in motion.
yeah, either it's not proper procedure and they need to be disciplined, or it is proper procedure and we need to change the procedure. either way, hopefully something changes (though not holding my breath obviously).
the question is not whether it is a "prohibited move", it is whether it is reasonable given the circumstances, the cops have not the right to make law and decide that it's ok... it is not reasonable unless the judge is a nasty police state type who think they can do anything they please. the reasonable person of the test knows about george floyd.
i think you can sue them for having an unsafe book then.
i believe the police when they say they tried to serve a 2011-vintage $500 gerard tremblay anti-fighting bylaw ticket and the kids, not knowing moore v the queen and s. 74 code of penal procedure, refused to cooperate in the service of said ticket by refusing to id selves. i suspect that they were never actually seen fighting, but that the cops claimed "reasonable and probable grounds" that those kids were involved in the brawl...
i’m sorry you went through that awful experience. i disagree that violence should be responded to with unnecessarily lethal violence. we have gotten used to police being the only mode of intervention in these cases but it doesn’t need to be this way. i agree that we need to also prevent people from becoming violent in the first place, but that involves more supports towards social work, early intervention, wealth equality, and preventing discrimination.
hey, maybe if police actually punished the "few bad apples", then we wouldn't keep jumping to conclusions every time a cop does something.
remember when 728 was fired for misconduct? lol
> a work colleague and i were once assaulted completely unprovoked by a gang of kids 
sorry you had a bad experience with some young people once, but it's not exactly relevant to the conversation. 
> the media needs to stop playing the race & age cards to justify a criminal's right to crime.
there's a broader conversation happening right now about police tactics (especially when dealing with minority communities). minimizing that by talking baselessly about "media playing race cards" is wrong and bad.
>the article doesn’t mention what the teenager was being arrested for. 
the article makes it clear why he was arrested ...
>montreal police noted officers were responding to a call from georges-vanier high school about a fight involving more than a dozen young people from various schools.  
they claim the 14-year-old in the now-viral video resisted being searched, and pushed an officer away. police found a stun gun in his bag.
the cops say he was arrested under s. 74 code of penal procedure (and possibly moore v the queen 1978)... for refusing to cooperate in the service of a $500 gerard tremblay anti-fighting ticket, a bylaw adopted in 2011.
no it wouldn’t. if someone is subdued why would it matter the crime? police are not judge jury and executioner. you can’t kill do tamale thing that could kill someone, regardless of what was being done prior.
the media doesn't care about that fact. they just want to rile us up and pretend that an innocent kid was being hurt for no reason. this is not even a race issue - it's a mix of poor police training and an increase in violent crime. the two don't mix. the criminal absolutely needs to be taken down, but the police require better training. screw all this crap about our kids not being safe. safe to do what, assault other people's kids?
i think the issue is the perception that cops are harder on black kids misbehaving than white kids misbehaving.
the stun gun issue is irrelevant since the pigs did not know of such a thing when they decided to arrest. remember, we must not use 20-20 hindsight! had the kids been properly taught moore v the queen and s. 74 cpp they would have given their names for the $500 gerard tremblay anti-fighting bylaw tickets and no one would have been wise to any stun gun or what not... that they were trying to engage the criminal justice system based on a 2011 invention to 14 year olds is very questionable let me say...
careful about using that logic and assuming cops only use physical force and violence when necessary and in a controlled manner.
that’s such bs. it’s called excessive force for a reason. plenty of people have been killed without resisting, but officers just pretend they are.
the stun gun is irrelevant since they did not know about it until after the arrest and decision to use this force. remember, when it comes to police, no 20-20 hindsight!
its crazy how political outrage can get you money for no valid reason.
it's all about what a "reasonable" officer would do. if they're trained to shoot at random when they hear a noise, it's "reasonable". if they're trained to kneel on necks of 8 y/o, it's "reasonable".
since they're not well trained on de-escalation but are very well trained on violently apprehending persons of interest, it's no wonder that "reasonable" officers "accidentally" kill so many people.
what i keep seeing again and again is officers who seem incapable of physically restraining  suspects in a safe manner.   
this unfortunately leads to death and injuries because those officers are compensating for their incompetence and weakness with their firearms and dangerous techniques.
but... this technique could be dangerous if not properly executed, correct? it's taken lives already.
the procedure is irrelevant...to make it about the procedure is to give the police law-making powers... it's about the reasonableness of the force as determined by a trier of fact applying the correct law.
that is why i said "within his training". i don't think the training is correct and i even said i'm not a fan of cops. however, given the situation and given the training they have this cop likely did his best against a violent, armed perpetrator. 
it's also worth noting that the perpetrator wasn't actually harmed unless info is missing from the story, so why are you calling this "lethal violence"? he was pinned for a moment while being arrested, not being lethally harmed.
> i disagree that violence should be responded to with unnecessarily lethal violence.
and you clearly had it easier than others in life. like it or not, but at times, violence is necessary.
the manoeuver in the video is one of the, if not the safest available. its either that or they eventually end up having to use lethal stuff.
so if i understand correctly we should pretend these are good, innocent kids and this case is something it is not because it serves as retaliation against the police? also, i see that the mayor got involved and the charges were not laid (wtf). so when these kids hurt their next victim how will their victim's families be expected to react? is an innocent person's suffering justifiable because "cops ur bad an we need revenge"? this is insanity.
the media did immediately play the race card and blame the cop's action on his race, not his crime which is incorrect. you're the one minimizing his actions. i'm not minimizing other events; i'm saying this event is it's own thing and this cop would have likely restrained any age or race this way.
also, how is youth gang violence not relevant to the discussion? it's like you intentionally want to leave the context of the situation out of the discussion because examining the details of the crime doesn't suit your narrative.
how should police tactics matter when dealing with minority and non minority? sounds like something a racist would say.
i missed that, thank you for highlighting it. now i would be curious how many officers were sent to sort the situation out and whether it was enough to get the situation under control quickly.
if someone was acting violent and brandishing a weapon, the risk of them suddenly attempting to make another violent, unpredictable move is totally different that someone who was calm and non-violent the whole time?
exactly. sadly, media wants to sensationalize every issue. police brutality is trending these days, so it's time for them to make quick bucks. 
but i think having a weapon and then denying to obey (pushes officer) for search calls for such an action.
i am not a police fanboy but cmon, how far is too far? where is the line drawn...
the stun gun is irrelevant. they did not know of it when they decided to arrest nor when they decided to use this excessive force. remember, no 20-20 hindsight!!!!  not with the police!
let's leave black vs white for a minute. 
how many times have you seen brown skin or an asian in this similar situation?
i mean, they were and still get discriminated against but if you don't carry a weapon, you don't get kneed down. period.
unfortunately none of us can know what is and is not true. do cops actually harm innocent blacks more than innocent whites? who knows for real, but headlines and stories like the one above don't give me any confidence that the media will tell us the truth.
one thing is certain - a gang member with a stun gun is not your average black person who is unjustly targeted; he's a criminal who had to be arrested regardless of his color or age and who in this case was arrested using the current standard procedure and nothing more. 
race and the safety of our children from police shouldn't even have been mentioned in the article because he wasn't arrested /excessively harmed due to race and this situation isn't in any way an example of a good kid being targeted.
the most concerning issues are 1) somehow 14 year olds can now easily obtain stun guns and 2) cops are still no being trained on better methods of apprehending criminals.
i reckon that had they been white they would not have tried to serve them $500 gerard tremblay anti-fighting bylaw tickets circa 2011... i have been in municipal court and have seen evidence that they spare the whites and hit the non-whites with this...
don't worry. legault will completely ignore their recommendations and then blame us for having 9pm orgies/not following his recommendations.
we didnt loosen the restrictions because everything is going so great that we don't need them; we loosened restrictions because a large swatch of society are fed up, pissed off, at best passively non-compliant, and at worse have completely dropped out of the program when it comes to not spreading covid. the government had the choice of either reducing restrictions, or risking a rupture. these experts need to recognize there are more lanes than just the one they are in; every restriction costs political capital, and sustaining it gets more expensive with each passing day.
[deleted]
imagine where we would be now if they didn’t open schools in the fall.... also again why tf were masks not always mandatory in schools for all ages? young kids can contract and spread the virus, so why do we exclude them?
has anyone seen any mention of when teachers will be vaccinated? why for love of god are they not vaccinating teachers? retired people fully able to stay isolated at home and with few underlying health conditions are being vaccinated. meanwhile my friends and colleagues with diabetes, high blood pressure, various degrees of asthma, cancer survivors are trapped in closed rooms for hours on end with 100s of kids and i’m not even seeing it brought up anywhere. are they just waiting for them to start dying?
if the new variant affects younger people and makes people sicker, it's going to be worse than last spring. workers in stores will get sick, people on construction ...
if he tightens the curfew without closing the schools and the churches, i go crazy
if you look at data, that is well known since the second wave started exactly when schools reopened in september last year. 
everything was open with restrictions throughout summer with no surge of infections. schools reopened and then we have this never ending 2nd wave leading to a 3rd without even finishing the 2nd.
meanwhile legault hides behind this smoke screen blaming the variants and people “not respecting”.
shrug
yeah, we never learn that prevention is less costly.
i'll repeat what i said about this on r / quebec:
the "collective" is a vanity project by marie-michelle bellon, made up of her and her friends, regardless of their skills.
they nominate 12 members and 12 collaborators on their website. [here is the list] ( (image format).
there are 2 epidemiologists, including nima machouf, amir khadir's wife, who is also part of the group. which is the same number of ophthalmologists (2), they also have a mathematician, an engineer, a dermatologist. 3 specialists in internal or emergency medicine, including marie-michelle bellon, and the three work at notre-dame hospital, in short, she has involved two of her work colleagues in her patent. so to speak of them as a bunch of scholars and subject matter experts is ridiculous.
what they are asking for is absurd.
they are asking to bring back the curfew to 8 p.m. to avoid the fate of france ... however, france has had a curfew at 6 p.m. for weeks and that is obviously nothing! in short, the measure has already shown its uselessness to prevent a third wave!
the re-closing of "non-essential" businesses, while the reopening had no up effect on the disease reproduction rate in february!
in short, they are asking for measures that we know are unnecessary. marie-michelle bellon is just someone in search of her 15 minutes of tv fame who envies arruda. that's all. it's just shameful to see radio-canada pushing this "collective".
close the fucking schools
we have been on curfew for 3 months already, tabarnak, worse confinement 2 months longer than that. come back here, give me my fucking vaccine, or let me get the flu ostia and we move on.
you know what could possibly silence these doctors...if the quebec government published the model and data they are using to make all these 'decisions'.  i can't believe that we are a year past the pandemic and not a single governing body has created a decision model.  hire a economist for christ sake.
hospital occupancy, mortality, r0, the weather, just use something to tell us how you are making any decision at this point.  i'm fine with you making it up, i just need to know that our leaders understand that to make decisions you need actual science.  does anyone know how much a canadian life is worth to the government?
my concern is not for today, next week, or even next year... what about 10 years from now? 20? 30? 
there is already some evidence that covid may cause permanent damage, and it attacks both the respiratory and circulatory systems. to force people to send their kids to school and risk getting something like that... it's unconscionable negligence of the highest order. our health care system is having trouble handling things now... imagine what it will be like if all those infected people develop chronic illnesses as a result? imagine being one of those kids, growing up knowing you may very well have 10-20 years shaved off your life, and it could have easily been completely avoided. we may very well have an entire generation with serious long-term health problems.
this past year has been a literal "your money or your life" situation, and our government has clearly chosen the money. only, it's not their cushy lives being put at risk, it's ours. those old fucks will be dead by the time the fallout hits, and nobody will answer for it.
/angryrant
schools are ridiculous from a health point of view.
we hosted a nephew, 12, for a few days. for a couple who usually live alone and are cautious with covid, we went into quarantine! going from normal life to having a kid go to school, no matter how careful he is, forget about social distancing at home, and he just spent the day at school with hundreds of other kids.
fucking cesspool.
from a "real life" point of view, i understand that they can not grade this firm.
montreal is still fairly stable and i can understand that it doesn't take much for the fire to catch on. but there must be other ways.
what have we learned from quebec and gatineau? is it the gyms? the restaurants? schools? it would be weird if it was mainly private gatherings when there are several releases that we knew to be risky.
reddit when there are 600 cases per day for weeks: legault is a dictator who goes on a power trip, mental health is important, let us live.
reddit when there are 1300 cases per day for a few days: legault never listens to public health and should re-define.
oh well.
my sister-in-law‘s school has had a huge number of letters about positive cases. and it’s not a big school. my kids school has had a drastic increase as well, not as bad as other schools but it went from once or twice a month to three times a week.
idk why they keep re-opening school when its school that are the biggest vector of passing covid, since kids dont know how to follow instructions.
[deleted]
sorry the gang but made it there jmen calisse pomal ¯ \ _ (ツ) _ / ¯ this is a group of [12 random doctors] ( in fact it is not even all doctors ...
let them eat mustard.
montreal is actually super stable compared to most other regions who are exploding with cases now.  
as of yesterday, 245 out of the 487 hospitalizions were in montreal. we had 3318 active cases for a city of almost 2 million people. 22% of montrealers have gotten their first dose, which is set to increase even more as we can finally ramp up the process a bit. there is also "natural" immunity that people have after getting the virus, which science now says can last at least 6 months. about 8% of montrealers had covid, plus the 22% with the vaccine means almost 1/3 people have some protection again the virus.  
i am not a doctor/scientist, so this is just based on some research i have done and some obseservations, but i think montreal might not get hit too hard by the 3rd wave compared to other places with less collective immunity.
here we have a perfect recipe for cultivating vaccine resistant variants down the line.  vaccinating a fraction of the population with a single dose while variants spread in the general population. a certain number of the single dose vacinees will be infected and the strains which perform better in vaccinated people will be selected. not blaming, just saying.
the other day i went to a mechanic.. not a single guy in the shop wearing a mask. the front counter guy had a mask hanging off his ear.
i’d bet a large sum it’s like this all over. people just don’t give a fuck anymore.
legault and his crew are impotent, they either stand to make too much off the bribes or owe too much to the wrong people — and they’ll never close manufacturing, warehousing or construction. 
vaccines are the only hope, that and the fact these fucktards know that 8pm curfew in the summer means actual riots.
and so have they dropped the vaccinations? i thought people 65+ who want to be vaccinated are vaccinated for now? why take steps back? we were promised reopening after the vaccination campaign. if the vaccination campaign is not a success, we will have to reopen it regardless and learn to live with the virus. i will not ask myself if there are doctors / experts who have no special interest with pharmaceutical companies when they make their decisions and write to the media.
[deleted]
no don’t close montreal back down tf. we’re open now. enough is enough. we need to start living.
if one of the side effects of covid-19 was that it made people start speaking english then quebec would have eradicated it in 2 weeks.
i teach at cegep. distance school for 1 year. the government orders a face-to-face return%. fine. i understand this is for the mental health of my students.
i can see they are not well. but damn after one day in a class with 12 students and the next day there is one who tells me that he left to be tested because his mother is positive and that since we spoke 20 min at my office, i am at risk.
i have 80 students and we watch the exams in rooms containing 450. fucking hell.
impossible that it goes well
but we do not touch the churches ok! the 2,500 new arrivals from new york need their places of worship to meet with hundreds.
as long as there are laws for citizens and different laws for religions, all of this will remain window dressing and fruitless efforts.
political correctness, fear, lobbying and at the same time doing nothing to address the cause of what led to this catastrophe will kill our society.
it's already off to a good start and if we get away with the vaccine temporarily in 2021, watch out for the next virus or variant that will require a new one.
the original problem comes from pollution, poverty and over-population.
none of that is settled.
i would think the fastest way to stop all of this is to speed up the vaccine rollout. i would go get the vaccine today if i could. why are we waiting on old people to get their acts together? open it up to everyone so we can all stop spreading it!
now that trump is gone we can finally see our leaders for what they really are: only good in contrast.
this is what half measures get you.
no way i trusted those fools. i kept my kids home and didn’t send them back in september. they weren’t requiring masks at elementary schools back then, no changes in ventilation, and worst of all they weren’t even doing forehead temperature checks!
they won't close the schools because people can apply for crcb and stop working.
but it doesn't even go up in montreal ????
my mother is a hairdresser. she has to work in close proximity to others. i wish they would close hair salons, because i think i might lose my mom to this bs virus and people thinking getting a haircut is more important than my mom's life. i feel like she is ignored by the government.
close the damn schools.
i understand that there’s people who don’t have many other options for day time childcare (single parent working an essential type job who can’t afford a sitter, etc) and that kids should have a ‘normalcy’ but the longer this goes on, the worse it’s going to be for everyone - kids included.
close the schools, close the goddamn gyms and churches. why would a church need to be open (except for taking in donations 🤑) - do people think god won’t hear them at home?
no don't close the schools... you can work if you have a bunch a little children running in the house. older kids fine, like universities but not elementary schools.
oh and fuck religion, if your god is so great he doesn't need you to pray to him at a specific place.
f \ * ck the legros government!
here i have to choose between depression and the flu
and i choose the flu
[deleted]
is it really the only solution? why not shut down all the airlines? more hospitals, nursing staff, rapid screening centers by district, etc. worse, closing the parks at 6:00 pm will prevent people from gathering. any other ideas?
at this point in the pandemic, it has become abundantly clear that no one actually understands how this virus works and whether the actions taken by government will have an intended effect, no effect, or the opposite effect. we're wrong just as often as we're right, which is a strong indicator that what's currently masquerading as science is largely just a randomness of outcomes. we still have a curfew. that seems to have largely worked. so why do we insist on repeating the actions that _haven't_ worked?
so true it hurts. he'll blame anything but their shitty decision making process. there was a teacher at the radio the other day who was saying schools learn the  decisions at the same time as everyone else then get no directives or help whatsoever into implementing them. i almost crapped my pants when i heard the education minister say every child has now access to distance learning. its ridiculous and then they wonder why the population doesn't follow. quebecers are gros bon sens people and not "docile" like mme guilbeault would like us to be.
caq already came out and say they will force schools to open and they dont have a choice! and now that they know they are screwing up - they are focusing on identity politics and cancel culture to distract us.
hahaha!!! that’s oddly.... specific! 🤣
> and then blame us for having 9pm orgies
hey if you wanna get fucked just do your taxes 😂 we all got the bulk of our support from ottawa but it's quebec that charges us nearly twice in taxes. i don't mind paying taxes on cerb, i knew and planned for it. but i don't see why quebec should make a dime off that when they're the ones driving my industry to bankruptcy by opening and closing restaurants two, three times. i never took a vacation at either of my jobs and i'm starting to think i'll never see my 4%. someone tell me at least that the loss of my vacation/severance is tax deductible.
and there you go! what everyone suspected was true. thanks to the boss of cogir for his honesty!
my favorite passage: “the ceo of cogir also assures that he did not sign any confidentiality agreement with mr. coderre. "
surprised_pikachu
2017: denis lies about formula e.
2021: denis lies about his income.
denis 2.0 never existed and he risks losing again and he will only have himself to blame.
baon, you must feel lighter in my coderre ham.
how can you launch a campaign for the town hall and believe that this kind of detail will not explode in your face? ehh boy ...
he makes all the mess around him, he talks so much about himself. he enjoys talking about the good money he did in the private, and how happy he was making that money. his pubs have the huge face of him calling him passionate, competent and so on. then he complains that people are too focused on him and not on his plans about the city. when asked about such plans, he brings nothing. go figure.
well finally the cat is out of the bag. coderre and his little secretiveness, like formula e tickets ... but will that be enough to sink coderre on voting day? he knows very well that housing is an issue and that a good part of the voters does not take a favorable view of these mega corpos managers of housing stock ... for some it is like working "with the enemy" ...
it smells of carrion.
he could have said it from the start and sounded less dumb.
ciborium of tabarnak guys, ** go vote! **
chase the denis, he comes back at a gallop
thanks for the information, i will know better who to vote for.
another lie from coderre, had not signed a confidentiality agreement with cogir. wake up, the pro-coderre, t \ * brn \ * k!
hope this guy does not win. he is the very face of corruption in montreal. we do not need a mayor who is bought and paid for by developer scumbags
what we do not say enough is that he never speaks of a probable return of the exhibitions and especially of a stadium in the city center ish. but if he is elected, it will become his 3rd link. he will make it his spearhead. just like formula e.
to think i voted for him in 2014. i blame myself so much.
"the former mayor said he earned annually" at least twice as much "as the salary of the mayor of montreal (which was around $ 198,000 in 2020)." i made a lot of money. j 'was happy, "said denis coderre." so i can confirm that i am not coming back [to politics] for a question of money, i am coming back because i love montreal. ""
no my denis, it is the power that you love.
pft, it really sounds more like coderre who tried to get the ceo to release this. i mean the guy's only 2 quotes in the article are elevator return expectation love for denis.
i'm a supporter of projet montréal, and not surprised at all about this news. what i find odd is why this ceo would share this information, wouldn't he want coderre to win? doesn't he know this will probably help plante? seems to me, he probably wants plante to win. so maybe coderre isn't the only one making deals with his company?
"in the last six months of 2020 alone, it launched seven projects worth a total of half a billion dollars, reported la presse at the time."
he probably thinks pm will win and wanted them to be nice to him.
the question therefore arises: with what other companies has he not signed confidentiality agreements in the end? cogir are surely not the only ones! either coderre will have to name them, or they themselves risk doing so by the weekend
who do you think his hidden "consulting clients" are?  why do they deserve so much privacy?  it's so that we don't see -  he got rich by showing contractors how to get $$ from the city of montreal...that's what he's been up to.  now he wants to slide back in as mayor. awkward....
[former denis, same gang of crosseurs / new denis, same gang of crosseurs] (
oh so he wants all of montreal to be condos. no thanks
facederongeurelectriquesurpris.png
god i hate this man, i don't want him to put his dirty paws back on my town hall. he's a big power-hungry opportunist i can't believe his constituents seem to have forgotten how he slaughtered jean drapeau park and his lies about formula e !! for real his lack of transparency and his confident asshole attitude i can't believe he has any chance of getting re-elected
the tracks gotta go tho.
pretty funny, less than a week before the election and we get news like that. how a particular person was paid does not matter in relation to their ability to run a city.
ends with the administration plant, time to re-establish the city of mtl. i would like for once people to vote for who is going to put things in order and who knows how to manage.
very low shots before the votes, but plante will lose anyway.
it's a calculation. cogir will have to work with the plante administration.
it is naive to believe that cogir took this information out of concern for integrity. they made the choice of coderre dumper for plante. team plante certainly made promises, or kept their promises, to cogir. as the article unveils 2020 $ 500m in montreal.
they're all masked crosseurs and ass-fuckers. it's no more complicated than that.
$ 10 his line is going to be like "confidentiality agreements are with other agencies"
just his reaction to the cell phone story: denial and lies instead of just admitting his mistake.
if coderre was clearly ahead of plante, this story would not be important and cogir would never have confirmed. cogir is exposing these facts because they know coderre is already in trouble. and ... attention, big allegations ... but it is of course that the plante campaign made promises to cogir so that he communicates this information.
his candidate for mayor of verdun has defrauded his clients in order to resell their properties 2x more expensive and says it is a fluke.
coderre sees no problem there ...
the cat only took one paw out of the bag, it's unclear who his other contracts were with.
did not understand in 2017
it was the same back then when politicians wanted to hide that they had smoked pot in college.
yes but they are cyclebles on the plate!
\ -a resident of anjou
[deleted]
why coderre would autoleak that, it really makes him look bad
he might also think that being associated with coderre will be bad for his brand, so he prefers to dump the info right now, when he controls the message and can look like the good guy.
he probably thinks that plante will win regardless so he wants to distance himself from the loser.
it's very possible that one of the reasons cogir did that was to stay in projet montréal's good books ($$$)
> who do you think his hidden "consulting clients" are?
most likely evenko and groupe ch.
> how a particular person was paid does not matter in relation to their ability to manage a city
seriously?
tse, if there are more orange cones in the city with projet montréal, it is because denis had his head in the sand facing the city's decrepit infrastructure. if you want a viaduct to fall to your head, vote coderre
they have been asking the question since the beginning of september, at some point the info must still appear before the election
cogir also probably wants to distance himself a bit from a toxic candidate and therefore talk about the links right away, rather than having it come out in a less controlled manner afterwards.
not crazy!
> masked buttocks
( ͡° ͜ʖ ͡°)
not logical your business, cogir must clearly not be a fan of plante's 20-20-20. i think especially that it is the affair of the confidentiality clause stated by coderre (and false) which annoyed them. cogir's boss sees that coderre (re) is quietly becoming toxic in the eyes of people and wants to dissociate himself from it.
> they chose a coderre dumper for plante.
as long as the "puppet" goes in the direction of their interests ... they will squeal anyone under a truck for their own gain
it's sad. full of memories of buying components when i was learning to build pcs circa 2000 ... at least canada computers is still here to take over.
it's normal, it's a photo where we see their stock of ryzen 5000 and rtx ampere
actually, i went to school with the owner and he's been pretty shady throughout the years.  i had to threaten to sue him several years back (20+ yrs) over an employee driving a cart into my car.  he was like not my problem initially.
his entire business model was obsolete anyway.  hopefully his employees can find a place to work with a decent employer.
for some entertainment, you can go read the google reviews where customers shred him, and then he responds and comes off as a complete piece of shit.
damn! last time i was downtown for work (pre-covid) it was still open.
i didn't even know it had closed.
but who wants microbyte
it's just their stocking of 3080
another one byte the dust...
are not just empty of mem, there does not seem to be full hardware.
the one in rosemère also closed.
in terms of price, they weren't close to canadacomputers and the others so that doesn't surprise me too much.
the one in st-léonard has been closed for a few years now. always found suspicious that a business publicly displays that they charge 3% for credit card payments. completely illegal to charge more depending on how to pay.
[deleted]
oh no. is it a permanent closure?
anyone remember crazy irving?
wow the pandemic demand is really ridiculous
they will be replaced by grossebites soon, to reaffirm st catherine's character.
i was always more of a crazy irving guy. the downtown microbytes was poorly laid out and uninviting imo.
:( i remember buying my pentium 3 there back in 1999 with my dad, back when computer stores were a thing
there is gpcmicro at st leonard more than 20 years that store is always a first hand service at to date for hardware and good prices too.
i used to work for the point-claire location. they’re incredibly cheap and the owner’s daughter was a little tyrant.
order my custom pcs from this place, they did solid work and the prices were good. shame to see it.
wow you're right that is really sad. bought my gaming laptop in college there 10 years ago! 
not enough 3080s to go around :(
i worked at mb de laval at the end of the 90s for 2-3 years, shortly after opening.
it's franchises, and i remember the owner who was based in pointe-claire very well. as i remember, he was quite special. he came into our store with his mafioso air and gave himself the right to give us orders as if he were our boss. the worst part about it is that our manager prevented us from taking breaks, going out for a smoke, having dinner or even speaking to him in french while he was there, on the pretext that he had an aversion to "slackers" and the "frenchies" and gave themselves the right to crown anyone outside, when they wanted.
charming character.
edit: i just found an article that talks about him: [ danemark( : //www.tvanouvelles.ca/2012/04/30/pres-de-740-000-damendes-pour-des-fraudes-fiscales)
it's morty i'm talking about, i couldn't remember his name :)
ah what good memories at mycrobyte (not this one) to be made crosser repeatedly because i was too young to know how much i was made cross. never again.
years ago when i bought my first state of the art pc in 97, with the help of my older cousin we went to the one in saint-hubert. when i came to pay, the bank had given me 4 crisp practically uncirculated $1,000 bills. the staff didn't believe they were real ... and holy crap did i ever have problems with that pc. they ended up having to rebuild it 3 times because they kept messing shit up. 2 fried power supplies (turns out they weren't the one i'd ordered and underpowered) and 1 motherboard later (no idea how they managed that), it was finally working.
nevery really went back to them for some reason.
oh noe ..
i bought so much business there.
microbytes sucks, had to get my laptop fixed. took them 1.5 months to not fix the problem and some how break the keyboard and then charge me for it. bad quality service and glad i dont frequent their stores.
i bought my first zoltrix 14.4kbps modem at microbytes in pointe-claire. back then i was just a kid and the people there would treat me like shit. i swore i'd never go back, so instead i started to sell pc hardware myself.
f-u microbytes! i'm still here and you're not! :) my sympathies to the employees who lost their jobs. that part does suck. 
(this is far cheaper than therapy...i'll move on now...)
microbite.
wô, this is the end of a long story, there.
but i'll tell you something, i used to have to do late-night work at the canix/cologix data centre next door, and i saw some weird stuff happening in that microbytes at 1:30, 2 o'clock in the morning, multiple times.  like dogs running around, people dressed like for a club, other stuff i can't remember anymore.
anyway !
honestly, i go more to canada computer ever since they set up shop downtown. microbytes feels like its been slowly degrading over the years.
so much the better. the 3-4 times i went there, they were unpleasant and unprofessional at all. their price was well above msrp for no reason. they were constantly trying to pass me more expensive components than i asked for. unable to give me reasonable alternatives when there was no stock. i won't miss them.
there aren't many rtx 3000s for sale
the chateauguay location meanwhile, branched out into used video games enough that they could afford drop their micro-bytes franchising. i think they're independent now. that location was always a black sheep, not matching the aesthetic of the other stores, no uniforms, etc...
i never liked the staff or the layout but i have years of memories here. makes sense though because if i'm going to a store with shitty service i might as well go to a bigger one with more shit like canada computers or not have to leave my house via newegg or amazon. not sure what brick and mortar stores can really do to compete.
very sad
they're closed?! i moved from mtl years ago....this hit me in the feels :(
i trust cipc 100% unlike cc. with the owner's story being more than fishy ...
sata left good memories
same thing for me. i had bought a used nvidia tnt video card and a used pentium ii from a friend, and i went to this same microbyte store to buy the rest (motherboard, case, ram, hd etc). it was my first time building a computer. it was my machine for playing counter-strike at the time it was a mod for half life.
f
we can finally see irl the stocks of gpus
what shopping cart would there be in the pointe claire location?
he was.
bought my first computer from them long ago through a gov sponsorship program. they had glued a pentium 4 sticker on a pentium 3 cpu. i had my friends verify theirs, and it was the case for every single cpu we checked that came from them. i will be happy if they go out of business. they always been shady. sucks for the employees that did not participate in the scams.
ahahah. when the manager decided to get up and open the store ...
same. min office is opposite ... and i haven't been there for a year ... ho well ...
positive thought for the staff.
this is where i went to get two rj45 cables and a lesbian rush a few hours before confinement. my last "computer" purchase in a physical store.
your girlfriend never told me no.
/s
those who are not able to have kilobytes
covid got them under pressure
many people have complained about this practice. the way the store is doing is saying there is a 3% discount if you pay cash, but by paying by credit you "lose" your discount. many people have complained to the opc, but without success. i know this, because i worked at microbytes in st-léonard precisely (before and after the store became a franchise).
wow! i really like it. do you sell and/or expose anywhere?
this is beautiful! i really like this "blurry" style. (it's not the right word for it i'm sure, i know nothing about painting...)
i remembered that i took [a picture of that same spot, in the snow]( almost exactly a year ago!
pre-emptive note that i tried to submit earlier but my app was glitching - second time's the charm!
how long did it take you to learn to paint like that? it looks awesome! i’ve been painting for some months now. i think my paintings are good, but they’re definitely not in this level!
oh wow......so beautiful!
thanks! i sell online and have exhibited back in vancouver (where i'm from) but not here, so far
thanks! i don't know what i would call the style either, to be fair :)
beautiful shot! i opted out of including the trees for fear they would turn out too blob-like.
thank you! hard to say... i'm self-taught but have been doing so my whole life. i can't remember a time i didn't paint. i focused on mastering realism first though, and have only been working my way out of that and trying other forms of expression that felt more 'me' in the last 4 years or so.
thank you!
amazing. just saw your link on you profile, will check it out.
nice. i really like your painting style. i hope i can paint as good as you some day (btw sorry for the late response, i haven’t opened reddit in a while 😅)
i would take a ‘french for business’ class or just learn phrases that pertain to your line of work. apologies in french might help if the customer is upset. still, people tend to be jerks in general to service staff, and i’m really sorry you went through that.
it's over there.
it's yienk here
hey there, french teacher here, if you need help for anything in french, write to me and i'll help you.
if you can't speak french well enough to do your job, yeah that's a problem. you're trying your best, i'm sure, but montreal is still a mostly french city, and you need to be able to respond to customers in it. not a great reason fo4 the customer to get actually upset at you, but still, if i were you, i'd consider taking some french lessons on the side. it's an effort you need to make for any kind of customer facing job in quebec.
sorry i don't speak french can i answer you in english?
that was my go-to when i was living in montreal as a student
maybe a 'venez avec moi?' and bring her to them while you get accustomed to french?
it's not a question of the customer being right in this case; if someone goes off on you in mandarin or german, it's not your obligation to be able to reply. french is, however, the official language of the province and is absolutely a requirement if you are in a customer-facing role. 
in your case, since you are making an effort and learning french, i would have apologized and said "désolé, j'apprends le français" before leading them to the desired item. if they still get upset at that point, they are an asshole (as you clearly are doing your best). for future interactions, if you are unsure, just say "venez avec moi" and then you show them. 
don't let this get you down, and keep studying! you're doing good!
the situation sort of answers the question here.
some people can't understand english and aren't really required to in quebec.  sure, life is easier when you're bilingual but unilingual francophone is acceptable in quebec and they still deserve service.  the debate has always been the opposite side of the coin.
a few simple phrases will do the job.
while her reaction seems over the top to me, you really should be speaking to french speaking customers in french. 
but you say it was an accident so i imagine you normally do. you slipped up, it happens. i wouldn't worry too much about it.
>i understand the customer is always right in businesses
not true. customers can be assholes and a good business will stand up for the rights and dignity of its employees.
however in this case, yes, if you're working a customer service job and someone speaks to you in french in quebec, you should always reply in french.
if i went to a paint store and asked if this paint was latex or oil based, and the employee said "huh? what's latex and oil?" i'd be annoyed. i'd be polite but i'd shake my head.
similarly, if you work in quebec in a customer service job, you are in my opinion pretty incompetent if you don't know the basic phrases like "it's over there". that's okay, but it sounds like you need to do a little bit of work to learn the basics. shouldn't be too bad, lots of people in other countries know the basics of 8 languages to serve customers.
simply put, it is the law in quebec where if a customer asks to be served in french, the business must be able to accomodate them for it is the customer's right - in your situation, if there was someone else working with you who spoke french, you could've called on them to handle the customer and that would've been ok.
most customers in the greater montreal area will not prevail themselves of this right and switch to english, some begrudgingly. outside of the gma though, a *lot* of customers will do so, either from lack of english or out of pride.
fortunately the quebec government has a pile of resources to help workers learn french. check out the govt website!
add a "madame" at the end
when i waited tables and the customers were speaking to each other in english, i asked them a question in english and they gave me a stink eye then replied in french  ¯\\\_(ツ)_/¯
the customer shouldn’t have gotten so mad over it, but i’d sure as hell be irritated because it is expected to get service in french in québec. if you took a customer service job, you need to minimally know a few sentences in french and technically you should have functionnal french because there is a legal obligation to serve in french. i suggest you at least learn something along the lines of « mon français n’est pas très bon, est-ce que je peux vous l’expliquer en anglais? »
as a french speaker, i give more importance to someone actually trying to speak french than the actual quality of it. if i see the person is struggling in french i switch to english or take a minute to teach the the right words (if the context is appropriate and the person seems disposed to learn).
all i can do is encourage you to practice and learn as much as you can! immersion is the best way to learn quickly :)
improve your french and try your best. to get to a level of french to handle basic customer service is pretty easy imo, just practice everyday.
"the customer is always right" is an outdated view that lets customers feel justified to treat workers like shit.
she asked you a question and you did your best to answer her. keep trying to improve your french but don't think that you did anything wrong.
imo, customer in quebec should expect and can be pissoff in not receiving services in french. do they have to act like a jerk? no. 
it's like if you opened a store in germany and you were questioning why your customer get pissoff when you answer them in french.
as a french canadian speaking first in french in montreal, the only thing i find insulting is when the person i speak with don’t acknowledge the fact they won’t be able to speak french to me. 
if i speak to them in french and they just reply in english just ignoring the fact i used another language, i will be bothered. same goes the other way around.
if i speak to them in french and they start by saying something like “i’m sorry i don’t speak french”, whether it’s in english or french, then i’m totally fine.
for me it’s just a respect thing.
i don't think it's disrespectful, but might i ask how come you don't know such basic words you could learn overnight as a retail employee in a french province?
i agree that customers should expect french in quebec. i disagree with being disrespectful though.
i’d explain to the customer that i’m still learning french and not sure how to say that in french, then ask him how to. i think he’d be happy to tell you!
[deleted]
drette là
just there
mtl is still in qc so language of work is french...
his reaction was not polite, could have been more civic. obviously, it goes without saying that working in customer service in quebec requires mastering french, since it is the official language here. often, francophones can experience frustration when they have to accommodate unilingual english employees, which is an increasingly common phenomenon. it is not unreasonable to expect service in french in quebec. it's unreasonable not to be courteous like this person.
i’ve generally found if you make the attempt (no matter how bad the attempt may turn out) it’s the fact that you tried that generally gets you a positive response from people. 
i doubt anyone will get mad at you if you have poor french as long as you try. if they do get mad at you then quite honestly these are probably the people who get upset at most things in life, and not worth you worrying about.
edit: spelling
so you came to a french speaking part of the world, didn't invest much effort in learning it, and wondering if it's rude?
[deleted]
just say "là-bas" and point at it.
now you know.
i wouldn't be offended, but annoyed you didn't try, 'par là', 'par ici' or 'juste ici' are all fine answers
woof. working in customer service without confidence in your french is gonna be a hard time. or, from the optimistic perspective, you're going to get good practice.
but, having lived here all my life, i can understand the customer feeling disrespected. the right to do business in their own language first and foremost is something that quebecois had to fight for.
as a rule of thumb, you want to make a proper attempt at responding to a customer in french, no matter how low your confidence is.
also, while a lot of younger people are *fine* with being spoken to with the "tu" pronoun, a lot of older people find it disrespectful. generally in customer service you should use "vous" across the board. incidentally, the act of using one or the other is called "tutoyer" or "vouvoyer". so you may occasionally be speaking to a customer with the "vous" form and they may tell you "tu peux me tutoyer" or "pas besoin de me vouvoyer". in other words, "you can go ahead and address me as 'tu'" or "no need to address me by 'vous'".
so let's go over some words you'll find yourself using in retail a lot:
you probably remember your french up/down/left/right well enough, but maybe not "straight ahead". that's "tout droit".
"follow me" = "follow me"
"i can show you" = i can show you
"this way" = "in par"
"that way" = "by there"
"down there" / "over there" = "là bas"
"at the bottom" / "at the end" = "au fond"
"above" = "above"
"below" = "below"
"across from" = "in front of" / "in front of"
"right beside" = "right beside"
the various merchandise you work with should probably be pretty easy to figure out for yourself. one fascinating little one is "board games". in french, that's "jeux de société".
not sure of how and why you were hired in the first place. sorry but trying to learn french is not good enough. fault is on the hiring manager.
just imagine a clerk in downtown toronto expecting to speak french to anglophone customers.  the entitlement of some anglos is astounding.
just try and learn some phrases that are common in your work and if they don't understand,  smile and say, "désolée, j'apprends le français." i think saying you're learning, rather than you don't speak or don't know, is likely to disarm even people with a big language chip on their shoulder. 
good on you for learning. it will pay off.
i’ve seen signs on doors of small businesses saying “j’apprends le français” to sort of manage client expectations. and some basic course can go along way to show you appreciate the local culture and language. this being said, her reaction was a bit extreme imo
thank you for learning french. no, i don't think it's impolite to speak english. you're in canada. like someone else said already, “désolé, je suis en train d’apprendre le français.” will usually be enough get the person off you back, cause any french speaking person knows french is fucking hard. it will probably happen again, unfortunatly.
i'm a french local, btw.  i'm pissed and embarrassed that you were treated this way. same thing happened to my old australian roommate years ago, even though doing a french immersion program, she just forgot the word for "bag" once while working at a grocery store and offended some lady. the lady started talking behind her back in french. she ended up explaining herself in french, the lady apologized and said ''keep learning''. some people are so quick to jump to conclusions and think that hearing a few english words in a thrift store justifies getting upset and being rude to others.
the amount of hatred spewed at the quebecois in this thread is disgusting... y'all need to get over yourselves, quebec is different and it has that right.
the meaning of the aphorism “the customer is always right” has been perverted. it was originally a principle in the marketing business and “the customer” referred to the collective body of consumers, as in “the market”. it meant that to be successful selling a product you have to pay attention to the likes and dislikes of consumers as a whole. you can't sell a product that the consumer doesn't like. the saying does not mean that every snot-nosed karen gets what ever she wants. businesses need customers, but not bad customers. your boss may disagree, though.
it's a touchy subject with a lot of french people. and a lot of english people too actually, the other way. i think mostly the more monolingual people that have lived here a long time that hate it.
for me, i understand both languages. so, i prefer that everyone expresses themselves in the language they're most comfortable with. and a lot of people are like me and don't care. 
but, speaking each your own language can be weird. people don't like that. so, they feel they need to pick a language, and by responding in english, you're sort of forcing them to do the same. 
i wouldn't care, and i don't think people should really care. 
but, people do, so, for me as a customer i don't care, i in fact prefer if french people working respond in french, and if they struggle at all with english, i'll mention it to them. 
but as an employee in customer service, you have to assume the customer will care, and provide them service in the language they choose. i do think it's a courtesy everyone should offer in any sort of role like that. 
even though i don't really like anything about "customer is always right" and any shade of the idea like employees are paid to put up with bullshit. people should be kind to people because we are people. 
but you should still respond in the same language, imo. it's a courtesy to them.
you can't even say 3 words in the official language of the province. enjoy getting fired
in a store, a costumer has the right to be served in french because of the law in quebec.
i hate being served in english based on the way i look, or based on my name. i have heard terrible english accent by default from french speaking employees because of my appearence, which i find racist/unrespectful. but it is a specific situation. the law is the law, so people in general should expect to be served/helped in french by default in a store.
as someone who has too much experience in service based jobs, i'd say ignore it and move on. when customers freak out like that, it's because of something unrelated to you (usually they're having a bad day) and not because you made a mild mistake. in this case, i'm guessing it's because this customer has dealt with a lot of ignorant anglos (montreal seems to have a lot of them imo) before and sterotypes non-francophone speakers as being just as ignorant. 
now, based on your comments, you're working to learn the language, you're not deliberately being a jerk just to prove some anglo superiority or something. just keep working on your language skills and don't worry about what customers do, or don't do. some customers are just pricks, and some customers are going to be great. who knows, maybe next time a polite customer will help you with some pointers about what to say if they catch you making a mistake in french and help you out. 
just ignore the dickish customers and do your thing. you'll be fine.
absolutely
the client sounds like a whiny bitch.
i say “là bas”  lol to point to an object  when asked for directions.
[removed]
the customer is not always right in business. this is how karens were born.
it could also not be a language thing, in retail you're not supposed to just point and say "over there" because its poor customer service. its better to say something like "i can show you where that is" and lead them to it. then the usual ask if theres anything else they need help with. i can understand this may be more difficult for you because of the language but it is a more polite way to help customers
french is legally about to become the only mandatory language for work in a near future. i'd immerse myself in its universe if i were you.
maybe a little, but it doesn't excuse being a dick to you. to them it seems like you understood, but just choose not to answer in french. it'd go a long way if you said sorry you're just learning french.
some people can't/ won't speak english at all. so what you do when you're in trouble is you pull out your phone and open up google translate.
my first week in quebec, i went to a provincial government office to get some documents, and a horrible woman told me that if you want to speak english move to toronto in a very condescending way.
i explained to her that it was impossible for me to learn french in a week, but she was too stupid to understand.
unfortunately, this was not the only experience.
i bought an american flag pin, from there everyone was nice to me.
i really love how this was visually rendered.
[removed]
the info is very well presented. it will help explain our current situation ... covid has really hit us hard :(
honestly i feel bad for legault, even if he could have done better or worse, there was no way for him to win in the face of the crisis.
it's the kind of crisis, and we are the kind of people, who would always have criticized any action.
the cones of dunshire.
visuals and stats are pretty good, but the title is a bit misleading. i was expecting to see future projections given different scenarios over the holidays. maybe something showing how the projections got worse as the situation evolved to explain why the plan needed to change.  
instead, it boils down to "meetings are cancelled because covid is bad" as an explanation in the first sentence, and then giving a bunch of stats to show how bad things are. it still makes the point but just not as well as it could have imo.
3d is cool, but this kind of visualization is really not necessary for digital data like this. the prospect makes comparison between regions practically impossible. a simple interactive 2d map with a color code is less * flashy * but would have been much better in my opinion. it remains that the data are still interesting; i just wanted to whine about something today.
... why did i move to laval ...?
that’s why i go up north every single night with a group of all my friends. the spikes up north aren’t as big!! /s
thinking.png
you can't cancel a holiday  - stanley hudson
osti that we are hot.
these buildings are higher than the mountain.
superb visualization.
"you are not wearing your mask screeching in the right places"
yes, but it is difficult to see the more precise data for each analysis. form over function.
but the albertans will still do better in the end. always robbing us of our glory.
hey, quebec is also # 1 for:
\ -the poutine
\-racism\*
\ -the kevin
\ -the cheesy reality shows
\ -the dubious comedians
\ -the beer that there are so many you don't know which one to choose
\ -the plots that are so too many that it's worrying
\ -poorly placed cycle paths
\ -montreal \ *
\ * not according to me, but according to several others
hey at least our deaths/100k are down in the “second period”
you might be right. but what strikes me the most about his decisions is the lack of consistency.
it is also because he tries to perpetuate an air of authority and good management in the face of statistics that speak differently. he carefully selects the worst examples of jurisdictions when journalists legitimately ask him why quebec behaves so badly in its response compared to elsewhere. he repeatedly denies federal aid by reflex each time it has been offered ... only to then accept it quietly (army services in chslds, rapid tests - we have to verify them ourselves, not enough that the federal agency has already done it!). which is the priority: the well-being of your population or not to make it seem like you need ottawa's help?
wait, the same legault who tried to pass bill 61, trying to take advantage of the crisis to increase the powers of the government? do you feel bad for him?
the people of quebec are the people who got on board the most at the beginning to do our part, because it is in our nature, it has been demonstrated.
the quebec problems are due to the incompetence of the ministry of health, and guess who is the boss of the boss of this ministry.
it is that to oblige a confinement of almost a year would have been very difficult, even impossible. especially when suddenly it became a political problem to listen to the government's recommendations.
in addition, they were obviously afraid of the economic impact of a lockdown of 12 months, or so, and the world would have ignored them anyways.
i have believed from the start that containment measures should be seen for the long term. if we go from very strict to more relaxed, it is more difficult and it increases the chances of whining because each ad brings comments. and god, i'm sick of whining, it really makes the already heavy atmosphere even worse.
civics, cougars and sheltering you from 5g?
lol ... the cones are beautiful. that's all i'm saying.
the function is to summarize, not to detail, so no, perfect form and function.
[removed]
\ \ _the
fair enough. slowly but surely we’ll get through all this
the consistency was there at the beginning. it started to get worse over the summer, and it's really rubbish now.
oooouh ... yeah let's say it's not the best time to enjoy cougars ...
but at the same time ... high risk, high reward!
with tanning salons closed, half of their economy is closed :-(
alberta does not count its dead like quebec. quebec counts all those who die from a condition if it has been made worse by covid, for example someone who already had lung disease and whose covid worsened the condition. alberta counts as covid deaths only those who had no major conditions before and who died from complications of covid alone, i.e. those who were already healthy.
the reality is that there are probably many more people who have died because covid has made their condition worse in alberta. probably not as much per capita as in quebec where our chslds have been severely affected, but still quite a bit more.
> our province is too busy investing millions in the french language office instead of hospitals and providing competitive salaries to our health experts.
the oqlf had a budget of 24 million before the government added 5 more this year. the department of health spends $ 38.4 billion a year.
the oqlf budget is the size of a rounding error from the ministry of health.
what you just wrote is ridiculous.
in reality we have far more cases, the deaths in quebec came when we did far less testing (so less confirmed cases during the worst of our outbreak). even with more testing now, we still miss most cases.
as an example, there are currently <100m confirmed cases in the world, yet the who estimated months ago that ~10% of the world had been infected.
i doubt that the money invested in french is less comparable to health. this is an argument that makes no sense, especially considering that the protection of french greatly improved the conditions of a poor class of the population in the 1970s. considering that i get answers regularly just in english in restaurants in montreal, we still have a long way to go. i have friends who don't speak english and are unable to get a job because of it when they immigrated here because of french. a bit of a shame to believe that you can improve your living conditions after going through a civil war, find your father's corpse to pick you up almost in the street because you don't speak english in a province that is officially french-speaking.
alberta has asked for help from the military and the red cross for field hospitals. currently, they are worse than us in terms of hospital capacity.
we must consider that our problem is above all the chslds, which has hurt the statistics. it is not necessary to represent all of quebec. the transfer of employees has hurt terribly. on the other hand, if we remove the deaths in chslds in the first wave, they are possibly worse than us, especially since they do not even seem to count them in their statistics because all people in chslds have multiple other major conditions. at least the second wave did not hurt the chslds as much.
are doctors' salaries not above, or very close to, the roc average?
are their nurses really better paid?
haven't you seen the cuts made in health care in alberta during the pandemic?
in quebec city, almost 27% of people are over 60 years old. in alberta, it's less than 20%.
[removed]
on top of all that, there are plenty of statistics that we will probably never know about. how many people will die because the hospital that would normally treat them is full of covid cases? a lot of people think that protecting the system is to be able to sort out all cases of covid but it is much more than that.
[removed]
[removed]
they talked about it, but through the conservative conspiracy, covid denial and all the other issues, it wasn't the most important thing at the time i guess.
if you think facts matter in alberta, you don't care.
> if that's true, why don't the newspapers denounce it?
... it is, however.
i think it's pointless anyways. what will it change if alberta is pointed as the most impacted province in canada by medias? experts know what's up and know how to interpret stats. that's the important part imo.
it was the same in china, they did what they could to look better.
but even more to the point, the concept of the number of cases per region does not always take into account the increase in the number of tests. it would be important to say that if we have for example 1,500 new cases this week but have quadrupled the number of tests, it is very likely that we simply had not tested all positive the week before.
the number of tests were much higher during the second wave, i think it would be important for us to have a complementary statistic and it would be easy to display: 1500 (3.6%)
"if that's true, why don't the newspapers denounce it?"
maybe because, like you, the newspapers have other goats to scape?
you literally came out saying more deaths because oqlf.
you don't get to high-horse this one, sorry.
quebec gon' be bashed.
the covid toll will certainly be the difference in deaths from the annual average. we're going to have a good idea now
verdun has gone through hell in terms of absolute gentrification. entire neighborhoods are getting evicted and we've had a real estate agent for a mayor for nearly the entire process; with curious auditing infractions in his permits and inspections department. the same one supposed to be trusted with stopping unlawful or egregious abuses of renovictions.   
we can't strictly ban these people from running for office but public awareness about these incestuous and dangerous relationships would go a long way.
i’m sympathetic to the cause of addressing the housing crisis, but by this logic we should disqualify not only landlords, but anyone who owns property, since they stand to gain from rising housing prices.
i am totally in favor of making the economic declarations public so people can make informed choices when they vote.
so run against them. that's kinda how democracy works
to prevent them from running because of conflict of interest is a wrong approach.
this said, it would be interesting to have this information as a voter, especially if housing is an important issue for you. we can guess that big langlord (people with multiple housing complexes) are less interested in lowering prices than other candidates...
also, i think we have to seperate owners of a duplex/triple that live in it and "professional landlords". in the former case, these people are just trying, like most of us, to own something in the city and are often more reasonable and care about their renters. in the latter case, they just care about money.
yeah.. landlords *for the people*.... yeaaaaah...... 😶
landlords are bad, tenants are good. got it
fuck landlords and their fucking rent-seeking cancerous greed draining society of the proceeds of real work. their hoarding of property and land is the reason we have inequality. nobody should be able to make a living contributing nothing to society running slums for the working class. fuck landlords.
obviously (as the expert quoted says) you can't ban landlords from running for office, but obviously we can make stronger rules around conflicts of interest in gov. especially when touching on pretty critical issues of our time.
so i don't see why anyone would have a problem with detailed disclosures from any candidate running. 
combine that with some recusation rules, and some major penalties for lying or misleading and you're getting somewhere close to a decently protected democracy.
no it's not. what a silly opinion.
i find that particular as an article. to say that an owner shouldn't be a representative of the people is a bit strong. homeowners, like them or not, represent a certain percentage of the population who is fully entitled to stand for election. regardless of your status (tenant, owner, itinerant, etc.) you have the right to present yourself ...
many people do not understand the limit of municipal power. for example, zoning manages a use (residential) and not a mode of tenure (rental, condominium, etc.). this makes it easy to say that an elected official does not take care of gentrification or that he favors it, but in reality the levers to counter it are minimal.
what should an elected municipal official do? no more green lane or greening operation because it causes eco-centrifugation. more openness to new uses (as in verdun with bars) because it attracts nasty gentrifiers? in short, i would like someone to explain to me what these wicked elected owners should do or not because i do not see how their judgment is so affected knowing that the price of rents is set by a provincial body, that the he objective of municipal authorities is to create quality living environments and that ultimately the power of an elected municipal official is after all limited. the urban environment is something that changes depending on several factors.
croteau owns in rosemont. is he a villain who does not want the poor and who makes policies for his face?
fumagalli the mayoress of vsmpe owns parc-ex. is she a nasty capitalist looking to take advantage of her position?
i believe pm's position is probably the most balanced on the issue.
fox in the hen house. greedy immoral developers and real estate agents are the scourge of modern society.
so landlords can't run?
god forbid anyone who's invested in the community actually be elected to represent it. the majority of the people who live in montreal will profit from an increase in property value, should they all avoid running for office?
every business owner will also profit, i guess they shouldn't run either.
hell, if business does well people who want jobs might get better ones, they should be banned too!
give me. a fucking. break.
i'm so ignorant on montreal politics, just found out boroughs have their own mayor.
are you talking about jean-françois parenteau? if so, then this is the first time i've ever heard anyone describe him in such a negative light. he's been so responsive to the community and is generally extremely well liked, as far as i can tell. i know a lot of people were very disappointed when he announced that he wasn't running again this year. 
i think there are so many different election issues this year that it will be very interesting to see how things land, as it will depend on everyone's differing priorities.
i disagree with that i think we can absolutely ban these people from running. 
it’s not discriminatory it’s conflict of interest.
>but by this logic we should disqualify not only landlords, but anyone who owns property
i disagree, that would be undemocratic. just as info about people running should be public knowledge. their property holdings are relevant. let anyone run, but just as a public company has open books so should the candidates.
no, single home owners own a home to live in.
landlords own additional homes for profit. they have clear motives beyond single home owners.
they are absolutely not the same.
someones private finances shouldn't be of anyone's business.
easy to say but you need money to run, can't really run if you're working full time to make ends meet.
easier to whine about it though!
i'm a landlord in that i own a duplex. yeah, i stand to gain from the price run up, but until you have a second property it's a bit of a mirage. if i sell i still need somewhere to live, so i gotta buy at the inflated price with the insane no-inspection make an offer before visiting reality. that fucking sucks. i do not like this reality one bit. i don't want to be flooded with homeless people because there is nowhere affordable, i want my kids to be able to buy something someday, and i want to be able to buy something else someday without the ridiculous sheananigans that are ahappening right now. 
by all means, point out which candidate are landlords, and by how much. more transparency on this matter is absolutely legit. but to pretend that anyone who owns housing is in conflict of interest, like amy darwish claims in this article, is just stupid.
adam smith knew them as rentiers.
neoliberals love adam smith yet totally fail to segregate and minimize rentier activity.
found the angry renter...
>rent-seeking
rent-seeking was a term to criticize feudal landowners from using their land to physically tax the trade, as in setting up tolling booths by rivers to tax any merchant who sailed through "just because they can" and not because they're contributing anything.
if you're a landlord, chances are you have to maintain your property and to provide housing for others; therefore the concept of rent-seeking in today's world and that of adam smith are completely different. learn the context, read the book; it's not that hard.
> i find that particular as an article. to claim that an owner shouldn't be a representative of the people is a bit strong
no one said that. but it land and property ownership of people running for public office should make be required to make their holdings public in the same spirit as the requirement for politicians to use a blind trust for their investments when they could pose a conflict of interest. same goes for landlords who specifically aren't tenants.
is that you got from the article?
if only. and we could so much more
agreed, would make a difference from another politician through and through to have someone with a different background who is also a landlord
some people on this subreddit don't see if that way. they rather everything be a slum...
>give me. a fucking. break.
break given, as a city landlord i actually have a vested interest in the success of this city. like seriously, if i were to run for office and did a shit job running the economy, it would be my property value that suffers, if you're a renter you can just pack your things and move to toronto if shit hits the fan, but if i can't sell for a profit then it's my ass on the line.
these fucking renters want to run society without any vested economic interest in it, nobody's eager to spend their own money to help the poor but when it's the landlord's tax dollars let's just blow it on social programs!!!
you've missed the point entirely! congrats!
he's extremely well-liked by property owners and ladies who are into daddy types.   
but if you attend council meetings and keep up with the annual report of the montreal auditor, the guy's cute appearance and penchant for fibbing start to contrast.
richard antoine
i think we agree.  
i was saying that *by that logic* that's a consistent conclusion. i don't think we should disqualify either class of people, even if i wouldn't personally vote for big-time professional landlords.
[deleted]
lots of single family home owners also own their home as an investment. that’s the big reason to buy over rent.
so being a landlord and being a home owner are not the same, but both have a vested interest in keeping home prices high. this manifests in communities lobbying against higher density residential zoning or against nearby subsidized housing, homeless shelters, etc. all the time.
but just like with landlords, it shouldn’t disqualify you from running for office. i just think the voters should know where that money’s coming from.
if you want to be an elected official, the ethical thing to do is to reveal potential conflicts of interest.
edit: correction from below, replaced public servant with elected official
so you do not believe in government transparency? or transparency in general? do you believe secrets help everyone in the long run?
except when you run for public office we need to know your conflicts of interest.  you aren't being forced to run for office.  i guess it would be fair if people could declare if they are disclosing or not and then leave that to the voters, but it would have to be very transparent that they did not disclose.  like it should appear on the ballot who disclosed and who didn't.
good way of all being paid like shit.  
since we don't know how much the colleagues earn.
wouldn't it be great if you could force a handful of citizens to give up more than half of their wages for a base human need to you monthly to finance your campaigns!
you need money and time, which both goes together.
>you need money to run
most candidates aren't from wealthy backgrounds
absolutely this.
there is a huge difference btw having an investment property (1-9 units) and earning your sole income via real estate.
bc you happen to invest in real estate vs the stock market, you can't run for office? that's next level nonsense. arguably you could invest (on the market) in exactly the type of shares or fund that supports / invests in huge gentrification projects and so forth. but bc it's indirect, it's better? total bs.
then vote for a candidate that agrees to tax land and ban airbnb.
watch prices drop, rents drop and supply increase.
all rent is economic rent. in other words all landlords are rentiers. landlords steal earned wealth from people who work for a living and do not add value commensurate with the rent they extract. fuck landlords.
even if an elected official makes public his assets, or the fact of being a tenant, it does not change that his power over gentrification is relatively weak, no offense to those who think the opposite. can anyone here make a direct correlation between the precise action of an elected municipal official and gentrification, the increase in the price of rents and the appreciation of the price of plexes? no. so it's pretty much a futile debate.
someone needs to read it, then summarize it. landlords can't do direct work, they have to skim off someone else.
yes
this is where we find the museum of [volunteer firefighters] ( (currently closed)
but the real trick is to continue a street corner to the west and have a drink of mortal sin at the ddc!
barracks 30. it houses the pump 230, the scale 430 as well as the rehabilitation vehicle 1230 of the auxiliary firefighters as well as their museum.
built in 1904 it was the city hall, police and fire station of the former town of st-louis.
legend has it that the barracks is a tribute to france castel.
looks like a castel? castle? or like france castel? anyway is a super beautiful building, it's at the corner of laurier and st-laurent?
this was created to protect dieu du ciel! (the brewery) right next to it.
it’s worth pausing to check out the mural of mordechai richler (on the far left) as well.
the cream castel?
this image just made me thirst for a good ole ddc... right now at 9:33 am
always was taken aback by this building. i love grey stone buildings and this one is just awesome. i wish i could live in it.
that looks so sick lol, wonder who built that
does not look like france castel at all..
i call it “every woman’s dream”. 
“i’m dating a firefighter who lives in a castle”
one of my favorite buildings in montreal.
a connoisseur! i drank a deadly bourbon sin tonight (home); cheers!
ddc !! the best beers on the island, in my opinion.
ya siboire just across the street
mannnnn before the pandemic i was going to join my friends there in the little room all stuck together, eating planks of meat and drinking too much.
their beers are really, really a few things.
fuck yea, the best!
although, brewskey is also excellent. their coffee or chocolate stout is very very good.
thank you! i used to live nearby and always wondered what its story was.
> station 30.
also recognized by several firefighters as the best fire station in montreal
no, it's at the corner of st-laurent and laurier.
i think it's more of a pun on the part of op
cuz ddc is fiiiirrreee. (insert flame emoji)
not enough room in the 'hood to pack in casteis 🤭
doctor arruda?
the architect and civil engineer who built it is joseph emile vanier. 
[vanier, joseph emile (1858-1934)](
yes! pmb is the best beer that is made in quebec! i always have emergency packs just in case! long live sin day
really not the same quality of beer it must be said ...
without a doubt the most beautiful and spectacular, but the best? this is debatable. ;)
awww appreciate the knowledge my friend
i do the same! kentucky bastard from nickel brook brewing co is another of a similar style that i particularly like.
i understand the status that pmb carries because of its history, but it's been a while that lower canada has the upper hand in style
bbc plays in the pastry stout. really not the same thing as a pmb. especially if we consider the stability of the product. worse, it is not a question of history when the product is still good and dominates as much. but i understand that some people prefer sweet pastry to pmb
bdbc have already released non-pastry bas too which was superior in my opinion ... see monument. but hey, made it accessibility and the quantity that is lacking. hoping they can distribute more once the factory is built.
> superior in my opinion
we each have our opinions! but we'll talk about it again when the bbc can offer a product of this kind stable and over a long period! tse sin day, it's not because it's an ordinary product;)
[removed]
i have always loved angrignon park.
but since living in munich, the english garden has become my favorite park.
yay more videos like this! well researched and presented!
rené levesque parc in lachine for sure!!!
this is why it's so frustrating when politicians push back on pedestrian zones, green spaces, etc. the boost in quality of life is so obvious and immediate.
the city bought and converted an old empty lot near us and it went from "empty lot" to having 20-50 people hanging out, eating, drinking, playing music all the time, overnight. it's wild to me that some people can't see the benefit in that.
the park on de lorimier between ontario and sherbrooke was pretty shabby back in the day. it's amazing how it's transformed into a happy family neighborhood hang out.
lafontaine -- bc it's super central, but big enough to have many zones for all kinds of activities, & maisonneuve, bc it's so huge even when it's busy you have a lot of space.
have definitely really appreciated how great the public spaces are -- year round -- during the pandemic and even now, more interested in being in them than even on a patio/ restaurant/ someone's private space most of the time. i hope restaurant deliveries etc to parks continue.
also -- it's jeanne-mance not jean-mance. the name "anne" -- like marianne -- is clearly heard in the pronunciation, so zj-anne.
i like the frédéric back park. but it's a bit difficult to get there by bike.
[deleted]
beaver lake is awesome
rené levesque and jarry around the pound are probably my two favorite parks to hang out.
that was great! very informative, not too long that i got bored watching it, very clear audio as well. hope to see more videos on montreal :)
bellerive park is probably one of the most underrated in the city!
similar to verdun park but to the east of the city with great facilities and even some access to water!
simple video yet effective and informative. are you doing this for a school project or just for fun? because i know somebody who makes montreal related videos who could use the help of an anglophone sometime...  by the way, my favorite parc is la fontaine... im really attached to  it emotionnally.
parc ignace-bourget has been my go-to lately. it's a tiny park in the corner of the sud-ouest and mostly overshadowed by the nearby angrignon park. this place is activity-central, and there isn't a single bit of space wasted. great place to go if you want to do something active and outdoors.
st viateur or laurier. best vibes.
does the copenhagenize index include bike lanes without separation from traffic (just painted lines on a street)? because montreal has way too many of those and they just aren't safe enough.
yes! my goal this summer is to bike to every park on the island.
as expected this thread is already loaded with simps
great video and <3 montreal
too well done.
awesome video! you should do that same montage from the first 10 seconds, but in griffintown, where it's just a bunch of cement and pavement shots lmao
or just like 50 different shots of the canal from different angles
great video.  very well done!
i'll always love mount royal for just how woodsy it is (and great for hiking), but since my family and i used to go to shakespeare in the park in westmount park so often when i was younger, it's the park i have the most fondness for.
very good video!
getting heavy vox vibes. insta subbed
you rocked the video. check out city beautiful on yt if you haven't already. looking forward to the next one.
love a video pertaining to urban planning and public space!!! good video!! the need for accessible and vibrant public spaces for all populations are at an all time high!!
this one of the many reasons i'm moving to montreal from vancouver. the city just feels more alive and laid back.
the verdun riverside is awesome. grew up there. i still go there to chill when i got to my parent's house.  
parc ignace bourget in ville émard is neat especially in the winter.  
angrignon parc, used to go drink beer there when i was underage. so many stupid memories.  
arthur terrien park in verdun.
"there's a reason why you can't have a backyard in montreal...it's sooooooooo freaking expensive, thanks god we have this "  
fix the intro for you!
good video, one thing i hate about montreal right now is that valerie plante is treating every borough/neighborhood like its the plateau and its super fucking annoying. she also puts too much stock into cycling for a city where, yes there’s a lot of cyclists, but they’re all super dangerous, don’t respect road rules what so ever, and act like cars are always the problem. half the time they dont even use the bicycle lanes that are either on the same street or on the next street paralleled. i love that there are a billion parks in mtl but i dont think we need to close off streets to create an artificial ones. fave park is jarry. also get outta here saying jeanne mance park has a mixed demographic its deadass the exact same hipsters each weekend who have nothing better to do.
unrelated but you are very cute 😊
thanks so much! means a lot
the best park to see shady drug deals at night between 2 tanks with tinted windows ... anyway it was like that in my youth.
thank you - i'm so glad you enjoyed it!!
i was going to say the same thing! i really appreciate the lachine canal too
i discovered that park through pokémon go community days lol. great place
you!
it's such an amazing place & somewhat undiscovered outside lachine!
i've heard relatively young people complaining about the pedestrianised streets because they can't drive right up to the place they want to go and have to walk for 5 minutes.  and we wonder why there's an obesity epidemic.
i love maisonneuve, i moved close to it last year and i enjoy the cycling circuit very much! great safe spot to exercise!
thanks for the tip about jeanne-mance pronunciation - and agreed, lafontaine is one of my favourites, too. i stop by there during my daily walk/morning coffee and there's always some sort of activity or gathering going on.
not if you are coming from the north! :) but yes, it is a bit far from the center it is true.
it is truly a surreal park, for the curious: 
it's not so bad on the christoph-colomb trail! i turn east on jacques-causault (no track) then i enter behind the maxi. it's not the main entrance but no need to drive for a long time glued to the car
if you come from the east on the other hand, i have no advice sorry!
i recently discovered the park because of friends who are passionate about birds.
i tried to get there a week ago but found myself behind maxis
definitely going to check it out!
love beaver lake! it was the first place i biked to when i moved to the city. :)
i'll have to check out rené levesque!
jarrys cool but it could use some more trees in that super large open space imo
> the officers were looking for a suspect described as a black 18-year-old man whose height was 1.85 metres, whereas burke stands at 1.70 metres and was 54 years old. burke and the suspect were also wearing different styles of clothing. 
lol, jesus. open and shut case, jean-philippe!
> the judge found auger and théorêt guilty of wrongfully arresting, handcuffing and searching burke; failing to inform him of the motives for their arrest, using excessive force and being disrespectful toward him. 
> 
> mcmahon also said they were "negligent or careless of the health and safety of monsieur burke."
"why don't people like us!?!!"
for the ethics committee to find a police officer at fault, i can't imagine how egregious the facts they were presented must have been. just reading the article makes me angry, and we know the police must have hidden the best.
> "what struck us back when [burke] first contacted us is this phenomenon of jumping on any black person that they could find at the time even if the suspect description just does not match his profile," niemi said.
 > "we want a decision that clearly reflects the principle that black lives matter, and hopefully in this case we will have that." 
i don't remember which sitcom made that joke/observation (i think it's *everybody hates chris*), but there's a scene where a convenience gets robbed and the police asks the owner to describe the perp. the owner goes "black guy, medium complexion, about 6 feet tall and around 170-180 pounds, medium built, he had a tat..." and the mind of the officer goes "black guy, black black black black black black" while the owner gives a detailed description. 
it's a trope for a reason, it happens very often.
funny how /r/quebec doesn't talk about any of this but are the firsts to fight agaisn't any news calling them racist lmao.
as a french canadian quebecer, i've never seen more racist and angry people online and irl
the photo with the labatt dry 7.1% is amazing.
wait - but blanchette and legault said we have no racism problems in quebec?
did they lie to me?
what??? since when????? wtf??????? 
/s
what a surprise. i'm shocked. what will be the next revelation. that we have to breathe to live.
(/ s just in case)
yet again... 
** surprised pikachu face **
i am just here for the comments.
a step in the right direction, but meaningless without actual consequences. fingers crossed.
why is this a surprise? have none of you ever lived montreal?
>sanctions for the officers based on the ethics board decision are expected in the coming months. 
does anyone know what kind of sanction could apply here?
systemic. racism.
whaattttt noo way.....who would have known
i thought it was the beaverton article...
i'm a brown guy, police stopped me and asked me for id because they were looking for a white guy with totally different hair. he even showed me the picture. i tell him that the dude in the picture is white to which he replies you match the clothing description. i was dumbfounded, honestly.
yeah... i'm generally critical of this kind of complaint but it certainly seems warrented in this case.
edit: what the fuck? i said i agree with the guy who complained about this! and by being critical i mean that every complaint should be evaluated on it's own merits without bias.
theres a chapelle joke thats eerily similar.
/ r / quebec is a sub host of identity reactionaries.
if a topic isn't about how quebec is a minority that faces nasty discrimination from english canada, then they're interested in fuck all.
"the quebec police are racist" / r / quebec: * * locusts * *
"a sub streamer accuses quebec of being racist because they are attacked by a group of racist identity quebecers" / r / quebec: * "it's the fucking war, how dare he say things like that about us! we are going to talk about it for three weeks! come on gang, brigadons! "*
"canadians will recognize native lands" / r / quebec: * "ostia that this is pointless and silly blah, and based on false history, damn that sjw wokes go too far" *
"do they even speak real french in quebec?" / r / quebec: * "this is the biggest affront and the most flagrant example of racism and discrimination in our modern society!" *
i got banned from r/quebec for pointing out that a poster was wrong when they stated that quebec lost the referendum due to non-quebeckers voting non and the 'real quebeckers' voted "oui". the mod then banned me from messaging them and gave no valid explanation for their actions. 
its literally a french maga equivalent over there.
thanks for calling it out. i too am of here and from here, but our concitoyens in that subreddit have been clear over the top spoiling for a fight and brigading every critical idea.
well, honestly, racism is the same everywhere. it's not better in the us and it's not better in france. racists who admit to being are rare and generally not particularly interested in change.
anti-black racism in the united states is painful to see.
the peculiarity of racist quebecers is that, given that they are a minority (in canada and in north america), they think that they are too mistreated by the francophobes and therefore victims, and the victims cannot being racist, we know that ^^ / s they're just trying to save their culture, let's see. 'their culture is threatened.
worse, apart from that, systemic racism doesn't exist. it's just an expression coined by the leftist wokes of mourrial. i have a black friend, he's the only one in the village, and he says that systemic racism doesn't exist. what more proof do you want ??
moderated
i've seen a few posts claim that 1. there's little to no racism in quebec, 2. victims are lying, 3. if there's racism it's not worse than the us therefore... good?
that's a few isolated idiots mind you, which i've promptly blocked because i have better shit to do with my day, but they somehow exist nonetheless.
>firsts to fight agaisn't any news calling them racist lmao.
... them? the police? there are a lot of recent threads where people agree that there is racism in the police of repentigny and others yet.
r/quebec is basically r/canada mais en français icitte, and for those who don't know r/canada got taken over by the far right a while ago.
have you seen people on twitter angry that the habs want to acknowledge first nations? 
it is like the onion wanted to mock the us reparations movement for people who want to be angry that their forefathers colonized first.
best way to start the day
hahaha!
they said there were no systemic racism issues in quebec i believe. but yes.
i'm actually surprised it got officially recognized. was expecting another non-answer. i wonder if it'll make any difference and what those changes would be.
its not a surprise except if your a quebec politician or a mod of r/quebec
paid suspensions, no doubt.
colorblindness at its finest!
isnt nice of them to be able to see beyond the color of your skin? /s
classic criminal mastermind move. sneak into a bathroom and change your skin color, but keep the clothes on. good on the cops for staying vigilant. 
the other one is everyone knows crooks can shave real quick, but only elite criminals can grow a beard real fast.
you're generally critical of racial profiling complaints?
> and by being critical i mean that every complaint should be evaluated on it's own merits without bias. 
that's not what people normally use "being critical of" to mean. i'm not sure i've *ever* seen or heard it used that way,  so it's not exactly surprising that you received a lot of downvotes.
[
entirely possible chris would have done something similar on this show though.
that's really a perfect summary of that sub! unfortunately r/montreal has started to look more and more like r/quebec recently...
> / r / quebec is a sub host of identity reactionaries.
i blocked so many people on air quebec for being either an idiot or an idiotic identity that it made it a pleasant site. but it was for example me who buried my head in the sand.
you're totally right. i stopped going on this sub there
r / quebec is mainly pictures of landscapes, translations all crooked and memes. if you just see the shit maybe you are looking for it
the story of the streaming sub is a streamer who is harassed by her neighbor who has psychiatric problems, she blamed quebec in full and the reaction to their sub, it was the most racist thread that i have seen for a long time. it's pretty obvious from the number of comments deleted in their thread ...
it's a problem recognizing indigenous lands ** when the indigenous people you recognize are not from the land you recognize them **. you won't find any historian who recognizes that montreal was mohawk territory, the historical record is crystal clear. but the mohawks are amerindians and their lands will never be handed over to them, so we give ourselves a good conscience by recognizing them lands that were not theirs?
the charge that quebeckers do not speak real french is one of the things that anglophones said and still say about quebecers so as not to have to listen to them, it was racist at the time, it is still racist today. . there are equivalents present in all efforts to discredit an ethnic group, for example people who say that the quality of english among african americans is a reason not to listen to them.
i ban and i will continue to ban people who say that we do not speak real french.
> r / quebec is a sub ostie of reactionaries
are you sure you're not part of the community with your pedantic reactionary comment?
oh god, let me guess, they literally quoted parizeau's "l'argent et les votes ethniques"? that sub sounds awful
it's weird in addition, since in large part they will recognize the racism against the first nations, which nevertheless resembles the discrimination and oppression suffered by the quebec people, but to a lesser degree, but racism towards some ethnicities, including muslims and blacks, they deny.
> worse, apart from that, systemic racism doesn't exist.
can you define systemic racism for me? 9/10 people who say that have a pretty peculiar definition of systemic racism.
pcq for example the reservation system, as well as the indian act almost entirely, is a very good example of systemic racism.
pas vraiment non. you could argue they are far more french than r/canada which would be factually true, but taken over by the far right? most of the sub literally shits on conservatives, the ppc, anti-vaxxers  - those in support of them usually get downvoted to oblivion. what an absurd comment.
personally, a big black tablet appeals to me even more on a monday morning.
yeah sorry, that was sarcasm.    
isn’t having police targeting specific races basically the definition of systemic racism?   or am i missing something here.
bad story. was there someone among the witnesses who recognized the aggressor couple, in order to identify them to the police? looks to me like jail time for that sort of thing if you can identify the guy, right?
and if not, watch the dog park and when you see the girl or the guy again, you quietly follow them to find out where they live. it's so shocking that i would be ready to spend a few mornings in the park if your neighbor can give a good description of the couple. i'm serious, i live in little italy so maybe it's not far and i have a flexible schedule.
i did not understand anything
what neighborhood for fun?
terrible ... why does it ever happen when i'm around that kind of stuff. i hope i intervene, your neighbor is okay, and the guy gets banged. his girlfriend and his dog are not safe around someone with such a problem of aggression.
i witnessed a similar scene really close to home on beaubien in little italy. for a story of parking. a regular at a cafe jumped into the face of a cyclist who had cut the chariot of a parked friend. the cyclist shouted an insult to the chariot and the cafe customer threw himself on the cyclist, spat on him and put his finger in the eye. it was weird everyone froze 5 minutes and when they took the cyclist's defense the guy started threatening them and spitting on them. it's like fucking calm everyone.
what a terrible and heartbreaking story, i hope he will recover soon.
wait, i don't understand, a dog owner protests against whom before the neighbor arrives? what vaccine does the dog need? ?
the dude should go and spend a couple of weeks in jail, in my opinion.
what park?
it's really sorry for your neighbor, poor sir, he didn't deserve this ... the famous boyfriend [he would deserve this] ( and i have a feeling that they are probably not fit to have a dog.
tabarnak, as they say.
the atmosphere is really dark, not bad everywhere. i was invited to the no to the vaccine passport page on fb and just for fun, i went to take a look, oufffff it's dark and ouffff it becomes alarming. the iq is not strong there.
regarding your story, i can't believe the world is just watching it instead of helping. this world is becoming lazy and selfish.
[deleted]
not much to do except complain
i agree with you. i would have liked to be there to testify, but especially to intervene. having said that, i would have done it as a gang. intervening alone is very risky. a life changes very quickly through such violence. we think about it before embarking on this kind of dangerous situation. what a horrible story though. and to have been there, i would have at least recruited people able to calm the whole. i hope he will do well.
are there any recent developments?
[deleted]
damn serious pitbull ,,,
edit: /s
be careful out there. if you’re a local, you feel it too right? like we have a new gen of degen and it is starting last couple weeks ish.  when this shit behavior spreads and leaks eventually, into the criminal world, we will see the wave of petty crime, harassments, smash & grab and thefts everyone expected early last summer.  
if your neighbor wants to recruit the reddit army, we'll go to the park with him, keeping a safe distance i swear! 😅
we are in montreal tbh, bunch of pussies
the story is so badly written that it is incomprehensible. did the dog have to be vaccinated? i'm not.
that said, most dog owners often exhibit disrespectful behavior, so the use of violence is not that surprising. they lack good citizenship most of the time. empirical studies have shown that dog owners have lower iqs than cat owners.
you won't find the guy on reddit lmao
[deleted]
i had suggested the same thing, thank you. but the girl called the police to find out if my neighbor was okay. my neighbor has already filed his complaint. considering the fractures and the hemorrhages, the case will be quickly closed.
op's neighbor ran into a girl in a dog park. she shouted that her puppy had not yet been vaccinated and that the other dogs were calming down (lol).
op tells the girl that she cannot be at the park if her dog has not yet been vaccinated, according to the law.
she leaves and returns later with her boyfriend who decides not to say a word and just beat op's neighbor.
i think, mix it up a bit, but that seems to be pretty good.
ah and the vaccine is not covid, it is standard stuff for new puppies.
the art of writing complex when it can be simple
glad it's not just me.
lol that was french french
op is clearly french😂
père-marquette park, corner of carrières.
flair says little homeland
it's because people know you're there. so they wait for you to leave before taking their action.
all puppies need a basic vaccine before they can go to dog parks, etc.
style against rabies and other diseases
we do not know how the chicane ended, but the girl protested that she had the right to be in the park even if her dog was not yet vaccinated (rabies and others). the other walkers were having a hard time convincing her to leave the park, so gave up. my neighbor tried his luck in a calmer tone.
father marquette according to op
> i can't believe the world is watching her instead of helping. this world is becoming lazy and selfish.
i'm not surprised ... i'm a woman and when i was 17 a super tall and beefy man threatened me physically by blocking my exit on the metro and wanted to kill me in front of everyone at like noon and * nobody * helped me. i finally managed to escape, but without the help of others. people don't want to know anything. they walked away from us without saying a word, without pulling the emergency brake.
navigating the fascosphere requires a good oxygen mask. we are literally suffocating in anguish.
i understand your point but wow you're slipping on bad weather! have you read a social justice book recently? (marc andré chabot)
anyway, so you think we were more tolerant and less violent decades ago kek you're wrong, it's just who had not reddit to report such a story or worldstar for videos of people fighting for a story of parking or color.
without elaborating too much so as not to ban me, but besides revenge there would be several things on the legal side to be done to ensure that this couple long regrets their actions. starting with the unvaccinated dog is surely not registered etc etc
also the neighbor should consult a lawyer or other public legal service to know the remedies and possible damages against this premeditated attack.
who were these people?
-roger, 68 years old, 150 lbs, shouted "ayyyee stop this" as he approached without knowing how to do it.
-martine, 52 years old, a little obese already out of breath after shouting "aaaaayeeee lo". clearly won't instigate a brawl.
-philippe, 40 years old, shy, don't really understand how we got there. the time that lights up is already over.
-annie, 12 years old, nothing more to say.
-xian, 32, would need a couple of seconds to get past the linguistic barrier before saying what.
the dude who jumped on it is clearly a ham unable to worry about what is going on around while he proceeds to tap into it. when even someone says something, don't hear it.
it must have happened so quickly. we are talking about a gentleman as gentle as a lamb who gets hit by a guy who strikes by surprise.
the first punch must have shaken him so not expecting it. i imagine that hasn't taken a hit in the past 40 years either. the rest of the blows followed one another while he was struggling to curl up.
i guarantee you; all those who say to themselves "i would have reacted". add them up, cut 85% of the lot and here we are close to the reality of the people who would have really prevented that. not who are not brave these 85% the ... it happened quickly and you were probably too sketchy to know how to go about it
lol ... the world is not a marvel movie with good guys and bad guys, it's vastly more complex than that. what a reductive and naive vision of the world you have!
my neighbor, dog walkers, is a great supporter of pit bulls. i've always struggled, but by dint of conversations, he (almost) convinced me that it's not at the dog's level, the problem ...
where did you get that from ?? i think you omitted your / s
concentrate on the 2nd paragraph if you have problems understanding, but yet it is very easy to understand even with the intro a little "theatrical"
then yes dogs have been vaccinated for a long time, just like most of us humans who received some 20 ~ 30 years ago. i imagine your head is so deep in the pandemic that you just think about it as soon as you read "vaccine"
edit: and you're famous for studies, don't you have a source ??? what happens to families who have a dog and two cats that cancels out the effect of qi?
surely a puppy. normally you should not take your puppy to the parks for at least 4 months, when all the basic vaccines (rabies, bordatella) are done and the anti parasite has been taken. all vets and ethical breeders are super specific on this.
no, probably the basic vaccines.
i find it logical that a puppy not yet vaccinated is put away from dog areas.
wait what ??? there's not just covid in life ... don't get some sun
your dog is supposed to be vaccinated for various things if you want to bring him to the park.
the covid vaccine has been a basic vaccine for dogs since well before the current epidemic.
edit: ok to be precise, it's not for the covid but the canine coronavirus called ccov
wait, the blonde of the guy who beat up your neighbor called the police to get news about his condition?!?
do be careful here. this is prime habitat for cyclists of the endurance/not-out-for-a-commute/spandex-for-speed breed.  they will show their aggravation if you're out for a pleasure ride and you in any way provide an impediment to their stats.  they're travelling quite fast so do shoulder check before switching lanes.
edit: i don't mean to cast them in a pejorative light (well maybe a light jest), it is a race track so it stands to reason that it might be used for such things.
last time i rode there, i planted myself on one of the posts in the center and needed 18 stitches.
edit: [pour les morbidement curieux (nsfw)](
so much fun riding this track, i make vroom vroom noises every time i'm down the straightaway
cab i go with my roller blade?
some sense of normalcy. sigh.
what a waste of perfectly good parking spots! down with this mayor!
i rode my motorcycle there once, though i do wish i could do a track day there one day but that likely won’t ever happen
it seems to me that the grand prix looks boring this year.
[deleted]
it’s always a good idea to do shoulder check before switching lanes, whether you are mixed in with fast people or not. in fact, it’s exactly like driving.
it's not that bad, i go run there sometimes, there are also pedestrian alley in some part of the track. but yeah look before crossing.
that applies to most bike paths - so many people don't shoulder check or signal at all on the bike paths, and it makes riding a bike much more dangerous than it should be.
i’m sure if you went driving on a highway at 50 kph instead of 100, people would get angry if you swerved in front of them or something! i’m a cyclist and love seeing people there just for fun and not for training, i even do it with my gf sometimes. nobody is mad you’re out for a pleasure ride, they’re mad that you probably put both your safety at risk without realize. just have fun and be alert :)
slow on the right fast on the left, that’s like pretty universal and good practice. people use the track to workout, what’s the problem?
i'm one of those cyclists who occasionally train on the circuit. normally, i go there early in the morning precisely to limit the risk of collision and not to be slowed down by people out for a walk.
that said, yes, always check your blind spots.
if folks who aren't training would assiduously stay to the right and not wander aimlessly all over the width of the track or ride 3 abreast whilst oblivious to their surroundings chatting to their friends it'd be easier for all........ those who ride faster need also to be sensible and not assume ownership of the cgv too.
they sound like asshole drivers in the fast lane.
great international racing champion!
how did you do that? you were driving at 50 lol
damn !!!
come on man
youwch.
it's so hard to fall there, the pavement is so smooth!
if it ever helps you feel less silly, know that you are not alone: p
on the other hand, my pirouette was not very elegant and i had 0 stitches.
omg i saw someone hit one yesterday! it was dramatic
ouch
those stupid poles are probably the cause of most crashes on the racetrack.
because you wish you were dropping the clutch
yes.
>please someone call legault so he can apply $1500 fines to each one of them
ftfy
walking, too.
we should always do it, no matter where we ride.
like the kids playing frisbee on either side of the prairie river bike path got a year-round cut.
he ran across so fast after his frisbee that he slammed into my back wheel.
i also had many close calls with pedestrians along the west bike lane at parc lafontaine. people don't realize that a bike going 30km/h doesn't brake at will and they step-in without a care in the world.
same idiots driving cars are also found on bikes, there are bad drivers and bad cyclists lol (and pedestrians/joggers too)
just watch out for the brits aussies and japanese ;)
some of those people are one and the same, yes.
next time f1 shows up, i'm going to warn them not to put sunscreen on their foreheads
last time i went, it was to skate and i got bumped into by a great international racing champion.
well, i was not going so fast but the post literally sliced my leg when i did a (sick) judo pirouette so as not to fall face first to the ground.
it went from glorious to a tad disappointing pretty quickly
yes but if you want to do some hard work you need to keep your wits about you, too many obliviots , especially on sunny warm days ;)
on a race track might as well go with clutchless sequential. i have a quickshift on my bike and it's a blast
especially on shared walk/bike paths where there's always a random electric scooter/moped trying to kill you.
i spent a summer in berlin. i assure you that the berliners do not care. if test in the bike path you get picked up
assholes going to continue to be assholes regardless of where they are
what do you mean? i do not understand the link.
judoka here. sincerely interested in knowing if you do it too and if it came automatically to you to do your ukemi? i often joke that the only real teaching in judo is to know how to fall ...
pious pious
i fell because, in a nice twit, i put sunscreen in my face and it ran into my eyes.
> ukemi
i've never done judo but i had a judoka educator in high school and i'm really happy that he taught us how to fall; i have surely avoided a couple of fractures in skate / snowboard etc ...
yeah, once blue belt but i've been doing more since high school to be honest, i was just happy to have kept the reflex because it's more fun to have stitches on the thigh than in the face! learning how to fall well saved me so much trouble in my life, and probably some broken bones.
vroom | tak | vroooom
jfc, what is wrong with people? it takes literally zero effort for me to wake up every morning and not do a hate crime that day. it's so disheartening to know that some people are actually expending energy during their finite time on this earth to do something so wrong-headed, so pointless and so negative. just spreading bad feelings around for no useful purpose when they could have instead sat on their asses and watched netflix.
mtl is so international, i can't even imagine where and how this started and for how long it's been going on now, maybe more investigation is needed to go to the roots of this issue.
i don't want to downplay anything with this comment, i'm simply genuinely curious: are hate crimes actively on the rise because people do more "crime per capita" than before for whatever reason, or are reported instances of hate crimes on the rise because the population, the police and the elected officials have shifted their awareness / focus towards these particular crimes and report / investigate them more?
for example, and without the intent of downplaying any events, if in the past assaults were categorized as such but are now categorized as hate crime, then that would change the stats, right? another type of example, if someone previously thought "this person is verbally abusive, because they're an asshole" and didn't report it, but now instead they think "this person is verbally abusive, because they're doing a hate crime" then this would also change the stats, right?
serious question. in other areas it has been reported that anti-asian hate crimes is heavily black on asian. does the same phenomenon exist in montreal or is it different?  anyone with insight?
sadly with covid leading to a rise in anti-asian crimes, and this super shitty year causing stress for everyone, this doesn't surprise me at all.  i just hope that this year is an outlier and we'll leave all this behind us.
hardly surprising, last time i hung out in a mall before pandemic there was a group with matching crossed hammer hoodies just chilling
not surprised.
not surprising. 
covid -> isolation and hard times -> mental illness -> rudeness/racism/cry for help/w.e
>in 2019, there were 87 race-related hate crimes, but that number jumped to 133 last year, according to the report.
because 53% makes for a much scarier title.
legault argued before superior court that bill 21 would reduce hate crimes against muslims by appeasing the righteous anger of the population against them... and the judge accepted this reasoning as marvellous. i see that this has not worked.
i would caution every one about a "rise in hate crime" when individual acts can be perceived as hatr crimes or even definitions of what "hate crimes" are to make it vague and all encompassing.
it's been my experience that montreal's is a tame puppy compared to what people or media who can sell newspapers make it out to be. 
minorities aren't absolved of discrimination, and often time, i've found minorities hatin' on their own groups. 
there is a strange division between the rural mindset and urban one, partly making us montrealers unliked by rural folks cause we're loud, obnoxious and perhaps self-centered. but i've noticed a strange arrofance from city people towards rural folks as well. 
we are not the us. 
and our racial tensions aren't as tense, nor exploited by our media...though perhaps in recent times may be bit more so.
don't give in to the hate crime "statistics"
it's reaaaaalll easy use and mis-use stats to benefits anybody's pov. 
covid got us tense cuz of contagion, but most people, and i mean most people miss hugs, kisses, and don't give a flying fuck where you comes from. 
we've been apart from each other for an extendws period of time, and this ain't the time to get worked up about "antifa" and their macaroni dioramas that they build in their mom's basement while using the iphones the government money they got paid for
--or the idiot xenophobes that you meet trough a friend of a friend that think they know anything about economics, finance and trade because they watch tva nouvelles and listen to old people rant as every propagandic word fills their pockets and make those same xenophobes less money--that sound just as crazy as any meth heads you'll encounter in the village.
most people love, and most people don't give a fuck. hop off social media, take a walk and kiss your neighbor (and hope you dont get sued for sexual assault xd)
what this actually means : 53% more hate crimes are being detected by the police. this doesn't necessarily mean more people are doing this. it could mean that more people call the police for those crimes or that the police cares more about detecting those crimes. which is a good thing, no ?
the issue is, that the "hate crime" label gets added to everything that involves say for example an arab guy getting punched... no matter the context as long as he starts screaming that it was a "hate crime"
a lot of these "hate crimes" stem from situations that would occur between two people of the same race/religion/whatever and is just called a "hate crime" because the current environment is way too oversensitive and calling it a "hate crime" is an easy win for whoever screams the loudest. it also absolves wheoever claims it was a "hate crime" from any backlash or responsibility...
to be clear its not all hate crimes, but it feels like a lot more than there would be.
wait until you learn that most hate crimes are not perpetrated by white people!
[deleted]
i mean... 
its not like the media and social media have been making people go insane with non stop virtue signaling, people also.been locked up for more than a year, lives ruined etc, and we expect everything to be normal now....
montreal is really diverse, but quebec has a lot of nationalism and the protection of the québécois culture unfortunately often easily becomes xenophobia (if you’re from somewhere else, you’re disrupting our culture). racial and cultural prejudice, unfortunately, is somewhat normalized across the province and that spreads to montreal.
montreal had a large neo-nazi problem back in the 90's. this shit aint new.
in what ways in mtl so international? asking as someone raised in mtl
i mean a big part of it is due to the fact that mtl is so international. people are living in close proximity to others of different cultures and the human failing of drawing conclusions about whole groups based on the actions of a few is bound to happen. given human tribalism you have to expect tensions to grow in these circumstances.
according to the article, they're defining these crimes based on existing precedent and classification, and measuring from an increase in reporting. the crimes are stated to be very specifically on the basis of race, religion and sexuality. i don't claim to know why the increase is taking place, but i don't think a sudden significant increase over a year is caused by some collective decision to label incidents differently. it absolutely wouldn't come from a political or policing body choosing to "investigate more", seeing as they are reported by the victims, the cops aren't going out and surveying for potential hate crimes, they would never allocate those resources. it's actually incredibly hard to get any assault case looked at, whether it's a hate crime or someone jumping you in the street for literally any other reason. and just because the report numbers have increased doesn't mean any more effort is being put into resolving them.
i blame ideological recruiting from the far-right. since the start of the pandemic, anti-vaxxs and anti-lockdown people have been "recruited" from right-wing propagandists (just look at éric duhaime and maxime bernier, or many of the crazy conspiracy theorists on social media : they all have that conservative or far-right ideology. social media is a plague if you don't know how to use it.
edit: the us alt-right ideology started to show up here a little before the pandemic. i've seen friends becoming pro-trump\*, anti-immigration very quickly. breaking news: they were following propagandists on youtube and facebook, reading from "alternative" right-wing media, etc.  
\*people are allowed to be pro-trump. i was talking about that whole hatred / agressive ideology that comes with the guy.
this seems pretty obvious from the change in culture. it might be a broadening of the definition of hate crime, whether it's official or simply people's personal interpretation of events which they then report.
i somehow doubt montreal on average became more racist, but maybe i'm wrong.
in my experience as an asian, its mostly been older quebecois or younger black people that throw verbal jabs at me. but that's only if i'm alone, if i'm with my (non-asian) friends then that never seems to happen 🤔
i’m asian and when i was in high school, i was physically and verbally abused by people and most of them were black and arab.
it generally correlates to lack of education, and it’s common that people of color in mainly western societies, like canada and the us, are statistically less educated due to systematic racism. not that i have any data on your specific question, but i wouldn’t be surprised if that’s the case.
[deleted]
you can send a tip to montréal antifascist, they might have some uhh hammer removal services....
and the fact that covid has its origin in china doesn't help either. and for a long time the chinese have been very poorly represented in the media with what the chinese government is doing and their pawns who come to stir shit in our country by harassing chinese-canadians who are vocal against the chinese government. oh and also the stories of the chinese who come to buy all of our real estate.
really, one can understand with this kind of advertising in the media that the hatred has increased so much. and it's sad because now anyone with slanted eyes is going to be attacked verbally or physically because of it.
in any case, i blame the chinese government.
>it's been my experience that montreal's is a tame puppy compared to what people or media who can sell newspapers make it out to be.
exactly. and i find that for a long time ctv news has been on a trip to want to portray quebec and quebecers as a nation of intolerant racists. and the anglo-canadian community eats it because they like to accuse quebecers of all the ills in the world.
as far as stats go, yes they are misleading at the best of times. 
for example vancouver had like triple the amount of supposed anti asian hate crime reports as the next highest city in na. san francisco. 
but san fran has had many more stabbings and other forms of assault against asians in the same period. 
both cities have high asian populations. but the data being cited by our 'trustworthy' media is obviously flawed. 
our media is liable as well for boosting these things by propping up china bad for years. 
every day there's another canada is so racist piece put out by 'our' media. at some point they're pushing the public to become more racist. 
media narratives. push polls. 'statistics.'  
social programming, all of it. to what benefit?  well the public doesn't benefit. so it has to be select political or private group benefit.
this is yet another fear peddling article with a slanted title. 53%? why focus on this number at all? it makes the amount sound so high, and all the top comments are like "i'm not surprised, tons of racists around for x reason" . but scroll down into the article and you see the actual number in question, under 100 to a little over 100. so we are given the idea that we are being overwhelmed by violent racists when in fact this is an insignificant percentage of the population.
just ignore the fear and hate peddling media and you'll be fine.
>kiss your neighbor
how about you kiss my neighbour? i'd rather play tongue hockey with an ashtray with dumaurier butts and a drop of molson ex au tablet.
right! or that most of them are hoaxes perpetrated by the same people that claim to be the victim. lots smollets  but not enough hate crimes.
source? also what about racially motivated hate crimes? also, what’s your point?
i have a hard time believing that that's true in this country, but anyway, what's your point exactly?
your post is an hour old already and you didn't provide any proof to back up your claim, how long are we supposed to wait? lol
soooo hate crimes are up because people are trying to prevent hate crimes? that’s weird logic.
when you brew mard, it smells bad. but this shit won't brew on its own.
i just hope it's the step back that will give us two steps forward.
personally, i think the tone of speeches on social media has a lot to do with it. i have the impression that things have calmed down lately, especially on tiktok .. it takes a lot of colone for a young person, or anything in fact, to see things with the distance it takes when it insults and accuses himself of everything in all directions. the damage that a single person can do by pouring out his hatred is very great, he tests everyone and will radicalize a handful probably especially in what he perceives to be the 'opposing group' which in the end is often just not bad everyone who isn't exactly like him. this is also why minorities 'thread' on a thin thread. if you piss off the majority, statistically it will have more harmful consequences. in return a lot of hatred will be channeled on the minority. in any case, i believe that the only solution is to submerge hate speech in the celebration of diversity and prepare people to face these speeches and not get caught in a spiral of hate and anthagonism. well i digress.
fuckin cry about it more
these numbers are for 2020, so they don't reflect people attempting to return to normal. and i'm not sure why some people's struggle to return to normal would have to include hate crimes. the whole point of my post is how fucking easy it is not to do a hate crime. i'm not even asking these hateful idiots to do something productive with their lives. just do nothing, bigots. stay home. watch shows on netflix. eat a big mac. so much easier than going out and being a dick to someone.
i'm also not sure what virtue signaling has to do with this. are you saying that it's a normal reaction to seeing multiple facebook posts saying "i'm not a racist" to go out and scream at an asian person? or punch them in the face?
yes, lives have been ruined and several of those lives were innocent asian or jewish or black people who got assaulted or killed by someone who believes in bullshit.
i mean you see similar stuff elsewhere... 
there is some truth in that, but it's a bit too convenient. i our search for a boogyman, there is a push for a narative demonizing 'the rest of québec' and blaming something further away, i feel it's more based on bias.
what an incredibly ignorant post. unbelievable that this stuff gets upvoted here. 
here's a cbc article stating hate crimes are up 51% in toronto.
is that because of the québécois as well?
>montreal is really diverse, but quebec has a lot of nationalism and the protection of the québécois culture unfortunately often easily becomes xenophobia (if you’re from somewhere else, you’re disrupting our culture). racial and cultural prejudice, unfortunately, is somewhat normalized across the province and that spreads to montreal.
tell me, do you have any numbers to back up what you're saying?
the damn french canadians ... just me, i would put them on a boat and deport them ..
chow bye, good riddance!
/s
[deleted]
racism is not normalized.
that the exact discourse of racist anglo that want to eliminate the quebec culture and language.
when the world tells me that we can't remove highways for parks
we will show them that
ah, the concrete spaghetti ...
i admit that even though i'm glad it was demolished, part of me had a certain attachment to this monstrosity. often with my ex-husband, if we wanted to stretch our legs, we would go on "adventure" on the concrete spaghetti. we liked to joke that when we were on it, the entrances and exits changed places because this thing was so complicated and confusing, once we got into it, you never knew exactly where you were going to exit. once, we made a big turn on it to finally pick up exactly at our starting point.
that said, good riddance. this pile of concrete made this corner super complicated and dangerous to cross for absolutely everyone: pedestrians, cyclists, motorists, that did not discriminate, big stressful poo for all.
absolutely extremely!
it's made a reflex every time i see a post vaguely related to town planning:
i recommend pretty much all of jane jacobs' work to you, this documentary is a great place to start:
i think i'll waste a few hours going around the photos.
boss: what are you doing?
me: cough cough that compiles cough cough.
my mother often took me to mount royal when i was a child. and then i did not go back for several years.
when i was a teenager, i discovered the bicycle. during my first big hike alone, i went to mont-royal. avenue du parc seemed to me very different from what i remembered, but i was unable to say how. i hadn't asked myself more questions than that, i had assumed that it was my memory that was just blurry.
and then i discovered these images. indeed, du parc has changed a lot since my childhood.
whoever designed this should be barred from urban planning for life.
i have been there often on weekend nights, coming back from the city center. it stank the day before beer from exploded bottles all over the tunnels, as well as piss. it was creaking dark, a lot of people must have been assaulted in there.
0/10 would recommend.
when i think of all the karma i would have done to myself if i had posted this here yesterday 🙃
there are *lots* of stupid urban highways that symbolize how badly fucked up the planning of the 60s was, but this is one of the weirdest/funniest boondoggles to me.
like, what even was the plan here? outside of the park area, du parc is just a regular city street. and just west of this spot des pins turns narrow and hilly. even if you're somehow *super* enthusiastic about moving lots of cars right through urban neighborhoods, like...in what universe would there ever be enough traffic to justify this design? why turn *one random kilometer* in the middle of a city street into a highway?
“progress” lol
so weird to see the area without la cité.
to see how it looks today with 15 parks on a street corner, i just wonder why it does not have dog parks ... it would be fun not to have to go to jeanne mance park corner mont royal between 6 am and 8 am. worse a fence ...
for those who don't know, this interchange was supposed to be part of highway 415, along mount royal. this explains why it was incredibly over-built and out of place in a dense urban setting like the plateau.
source: 
calise, that fucking eyesore. 
used to live in upper rez when that road system was in effect. such a confusing way to come down the mountain and cross to get to du parc!!
out of sight out of mind!
phew, yeah, i really like the new configuration of this intersection compared to this homage to le corbusier, brutalist concrete.
i want to boot cities skyline.
did they really think putting an interchange there was a good idea? for two ordinary streets that intersect? wouldn't a stop at the four corners have done the trick?
or it's probably a tinami from mayor drapreau who had this wonderful idea!
good ol' new rez…. money
total abomination
go see the remembrance / côte-des-neiges interchange of yesteryear and what it looks like today.
seal fleece. i had no idea
in what year did the repair work take place that caused this interchange to disappear?
when you own a cement company and you're the one bribing the government.
make montreal great again
in addition, it was done well, and quite quickly. i live nearby, so i passed by the site often, and it was obvious that the work was progressing well. for an end result that greatly simplified the life of anyone passing through, whether on foot, by bike, or by chariot. not to mention that it's much more beautiful without this thing that blocked the view of the mountain and the park.
what park did they add? they only added lights everywhere.
i imagine in part for the safety / fluidity of pedestrians too.
it wasn't a highway. just a big road that the planned city turned into a freeway, the intersection was the first stop on the freeway but the plan was canceled and the intersection destroyed
there are no additional parks. they closed off some streets to cars and made the intersection all on the same grade with lights.
certainly more greenspace then than now. so going by that metric, its much worse now
[the milton park of dimitrios - jane's walks
](
literally on this particular intersection.
ah, me "it's rendering, there are a lot of layers faque it's long"
aaah it was you !! 😆😆
iirc the original planning had parc av as some sorta crosstown expressway hence the flyovers at parc/ des pin. there was a bunch of wacky plans/ proposals around that time for similar projects such as a tunnel under mont royal from decarie and a highway through the plateau to the east end.
it was like that all over the world in the years 60-70.
we destroyed entire neighborhoods to put in highways.
i remember getting stuck in traffic all the time in the late 90s there. also not to mention how badly it was falling apart
the plan was to transform the park into a highway like décarie.
it's in the works once they figure out what do on the mountain. it's nuts people go like 90 there.
everyone's safety, in fact. this thing was dangerous and complicated to navigate for anyone who got on it, regardless of their mode of transport.
it created small parks on the outskirts like [the parc léo-parizeau] ( 1e1! 3m4! 1syyn06hrz9yr2-yk2xuoe1q! 2e0! 7i16384! 8i8192) (the parking lot along the ramp) or [the parc yvonne-maisonneuve] ( , 75y, 95.51h, 93.16t / data =! 3m6! 1e1! 3m4! 1s8fffkv47lsts137fre4fsq! 2e0! 7i16384! 8i8192). then it also enlarged the jeanne-mance park.
and as activist dimitri roussopoulos recounts in [this video] ( it was dangerous enough for gangs of mcgill students to escort the women who wanted to cross.
edit: in fact, as mentioned in the video, the park called léo-parizeau [was renamed parc lucia-kowaluk.] ( _pageid = 7297,75337594 & _dad = portal & _schema = portal & id = 33014)
"greenspace" that you can't actually use, because you know, it's under a highway.
(don't feed the troll)
yeah yeah sure man okay
are you being serious?
there's even the photo of op at 6m44s.
it's sad though because all the neighborhoods we managed to save have become so pretty and full of life. i'm glad they decided to destroy this intersection in the 2000s.
in fact, despite this spaghetti and the décarie and all the other sad local examples, montreal has really escaped in comparison to other north american cities.
look at [these before and after photos] ( it's really shocking what they did in the midwestern states. detroit, cincinnati, minneapolis ... they destroyed everything to build the interstates.
montreal got sparred the worst of it thanks to people who actually pushed hard. metropolitan is a horrible idea but burrying most of the ville marie saved downtown. even now the 15 and turcot is so much better not only to drive on but look at as well. us cities got the full bulldozer, specifically areas with large minority populations
lots of those rust belt cities mentioned in that link suffered seriously economic decline from closure of major industries. by that point the interstates weren't even a factor
number 1! number 1!
if it could only achieve that in winter...
global warming wouhouu!!!
0°c in the summer of 1950?!  damn.
definitely didn’t feel as hot as the hottest summers tho
this summer has been disgusting. it was hot and humid that everything was sticky. the trees and plants were all half dead from the lack of rain. it was really not pleasant.
i already miss the summer :(...
what do we win !!!!!
curious what the leaderboard looks like for meteorological summer (june 1 - sept 1)
coolest summer for the rest of our lives!
damn in my country this is winter temperature. the biggest point about summer in montreal this year seemed to be the fact it was over 30°c for so many days.
records are meant to be broken 😎
wait a minute. i want to hear what u/yul-weather-records has to say about this. can we really trust what u/yow-weather-records has to say about montreal weather records?
but did kesski happen in the summer of 1941?
bruh........
this reminds me why i never want to go back to montreal…
demand more climate action from the federal government.  climate neutrality by 2030 is not enough. we need climate negativity or we are fucked. or, get used to it getting hotter and hotter…
hmm... initially i thought this would be due to global warming, but there are no other top-10 summers since records moved to the airport in 1941. so maybe this is more of a fluke.
the airport's probably cooler since there's less built environment nearby and more green space.
edit: what's with the downvotes?
keep it quiet, trudeau will raise the f'n carbon tax!
ah so that's why everybody was celebrating on st. catherine today! they did seem super excited about warming.
but this is not a competition where you want to be number 1. lol
hey, question for all you montrealers - have the leaves started to turn significantly yet?
i was hoping to come visit (fully vaccinated) durinf peak leaves this year, and didn’t know whether i should hook for mid october or the first week in november.
with it being such a hot summer, did it seemingly push the autumn leaf turn back?
just give it some years and if you are a good redditor, global warming fairy might grant your wishes!
you'd have a constantly muddy winter with no snow... why would you want that?
soon
careful what you wish for
if its like the past 2 years we wont see snow until mid jan.
where the global warming goes on winter? florida?
[deleted]
just be glad the detailed records don't go back to 1816.  montreal froze solid and several large snowstorms during that summer.
july was cooler than usual and actually quite nice (give me  24-26 degrees all day every day in summer!). august was horrible tho.
he is coming back next year ☀️
higher a/c bills.
i was actually gonna ask what definition of summer it's using. did i miss it, it doesn't specify in the infographic?
you can find that type of information in /r/montrealwxrecords
i bet next summer will be cooler.
"sorry, nobody on reddit goes by that name."
average night temperatures are climbing all across canada (including montreal).  i would say that it's a fluke that this table does not show it.
good
it is just barely starting in the eastern townships. usually for the southern part of the province, aim for the 1st week of october, up to and including thanksgiving (canadian thanksgiving).
last week it started in the eastern township when i passed though . haven’t really started yet in mtl. not sure but it must have started in the laurentides and further north. november is too late. usually there barely any leaves in trees at halloween. depending on where you want to go in the first 2 weeks of october / mid october are closer to peak colors. a little bit earlier further north or late further south. colors don’t last that long.  you should post in the quebec subbredit to ask about the colors in the specific region you plan to visit.
also, more bugs ‘cause no freezing to kill them… no thanks…
a variation of 1-2° is considered large and can have a huge impact, you obviously still eat all types of animal products and use plastic cups cause why not wouhouuuu
were there links to any particular global phenomenon around the time like a volcano or anything?
at yul, this was the coldest july in 12 years, but it was very sharply (and interestingly) surrounded by the hottest june in recorded history (tied with june 2005), and the hottest august on record.
well, that's not necessary;)
i have a problem with air conditioning on principle. ok, i understand we live in hydro-electric land, but when you're roasting hot, isn't burning even more energy to make yourself comfortable exactly the wrong thing to do?
psyke! i don't even *have* an ac
:'(
in general, meteorological borders are utilized for most comparisons (even though my personal preference is the astronomical boundaries of seasons).
regardless of the definition adopted (i.e. meteorologically or astronomically) in this case, the record presented here would satisfy both, at least if considering only yul. this is simply because this was the first time at yul that the first 22-23 days of september also never fell below 9.0 c for a minimum.
i would exercise caution, however, when combining datasets from two different locations for the sake of extending a historical record. this is because both the mcgill/mctavish and yul stations are located in different areas and undoubtedly have slightly different climates (one in the city and the other farther west of there, in the subsurbs within a large open area). doing so can introduce data inhomogeneities and, therefore, produce spurious trends.  it is, therefore, in my opinion, best and safer to keep comparisons to a single station/location over the time period that is available. if data from a new station needs to be used over time (which can become necessary for a plethora of reasons), then station selection should be determined based on the location of the previous station for more consistent analyses. anyhow, just my friendly advice and something to consider for future endeavors! :)
for this post, i'm using astronomical seasons.
[deleted]
montreal is not nearly full enough to necessitate this height of buildings. upping the height of other areas first makes more sense then building ultra tall towers for the wealthy. more 10 story apartment buildings would be faster to build then a mega tower. and more expansion to the east and densifying the west island now that the rem will ease transport issues
wait, is coderre against this rule? because it's a very good rule.
what is a bit annoying with this regulation is that it starts to negatively affect the silhouette of the montreal skyline, since 4-5 years, given that the new "top" skyscrapers all the limit allowed in the center. city (which we did not see before because of the economic gloom of montreal pre-2010). it begins to be seen clearly west of rené-levesque boulevard with several side-by-side towers that have exactly the same height, the maximum being 120m at this location.
it's just ... milk. it undoes the "smooth" staircase silhouette that we want to give to the city center and which is pleasing to the eye. worse, we will start to have the same effect in the zone where the 200m is allowed, since in the last 2-3 years there are nearly 10 towers of this height that have started their construction or will do so soon (the tower bnc, victoria project on the park, 1 square phillips, the tower in front of place bonaventure, etc.).
i'm not saying to completely remove the height limit regulations, but why not add some height steps (e.g .: 250m in the center of downtown, 180m on the outskirts of downtown instead of the current 120m) to avoid ending up with weird height "ceiling" effects like it's literally developing before our eyes?
valérie plante could even save face by allowing certain height exemptions in exchange for a greater proportion of social housing and subject to a signature architecture. literally everyone would be a winner.
worse the argument of "it blocks the view of mont-royal" ......... gimme a break. the view of mount royal is already blocked with the current regulations. what must be preserved are the view corridors, such as that of rue mcgill college.
> we have to stop seeing the city as a mosaic of neighbourhoods stuck together 
says everything you need to know about this guy. one of, if not the most cherished trait of montreal is nothing but a hindrance to his idea of "dreaming big." this thinking is a relic of city planning that places developers' profits and grandiose ego projects over the quality of life of the common citizen. a trend which we need to do all we can to put in the past.
you don't need massive ego projects and condo hellscapes to have an "ambitious city." we should be ambitious in other ways which actually benefit the people of montreal.
i saw the headline and went "yeah, sounds cool, great"
then i saw op having a jolly old time arguing the opposite in the thread. that's a lifestyle choice i guess. like i get that we post headlines as they are, but you have to expect people will have differing views from you...
i think it is shortsighted. if we want to fight against urban sprawl, we need to increase density by replacing existing buildings with skyscrapers.
some people here talk as if eliminating height restrictions would lower housing prices.    
the reality is we can already build pretty high in downtown, the only difference this would make is that now you'd have a huge sony tower visible from everywhere, casting a shadow over several blocks, only to fill some corporate vanity project.  
if these towers were to be residential ones, they'd be luxury condos only a few select would be able to afford. none of you would live there, just look at how cheap manhattan is as an example...    
instead we should be advocating for mid density in our suburbs, and for the elimination of single family dwelling zoning in newer neighborhoods.
i think rules like this are well-intentioned but wind up being used in as a cudgel to squash changes people don't like regardless of whether or not that change is valid.
i also think it winds up being kind of arbitrary. height is flashy and can be iconic or derided or whatever, but if a building is well-intergraded at street level, the height becomes kind of a background
[deleted]
i have no issues with building taller than mount royal, especially if it were to increase the supply of housing among different socio-economic groups.
why are we talking about this, only downtown, when almost everywhere else in montreal it's limited to 3 floors even above metro stations. therein lies the problem of urban sprawl and the housing crisis.
it is absurd to think of building office towers higher up in the city center with the reform of teleworking and when it is increasingly impossible for the workers in these towers to find accommodation on the island.
wasn't this rule originally set into place with the idea that nothing can go higher than the cross on the mountain because something something religion has to be on top?
>nd we oppose any attempt to block the view of mount royal
as explained and demonstrated in the other post, it is not the height of the towers that blocks the view of mount royal, it is their location. this is one of the dumbest rules in existence, and it says something.
edit: can someone bring valerie plante to the south shore and show her that even with the height allowed, visually it hides mount royal?
[
when this wasn't a projet montreal talking point, everyone was in favor of abolishing the height limit. this sub is so fickle and stupid.
i think this is a bad policy, and here's why, briefly. 
first of all, this limits the density of habitations. taller buildings can accommodate more people and use less space. more habitation buildings would make for cheaper rent in a moment where that's exactly what we need! with rent and housing prices increasing all over canada and in montréal, apartment towers would be welcome.
secondly, allowing for taller buildings and therefore denser population would restraint urban sprawling. right now, people move out from the city to pay for cheaper apartments and houses, but with a denser population in the midst of the city there would be more apartment available for cheaper rent, and therefore there would be a weaker pressure for urban sprawl.
that's about it for me really, i think those are quite rational arguments. i know there are other kinds of arguments, like that it would ruin the city's charm and skyline and such, but those are more subjective and arguable... like, how much more rent per month should inhabitants of the city pay so that tourists and people from other cities can appreciate the city's charm and "small city" appearance? i'd much rather bring down rent and limit the spread of urban regions.
plante's resistance to this, and montreal's general anti-skyscraper attitude is very much emblematic of our collective 'think small' attitude. while i'm open to some height restrictions - let's be real: montreal will never be hong kong, new york, or shanghai. we are fortunate in the sense to have a "mountain" smack in the middle of the city centre, and that should be cherished. i am however, totally against a blanket max height restriction on the city as a whole. you very well could have a few designated 250/300m lots & establish architectural criteria to maximize the views to mount royal. if positioned properly, these would allow our city centre to increase in density, but also protect our cherished mountain. it's common to build 300-400m skyscrapers these days. land values are quite expensive and developers want to maximize the use of their space, thus building taller. infrastructure is expensive - why spend all this money installing sewers, electricity, rem stations if the central area isn't used to it max capacity? let's face it too, there is a certain prestige in building tall for major companies and architects. it's a certain handicap for montreal if a company is considering building its headquarters here but is told whatever they build can't exceed the mountain whereas in toronto just down the road, major companies are headquarted in 200+m highrises. isn't it a bit collectively embarassing for montrealers that the 'true' head office of the bank of montreal is located a) not in montreal and b) in a ~300m building right in the middle of toronto's financial district?
i have to say i really like coderres vision. he wants to put montreal back on the map and i'm all for it. plante has a great vision for the city, but i think coderre has an ambition more in line with what the city needs
can someone explain how 1 square phillips is allowed ? 66 stories is way higher no?
there is a near consensus among urban planners on this subject, protecting the view of mount royal is essential to ensure the uniqueness of the city, all montrealers should have the right to this view.
we should take the earth used in construction sites and tame it on mount royal. to be against vertical growth is unbelievably stupid.
such pledge, much wow.
to prevent people from climbing on the roof of a building that would be super high and having their head straight into the smug.
there is no point in having a view of the mountain if it makes the city unaffordable
this is already a rule. no?
imagine your apartment is so high the light on top of place ville-marie shines in your living room!
the prime example of thinking that “échelle humaine” is a synonym for low height is griffintown.
having buildings build at currently double the height in griffintown would not have changed the feeling of the neighbourhood at all - but would have increased population, spurned additional services & could have been used as a bargaining chip to demand affordable housing.
limiting the height results in lower quality architecture and only local builders (ie devimco) developing the market as the potential for profit becomes too small. so you are left with low-rise, high cost, no architectural integrity....as all builders pinch every dollar to run profit.
compare that to toronto where big, gehry and other world renowned architects are designing buildings.
additional concentrating population in core is amazing for the environment as the carbon footprint associated with travel is greatly redu ed
in a perfect world, we could have low rise - beautifully designed building with 25% reserved for social/affordable housing. however, we do not live in this imaginary world & the current admin refuses to take a pragmatic approach to find a solution to these issues. all based on a principled stance that doesn’t care about finding actual solutions.
when you are in the downtown core, having a building at 200m or 300m has literally zero impact on any view of mont royal....the views are already established running north/south (ex view from mcgill college) & these views will never be impacted no matter how high you build
we need a better skyline. not necessarily taller buildings, but more well designed buildings (and getting rid of eyesores of possible) is necessary
i see a lot of comments against the height increase criticizing a different reason, but never this one:
(note: i'm not for or against, it depends and if the limit is to go up one day, it will have to be well done and controlled, only in a small area, with quality buildings and which improve the urban landscape.) and we talking about going from 200 to 250, not 400 - 500m
one of the main reasons for raising the limit which is valid in my opinion is the fact that montreal will reach a plateau of 200m. this was not a problem just 5 years ago and the problem is not yet visible, until 2016 there were only 5 skyscrapers around 200m away. at the moment there is only 1 more (tour the avenue (a beaté in my opinion)), but at the moment there are 6 under construction. so in 10 years we will go from 5 to 12 which reaches about 200m and montreal might look like a boulder.
so to increase the limit a little in the center of the city would make it possible to obtain a mountain effect and not a wall of skyscrapers.
*** disclaimer: *** grass urbanist here ... i am not (yet) an expert and what i say may be slightly wrong. this is my first session in regulation and hey .... that's it.
\----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
well, i don't like the idea of removing this limit, but i'm not capable of playing devil's advocate. the heights bring international attractiveness for certain firms or for the possibility of '' have several different actors within the same tower. that said, it would clearly piss off the city's skyline ... but hey ....
admit that we were elsewhere in montreal, it is a measure that citizens can block by referendum process according to article 123, paragraph 1, paragraph 1 and 2 (the beginning, in the background) of the [act on planning and urban planning] (
> 123. sections 124 to 127 apply with respect to:
>  
> 1 ° any zoning, subdivision or construction by-law;
>  
> 2 ° any regulation provided for in article 116;
>  
(3) any regulation provided for in any of the provisions of sections vi to xi;
>  
> 4 ° any by-law which modifies or replaces one of those mentioned in paragraphs 1 ° to 3 °.
for more precision, paragraph 3 of article 123:
> for the purposes of this section, any regulation that meets the following conditions is liable to referendum approval:
>  
> 1 ° have for object to modify the zoning or subdivision by-law by *** adding, modifying, replacing or deleting a provision which relates to a matter provided for in one of paragraphs 1 ° to 5 °, 6 °, 10 °, 11 ° and 16.1 ° to 23 ° of the second paragraph of article 113 *** or in the third paragraph of this article or on a matter provided for in one of paragraphs 1 °, 3 ° and 4.1 ° of the second paragraph section 115; *** (in bold and italics by myself) ***
therefore, the paragraph of paragraph 2 of article 113 that interests us is the 3rd and possibly the 23rd:
> 3 ° specify, for each zone, the constructions or uses which are authorized and those which are prohibited, including public uses and buildings, as well as the land use densities;
>  
> 23 ° prescribe any other complementary measure intended to distribute the various uses, activities, constructions and works on its territory and to subject them to standards, such a measure not however having the effect of restricting agricultural activities within the meaning of the law on the protection of land and agricultural activities (chapter p-41.1) in an agricultural zone established under that act.
but since we are in montreal: codèrre would have to use section 89-al1-par3 of the [charter of the city of montreal] ( c-11.4) to circumvent these obligations:
> the city council may, by by-law, allow, despite any by-law adopted by a borough council, the carrying out of a project relating to:
>  
> 3 ° to a residential, commercial or industrial establishment located in the business center or, if it is located outside the business center, whose floor area is greater than 15,000 m2;
>  
> a by-law referred to in the first paragraph can only contain the town planning rules necessary for the realization of the project. it has the effect of modifying any by-law in force adopted by the borough council, to the extent that it must provide for it in a precise and specific manner.
but he would have to go through the public consultation office ([art.89.1-al2] (
> the draft by-law referred to in the first paragraph of article 89 must be the subject of a public consultation carried out by the office de consultation publique de montréal, which must for this purpose hold public hearings and report on this consultation by means of a report in which he can make any recommendation.
unfortunately, there would not necessarily be referendum approval as mentioned above unlike another municipality ([art.89.1-al2] ( c-11.4) and 3):
> the draft by-law referred to in the first paragraph of article 89 must be the subject of a public consultation carried out by the office de consultation publique de montréal, which must for this purpose hold public hearings and report on this consultation by means of a report in which he can make any recommendation.
>  
> the public consultation referred to in the second paragraph takes the place of that provided for in articles 125 to 127 of the act respecting land use planning and development. in the case of a by-law likely to be approved by referendum, the filing with the council of the report of the office de consultation publique takes place, for the application of article 128 of the act respecting land use planning and development, the holding of the public meeting referred to in article 125 of this law.
so good ... the ocpm cannot really block something in itself ... there is no referendum ...... but at least, if there is ocpm, there is potential for political weight and media .... and this is where it can hurt ... just shouldn't people not participate ... but hey ... just a little candy left or right so that people forget the topic .... oh well ...
what a stupid rule... and this is why real estate is going up.
this is really stupid, but at the same time smart, montreal’s infrastructure can not handle such tall buildings, traffic/transit is already really bad and concentrating people in place will just make it worst, better to spread people out, there’s the whole island and surrounding areas, everyone does not need to be downtown.
can we throw her onto a soft bouncy surface and move on?
[deleted]
the limit in montreal is mont-royal or 200 meters, the smaller of these two measurements. since the first town planning regulations of the 90s.
denis coderre talked about removing this limit recently.
mayor tremblay removed the protections right before leaving office. he permitted constructions up to 40 storeys then resigned 3 months later.
super interesting and on the subject of construction and real estate development in montreal in general.
exactly, tax land and watch the efficiency increase. for example many of the tarmac car-parks in downtown could easily be replaced by a few multi-storey ones and the rest used to add office capacity.
great point. no need for residential skyscrapers yet. 8-10 story apartment buildings located on wide streets, near subway stations and amenities would be perfect.  
with decent public transportation in the east, we could also densify there (right now the public transports are horrible).
on one hand i generally think "view protection" and similar laws are nonsense and there's no compelling reason to block these towers if someone wants to build them. the threat of *seeing a building you dislike* is not a nuisance worth regulating.
but on the other hand i think skyscrapers are mostly a distraction in the housing discussion, and aren't a structural solution to shortages. what we really need is, like you alluded, more *consistent* midrise density in more places, particularly those with metro/rem service. so i don't think loosening the existing height regulation is worth putting up a big political fight, compared to some of the other more productive goals we could work towards.
on the other hand, no problem paying rents of $ 1800 for a 2 1/2?
> building ultra tall towers for the wealthy.
it may sound backwards but having luxury aparments in these super tall towers would be healthy for the city in the long run, as it would relieve a lot of pressure on the current real estate situation. rich people would move downtown in those brand new units instead of increasing the price of apartments in more remote parts of the city.
it's crazy we're even having this debate. the skyscraper is an obsolete form of architecture and anyone who pays attention even a little bit to today's conversations on architecture and urbanism would know that. they're extremely expensive, extremely hard to maintain, are rarely a reflection of the community culture, and are far worse for livability than almost any other building form save for maybe big box stores. 
they're also completely unjustifiable when there is such an [absurd amount of wasted space in this city](
remember this: paris (with the exception of la defense) has essentially no buildings taller than 6 stories, and yet they achieve an average density of over 20k people per square km. montreal, in contrast, is 890 people per square km. that's literally 22 times less dense.
so long as we continue to have dumb patches of grass in places no one wants to be, boulevards that have 6 more lanes than they actually need, entire swaths of land dedicated to big box stores and corresponding parking lots, and cloverleaf interchanges in the middle of the city, skyscrapers are a huge waste of time and probably a significant step backward.
[deleted]
so, you want to keep the poor people living in the west and east while reserving the view of mont royal for the rich and keep the city less dense than a block in dhaka?
yeah. sounds like a nimby.
he’s in developers’ pockets
why is this a good rule? it seems arbitrary. you already can't see the mountain in most of the city. where i live a three-story building is tall enough to block it.
somebody need to care a out thoes poor millionnaire  developer.
it is a terrible rule that will depress the housing stock in montreal. we need to build more and build higher apartment complexes.
hey patient come home otherwise you will eat yourself a hefty fine and i'm not talking about a nut here !!
bota-bota is open?
too handsome ! taken at what time?
i believe that the official name is vieux-**p**ort.
maybe it's the view from her balcony
yes.
service personnel.
you can't just stick a big p anywhere you want.
do they have covid-19 protocols?
with happy endings or what?
also, the spa's name should not be all in upper case letters. it's *bota bota*.
i do not know.
like a hairstyle, maybe.
sad ending.
also, could have written the whole word for “février”
the accent of the public school of montreal: arabohaitienlatinoquebecois
when i was in my early twenties, during the eighties, i noticed that there were at least 3 ways of pronouncing montreal, for people who lived there in french.
i was from cartierville, my friends and i would say:
my re al
my cousins from montreal-north said:
my rial
my girlfriend from villeray and her family said:
moh real with the moh pronounced as the "me" in "me break your eyes."
damn. i thought this was going to be a thread about hyundais and instead i learned some shit.
i am originally from the mauricie region of quebec, and have now lived in montreal for over a year. honestly, i have never been so mismatched while still staying in my native language. from borrowing to pronunciation, through expressions ... i still can't believe that at times, i speak to a montreal francophone and we have difficulty understanding each other.
from the north shore to abitibi, passing through mauricie and gaspésie, i was also able to observe this phenomenon. on the other hand, anyone would easily associate the quebecois dialect which is * very different * from montrealers. it evokes a lot about the whole of culture.
what is unknown about the québécois accent is that it has its origins in the accent of the french monarchy (and not in popular speech, as the quebec accent is perceived today) at the time of the colonization of new france. france lost this accent following the revolutions in which the people imposed themselves.
i noticed a french much more neutral among montrealers from more privileged communities, who approach neither the quebecer nor the french (from france). on the other hand, i notice a very poor quality of french spoken and written by many people from middle or disadvantaged communities. this is of particular concern to me, as the degradation is exponential.
i myself had the remark of having developed an accent different from my hometown, without realizing it. humans are particularly prone to being influenced by their community, and the larger the community, the greater its effect.
i love the french language and am particularly proud to be part of the only small group in america that speaks this language. i am concerned about its future and i strongly hope for a better awareness.
there was a a thread on here.... at some point that went into great details about most popular slang expressions and their origin. it was pretty interesting since a lot of subcultures has their own language/dialect/slang and then has its set of shared slang expression in the popular vocab...  can't find it though =/
there are a couple of different english accents also. st-léonard english is very different to hampstead/cote st-luc which is different to griffintown/ point saint charles.
what also pleases me is that we see this diversity of accents as an asset (i have the impression that in france, an accent that is not parisian is seen as a handicap, or something funny that you have to change to sound credible)
half of the children in my neighborhood (mile-end / outremont) have french parents from france, and they all have a hybrid france-quebec accent.
as an anglophone who grew up outside quebec, i really like that there is such a diversity of accents in montreal. so i'm not too embarrassed to speak with a weird anglo-montreal-quebec accent.
i love it and i am attached to these accents.
many comments from people who are not from montreal seem to have negative views on the existence of a variety of cultural community. i can understand. montreal french has its peculiarities.
korean spoken from the 80s and now is different. english changes from country to country. yes, i am aware that it is not the same situation that the french language has in canada.
if we want to talk about increasing the quality of education in our schools and promoting the learning of the french language with tax credits for companies that offer french courses to their employees (whether 10 or 5000 ) and have more francization programs and inject money into the francophone media - i'm up for it and i'm voting for it. bill 101 gave me the gift of trilingualism. it allowed me to live unique and mind-blowing experiences.
i must admit that i am still a little sickened to hear people who do not come from montreal shitting on various montrealers who have accents, even if there are not many who do. criticisms and sharing of different perspectives are welcome however. must learn!
an accent just means that the person speaks a language other than french and that this person is learning. there is a story behind our accents. it speaks of the fact that some people have crossed the world, leaving behind family, friends and points of reference to come and settle in quebec to provide better opportunities for their children. it’s really a big compliment though.
ladies and gentlemen of all the deps that i have been had varied accents. no, these people who worked 70 hours a week do not speak french well. in an ideal world they could do better, but it's really hard to study when you immigrate and on top of that you have to earn some money.
my friends, refugees / immigrants from bosnia, haiti and cambodia and i all speak french. bill 101 worked.
montreal is a beautiful city (even though it really pisses me off and there are such frustrating and fucked things going on too) partly because of its diversity and people love living here.
my favorite is vietnamese and cantonese french. because of my association with good food lol. but the good jouale is also familiar. especially the jouale of the grandmothers.
i heard an interesting piece on cbc about how in earlier times there was a difference in french accents. if you drew a vertical line line in the map of quebec though sorel, to the east most people would trill their r's but to the west most would not. also they played some parts of speeches of important persons( a premier and priest i think) , they would also trill their r's. 
this was around 1930's, so things have changed i expect?
i have always considered fr anglais to be the typical montreal accent but it is true that it is quite reductive considering the multiculturalism of the metropolis.
there is even a difference between how english-speaking montrealers pronounce montreal (munt-tree-al) and how non-english-speaking montrealers say it (maunt-ree-all) as haunt in haunted house. it's a small difference that i find annoying as an anglo-quebecer: p
i suggest you the [wikipedia] ( page on quebec english.
one of my favourite parts of language in the city is how there are french expressions that just work better than the english equivalent. i work with a bunch of americans, and will occasionally drop a montrealism that doesn’t make any sense to them. 
this early in the morning before coffee, i’m having trouble thinking of some other than “dep”...
[deleted]
ever notice how most english non-montrealers (from the states, or the rest of canada) pronounce montreal as mawn-treee-aall. grinds my gears.
also repost on r / francophonie stp! :)
there are plenty of accents in english too!
and me who believed who was the only one to have noticed that lol
i am very happy :-)
in cotes-des-neiges, everyone speaks in a hybrid of african/haitien/quebecois french. even the asians (can confirm).
mon-rial for me in french 
and i feel like i alternate between mun/mon tree all in english
montreal accents? come take a trip to thetford or st-george-de-beauce.
my face when i just want montreal to be a metropolis for the people of quebec
big guy neg beef pouch
poses
there's the anglo-montreal 'munt-ree-hal' version of west island and westmount
the famous "mourial" too! often heard among workers who do not reside on the island
when i was young i called him [my tré al]
i thought i was the only person in the world to notice that there are people who pronounce moh real.
speaking of being part of "the only small group in america" that speaks french, let's not forget french guiana, or guadeloupe, or martinique, or saint-pierre and miquelon, and what to say about haiti. or francophones outside quebec in canada.
well said and even between "montrealers", i was born in montreal but in rivières-des-prairies, which in the 60s and 70s was the countryside, nothing to do with today and my family had a farm until. 1930s in what is now mercier near mtl-est ... nothing to do with the plateau or villeray, originally country-born but montrealer lol ... but we must not exaggerate, i have visited everywhere in quebec and whether it's sept-ile, carleton or amos, there's no place where i didn't understand what another quebecer was saying ....
in my family, we call this neutral montreal accent the radio-canada accent. in short, it's when you try to sound like bernard derome! mainly seen in the affluent families of outremont, the plateau and rosemont.
bro, get yourself to granby when shit opens up. 
it's like another planet.
i think you're from an orbiting moon of it.
laval italian kids english
i actually studied this in a sociolinguistics class i took at conu. montreal english is unique because we're surrounded by french so there's less opportunity to adhere to the standard english. the majority of 20-30 yo italians may be third-generation, but because they only spoke english with family & friends (often also italian), they kept their accent rather than assimilating. 
if you compare a third-generation (heck even some 2nd generation) francos they'll be much closer to the standard montreal french because they were not so isolated.
yep...the hampstead, csl, ndg english accent has more jewish influence while the west island is more waspy...anglos in the pointe under 70 are hard to find though.
i wish i could hear the differences! in english, i can only perceive strong obvious accents, such as british, southern, indian etc.  
i would still love to hear more about that.
as a foreign anglophone i always found the montreal anglo english accents somewhat unusual and fascinating.
no the parisians are just pretentious
wow!
the rolled rs is a thing you can still hear from people old enough to have been taught in catholic schools.
it’s the second time i hear that, and i can’t keep myself from laughing. it’s a fair observation actually! i’m from the country 3h from montreal, and native french speaker with a quite bold québécois accent. the reason i think this is funny is because most people who thrill their r’s do so because of age... not because other people do it. i dare you to find anyone thrilling their r’s below 50yo. i just find this very funny since to us québécois it’s absolutely obvious, but i do agree i would expect it to be an accent.
you've got it backwards. traditionally, it's the west of the province that trilled the rs, at least up to the 70s-80s. it's a typical feature of the old montréal accent, though you don't hear it often anymore, at least not in young people.
in this documentary about the flq, people are trilling their rs [ the footages were from the 70s (maybe some in the 80s too)
it was still a thing until the 50s! however, i’d like to point out that it was in the west that rolled the r’s, not the east!
my mom is from lotbinière and even after living in montreal for 40 years she still as a distinct way to trill her r and her u that is apparently very typical from where she was born (knowing her all my life i don't hear as much an accent as my mom's voice)
i think it also has to do with the presence of english speakers. trilling rs isn't something that is done in english, but is in french, and most english speakers live on the west points of the island. those who are exposed to more english might be less prone to roll their rs, while someone exposed to the more "pure" french on the east side of the island would be more likely to.
fr english can be considered as an accent, but also as an image over time of the slow anglicization of quebecers. i prefer to be interested in the accent of an anglophone in french, than in the french of a quebecois who must resort to english to compensate for his lack of vocabulary. however, this is a very real phenomenon that is quite interesting in itself, and a source of identity for many montrealers, so who am i to judge?
the typical accent from outside is very different from the typical accent of rdp!
ste catherine/ square phillips? is that royal bank the burger king now?
[
the 58th grey cup was played on november 28, 1970, before 32,669 fans at cne stadium at toronto. the montreal alouettes defeated the calgary stampeders 23–10. the game was marred by woeful field conditions, as throughout the contest several sections of the natural-grass surface came away in chunks.
//////////////////////
for more information on little-known history and other 1970s events, consult the 50yearsagolive project, a twitter program that reports events from exactly 50 years ago as if they’re happening in real time. it is meant to stoke an interest in history by making it accessible to the everyday reader:
before bill 101 ... very strange
gray doll
that was when they had a french horn as a logo, and that weird green colour.
i worked at the parisien in 1998! ste catherine street
i'm missing that old cinema, le parisien.
the last movie i saw there was les boys 3. what a night.
is this the parade that appears in the film "the two women in gold"?
i would like to be able to read what was on display at the parisian that day but the photo is not in good enough definition.
last time we won anything.....
yeah, i think so!
yeah you can see the address next door "1255 philip sq..."
sure looks like it.
why not post the picture credit? 
and also the accurate date? or information? 
your project is doomed to fail if you don't post the correct date
if the weather and field is perfect you know it's not really canadian football
the parisian is still there ...
from memory 1969
mtl got the stanley cup in 1993 and montrealer georges st-pierre won multiple martial arts world championships between 2007 and 2017 and was ranked #1 welterweight in the world for a long time. so i dont know what you’re talking about
after 1970, the habs won the stanley cup in 70-71, 72-73, 75-76, 76-77, 77-78, 78-79, 85-86 and 92-93.   
the alouettes also won the grey cup in 74, 77, 02, 09 and 10.
that commenter is just full of shit.
lol. yea that guy is a doomer
only you idiots would think i was saying that literally... but ok, yeah, not technically but feels that way to me, jesus..
yea yea just make sure you wipe the seat after you’re done pissing
if he'd just humbly apologized for checking his phone, it would have ended there. but you don't change that easily. he's stubbornly stubbornly over a relatively trivial fact (it's wrong, but everyone makes mistakes from time to time), and it's doing him a ton of wrong. such an article that rightly recalls his lies probably wouldn't have existed if he had just apologized for looking at his phone on a red light. and this article is a real mass coup for him and his campaign.
what an odd battle to be waged on the part of denis coderre, to risk his election. just not to say "excuse me".
tse, we will never talk about plante, who was 4 on a terrace. because she just apologized. let's move on to something else.
i'm not a plante fan, but i'm even less a coderre fan. i think i'll vote for plante, just because she sounds less (sorry but the word in french escapes me) "sleeze".
denis is ready to lie at all times. we cannot trust his empty words. seriously, he's been doing this for 40 years, can you move on.
i hope so much that he will not be mayor of montreal.
a real estate developer by the name of rizzuto donating $ 25,000 to coderre is fucking suspicious.
even if the gentleman is honest, as honest as one can be when one is a real estate developer, ** give ** money in a personal capacity to a guy who was mayor and who could still be mayor of the city where rizzuto doing business isn't just suspicious, it should be a crime.
tlpl: denis coderre is a pathological liar.
the mafia is tired, they want to start milking the city again.
it is above all that coderre takes us for esti cellars. serious...
it's still quite a contrast to plante's reaction to the terrace episode. she didn't walk away from me and immediately admitted her wrongdoing. on the other side we see coderre who tries to deny and dodge the question.
this is the first time that i have seen an article from la presse with bibliographical references.
this is surely an exception, but i have always hoped that newspapers adopt this level of rigor.
usually, the articles of journalists who dig to find sores to political candidates during an election period, that annoys me.
this article is a good journalistic job. it is not sores that lagacé describes, it is a portrait of a part of the personality and the values of a candidate.
it would be nice to have an article of the same caliber on ms. plante.
in addition, [infoman about coderre] (
he did not even mention the pass that coderre made a couple of weeks ago when he called the media to join him in the notre-dame camp and that when he got there he had the brow to declare that it was was the "citizen" and not the candidate who was there.
there are damn limits to taking the world for caves.
my being old-fashioned, but i don't need the history of cell phones and driving to be suspicious of him.
old game because in my book, i have always been told that the apple never falls far from the tree.
so when his son got caught trafficking on the internet, i understood the kind of education the gentleman gave him.
children are not all like that, but in general, we become what we see.
at the same time, you can look at my username, i'm good and stupid at the same time, and i assume it.
he would do anything for power, he can say whatever he wants but it will always be his ego first and never the interests of the citizens. i sincerely hope that he will not be re-elected to realize other crazy projects ...
as an immigrant, i have no knowledge of this guy. why is he that hated ?
well, he officially lost me. good luck coderre for the future
lol.
all this is true i allow myself to add:
1) '' my '' police chief in the past ==> calls the minister of health when my parents are not able to book their spot and i sell it on twitter
2) i'm calling '' my '' police chief, it's about my credit card was stolen ==> my son has internet addiction (translation: my son paid escorts / onlyfans / webcam or others) but no balls to admit it.
his abuse of power / relationships for his personal issues is probably what pisses me off the most. i don't like valerie but at least she doesn't think she's above everyone. voila, thank you, i ventilated.
coderre 2.0 is finally a beta version without humility! #sameold
i can't believe this idiot is representing himself again.
losing weight doesn't change man
it was high time someone spoke about it. coderre has always been like that and he is never going to be anything other than he himself is an authoritarian liar thirsty for power and without any vision for our beautiful city.
probably the most unnecessary scandal i've ever seen. "sorry everyone. no excuses, i take responsibility and have paid the fine. this won't happen again."
can we find an alternative to coderre or plante? please?
anyone but plante and she will lose badly, trust me.
looking forward to his return.
this is true for 100% of politicians. no exceptions.
two hit pieces on coderre in a week on reddit? is this what we're doing now?
edit: worth noting almost all of the first comments (so far) in comment threads come from accounts 3 years old, close to the time of the first election.
edit 2: lots of traction on this for a post less than an hour old
"like many people, i had the reflex to look at my phone when i heard my message notification ringing, even though i know it is dangerous (even when stopped) and prohibited by law. i paid my fined and taken my demerit points. i'm sorry once again. i know i can and must do better. "
easy as well. worse tomorrow, we wouldn't even talk about it anymore.
it reveals a lot about the character and his ego i think. when you see him act like that for something so mundane, you wonder how he'll react when it gets more serious. i really don't want to have a donald trump as mayor of my city.
he could have just said something bogus like "scuse me, i was putting an address in google maps, i learned my lesson". it was literally a non-stake that turned into a story because of his oversized ego
it looks like donald trump who did not want to admit that there were less people at his inauguration. it doesn't really matter as a situation, but if he's lying about something so mundane, what's going to be with big files?
> what an odd battle to be waged on the part of denis coderre, to risk his election. just not to say "excuse me".
he has already lost an election quite a bit for the same reason, i don't see why he would change.
> and this article is a real mass coup for him and his campaign.
not really, people are used to pre-election smear campaigns and don't care too much about them anymore.
same thing. not a mega-fan of plante, but i would vote for her anytime just to avoid electing coderre.
crochet?
there are a lot of things that valérie plante did that didn't necessarily agree. but for the most part, i find that she and her team have really made montreal a more livable city for the locals.
she loves her city and it shows.
same thing, quite disappointed with plante, whom i had in high esteem, but it's not denis coderre 2.0 who will convince me not to vote for her again.
me too. that is why it is important to go and vote. even in municipal elections.
rizzuto doesn't have a very honest past, he had strong ties to the mafia and stories of corruption.
> give money in a personal capacity to a guy who was mayor and who could still be mayor
coderre was still a federal deputy at the time (2012). he had never been mayor.
[deleted]
there are often for real (especially lagacé and hachey)
in fact it's funny to read this because the press has always been on the edge of coderre, at a point where it was just obvious
your comment is very neutral.
lying to look good like coderre has done and is doing is a negative point for anyone in the public service.
coderre the liar does not deserve the public's trust as he proves again and again. it is a known value.
plant is another subject. if there is no equivalent article about her, consider that it is potentially because she does not deserve one.
[deleted]
the reply to the resident of the hochelaga-maisonneuve district ... real coderre.
a real pile of mustard
guess i'll be renting for a long time eh?
[deleted]
montreal north 420,000
nice
i like your monthly posts! where do you get your data from?
data for laval and various south shore municipalities: [
ville-marie -63% !? 😗
[deleted]
vaudreuil region?
please
downtown is the obvious play
suggestion sort your table alphabetically
wtf happened in ville-marie lol.
this is great. thank you very much for that !!
i'd be curious to know what the averages are for ndg and cdn independently 
also all other upscale areas are down except westmount. does that suggest more people buy in westmount to invest i wonder.
keep in mind that these %differences by borough are calculated on a very small number of data points (4-40 dewlings). if we were to look at the confidence intervals, i imagine we would see that much of the variation is likely due to random chance.
holy fuck $880k median in the southwest? did i buy the cheapest house in the borough??
wow, i’m poor! median house in the plateau 1 million dollars...fuck..
i am new to montreal, which area does 98 rue charlotte fall under?
i bought a small duplex in the south west 420k a year and a half ago. i put 60k on it in renovation (i freaked it out in a single-family house)
it's crazy to see that 1) today i won't be able to buy. 2) the price at which i can resell ??
i do not trust it!
"when something seems to good to be true, it usually is"
french below!
this only represents year over year stats showing mostly double digit increases across the board in all sales and prices. it does not show how the numbers have changed month by month. please remember that it is in the best interest of real estate sales companies and home owners to demonstrate unstoppable growth. if the public thinks there is a chance of the real estate market declining, this could possibly result in a loss of sales/commision for the realtor and a loss of asset value for the owner.
if you dig just a little into the website (centris), you will find pdfs that show the stats in detail.
september 2020 [
october 2020 [
november 2020 [
you will see the following from the above pdfs that in montreal between sept and nov 2020:
1. condo sales increase 3.5% (4% drop oct to nov)
2. condo median price dropped (<1% change, 2% drop from oct to nov)
3. sfh sales stagnant (< 1% increase, 8% drop from oct to nov)
4. sfh median price slowly increasing (1.1% increase)
5. plex sales increase 20% (6% drop oct to nov)
6. plex median price increase 3% (stagnated <1% increase oct to nov)
i think it's important to review month by month realities, especially since it is still touch and go with the pandemic. these numbers represent to me expected seasonal changes (ie, the market stalling for late fall/winter).
the purpose of this post is to make it clear that the real estate market is not some unstoppable force and that their statistics risk being biased by self interest.
in my opinion, people will have to make a decision: continue to fuel a market that will result in a decreased quality of life due to increased housing prices/rent or create a more sustainable dynamic.
thanks and miss seeing you all out and about!
french version (using google translate and bon patron, corrections welcome by mp!)
this only represents year-over-year statistics showing mostly 10-20% increases in average sales numbers and prices. it doesn't show how the numbers have changed from month to month. remember, it's in the best interests of real estate sales companies and homeowners to show unstoppable growth. if the public thinks there is a risk of a decline in the real estate market, it could potentially result in lost sales / commission for the real estate agent and loss of equity for the owner.
if we search a little, we find the statistics in more detail.
september 2020 [ 202009-en.pdf)
october 2020 [ 202010-en.pdf)
november 2020 [ 202011-en.pdf)
we find that in montreal between sept and nov 2020:
1. condo sales increased 3.5% (fall 4% oct to nov)
2. average condo price drop (<1% difference, 2% drop from oct to nov)
3. sfh sales is stagnant (<1% increase, 8% drop between oct and nov)
4. sfh median price increases by slowing down (increase by 1.1%)
5. plex sales increased by 20% (6% fall oct to nov)
6. average price plex increases 3% (stagnant between oct and nov 2020 aug <1%)
i think it's important to go over the realities month by month, especially since she is still in tune with the pandemic. these numbers largely represent seasonal changes (ie. the market stagnates in late fall / winter).
the purpose of this poster is to make people understand that the real estate market is not an unstoppable force and that the statistics that the agencies show us may be biased.
in my opinion, people will have to make a decision: to continue fueling a market which will result in a decrease in quality of life due to the increase in house prices / rents or to create a more sustainable momentum.
thanks
what’s happening in ville saint-laurent and baie d’urfé? the price increases are quite high for 2019 vs. 2020!
criss that it's scary
the 2019 vs 2020 figures vary enormously between october and november, which shows that the sales volume is not high enough to have statistically reliable figures at the level of the boroughs, even for those with the most of sale.
hello, 
i'm completely new to this, so please don't hurt me. 
but would it be possible to have a clarification as to if there is a standard "size" for "single-family home" (i assume it is a "standalone" house) and a condo?
i mean, if i look at the chart, the most expensive condo was 4.4m, and the least expensive was 134.000$.  
but for all i know the 4.4m was a 8 1/2 (9000 ft^(2)) penthouse, while the 134.000$ one was a tiny studio.
it might not be relevant at all but i'm curious....
where do you post these usually
wow amazing!! thank you for sharing. very exciting to see our borough's median price go so high!
i know this might be a long shot but ideally, how much of a down payment should i be putting on a single family home in the 500000 range ?
+ 20% between just '19 -'20 and $ 639,000 for a cool cool cool house
[deleted]
the districts are sorted alphabetically, but i think you should omit the "le / l '" ... plateau in p, île bizard and i
could we have a french version?
op do you have the detailed stats of montreal for the plexes? it would be more interesting in the context of the city than single family homes.
the numbers are big and scary but not representative because since the summer 2020 there's been a huge increase of monetary supply. basically, the government has devalued cad for 15-20% after april 2020 (cpi will follow the assets in the next years i believe). that we already know and the comparisons to the years before the devaluation are nothing interesting anymore. sep 2019 - sep 2020, oct-oct, nov-nov, they will just be repeating every month until april.
more interesting would be to see the dynamics between sequential months. are we still missing out or not anymore?
ah yes, millenial lust  *™*
thanks for this! i moved from toronto a few years back and there the situation for those who want to buy causes depression. montreal is not so bad, but it's not as easy as people make it out to be. crossing my fingers that i might actually buy next year. :(
single family homes ... it doesn't work in a dense environment. a single family home x st suitable for the countryside and the suburbs. not in the city. where is the price assessment for a three bedroom unit ??? it's not just the size of a home that matters. if this were the case, buildings in montreal would be worth less than in the suburbs ....
bless these insane sale prices. sold my st henri condo in november because demand is ridiculous.
source?
r/coolguides
is there a way to see st lazare?
the numbers in each section are so low, it's very noisy.
that's nothing, three of the 12 houses in my road in the laurentians have sold in the past two months, all for exorbitant prices.
that's just insane.... so much for our ridiculously high taxes keeping the cost of living lower.  i think if the cost of living is going to be this high then we should have lower taxes.  clearly ...if i have to be taxed 25% by the province...then there's a fuck ton of wasteful spending going on... and it's not helping one bit when it comes to me trying to buy a house.
why do you take so many cities in the west island but not longueuil or laval which are closer to downtown?
[deleted]
*insert self loathing and feeling of failure*
thank you! i take all the info from a centris report.
there are like three houses in the borough last year, there are 2 that were sold, this year one ...
false numbers obviously, but you get the idea ...
condos are being offloaded by investors rn. lots of supply and not alot of demand. i'd imagine that single family homes held speculatively are being off loaded as well
there are still several in verdun. some on gordon for example (townhouses, converted duplexes ...), several near metro lasalle and a whole single-family neighborhood near the douglas.
i sent you a dm
these people need help, not persecution.
for anyone complaining about how bad this will be - check out what the results of decriminalization of "quantities for personal-use" in portugal.  tl;dr:  it massively reduced addiction and drug use by treating addiction as a medical issue, not a criminal issue.
yay go montreal, go
this is the way to help people, i experienced the addiction and then before i got out of it for good with closed therapy, i ended up in jail several times. once entered in the system, everything is in place to return !! at present i no longer have this knowledge (false friends) and i have finished my cegep and i have started my dep. the goal of all this is to explain to you, from my personal experience, that the place of a person who consumes is not in prison but in therapy !!! i could have wasted my potential if i weren't surrounded by such a good family: others are not so lucky!
based
me, my motto is to live and let live. if people want to take drugs, it's up to them as long as it's not sold to minors.
on the other hand, before decriminalizing drugs i believe that it would be important to decriminalize sex work. warning ! i am talking about adult and consenting workers and clients. of course the "pimps" who recruit minors in prison and throw away the key!
vaype naysh
i agree: d
beautiful champ
[deleted]
[deleted]
great idea, things turned out so well in seattle and sf, we should also legalize shoplifting while we're there, we're a little late
those two things aren't mutually exclusive.
it will only work if drugs are legalized federally, if not drug addicts will flock to montreal.
did you went to portugal recently ? i did, in lisbonne 3 years ago. 
you can't walk into the old port without a guy asking if you want some cocaine ... this is not a joke or an exageration ... like litteraly every 100m ! 
this is totaly out of hands
the business is that often addicts are not functional and are therefore a drag on society while they could contribute if they were not always going to run after their next drink. without counting that a crackhead village in the middle of cities who piss everywhere and throw their soiled syringes on the ground, it's not great. i understand that the majority of addicts are functional and don't bother anyone but there is still a significant portion whose addiction rots the lives of others as well.
is the 16 year old instructor wanting to take drugs, where is the problem. what is the difference between a young person who takes drugs at 16 or 18?
also with regard to prostitution, times have changed a lot and these women are generally completely consenting (or however you write that word). the idea of the innocent, naive girl getting tricked by a mean and manipulative pimp has mostly become a stereotype you see in the movie.
the approach has become quite straightforward and public on facebook. i saw posts such as "quick and easy lots of money, 18 and over, female only" several times a day. dad doesn't want to buy me that $ 600 armani handbag for my party? no big deal, i'll go do some dancing and voila. no new hunter boots for christmas? and so on. nowadays, the pimp is mainly for laundering money only.
this world is not fugeuse.
rip a fat one!
go green!
since you misread the articles
decriminalizing drugs does not mean making them legal.
it means you don't stop someone because they have a drug problem. they need medical help. no jail.
the crazy thing is that we imprison a lot of people who need help.
if you use strong drugs, you need therapy, not jail.
check what happened in portugal. they decriminalized all forms of drugs in ~ 2000 and addiction rates have dropped quite a bit. it's not a silver bullet but we are really in a moment of crisis right now. i am originally from vancouver and the situation is even worse down there. what we are currently doing is not working ...
[deleted]
never ever use americans as example.
lol ... the zamerequins ... hide their drugs there between the folds of their eight chins lol
`the beatings will continue until moral improves`
they actually are.
that's the only place they can be legalized.  it's federal jurisdiction.
fyi those guys aren’t selling real drugs.
they’re taking advantage of tourists who think it’s safe to buy drugs openly there because they don’t understand the meaning of decriminalized.
you’d get baking soda instead.
same thing happened to me when i visited lisbon two years ago, but if the benefit is not jailing people for being addicts—putting them on a path to a life of crime, then i think it's worth the annoyance of getting hassled.
its very illegal in portugal to sell coke which is why you got harassed by dealers.
same thing in amsterdam.  in the red zone at night, you'll get offered anything and everything.  i'd imagine 99% of it is fake, nobody is stupid enough to sell real hard drugs by approaching strangers on the street.
look at hiv transmission rates post 1998 - they've fallen off a cliff. it is better if a tourist has been asked do you want cocaine that you are going to overdose a lot of people on the street (like a night in place of the arts: /). these people need help.
> is the 16 year old monitor wants to take drugs, where is the problem. what is the difference between a young person who takes drugs at 16 or 18?
"alcohol, drugs, cigarettes, lotteries, conscription, right to vote, right to work, age of consent, what's the difference between 6, 16 or 18?" - you
1) it takes 18 years to smoke, drink etc. just logic ...
2) there is unfortunately human trafficking which is mainly done among disadvantaged teenage girls. they are promised the moon by street gang members who send them to other provinces to isolate. do not take it lightly ...
[deleted]
this is the crux of this article, which comment op doesn't get.
you can help someone with their addiction and incarcerate them for breaking the law.  one doesn't preclude the other.  you can argue against incarceration and advocate for better treatment but assuming mutually exclusivity weakens your argument.
same thing. it only happened to me once though. a simple "no" and they don't pester you more than that.
selling should still be criminal. consumption should be treated as a medical issue. tackle both sides.
1. that's exactly what i'm saying, there is no difference whether it is 16 or 18. these products remain harmful regardless of age.
2. i did not say that it does not exist, but that this kind of case is much rarer than what you think. when the person you contacted for work tells you quick and easy money, female only and 18 and +, all in one sentence, what do you expect? add to that onlyfans and sites like backpage. prostitution is no longer the image the movies put in your head when you were young.
there are also people who do drugs for fun, because it's fun ... not all drug users have drug problems
even if i will live in a utopia i think i would still like to take an acid, md or whatever trip from time to time ...
"persécution" does not mean incarceration. maybe you're thinking of "prosecution".
they're asking for decriminalization for personal use only iirc. selling does remain illegal i think.
1) 16 years old you are a teenager. 18 you are an adult. that's the difference. the minor is not old enough to make his decisions. the adult yes
2) don't worry, i know the environment very well 😉. i know it's not customary especially in quebec but 1 is one too many and we must do everything so that it does not happen.
you are right.  i was confused.  thanks for clearing it up.
bruh, age doesn't mean anything. it is maturity that counts. whether you are 15 or 35, in both cases alcohol (example) is not good.
we're not going to start testing for a license to drink alcohol. we put an age and voila. it's like his. 18 years old. cmon there. i feel like you're driving us around for nothing.
no i'm just saying bad things to your health just shouldn't be in the market. whether you get drunk at 16, 18 or 25, in any case, it's not good.
calice rodrick leaves swag for others, it makes no sense, the savage of lives, the little leonard cohen look and the dodge ram
and do i understand this right: he runs a barbershop *and* he works an overnight shift as a forklift operator? and still he has the energy and compassion and bravery for a selfless act like this. he may be a humble man but this strength and goodness is humbling for the rest of society.
>  the man he’d saved called to thank him. “i just told him to have hope, to live life and to cherish life and that no matter how hard it is, to hold on.” 
wise words from a remarkable citizen. thanks mr. rodney.
selfless, humble. i salute him!
all of this while wearing a nice suit and a gorgeous fedora
it's cool to talk about him and praise him. but it would be good to know what the city or our elected officials will do to prevent this kind of act and to have an article to discuss the living conditions of people like the one who tried to take their own lives. i don't want to take bravery away from this man, just ensuring an emancipated society should be moral.
legend!!!!! f'in legend!!!!
a true human 🥺❤️👏
amazing story! so thankful there are people like rodney <3 i hope the guy he saved is also able to get the help he needs...
that's a real man with a heart.
this story gave me goosebumps and a thought that how many people are struggling with their lives. how much depression is there to become rich but all they can afford is to pay bills.
not sure what made that guy to jump but i salute this barber! such a heroic act. hope the other guy would be better:)
if we find where his barbershop is, i think he would appreciate letters and seasons wishes. i am happy to share a city with a person who makes space in his heart and daily life for empathy when society makes it that much more difficult for all of us.
i also hope as a city and as society we can make the right changes however small to give people breaks and not have them work 2 difficult and physical jobs in order to make ends meet and to have a decent life for themselves and for their family.
incredibly brave man. bravo!
i can relate to jumpers like that because at some point of my life if i saw a subway car coming and thought how easy it would be to just jump and let it end my life. of course i didn't really want to kill myself, but on bad days one can get carried away and it do happen.
not to mention the savage balls to be a man who admits he broke down in tears for the thought of his family. in this day and age where social media will judge you as a man as toxic if too strong, and worthless if “weak.”
this is gold hahaha
and grand father at 47...
what really humbles society is that somebody can own a barbershop, but still has to operate a forklift overnight to make ends meet.
hero
the fedora probably stayed in the car.
it was captivating how he described the ordeal.  also kudos to the man that came and grabbed rodney before he went over too.
kustom kutz: [
"people will judge you no matter what you do, so you might as well do what you want"
it's not being "strong" that gets you labelled as toxic. it's being shitty.
was a barber, can confirm. especially since covid. we lost a lot of clients because many people don’t want to risk catching covid for a haircut, so they cut their hair themselves or go longer between haircuts. can’t blame them.
tip your barber!
commenting to let you know you have a cool username
i love this quote thanks for sharing.
as the old adage states don't judge a person until you've walked a mile in their shoes. yes indeed we do have that nasty tendency to pass judgement without knowing anything about the individual. sad but so true......
i will both agree and disagree. the issue, just as women in leadership have previously been called “bitchy” for being steadfast, is men being called toxic while truly not being shitty. i’ve had to mentor men in leadership accused of being toxic for not bowing to pressure for special privileges by individuals. privileges that would harm the majority of their owns colleagues. 
personally, i have had the fact that i hunt for my own food called “toxic masculinity.” despite being pruned up like some little british peacock on a pheasant hunt (purposely making fun of myself as you could not find someone less “toxic” looking even when i am hunting as a north american) with my favorite harkila shirts, purple ties, and frankly overly pretty german and italian guns with rose engraving. fyi, have also seen men owning guns labeled as toxic masculinity.
the term is applied with very broad strokes in social media. i did not in my comment refer to an appropriate usage of the term, or the definition of it, i referred to social media’s capacity to label men so easily as “beta incel” or “toxic alpha” based on little more than one action, tweet, or accusation. unfortunately, sometimes inappropriately and hatefully, and quoted as all in the name of being inclusive and against hate.
without being shitty or spineless, the term is now applied to men’s actions freely by few. in leadership, this happens even when the great majority of your peers and colleagues of either gender are thanking you for either being diplomatic which is not weak, or having stood up for them which is not toxic. men should no more suffer this inappropriately than female leaders who stand up for what is right should be called a bitch, or when diplomatic be called feminine and kind as if it is a trait limited to their sex and not their intellect.
the term has been widely misused and criticized for its harmful misuse. it is even misused in academic circles who study gender differences, authors involved in its earliest definition are also wide in its description. below is a quote from the atlantic, if you read it understanding that terry kupers actually partially described the problem as being competitive “terry kupers describes toxic masculinity as involving "the need to aggressively compete and dominate others", then you can understand how he has been criticized or misquoted, which he admits in the atlantic interview could have been avoided. unfortunately, this has led academic circles to use the term for normal traits that are simply more prominent in men, despite these very same traits being celebrated in women. will we now call women’s “agreeableness” traits weak femininity ? : 
“as this research was popularized, however, it was increasingly mischaracterized. by the mid-2000s, despite connell’s objections, her complex theories were being portrayed in ways that echoed mythopoetic archetypes of healthy and destructive masculinity. in a 2005 study of men in prison, the psychiatrist terry kupers defined toxic masculinity as “the constellation of socially regressive male traits that serve to foster domination, the devaluation of women, homophobia, and wanton violence.” referencing connell’s work, kupers argued that prison brings out the “toxic” aspects of masculinity in prisoners, but that this toxicity is already present in the wider cultural context. (kupers told me that he believes critics of his study incorrectly assumed that he claimed masculinity itself is toxic, though he acknowledged that the article could have explained his position in greater detail.)”
even if he owns the place? i always wondered.. i want to to tip him but i don't wanna be condescending...
thanks! proud to be from this awesome city
yes, tip your barber even if he owns the place. tips are a super important part of barber and hairdresser incomes. 5$ is considered a good tip for a 30$ and under haircut.
my hairdresser charges 18$ so i give 20$ and tell him to keep change.
yeah. i do my best to give a bit more now. i know my barber used to see over 12 on a saturday before and now sees maybe 3. i could pay 4x but my barber wouldn’t take the money (i’ve tried paying double before).
generally people tip at least 15% (for you, that would be around 3$). 5$ is considered a good tip. i’m sure that your hairdresser would appreciate it!
honestly walking in montreal at night i'm more scared of cars than gang members. drivers don't pay attention as much when there aren't many cars or people around.
i am sure that others have different experiences as to this, but i tend to agree. i live in saint-leonard and have for 17 years, in the southwestern quadrant that blurs between saint-michel and montreal nord, and very rarely have i looked over my shoulder with concern. of course, we must be vigilant, but i generally feel safe. comparatively speaking, montreal must be one of the safest big cities to live in canada, and the crime statistics (comparatively speaking) back this. 
i think a lot has to do with your personal mindset on the matter, experience, and to to some extent immutable characteristics (i'm an average-sized male). i work at a store in place dupuis at berri-uqam, right in front of the sketchy park. yes, people are shooting up and doing deals right within earshot, at times barely 15 feet away from me, but i never felt in danger in anyway. i consider myself lucky in the sense that i have never been mugged, attacked or harassed in public, and for sure this affects how i perceive potential dangers and how i gauge my safety in some parts of town. i cannot blame someone for feeling unsafe, especially if they were once a victim of these kinds of actions in public. my brother, on the other hand, was the target of an attempted mugging in parc pie xii (somewhat forested and quite dark at night).
two of my coworkers are french and lived in paris for most of their lives. depending on the arrondisement, paris can be described as unsafe at night, especially for women. they perceive montreal as quite safe, and they are generally astonished that a woman can walk the streets in montreal without being a constant victim of stalking, harassing, wolf-whistling, although i won't deny that it still happens here. i think that people who have lived in montreal most of their lives don't know how good we have it here.
there’s definitely a few places to avoid in this city, especially for women walking alone. like, y’know, berri-uqam area after dark (and even sometimes during the day). the pandemic has only made things worse there. but for the most part i agree.
felt that way for most of my life, then i got mugged in the metro station took every day and it left me shook. 
funny thing is, they were actually nice about it lol
i got fucking polite thieves lmao
thinking back, i was mostly shook that in the place i felt the safest, something like that could happen. i was literally on cloud 9 that night. i had been volunteering all day, felt good about myself, had a few drinks afterwards and was happily buzzed and feeling ultra blessed and kinda horny. and then bang. it happened. once the adrenaline wore off and i stopped chasing the thieves, realizing that even if i caught up with them, there's literally nothing i could do to them and it could even turn super dangerous for me. it doesn't help that i'm a petite woman who looks half my age hence why the fear reaction shot by a thousand once i got back to my senses. i was shaking and crying and the bus driver let me on without paying (last bus in service) so i could go home, since the thieves had my wallet and phone. police said nothing could be done as there were no cameras. they just didn't seem to care at all. 
now i just never go out when its dark unless accompanied by someone.
amen, brother. i've lived here virtually my entire life and i can't remember the last time i felt my personal safety threatened.
i agree but part of that is because we don't tolerate violence. 
no, it's not acceptable that gangs are having shootouts in the middle of residential areas, even if you're unlikely to be shot. 
no, it's not helpful to say "at least we're not as bad as chicago or even toronto", our standard is much higher than theirs and it's only by stubbornly insisting on that standard can we hope to keep it that way.
look i'm glad you feel that way but as a man you probably have a much, much easier time walking around than any woman. your girlfriend agreeing with you is no proof that it's safe for us as well. i've felt very uneasy and uncomfortable several times walking around at night, even though i know i could probably defend myself a little bit.
the media blows everything out of proportion. montreal is a huge city and there will always be shit head criminals causing a rukus
and it's not good to sugar coat the situation either. there's clearly something going on in this city since the pandemic started.
the rise of the crime rate in montréal is very alarming. so while i admire your positivity i think it's important to face the facts.
the authorities need to increase their presence everywhere in the city. that'd be a good start.
as someone relocating to your city soon, this post helps put me at ease a bit!
alright, any time of the night, i want you to check out de la gauchetière between the hospital and say, robert bourrassa
tva just wants ad-revenues
i agree with you on the other hand we must still make sure not to lose control. during the biker war, we said the same thing: "well, they kill each other" until we find ourselves with innocent victims ...
"arme blanche" is knife about 99%+ of the time; in any case, i'd say that part of why montreal is relatively safer is because people actually bother putting up a major fuss about it when incidents happen. because of that politicians notice, and tell civil servants to try and do something about it. it's not always super efficient but it usually gets results methinks.
montréal is beginning to feel like this old gentle friend you haven't seen in a while and you're not sure about anymore. 
maybe violence is like housing and we are just beginning to catch up with the rest of the world? (the two aren't totally unrelated.)
i hope i am wrong.
i do feel safe walking at night but i will say that the rise in people in crisis on the street is also alarming. it's never fun to have people screaming at you for no reasons. and let's be honest, with all the trash around in the city, you never know when you could receive a traffic cone behind the head. honestly, the subway feel sometimes less safe than the streets.
its not random street attacks that are a problem though, its all the innoncent bystanders who get hit by stray bullets and the gangtards' total disregard for human life.
totally disagree, lived in montreal for 11 years (2010 until 2021)   
2010-2016 werent that bad...but then homeless issue has gone out of   
hands. several times i had to run for my life while existing metro   
stations (mcgill, berri, place des arts, concordia and atwater  all   
located in the downtown core area) cz some homeless person(or bunch of   
them) got super pissed drunk and decided to throw empty beer bottles and  
 piss in public and spat on people. countless times near concordia or   
atwater, homeless women offered to blow me for $5. mind you this all   
happened in a broad day light week days and if someone call police, they  
 ask you whats the ethnicity of the person, you say native, either they   
hang up on you or just no show.
walking at 4 am in laval not a noise except for the lil birdies going chirp cheep churp.. and the occasional skunk.. the air is so clean.. mosquitoes are gone.  best time
general tip: don't use social media as a window into a city. don't get your info on here or bogus news outlets.
i don't feel safe around some area in montreal.  there's somewhere on the southwest on some street called avon. it looks like it's full of drug dealers. i also wouldn't walk along hochelga at night close to the port alone.
interesting, as a woman, i am often quite afraid
i never feel worried or scared, even late at night, and i'm a woman and on the petite side. but i'm always "aware" of my surroundings. i've gone home late at night all alone and while there are creeps, nothing has ever happened to me.
i’m from san francisco… 
i’ve been here 5 weeks. your city feels unbelievably safe.
i have to agree. we are visiting montreal for a few days from edmonton and haven't felt unsafe once. i live downtown edmonton and i don't feel safe even walking downtown in broad daylight.
i never felt unsafe walking in winnipeg either. criminals seem to concern themselves with other criminals. now rural saskatchewan? yeah that’s where you’ll see some sketchy behaviour.
>you get hit on by some random dude/lady, but feeling unsafe? never. i'm male
how could you write this and not think it was a bad idea lol
i agree that theft isn't common but i've seen someone get their headphones stolen off his head and make chase (very sad, the man was an immigrant and thought that kind of stuff didn't happen here). 
i was also molested in the metro when i was 12. i've been hard followed about 3 times and chased/grabbed at by strangers and it was terrifying each time, 2 of those times was in broad daylight, and the third time at like 9pm.
i mean, i never feel safe anywhere. so ¯\ _(ツ)_/¯
im way more afraid of skunks wobbling around at night
everytime i go out for a smoke at night i have to look both ways
i have lived in montreal for 15 years. in that time i have been: 
- sexually assaulted by a massage therapist
- attacked by someone having a mental health crisis at 8am in the middle of busy plateau intersection.
- narrowly dodged a falling window pane from a second story on st laurent blvd. 
- hit by an out of control car the parking lot of my daughter’s daycare (kid was still inside the daycare thankfully). 
even with loads of therapy at the expense of the province and my own, i am still just a little weary of this city - day or night.
omg i moved here from london , england and i don't feel the need to put my keys in between my fingers constantly. it's fantastic. i apparently live in a 'ghetto' area according so some people i know and it's just, not lol.
i have biked from downtown up to cote des neiges at 2am and never felt in danger of anything
yeah...walking in montreal north at 2am north of maurice duplessis would still not be advisable.
yeah. montreal *feels* safe, but all this violence is new around here, and in fact it makes the city less safe then it was before.
op be like: hey..im a man...women feel safe in montreal!! my gf agrees!!!
lol...that is so chauvinistic...
comparing to what i had back home with a barely avoidable petty robbery and just hate attacks of bored young males ("gopniks", hooligans), montreal has no crime at all. hobos are annoying and say things, but unlike it is with hooligans, i never experienced any attack after ignoring the hobos. almost all violence happen within certain circles here. was someone unrelated even attacked here lately?
this is overwhelmingly why i have left. and why i will stay despite all the troubles the deteriorating housing situation is causing for me in montreal nowadays, or despite the worse ratio taxes/services.
i always felt safe as a tourist (4 times) even after reading about the organized crime in laval.  maybe because i stayed in touristy areas or because i was in a happy vacation mood.
as someone who has lived in montreal nord for 12 years now, i can tell you that if you mind your own buisness and not act like an idiot you wont get attacked.  that being said, i attended highschool in montreal nord and it had a lot of shady people and gangsters. plus my cousin used to walk at 3 am in the morning from his job and he would constantly hear gun fire.
as for me, the only crime i have ever seen was a guy who shot someone in the leg near my house or a store near my house which was burnt by some lunatics. there was also many times where i walked in shady streets at nights and saw gangs of 20 peoples, obviously because i dont want to get robbed and i cant fight 20 people, i got the hell out by walking in another road.
the only place i will tell you to avoid is stmichel, do not go there, it's infested with gangs and i heard many of my friends who have been there and almost got killed by gangs when minding their own buisness.
i lived all my life in latin america and you are correct
montreal is exceptionally safe considering its size, for a western city. making a fuss about tiny things is just what montreal people do, lol
completely agree! i was more scared living in the gta, but here i feel a lot more safe
try having a gun fight in front of your house where you can hear the gunshot.
mind your own business and nobody gonna fuck with you.
safest city ever. makes it more boring than some other spots on planet earth, but i i do love the safety. sensationalist local press is just that. i recently posted a question on why the press makes montreal north to be some disaster but looks fine to me, mostly. agree 100%
meanwhile i have the opposite feeling. every single night i hear gun shots outside, and now the police is often on my street because of this. i often hear people screaming after those gun shots, and they are so close that i know that one day, those bullets will hit me. you often hear how in rosemont, bullets hit houses and even hit people inside. my window is right on the street, if they shoot in my window, i'm fucked.
i'm glad for you that you still feel safe going outside, but i don't even feel safe inside in my room anymore.
and i am always surprised at the number of people driving under the influence of alcohol at night.
any subject montrealers don't link cars to it ?
no idea why you're being downvoted, you make pretty good sense to me.
>i think that people who have lived in montreal most of their lives don't know how good we have it here.
i lived 15 years in smaller city in the us and montreal definitely is way safer.
so you work at bureau en gros? i live near that area.
yeah i feel like some people only look at where they live (family-friendly areas) and generalize.
there's been a change, that much is clear. berri-uqam during the day is sketch.
if you live close to night entertainment spots, it's honestly 4x worst than before.
i'm just a pleb from the south shore. taken from recreoparc. i love city skylines, i'll def need to go back out this summer for more pics of montreal!
beautiful picture! i love all the people in this group, you are all beautiful people, as magnificent as this panorama!
it's a verdun pano!
i thought it would be easy to take wide photos of the same, but finally, i realized that it is difficult; i fell into the pano.
very nice, i don't live far from ste-cath, i should visit that park
i can see my old room in this pic. cool.
wow! so cool!
good job! it's really a nice shot!
this is really beautiful, thanks for my new uw wallpaper.
resolution. i need more
damn the mountain looks huge from this perspective.
me god i love this city, i hope that the government will not shit
obeyed? pano? obeyed?
old photo, i spot the old & new champlain bridges
i read that as "porno"...
the best view in mtl ... far away! / s
hey hey, this is my country! i advise you instead to go down the stairs in front of the lock, the view is not obstructed by the ile aux hurons, it is in my opinion the best view of montreal.
as a bonus, you will be at the foot of the water (not walk on the ice, but soak your feet in summer, the water is hot) unlike the rest of récréoparc, where the bank is steep.
if you're looking for suggestions, there's the obvious place to shoot downtown montréal from the river, which is from parc jean-drapeau on île sainte-hélène, but a weirder location is from pointe du moulin on île perrot since you can see downtown from the tip near the windmill across lac st. louis on a clear day. the park is currently closed (according to google maps at least) but i presume it'll be open by the summer.
you're right, it's an old photo. i shot it 2 days ago
the best indeed .. lol ... it's still milky on such a long osti
cool, thanks for the info! i'll keep a note for next time. the view looks excellent a little further east from where i was indeed.
parc marie victorin in longueuil also has a beautiful view.
i grew up on the island. i lived on boulevard perrot, near point du moulin for 3 years.
very nice view if a bit far.
of course, you need a decent telephoto lens to be able to make out the individual skyscrapers from pointe du moulin but since they're all on the slope of mount royal they are still quite visible from that distance, with lachine and then a lot of water in the foreground.
the old champlain bridge is still up?
we must admit that it has small flaws but if they bother you so much, at least respect the effort.
yes you're right, with the jacques-cartier bridge in the foreground, it's magnificent.
the city is the problem, not the photographer.
a beautiful panoramic of fiorre would be very sexy made by this same artist.
there are some images of the city on the subreddit that are just insane. i would more blame the weather conditions and the unsuitable aspect ratio if something is to be blamed.
used to volunteer at the hospital as a john abbott student. i’m so happy that the veterans are finally getting the recognition that they deserve from the provincial government.
thankfully, the title is slightly inaccurate: **he lived long enough to receive news of the settlement, which was the important thing to him. and he was overjoyed at it.**
it's just that the legal system moves at the pace of a glacier - there'll be a hearing where the court will decide whether to approve the settlement in april, and who knows how long after that the payments will actually be disbursed.
i was convinced that they had moved the veterans when quebec took possession of the building.
it was my first lifelong cegep internship in the it department there when it was federal.
[deleted]
volunteered there in the early 00's for bingo night; back then the huge hall was just a smoking session for everyone there. i couldn't see the ceiling 50ft up because of the plume of smoke.
can i still be adopted by the veteran?
it's a settlement, that's all. 
nothing will improve at the facility.
i also used to volunteer on wednesday nights for about two years... it's a shame that they weren't being recognized by the province. the gentleman i was usually with was always full of stories and him and his wife were genuinely interested in what was going on in my life too.
same here!!!
saint-george represent lol
correct, but at least the veterans have received some sort of compensation
wow hey humans. i'm from l'ile perrot
i know this is r/montréal but this feels surreal.
no one ever talks anything of the west end of montreal.
i didn't even know there were problems with the hospital.
my point exactly. it sucks for them and it's awful that they were mistreated when they served our country in times of need. but perhaps now the remaining veterans have some closure.
i want to support local businesses whenever possible. i appreciate you sharing this list. however, when i checked out a few of the websites i was completely turned off. ethical, sustainable and local = 300$ for a simple t-shirt? wtf. i’m sure there are people willing to spend that much, but i would much rather put those funds towards an early retirement!
i saw a section for shoes on rags so i mention anfibio which makes excellent quality boots right here in montreal! [
st. patrick street. (ruestpatrick.com)
ill add another. specially for coats but  same quality and warmth as cg without the price and questionable manufacturing conditions.
[deleted]
artgang, boro, the wild kids
edit: pocket and wires?
i'd take a look at betina lou, le cartel, made by very !
it's beautiful, everything is local too if i'm not mistaken
another few that weren’t mentioned: odeyalo, eve gravel, miljours, esser, ursa minor, marmier, eliza faulkner, hannah isolde, l’epidoptere clothing, marigold, mercedes morin, rightful owner, mes enfants sauvages, faures, slt studio, bunny & claude, auslä studio, valérie dumaine, annoukis, heirloom hats, atelier hôtel motel, gemstone swim, caulis knitwear, amanda moss clothing, lachapelle atelier, partoem atelier, martel, melissa nepton, bouquet mtl, aleur, miss noemiah, jennifer glasgow, stay soft, essentiels co, ovate, mimi & august.
ssense (i know it's a re-seller, but still lots of collaborations with high-end brands).
pony mtl - enough said (some of their products are from to)
rad hourani - unisex clothes
maison marie saint-pierre - fantastic high-end women's clothing, made in canada/mtl
denis gagnon - high end mens clothing
philippe dubuc - high end mens clothing
harricana - recycled fur products
rudsak - more popular m0851 competitor
i know there's more, maybe you'd include simons, but i'm not sure if that makes the cut
i'd add 1861. i believe they're montreal-based and their attention to detail is really lovely when you order from them.
[go housses] ( also make beautiful dressing gowns and other bathroom stuff. handmade on site. they are located in laval on the other hand.
edit:
i also bought a beautiful hoodie kangaroo top from [c'est beau] ( all the work is done by hand by unionized staff.
also [original au coton] ( who design and manufacture their clothes in montreal. or some clothes are sometimes made elsewhere as well.
i like beurd and pony on plaza saint-hubert! y specialize in more artsy than conventional linen.
also francois beauregard who does manufacture in montreal and makes excellent well made basics for women. 
hey i'd have a recommendation for the user friendliness of your website:
make sure you take advantage of the routes!
i can't open a brand's page on a different browser tab because the list items are not links.
when i go back to the list, the filters are not there anymore. consider adding them as query parameters to the url.
blacko makes underwear in montreal, which is great because i am happy to buy everything from thrift stores except underwear.
dime and saintwoods! two streetwear brands that are also starting to break into international markets.
nil. great t shirts.  a bit pricey but very well made and manufactured in montreal!
one bone for the bigger guys! it's made in montreal.
okay...either you’re all very well off, or i’m just cheap. we are dual income, no kids, upper middle class and i cannot justify paying the price for most locally made apparel. i want to be a good person, but my wallet comes first. i can buy 4-6 made in china hoodies for the price of one locally made one. set me straight here...are you all drowning in debt?
love the jackets from [noize](
here are a few missing: cokluch (based in villeray), kazak(clothing, bags and accessories) and poches&fils who i think will start manufacturing their t-shirts in montreal this year. :) +1extra outside of montreal: ruelle mode, based in sherbrooke (they come to la braderie, ça compte?)
kata fashion is also very good
rose buddha, i adopted for soft laundry!
i'd like to add [bon vivant]( 
i'm pretty sure their stuff is manufactured in montreal as well. 
thanks for putting this list together. i've had trouble finding this information in one place./
adding the price range would be useful for people wanting to buy local, but not willing to pay $ 100 for a t-shirt.
[deleted]
if the companies have websites, it would be better for you to link to those directly than facebook's instagram. even if you don't care about your data, ig will eventually block those of us who do from viewing and scrolling if they don't have an account, to pressure them into signing up. plus, the companies might appreciate the direct traffic.
nap time
coterie house
 really nice shoe designs and leather goods
 founders of want opened this up not too long ago
the best jean shop for naked and famous 
i know its not exactly clothing but cocotte messengers bags are all made in mtl if i recall correctly, they're really good.
jennifer glasgow, designed and manufactured  in montreal.
is garage/dynamite still considered local even though they have stores nationally now? they still operate out of montreal and were started here! i honestly love their clothes.
do glasses count? this eyewear brand is based out of montreal [
[ctrue](
big bill makes quality work clothes. they're out of laval though.
as far as i know, kanuk still makes their stuff locally.
[rue saint patrick] (
they're always advertising on my instagram,
 is one of them too!
awesome initiative, thank you!
odeya clothing
eliza faulkner
marigold_mtl
i'd add kuwalla as well!
anyone mentioned oöm? also respecterre is near-ish montreal.
you are missing many montreal based clothing brands.
off the top of my head i can think of 2 montreal ones. one being [nathon kong]( and [poche et fils]( the other.
marigold  and yoga jeans  (whatever saint-côme is written on their site) i have two pairs of jeans bought in 2012 that are still in my favorites !
yaaaass this is awesome.  you could post on r/femalefashionadvice and r/malefashionadvice too.
[
if it hasn't been mentioned before, i'd add poches & fils!
veronique miljkovitch was formerly of montreal and has now moved to lunenburg, nova scotia
body bag - designed and made in montreal
noemiah - designed and made in montreal
is it worth going there? i was going to buy tickets but like $ 90 for 3 people to go see christmas lights, not convinced ...
this company has a ton of labour rights issues...
where is that?
it looks beautiful from the 15. i'd jump on this but it's over 100$ for the family. and for what? 45 minutes? i'm not impressed with some of the things i hear about the company either.
still, it's cheaper than the ferris wheel in the old port. i wont pay for that either.
nice composition !
i thought you can only visit it by car?
by car, probably not, the wait is about an hour before entering the site, for visitors by car. children like it on foot, walk of about 1h30. it depends on your outing budget, is that the best thing you can do with $ 90 no, but it's good fun.
we're in verdun and i'm glad we went. i know it's expensive, but i figured, we haven't spent much lately on family outings and activities. it took 30min to get there and we were driving through for over an hour.
no, it's not worth the price. we went (by pcq covid car and it's free for all on foot) and i would have paid a maximum of $ 30 for that. it's plastered with sponsor ads. the car tour takes about 50 minutes.
i did it because my son is crazy about the lights, but we certainly won't do it again.
it might not be worth it in january, but we went on december 23, and if you love christmas and the holidays at all, it's worth it!
considering that the number of covid time activity is very, very small, it always does something different to do. we were really happy to go my girlfriend and me.
it's very shared, i went there last year, i really didn't like it at all.
but a lot of people seem to have really liked it.
laval
illumi laval
boulevard de souvenir, laval
it is possible to make the journey on foot now by keeping a distance.
we drove at 5 p.m. on a sunday. 10 minutes to enter the site and 50 minutes to walk around the site.
for $ 90 it's not really worth it, but in a time of a pandemic there's not much to do, so it puts things in perspective.
yark, laval
ah well so much the better i know someone who waited 1 hour.
i went last year (second time) and was highly disappointed.  don't think i can recommend it again.
is it still $30 a beer?
it's ugly, the luminous cossin on an ugly metal foot, not even camouflaged.
hahahahah !!!!
osti all in the auto fucking.
"a ** safe three-kilometer driving course ** allowing visitors to experience the magic of illumi from the comfort of their vehicle."
you and i, friend, you and i  
where is that?
sending this to my fiancé
these are always a lot more fun than i'd expect.
oh! there weren’t any vegetables last year. don’t know if a huge eggplant is worth the ticket price though..
where was this picture taken?
do you mind sharing the ticket prices? me and my mother have been curious about going but have no idea of the entree fees!
illumi was so disappointing. maybe better in winter with snow everywhere??...
i can’t believe people spend actual money on watching led lights. passing by on the 15 southbound, it looks like the lamest thing on earth. 
i feel like even cultureless suburbanites would enjoy the chain restaurants at nearby centropolis more.
niceee 🙈
right? a good amount of pieces were off. snacks and alcohol prices are crazy. and really, some of them are super lame. the space part with the planets was soooooo meh. so much opportunity for creativity missed.
it's alright if you have young kids still amazed by that sort of thing, but yeah it's not really worth the price.
yup and you get to watch ads for ford and rogers…still beautiful though
it's in laval. of course, everything is in the car.
i did by foot, much better
illumi in laval
illumi
~$100 for two adults plus 2 kids
that’s what i thought originally, but i was pleasantly surprised…they could have done way better for the price
i went before the pandemic. i felt caught in a roadside traffic trap at the side of a windy highway with electrical cords and slippery rubber decking everywhere. the circuit was anything but cohesive with random themes everywhere....at one point there was a zone with nothing but red spiders. very random. the buffet at the time was real meh. i definitely prefer foresta lumina and jardins de lumière any day.
it's the cavalia dude who produced it. everything he touches turns to somehow profitable horseshit.
i went with my kids…but yah they could have leveled up…nothing like the forest lumina in tremblant.
could not agree more, this guy is a scumbag
this probably helps with the profit
> minister proulx announced a $2 million subsidy for the illumi project as part of the quebec government's efforts to develop event tourism and promote quebec products in order to stand out from the international competition. the project has also received $200,000 in support provided in equal shares by the ministry of tourism and tourisme laval. these investments will stimulate the regional economy, attract more visitors and augment laval's tourism revenues.
this was made by moment factory. much better outfit.
foresta lumina is in coaticook. tremblant just copied the idea.
lumina was not the best but it was much better than illumi for sure!
oh, that looked nice!
according to the event's website that existed in 2017 and was not continued or at least is not open in 2021?
tremblant to order his own show by the same firm, just like 10 or 11 other places on earth.
nevertheless, it was in coaticook that the ball was launched. it was an incredible boost for tourism in this region, but it was a risky bet. it was sure that there would end up being imitations. the only other i saw was at the saint félicien zoo and it was not up to coaticook.
hi! i work at moment factory, the firm that makes lumina.
lumina steps are sold to customers who wish to have them, there is no imitation here since we are the ones who design each one.
other night walks have since emerged but if there is the name lumina it is done by moment factory.
coaticook was the first, right? was it like a pilot project? sorry, it's a bit of chauvinism for a part of the country that i really like.
yes it is the first. basically the project was to only illuminate the gorge park bridge, but seeing the site came the idea of making a multi-zone course.
the success of coaticook spawned all the others thereafter.
is it worth the cost of going to tremblant if you've already been to coaticook?
what are your favorite sites?
2 1/2 for rent. only $ 900 for that much space ... (i'm up to see, i'm curious too.)
from an old map of montreal, this building was listed as a "usine d'agrégats" for a quarry called "carrière francon": [
matches with google satellite view: [ 
did a search on banq website and found a couple of ads for this company from the 1960s:
[ from "la presse, october 10, 1961, latest edition"
[ from "architecture - building - construction, december 1962, december"
the area in question is now owned by the city as a snow dumping ground.
picture 5 und 6 shows a converer belt. maybe they processed salt there. no idea. or coffee? the nearby street is called albert-louis van houtte avenue. and this man founded a coffee company called "van houtte". [ ... maybe they packed coffee there for shipping. keurig has an office also nearby. but everything else is just guessing.
this seems to be the area, where the city of montreal unloads all the snow in the winter season, if you switch from streets to satelite view in google map, you might see the ramps and a lake, which is not to be seen in the street mode. [ (0:39)... i drove down the route 125 / pie xi so often to laval and never expected that there, west of the autoroute 40... however, that does not help here.. the building seems to be overgrown in a forest.
i’d guess it’s related to an old cement or concrete plant, considering it’s in the territory of an old quarry.
it's hard to tell what building you were in exactly but  it looks like you were in what's currently known as carriere st michel. it was once the site of a quarry and  cement plant, so it is very possible you're seeing something related.
cool find op.
i'm glad these pictures were taken while it was sunny. j'aurais peur en titi si s'tai la nuit ><
i'd be careful wandering into abandoned places.  we have thousands of homeless ppl in this city and you might stumble across an occupied abode.
ooooh i need to go o_o
was it at the bottom of the quarry? i remember going down there as a kid 12 years ago (pie-ix side, through barbed wire) and there was an operational pumping station.
well, this place is about to get overrun and then made completely inaccessible...
r/abandonedporn
why do i get guerilla filmmaking vibes from this location? looks cool
not an expert but in my opinion it's a plant
[deleted]
holy crap. that's amazing! would be a great spot for a photo shoot in a grunge/goth style
and we never saw him again...lol
that whole pit area looks amazing on maps in 3d.
cool find
pleas op use a respirator if you visit such places. asbestos is not uncommon and other materials turn unto fine particles with time. you don't want health problems due to exploration.
residential school?
it is surely this type of accommodation that legault had in mind when he said that we could stay in an apartment at $ 500-600 / month: p
who are you and do you offer your services
awesome research!! fascinating.
private detective?
i wanna be like you when i grow up!
my grandfather used to work as a cement finisher for this company. can confirm he has told me about this quarry many times in stories. i don't live too far from it either.
solved!
this is quality investigation!
goddamn, you are good
sometimes, getting carried away with our daily lives, i forget how rich the history of mtl is.  and it's surprising places like that still exist to this day.
never knew they had such an impressive dumping site in mtl!
> and this man founded a coffee company called "van houtte".
surprised it would not be restored or used as some type of hipster "coffee shop" that sells home made popsicles and chips while promoting weed smoking
ya honestly i was a little scared, of people at first but then it was of animals because there were tons of animal tracks inside but no signs of human life.
ya it was, looks like 12 years ago might be the last time someone went down there.
yeah the google map drop pin is a bit too much information imo...
i had to scale a bit of a cliff to get down to it but after that it was smooth sailing.
why this comment got downvoted so many times?
too soon?
fuck! i laughed.
that’s a sick burn lol.
well done 👍
just close comments. this ones over lol
sorry, are there not enough tim hortons for you or something?
sounds about right! clueless why it got downvoted?
because of the wrongness
[deleted]
i think it's way too soon for this particular subject of dark humor.
good conservation!
before canada has its own currency,  bmo notes were the currency
when i first moved to montreal in 1994 i walked in there and tried to open an account, i thought it would be cool to bank there. they just said no.
that building is incredible.
the columns inside are so beautiful. the whole architecture too
anyone knows what that building to the right is in the oldest pic ?
google bank of montreal headquarter, it shows toronto dominion building lol
great work! you should post this to /r/oldphotosinreallife
i’ve been inside for a banquet, highly underwhelming but beautiful exterior for sure
real headquarters are at toronto now.
and in winnipeg 1910
the oldest picture shows the place mud flooded to hell.
i have a bank of montreal half penny token from 1844. the government at the time wasn’t making enough coins so they authorized the banks to make their own which were used as legal currency.
the yellowish one? i think it's the building that has suite 701 and kyo sushi on its ground floor. not sure if offices or residential above it. the non-yellow one is part of the same bmo building.
it’s the hotel place d’armes
ah thank you!
follow the asphalt paths, you should get by!
another view of percé rock!
underrated park imo
work on the leaning tower of pisa is progressing well
beautiful towering cumulus clouds in the background!
fake. no cops in the picture to disturb during the nice weather.
at first glance, that's not the gaspé park, is that?
i'm curious: what did you use to take this pic? iphone? android?
there is a ufo on the right!
hihihi thank you 😜
was bere to say that
the château frontenac a - 35
by 2045 the work should be finished
i love how the sun hit the top of the clouds, make it like heavenly beautiful
i was not in dowtown 😎
you're not far from the truth 😂
iphone 11
i will send the photo to nasa to analyze the thing properly 😜
wow! it’s even more beautiful than the actual photo!
very pretty !
ps: your calligraphy is superb too!
draw me like one of your french girls 😍
what happens to the yachts during winter time? is it feasible to own a yacht in quebec city or montreal?
thank you! :))
thank you!:)
anything is possible with a pant-load of money.
yes certainly ! they will just be taken out of the water during winter time! (they’ll have to be stored indoors)
most smaller motor boats can be put on a trailer. sail boats usually get put on giant stands at thier yacht club because they have a keel. this is done using a small crane. sailboats can also be put on elevated trailers. some sailboats like mine have a retractable keel so it goes on a low trailer. bigger motor boats im not sure, since there arent any at my yacht club, but theyre probably taken out of the water somehow
seriously, we take the little good news when it goes.
" hair salons and other personal grooming centres will reopen " 
2 days after i clip my head ...
either lockdown until it's good to go back to normal or don't fucking lockdown at all. locking down for a few weeks and then going back to life before lockdown is so fucking pointless. we've been through this already. cases will just start going up again then we'll lockdown again in the summer.
fuckin joke. stupid fucking government.
if the non-essential stores open, then there will be no more blocked sections in the stores, right? the only reason the department stores could no longer sell non-essential items was because of the closure of other stores?
where are they getting these stats for the curfew opinions? everyone i know does not feel the same and attributes the decline in cases to stricter measures in schools as well as the continued closure of non-essential businesses. hmm...
yo, i will finally be able to go buy some skates !!! i so dared not order this online without trying them! i can't wait to skate!
what about gyms ?
i can finally buy some winter gloves.
* rubs hands together * i will no longer look like the female dog to jacques with my forelock that has grown too much
so now maybe i can buy mascara when i'm already at jean coutu to buy something else? wowww
am i the only one hoping for museums to reopen with crowd limiting procedures? near empty museums are a blessing
it's about time.
legault is a moron. why open stores now but keep the curfew going. keep the curfew and keep non essential stores closed until there is a significant decrease.
wait so is curfew gonna be extended past feb 8?
can i meet my friends in a park?  i get that the economy is important, but i just want to see some people outside and not have to worry about some over zealous spvm officer making a deal of it.
close the borders.
hardcore lockdown for a full month and a half.
reopen everything with no cases at all.
they're so fucking stupid. finally something is working and they stop doing it...
gyms need to be open too
can we close the fucking borders permanently ? please.
i can't wait to buy my non essential goods!
where can you see the occupancy rate of hospitals in the montreal area?
[deleted]
[deleted]
>  hair salons and other personal grooming centres will reopen 
i bet they still don't do beards, though.
at least i finally learned how to style my own facial hair after all this bullshit
haha i think i've done the bfs hair 4\~5 times now. i mean it's not the best yet but that's 40$ saved each time! i'm also lucky my hair is wavy so even when i chop off the ends unequaly you can barely tell it's a mess :d 60$+ saved each time and no need for annoying forced small talk!
lol j'ai ri vraiment fort. murphy's law at it's best.
yup. i just cut my daughter's bangs. oh well. they'll grow out, right?
my father in spite of himself brought back the mushroom cup last saturday. luckily someone can catch up on that soon lol
i love riding the north american covid merry go round! cases rise—lockdown—cases fall—open up—cases rise—lockdown… etc etc until we’re all fucking dead ❤️
[deleted]
i don't think they'll be able to impose the same type of lockdown or curfew in the summer. people will lose it, i'm already seeing it
[deleted]
we'll have to lockdown the same percentage of the time either way, so what difference does it make?
yes that would have been unfair competition.
was thinking the same thing, 76% support? i don't think i've spoken to a single person in the last few weeks that was in favour of the curfew. these are some putin statistics
>356 quebec respondents
>quebec/population 8.485 million (2019)
lol
the stats and polls... everytime i hear "70% of canadians think that...." where are these polls? who are answering these damn things? i've never seen or heard anyone take one lol
i agree with the curfew-- it seems to be bringing the numbers down. i'm sorry that its inconvenient for everyone, but it does seem to be working. i really wouldn't say that "strict measures in schools" are working though-- kids are pretty much the same as they have been.
[aaaaah j'ai si hate!](
and the sharp ones!
that should be the very last place to reopen before stadiums/music halls.
ahh, the notion of essential vs unessential in a country where winter weather can drop to -30 and less. of course basic winter equipment should be considered essential, right ? 
enjoy your warm hands friend !
pharmacy was selling sun screen but the gloves were non essential
me too!  i lost one of my good ones about 2 weeks ago.  i've been making do with doubling up crappy mitts and stretch gloves, but it's not enough when it's below -10.
i am so glad i didn't need to buy any. i work outdoors, and in previous years, i would wear them out so quickly that i would just stockpile a whole bunch of really cheap ones from dollarama to last through the winter. well, since work is slower these days, i'm still fine with the tail end of last year's stockpile.
you could start a fashion trend, don't sell yourself short!
username checks out.
i don't understand why you say that sarcastically. if you could continue to buy non-essential items at jean coutu, it would have been a big fuck for businesses that don't sell 1000 different products, and pharmacies would be full. i completely agree with the way they handled this portion of the lockdown.
yup, we already had significant measures in place but were forced to close 4 months ago anyway. i had given up hope of reopening! i can’t wait to just go get lost in an old painting at mmfa for hours...
museums are reopening too!!
the curfew helps regulating social distancing at home. i think it's the main factor in virus transmission. infected people in close quarters.
the curfew sucks but i believe it helps. the non essentiel rule also helped but it had to be loosened in order to keep the morale of the population up.
man, this is sad. hope he finds some help.
hi all! i work in a community centre in pointe-saint-charles and work with seniors. i saw this poster last month and called.
without going into details, i was able to help the person. there have been a lot of people needing help and expressing their need over the last 18 months, but i had not seen such a (dystopian?) cry for help. 
i'm also running as independent candidate for borough councillor in the sud-ouest. thank you for posting this.
 by the way, we are always looking for volunteers to help seniors in the sud-ouest, mostly breaking social isolation and food security. you can contact me if you want to help.
in a big city like montreal, i'm pretty sure someone called. there are also 3-4 numbers missing at the bottom.
hope it's not a trap! lol
i was reading my grandfather's italian newspaper (il cittadino canadese) and in the petites annonces was one sole entry of a 68 year old woman seeking someone to spend her 'twilight years' with and it broke my heart. this poor old lady using a dying medium, of a dying community (there are less and less native italian speakers every census) trying to find company.  ugh.
is he insinuating money or someone to help him with his day to day activities? i would help him with free lifts sometimes
r / aboringdystopia
i hope they get the help they need. that's the problem with social services in montreal, they're a pain to access and the people who should help you... don't.
i had an issue once and went to the clsc and the social worker there literally said to me: "well what do you want *me* to do about it?" i responded with "help me. this is the *centre local de services communautaires* isn't it?... direct me to a department or organization that can assist me." they had no clue what to do. if it wasn't someone who was having a health crisis, mental or otherwise they were clueless. i eventually sorted it out by myself and found the help i needed. you're on your own for a lot of stuff you shouldn't be.
will anyone call and come tell us how it goes?
who called?
tabarnak ...
makes me smile to only see a few tabs left :\*\*\*)
i know that good people can help. i just hope no con artist takes advantage of him.
i hope he got his help. i work with seniors and i know some are in isolation during this dire time..
the gentleman’s number is posted there. bake some muffins & call him & drop it off to him. i’m calling dibs on cookies.
very sad, how is it possible that a society like ours cannot take care of the most vulnerable of us, the elderly? the chslds, the residences are rotted, it is very disappointing. it could be us in the future, or our parents one day in these situations.
it is pointe saint charles, corner of st-pat and shearer.
this is actually very sad 😢
so without going into details.. was he just looking for companionship? housekeeping? a personal support worker? all three in a french maid outfit?
hi! i’d be interested in knowing more how i could help! pm me
hey  ! i am very interested :) let me know how we can move forward.
i want help ... to bury someone in my yard.
68 isn’t even that old wtf.
it tough to find someone at 36, imagine at 70. 
my grand mom learned computers in her 70s, and now in her 90s, e-mailing her friends and facebooking her french family was a soul saver in the pandémie isolation.
dang now that’s old school
that's very nice of you. i would help him by making custom mojitos with him on sunday afternoons and then shooting the shit together.
another unforeseen backlash from 40 years of neoliberal atomization of the individual. expect these to explode in popularity in the next few years as more and more retirees become isolated and as fewer and fewer able bodies are available to soyrt them.
calling 311 could be a good place to start when you're not sure where to find the help you need. it's a pretty good service but of course everything depends on who you land on when you call. either way, it's a good place to call
what? of course not
somebody had the decency to staple one of the tabs right on the ad. that makes me smile a bit.
feels weird to call this an ad.
personally i have very little faith in humanity and assume that most of those will be used to fuck with the guy one way or an other.
loneliness has nothing to do with age.
i'll make tacos : or perhaps you're a burrito fan ? we'll see sunday, no pressure.
meh, most babydoomers are relatively wealthy and demgraphically, they own the government for a few years.
imo the gvt will throw the money necessary to keep those voters happy, and other gens will pay the bill.
the 311 number is specifically for municipal services not social services. if you want to know when the large item garbage pickup is in your neighbourhood then you call them. if you want social services such as information on how to apply for disability benefits or get food assistance, they won’t be able to help you.
well thanks lol, now i think that too.
you're right. that's federal. sorry about that, my bad.
cool find! i was born on rue marquette, in fact my father still lives in this house that my grandfather bought in the 1950s
wow… rue marquette… north of “la 40”? or maybe there was another rue marquette in the 1930s?
hasn’t changed a bit!
wasn't there a plateau in the 1930s?
vintage photo where we see all the cigarette butts collected in the spring after the snow melted
indeed, the rue marquette stops at the 40, but strangely there is a small section which reappears all north of the city. chances are it is there because obviously the north was less developed over time than more towards the center.
i live four streets west of marquette (chambord), between beaubien and saint-zotique, and the plexes on my street were built in 1923-1924.
i actually found some logs from those years used as insulation in the walls.
photo of the martineau quarry (now père marquette park) in 1925. we see that the lots to the "north" of the quarry are not yet developed.
nothing better to protect a nice bike than a dollarama padlock and 1/4 inch link chain. but the camouflage is nice.
this makes my legs feel itchy.
aye nice! it's better than a post on the corner of berri / ontario :) 
omg
is it contagious d:
safe? from what i see, the frame is not chained. a key to unscrew the wheels, 2 minutes, and here's a new bike. no expertise needed.
it is certain that if i saw this in my block i would add a little christmas decoration on it :)
safe against snow. two, good luck getting access to the building's bicycle parking.
\ * here is a semblance of a bicycle ... without a wheel and without much value.
also we see the quick release in front
that $649 price tag may go up a bit.
driving school car too. the irony is delicious.
edit: wow! just realised they're on the sidewalk too!
was there no instructor in the car ?!
was it the instructor who did this ?!
lots of questions ...
not a good week for montreal drivers eh?
not a steel plate ca 🤦🏻‍♂️😂
it's still surprising how i rarely saw driving school in an accident.
kinda hilarious tbh. but i bet whoever put the car there didn't feel great about themselves for a day or two after that.
and to think i was nervous about my parallel parking skills the other day because sometimes i don't get it on my first attempt... at least i can say that i've never done anything like that... yet...
lets say a student was driving, im guessing the student won’t have to pay anything right?
for a minute i thought i was in the new orleans subreddit page..yikes
seems like there should of been a proper metal plate over that huge pot hole vs just some plywood
lool we have the best roads what are you talking about 🤣
there is a napa store near where i live and i saw a black one of these driving down the bike path. must be a hyundai thing.
what an old shitbox to learn how to drive in lol. doesn’t seem like a safe car
you can already see it has been replaced once, with a smaller sticker. that says it all :)
649? ha... approved accredited saaq..  more like 1000
i'm confused. both of your statements are in the title.
there is always an instructor in the car with their own brakes, but no steering wheel. that being said, if you really want to fuck shit up, i believe it's possible even when the instructor is inside. this particular driver has decided to do exactly that it seems.
jokes aside, it seems like there are some people who counterintuitively push the gas and close their eyes when they panic. our driving school did this two students in the car thing, when you drive and another student sits in the back, and then they drive and you sit in the back (instructor in passenger seat at all times).
i was literally shitting my pants the entire test wondering what is their insurance policy in case the other student actually kills me during this test. she would do crazy shit like accelerate when she sees traffic cones in the lane ahead, turn right directly into the opposite traffic lane, etc. crazy stuff...
this shits old, i doubt anyone’s walking around in winter coats today.
it’s plywood. i don’t think the construction workers planned on cars driving on the sidewalk lol
i would imagine the student only pays if it's shown that they did it on purpose
normally no, it's insured. 
the instructor on the other hand is in trouble i reckon. normally they have enough control of the car to avert this kind of situation (they have their own brakes)
it's kind of unfortunate, because this will be traumatizing for the student for quite a while. we don't know what happened obviously, but in most cases stuff like this should be under the control of the instructor.
a car's a car...
do you need a rolls royce for learning to drive mr millionaire?
if anything a cheap pos is the best car to learn in.
yeah $650 is pretty sketchy lmao. both my car and motorcycle courses were $1000 each
same situation as you, one day i had to enter the car with another student, one student drives car while other student sits in the back. it was at montreal nord, she was driving eratically, the driver instructor had to slam the brakes multiple times because she did not stop before a red light. in another, while going down an incline, while turning to the right, she slammed in the side walk and you felt the car bump a lot.
bro im getting scared from reding ur comment im doing that exact lesson in 2 weeks
so a perfect candidate for canada's worst driver?
busted - it was end of march
that or they grabbed the wood to try and make a ramp out
it’s an unsafe pos to learn to drive in sorry not sorry
still a funny pic either way !
and you deemed it unsafe how exactly?
because it’s safety ratings actually aren’t very good
ah yes, the ol' montreal construction festival
good people but atrocious roads and parking. yup, that's montreal.
this story is funny coming from a mississaugan because who would ever drive to downtown toronto and expect to find cheap and plentiful parking? no one drives downtown for the day unless they plan to use a full day parking lot. and obviously parking is different in mississauga, it's the equivalent of laval.
you're better off going around the center by bike or public transport.
indeed, parking is often quite difficult in central neighborhoods. usually it's easier to pay for hotel parking or 24-hour garage parking when there is one not too far away.
otherwise the parking lot at the colonial bath is very welcoming!
montreal will be a beautiful city once they stop building the roads...
the kindness of the strangers is one of the most touching things about our society. you will also see young people regularly stop to carry baby prams, groceries, or heavy buggies up our metro stairs. if you see someone strange just try a good ole tip of the hat, or wave like queen elizabeth. usually a good laugh will startle a druggie. most are completely harmless. i have found strangers generally speak up for each other as well if there are difficult interactions in the street. i'm glad you were able to see the beauty of this city.
another question tho:
we are both chinese and we were pretty tall, i'm 193cm and my fiancee 179cm. my fiancee is really good looking but we were still wearing masks no matter where we went out of habit. 
this has never happened to us anywhere else and we were super confused and tbh a bit scared: 
1. waking around the street at like 4 pm and this old smoker lady (who looks kinda like she's under the influence of something) starts telling me my fiancee is hot and then starts catcalling...
2. saw this tall girl who passed us by on the crosswalk and just stared at us. then she literally stopped in the middle of the crosswalk and stared at us for three minutes. like she stopped in the middle of the street crosswalk and stared at us until we were at the next block. 
dunno if this girl was under the influence or something but this was at like half past nine at night. 
holy shit were these experiences unsettling.
believe it or not, montreal is possibly one of the easiest city to park a car in the downtown area of any major cities in the world.
i work on the road and park my car at about 5 different adresses per day, haven’t had a ticket in about 6 years.
please dont take this the wrong way... driving downtown is a nightmare, but there is more than enough parking in montreal. the parking meter doesnt work, just walk to the next one. use a private parking lot. its the same issue in toronto, quebec city or new york. or use the public transit.
hell yeah! gotta take care of one another. nobody else will. it's the only way this great project of civilization we're on will work.
bro, you don’t need a car in montréal. save the headache and leave it at the airbnb next time. montreal has legit some of the best public transport in the world.
caution, i was once fined some 68 $ after parking on the wrong side of the street on cleaning day. on some streets in mtl, a couple of hours are reserved for road side cleaning for one day. this was completely new to me. one day, i forgot about it and did not move my car and was reminded that way...
montreal is a magnificent place, i once stranded with broken cooling system near the pont cartier and some friendly montrealers helped me out with coolant fluid. offered him money, non non, he loved to help people.
next time you’re in montreal, use the p service mobile app. just enter the parking meter’s number, and pay via a credit card. easy.
thank you for your patience: even locals don't have it and avoid this mess. 
hope you had a great time ! 
next time, use a bike. don't ask, our politicians don't care about you and expect you to travel around on a bixi, since it is supposed to be easier and it is also a green alternative transportation method. 
you don't like cars, don't you ?
many commerce will not take amex in canada, just a heads up. also most parking metters that dont have a main terminal that link them all together will only take coins or payment via their apps.
sounds about right, i once spent 40 minutes trying to find a parking spot around my college that does not have restrictions, ended up comming 30 mins late to my class.
everyone comes together against the shitshow that is getting around the city.
yeah bad roads, bad parking, and in some cases even worse drivers. hope you had a good time here!
cant go to montreal anymore
there are a lot of dumb little rules, like parking restrictions, that are unique to montreal, and that you are expected to just know. i've lived in québec for 7 years and i avoid the island of montreal at all costs 🤣
if you're so grateful maybe mention the name of the app in your description? it's called " p$ mobile service montreal "
google maps didn't know about that at all hahaha
351 days of the year, 24/7. best festival in the world!
whos headlining this year?
good people, atrocious roads, montreal! (---> let's do tshirts).
i agree about google maps being useless because they never know about the detours, and the construction situation here is worse than toronto for sure.
yeah and walking was also amazing, the views holy shit were they good.
no kidding, i was walking on ste-cath yesterday evening and crossed st-denis, and saw that the street was under reconstruction. in the last few years we've had work done on the place in front old institut des arts appliqués, brick work on the uqam building, the uqam church refraction, the reconstruction of the sidewalk, and now the street. i wonder if that section of the street will ever be work free.
thank you 40 years infrastructure debt
a story as old as time itself!
will they ever?
there are some really weird people downtown. for montreal standards, what happened to you is pretty mundane.
regarding parking, it is indeed very confusing. usually main streets have paid parking spots, but you need the app to use a credit card, or cash at the machines. alternatively, there are private parkings, but they tend to be quite expensive. residential streets are usually restricted to locals, with a sticker system. and then there are tons of exceptions, like cleaning hours, delivery spots, school spots, it may change in the middle of a street for not-so-obvious reasons, keeping track of everything is a mess.
we like cool specimens, dude.
we have a lot of crackhead and drunks downtown. i get called pretty boy walking to the metro sometimes... when she's not passed out face first on the pavement.
do you not go outside much? lol. montreal downtown street culture is really not any different than toronto. 
i just spent the weekend in toronto (i'm from there) and there are weirdos there too. smaller asian community in montreal but so much so that you would notice a difference in a short trip... more something that you'd be affected by if you moved into a suburb here.
i've been called hot mama, twice, different people, while pushing a stroller with kids downtown. the catcalling is next level.
maybe the tall girl was prospecting for a model agency? one of my collegue who is super tall and pretty was recruted by an agency while walking downtown. we figured out their office was a couple blocks away from ours on st-antoine. she soon after that traveled europe for a while witht them (pre covid).
edit: i just re read your story. stopping in the middle of the street at night  makes it more likely she was a crackehead.
i can't explain any of it but i doubt it was a race thing because we have plenty of chinese international students at our universities. probably just intoxicated?
downtown, in certain parts, is really tricky lately. bc of covid, homelessness, addiction/drugs. and bc less people -- workers, tourists, shoppers. so, more questionable types. even areas that used to be pretty normal, and definitely in the daytime (parc/bleury, concordia) are much sketchier now. 
but you need to think of it like yonge street. exactly the same deal of weirdos/sketchiness being around certain key parts, but sometimes mixing in.
truth. takes some getting used to reading the parking signs, but its pretty clear/easy.
caveat - it's the easiest city to park in once you get used to the signs and understand how to do it. i've had many friends visit from ontario and somehow mess up parking and get a ticket. i found it confusing when i first moved here. but after a year, i had figured it out and now i do find it much simpler than toronto
[deleted]
[deleted]
we drove around because we wanted to drive to quebec city as well but honestly next time i shoulda just took the train or flew over and then biked everywhere.
funny enough, my amex became a lifesaver at the parking meters. and yeah, other places dont really take amex lmao.
sorry i didn't know what app she was using t.t
[this]( is the map you would've needed hahaha
use waze in montreal. google maps is useless here
at this point, might as well update the flag... 
>good people, terrible roads!
quality photo that is not at the belvedere it feels good! what focal length did you use?
i love how straight these lines are. it's not always easy to do!
it's always good to discover a new angle
nice.
taken near the shatner building?
4.0 - 160mm can you be? i don't really know, i don't use a lens, only the one built into my camera and i don't know much about photography.
no, rather near ravenscrag
yes it may well the photo seems taken with a long zoom so 160mm is very plausible. the more you zoom in, the more the elements all seem to be on the same "2d" plane. the f4.0 would be the aperture of the diaphragm and the other given in the equation is the opening speed but imperceptible in this case (above 1/100 certain)
nice photo, then you don't need to be a pro to have an eye and be in the right place at the right time.
in the data in the file, the aperture was at 5.7, the speed at 1/320 and the other at 52.2mm.
thank you!
you shoot an olympus, right?
i can’t see the tail to really confirm, but are you sure its not just a groundhog? look like a groundhog to me.
he is a whistling, big big
it's a very happy looking marmot yes
that’s a groundhog. there’s a couple living in the mountain.
tell me you've never seen a beaver, without telling you've never seen a beaver 😂
as others mentioned, it's a groundhog.  a beaver has a very large flat tail and it's fur is darker and looks slicked back, almost greasy looking. 
groundhogs are normal residents of montreal (and they'll do a number on your veggie garden!)
this groundhog looks perfectly at ease to me.
100% a whistle
thank you for confirming, i'm glad that is not a beaver, and he is all good in the bushes.
that's no beaver. looks more like one of the animals we see in the parks, by the casino, the f1 track etc. 
marmot maybe? but no beaver.
lol
haha its a groundhog, not a beaver. and yes its normal.
beaver: "they're trying to make me go to rehab and i say no, no, no"
this is not what the alert flair is for op.
it is a tabarnak marmot
i worked a season at laronde a few years back. laronde is like a retirement home for groundhogs. they are all 20 pounds + because they essentially eat beaver tails all day.
i operated the choo choo train ride in the kid's park and would often have to call in the engineers to clean up crushed groundhogs who were too obese to get out of the way.
beavers are hella big, relative to this guy.  when it reopens, you should do a trip of the biodome, they have some there you can see.
this is a groundhog
and yes it's normal
big is a groundhog ...
he's a groundhog haha, an entire family lives under the shed in the backyard of my block!
groundhogs are everywhere
this is absolutely a groundhog. 
beavers are bigger, have a different face and obviously the tail.
is that just my impression or are there really more marmots than usual in the parks of montreal?
the other day i saw 10 at the same time and it was bickering a lot
those are groundhogs/gophers and they are quite happy where they are, but can be quite the garden nuisance.
one of the test to diagnose a mental illness is to show two pictures: elephant and hippopotamus. subject with certain mental illness couldn’t distinguish them. 
in quebec we have the same test but the pictures are hedgehog and beaver. 
i think you should get an appointment.
edit: typo
re?hab , six more weeks to our stanley cup
there’s lots of efforts by the université to promote wildlife and [biodiversity]( some cottontail rabbits have been seen recently!
i think he escaped from beaver hall street.
[leave that groundhog alone, it's clearly on its way to rehearsing with the band!](
i also saw one at mount royal park a few days ago
the street there, that's édouard-montpetit, right?   
there's a resident marmotte at this metro (udem), you can see it relatively frequently.
that's a marmot, friend
groundhog are everywhere near the mont royal, they even became a problem in côte-des-neiges cemeterie because they dig up bones.
have you never seen a groundhog before?
nor a beaver?
saw one in my back yard in little italy tuesday. groundhog that is.
lol thats a groundhog and they’re everywhere
lol not a beaver. it's a marmotte! i call it this in both languages because it's more fun than groundhog :p
wait until you hear about the coyotes of villeray
that's a groundhog, beavers have large flat tails. it's normal seeing groundhogs in montréal. they are everywhere in the city.
the fact that i knew this was a groundhog and then confirmed in the comments makes me feel so validated as a canadian.
that's not a beaver. it's a groundhog. it's fine. leave it alone.
that's a groundhog. behind the neuroscience department we have (had?) a small clearing, there were a lot of them.
that's just a groundhog doin' its thing
lol yeah i walk around the mountain a lot and see soooo many groundhogs. they’re just chillin.
that’s a groundhog. 😂
you really have to be disconnected
that in a ground hog.  but rest assured.  the universities in montreal are full of beaver.
groundhog
i saw a couple of those hanging around montreal, im pretty sure its a muskrat or a marmot...?
live and let die
surprised pikachu face
how the turntables
> quebecers traveled from as far away as carleton-sur-mer to come and take part in the demonstration.
sacrament motivated
ok my popcorn y'est pret / r / montreal pis / r / quebec let's go
well well welll
[/](
gee what a shocker
ah well tabarnak i would never have seen it coming
play stupid games, win stupid prizes
are you serious?! no way?! but they were so careful! /s
great, they bussed these bogans in from all over, tens of thousands of them, and now they're refusing to cooperate.
no ventilator for you!
i could have sworn that the real virus was fear.
ah well cuddly, we did not see this coming.
seems like the one group in the city that wanted to catch covid.   moving on.
hopefully bernier is one of them. idiots.
no, but i know that we have a lot of people cracked up against the measures especially that we had our backs broad during a good part of the pandemic but at the moment the people of the regions are really not giving their place, i think that precisely seeing that they were spared so much during the first wave in no way realizes the extent ... kind all was the fault of mtl first but tsé it is not really the fault of the citizens if there is a cr *** international airport on the island and that it is also populous ... and often certain measures which were perhaps beneficial in regions i have the impression was less so in montreal because it prevented the majority reasonable people to use their common sense precisely to minimize the risks ex the reduced hours to do grocery shopping ... like me personally at the beginning i was going to do my groceries at 11 a.m. in the evening at my grocery store 24h so as not to cross paths people ... i met like 3 including the cashier in my trip of 20 minutes max where i bought s to toffer 1 to 2 weeks .... given that i have no car i was not loading like a savage tse my cart has a limit ... even kind of business with the curfew ... it forced me to go hang out with more people when it was avoidable ... moreover they could have made people aware of limiting the number of people in their circle of interaction to make micro bubbles instead of making people so triggered that when y could bing social interactions there ...
oh what a surprise, the covidiots strike again...
all so their children can play. well that worked out just fab...
[removed]
it was obvious ... ughhh here we go again
band of cellars
😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂
i wonder how that could have happened.
as much as some people and i want to laugh about this, the people that will feel the real consequences are hospital staff and the vulnerable population, as well as covid patient needing urgent help. so this just sucks actually
guess that wasn’t unexpected
possible contamination
oh no! anyways...
band of wineries who are working hard to continue the lockdowns that they are progressing against.
now they've made the grand tour all across quebec without their masks coughing & sneezing on everyone in their path.
way to spread the virus & keep things going.
there is a possibility i will fart after my dinner tonight
they'll have to end the lockdown if we reach 100% infection. gogogo
[deleted]
nooooooonnn really? woooooaaaa what a surprise ...!
criss ... it's not news that, we expected it
it is quite possible that these folks knew the risks and still chose to protest.  my understanding is that this is an anti-lockdown protest.  probably aren’t all coronavirus deniers or something.  they are voicing their disapproval of lockdowns.  fair play?
slowclap.gif
what a surprise!
surprised pikachu face
surprised pikachu face
tabarnak. i don't believe it ... i didn't see that one come. fake news / s
you don't say...
jesus christ a bus from carlton-sur-mer must be as fun as a bus to toronto
edit: i regret saying this. the trip through the peninsula by amqui must be nice, and also up until near quebec. the slog from quebec still sucks.
...but an 8-12 hour trip ...then do again on the way back... on a bus? that's gotta suck even if you drive through candyland.
evolution via natural contamination
[
a piece that made me laugh:
in the "conference" they gave the day before on facebook, one of the organizers mentioned that "it will be safe as a demonstration, a good part of the designated rescuers have their first aid card or have already had it"
b + for the intention, d- for the execution.
no wai i iz shooks
oh i tab-
should they need it, they should be refused medical attention.
hip that's beautiful gaspe.
anyone have good numbers on how many people were there? rebel news banging their '100,000' drum and i'm going to have to zoom with my in-laws tomorrow....
the numbers aren’t as low as they were last summer. why are people acting like they are?
d'oooooh !!!
no increase in cases since the event.
i think it was the buses that caused the most of the problem, and that must have delayed technological development. in the metro it's quite simple, everything is connected. but that's another story on the buses. not so long ago all there was was a box to deposit money. the bus had to be able to validate the card, ticket or connection, remove a ticket from the card, all without an internet connection to any server. now they are connected, and a new system will be set up soon.
on the other hand, i never understood why the card expires after a few years ...
in 2015 it was #innovercommelastm
i have had "opus à l'année" for a few years, and it's really convenient.  it automatically renews the monthly pass by drawing the fee from either your credit card or your bank account.  they also send you everything through mail, so you can exclusively deal with them online :
i work at the stm and eventually they will accept electronic payment, they are at the testing stages, that’s also the reason for the new readers in the buses. but the testing isn’t finished yet.
you have to pay a card reader in order to recharge your opus card online 
they’re getting better with small upgrade at a time. like now you don’t have to always have money on you if you take bus and you forget your opus card you can (generally) pay with nfc which is really nice. from what i’ve heard in the past they want to introduce an opus app in like 2024-2025, but no integration with apple wallet (which is stupid cause they’re argument is it doesn’t work for everyone one, but android as the same so just make it compatible with the two or more service it ain’t that complicated). it’s not the priority for the stm now to upgrade, people are ok with how it works now (even if it’s stupid and inconsistant). also they should also upgrade their "tourniquet" which is totally surpass now as more and more metro and public transport just count on people to do it and use the money saved to bring more control in the metro it self. like how the artm was doing on the deux montagnes train. oh and last improvement if they do the last one, monthly pass shouldn’t have to be activated at each passage, but only the first time. it’s done worldwide and work perflectly fine.
what i still do not understand after all these years is why i can load some titles on the card and others not.
if i take the train to st-jerome and put my opus card in the exo machine, i cannot put a single ticket there and my options are reduced. if i remove my opus card from the machine and say i don't have one, suddenly i have a lot more choice of tickets.
in short, my opus card is often useless because i still have to end up buying a pass that is not available if i try to use it.
it works well for 10 tickets at the stm, for example, but it's absolutely crap for anything that is single ticket with exo. i don't even try with the other companies ... i say i don't have a card if i am asked, it's easier and i have more options for the titles.
opus cards use a french/belgian system called calypso
> why can't i recharge it online, why do i have to go to a recharge station or buy the machine.
because the central system does not have all the latest tickets. buses probably have to upload all the taps at the end of the day, so the system's copy of your card does not get updated until then.
except navigo (paris; allows mobile recharging), i have not seen a calypso card capable of real-time recharging without a card reader; they either require you to wait a day or "collect" your ticket using a special reader on-site (which defeats the purpose).
> why can't i put it in apple pay and have it on my phone, i have all my wallet in my phone except this fucking card.
express transit (ie. adding opus card to apple pay) support is still very limited
non-express transit (ie. paying by credit cards in apple pay) will probably happen soon tho, see other comment.
> why do i have to renew it every fucking year.
student: probably just to make sure you don't abuse the discount...
others: pretty sure it's every 4 years
> why is this system so fucked up, cmon stm please do something about this
it's not that bad tbh
just wait until artm removes tram zones 1-8 and makes them abcd, should fix the ticket mess
they are working on better technology. to be continued.
not so long ago, with the monthly cards, i bought them from the clerk at the metro station near my home.
often at the end of the month there is a small line of people forming, well once the clerk was so stressed to see a line of a dozen people that they went to hang in the toilet, ten minutes later still not out, i had to go to another station to buy my monthly pass.
basically it's not perfect, but it is slowly improving.
i've did some preliminary research on the tech used by stm. 
imo, nfc can and should be a thing. i know its possible but if the stm won't do it the best i could do is reverse engineer the chip, which would take me weeks or months alone and thats not even including all the headaches along the ways which these days i don't have much time for.
its really sad that they still rely on old tech
i quite liked contactless payment when i was in london. stm looks way behind in comparison.
the artm is now testing a feature in the chrono app (if you subscribe to the betas) that allows you to read the contents of your opus card directly from the app. i'm sure they would eventually extend this to buying tickets from the app and putting those on your opus card.
from what i heard, apple is testing and adding bus and metro card to apple pay one city at a time in china since a few years ago and it's been successful in a handful of cities already. learn, stm
> why can't i recharge it online
because buses are not online. you could equip buses with the necessary equipment (plus backups) but that takes time and money.
you can’t recharge it online because you need a card reader. the tickets are stored on the physical card itself, not a centralized system. being able to recharge it online means connecting all the terminals, including the ones on the buses to the internet and setting up a server to manage that. not a small task considering stm is publicly funded.
the pharmacy across the street from my apartment does it. you should see if there's something like that in your neighbourhood.
i just moved to montreal a year ago and i have never lived in a city before, so, coming from a sprawling metropolis with no metro and using my car every day, i wish there was another option for paying the metro like the ez-pass for tolls in the u.s. - you sign up, get a pass, give them your credit card, and pick a threshold amount, like $10, and then a recharge amount, like $25, etc. whenever your card gets to that minimum balance you set, it automatically deducts the recharge amount without any interference from you. i wish for this because literally none of the current payment options are convenient for me - during work from home, i have no idea when i will use the metro next, it's always kind of spontaneous, so a weekly or monthly pass is just a hefty investment i most likely won't use, but it is such a pain that i have to go buy a pass every single time i want to take a trip, not to mention wasteful for the environment, have to touch the kiosk during covid, etc. i feel like moving to this "recharge" system (that another user pointed out is in use for the l'annee pass, so it's possible!) for spontaneous/less frequent travelers would benefit a lot of people, but what do i know.
calypso dominance 💀
this is also what happens with a publicly funded transit system…. 
nyc transit (mta) for example is funded at federal, state and city levels. 
same boat as you though, it’s been at least 5 and half years we’ve been hearing that they’ve been testing nfc for stm.  this is from 2015 smh
i have heard that it will change soon as a system. the info comes from someone in-house who told me this 1-2 years ago.
they had online tickets built in to the transit app since covid started and they took it out about a month ago, so dumb. paying with your phone was amazing and easy.
my guess is their choice not to have buses all be online a decade ago is still hurting.
edmonton doesn't take electronic payments. the pass that is used is similar to what mtl had before opus..
and there's 0 security checks for the trains there. you can go up to a machine that accepts change only, and get a ticket, or just get on and nobody cares. no barriers, no employees, nothing lol
you can buy a card scanner to recharge at home but renewing it every year is a pain.
stm cards were dead since to me since it stopped being pliable plastic cards with a different design each month
[deleted]
wait you expected the quebec government to produce a mature and resilient software? well i have a vaccine passport app to sell you in that case…
my god
this is such a perfect example of the phrase "first world problem". lololol
that's one\* of the reasons stm made me decide to buy a car.
i'll never go back.
\*one of the other reasons : ''the service is interruptued one the pink line for an undetermined period. thanks for you cooperation and think about getting a car.''
london buses have had this capability for years. i would guess most other large cities too. it’s a bit embarrassing.
> on the other hand, i never understood why the card expires after a few years ...
there must be a reason because it is the case with quite a few cards. my opus card expires, my credit cards, my debit card, my employee card, etc. it's just my point cards that don't expire.
according to my memory to have spoken with consultants who had worked on opus cards at stm, it is to simplify the management of their database.
they don't need to keep a card endlessly, however i don't understand why they don't just kill the entries that have admittedly had no activity during the last 48 months.
> on the other hand, i never understood why the card expires after a few years ...
most chip cards have transaction counters that cannot be rolled back, to prevent malicious people from trying to "replay" them to duplicate payments, consumption of tickets, etc.
it's calibrated to the average wear and tear of the plastic card itself which wears out with the inserts and friction in the pockets. with contactless cards, it lasts longer, but the counters in the code of the smart card itself have not necessarily changed.
i already had this. but since covid i don't need a monthly pass, just to buy weekends or daily passes, and criss that it's shit to have to do the thread and not be able to just thread up the online card if you has not the machine.
it does not work for all types of subscriptions. totally illogical.
that is not what op is asking at all
thank you ! thats good news !
i read plans about apple pay support, but what about having an opus card on apple wallet and being able to tap it, similar to what they have in chicago or soon nyc? is something like that being tested?
i know, what i meant is why is there not just a website where i can recharge it online, why tf does the verification system for a pass is offline, cant they make it so i don't need the machine and that nothing is stored on that card.
they had same system in paris (navigo pass) and recently they change the system with a nfc card you can charge with phone.
it is cool but the card reader became useless. so i would not go for the card reader knowing it might change in coming years.
good lord, did you click on the link? it’s out of stock. because. of course it is.
this thing is a total piece of junk and is way more trouble than it's worth.
mine worked like once or twice before my computer stopped recognizing it as a device.
paying with nfc at the bus? how does it work? do i have to hold my phone in front of the terminal where we usually tap the opus card?
>from what i’ve heard in the past they want to introduce an opus app in like 2024-2025, but no integration with apple wallet (which is stupid cause they’re argument is it doesn’t work for everyone one, but android as the same so just make it compatible with the two or more service it ain’t that complicated)
actually isnt it the same kinda fight that epic is having with apple over apple taking 30% of iaps which i figure buying tickets/monthly passes count towards?
there is a piton on the machine to see more options. it happened to me when i just wanted to buy 2 tickets instead of the monthly pass .... maybe that's the problem?
>except navigo (paris; allows mobile recharging), i have not seen a calypso card capable of real-time recharging without a card reader
i don't get the point. what we want is to be able to type our cell directly on the machine when entering the bus. not reload our card with our cell ...
the every year thing - there are two expiration dates on the card - one for the tickets and one for the card itself. when they send you an subscription card, they give it a year expiration. you can see this when you have the card reader.
also i read part of the spec when i my fare got denied a wonderful feb29th. 
my subscription was valid, but the card itself expire after 365 days ( expiration is not a date but #of days)
~~funny, the qr codes for covid are also a joint france qc thing as well.~~
~~also equally clunky~~
[ edit: i have been corrected. ]
man i used to be there every day for school and work. i miss it
i passed by the other day, it's beautiful! the only decoration that i did not like too much is santa claus with giant feet (on the 1st floor, we can't see him in the photo). so weird!
ready for the party on the 24th!
lets go la gagne!
does anyone remember when they used to have a christmas train inside that would take you around the ground floor? that was so nice :)
is it already complex? damn.
/r/liminalspace
quick video of the fountain 
i took my 2 1/2 year old down earlier today she really enjoyed the set up all along place des arts. worth the visit if downtown isn’t too far from home
blurry off
same. miss the christmas shows going on at 5pm. so dramatic, always made me chuckle. i love working from home but sometimes i miss the little things.
with my kind of work, i can be virtually anywhere
was there last year. i am confident it will be there next year too. :)
it's not bleury, it's place des arts
i just want a bagel from muffin plus. with a coffee from cafe depot. maybe a sandwish for lunch from the portugese restaurant in the food court.
wow i'm surprised. i remember this from like 15 years ago lol.
i want a croissant from that french place next to the sushi shop in the corridor leading to the metro
i confirm, my children took a tour of it last year. they loved it.
oh for real? haha wow, it is a classic then. always full also.
why come out two weeks ago and say otherwise?
is this guy trying to be hated?
not saying i disagree with the final decision, however, clearly there is a poor decision making process going on here.
that's fine.  
we can gather at carrefour laval with plenty of other people than our family.
we are not going to hide it, those who want to go see their family and friends will do it anyway. so sure it won't change a thing in the end
a couple of weeks ago: "hi everyone, we want to give you your holidays back, so if you limit the spread for the next couple of weeks you will be allowed to get together with your loved ones on christmas"
\*proceeds to change zero restrictions and depend on the smart (lol) decision making abilities of the general public who have so far proven, over 9 months, that they cannot be trusted\*
"oh sorry, christmas is cancelled."
[deleted]
i don't like them to change their mind every day but at the same time i know zero what i would do in their place
they tried nothing and it didn't work.
let’s keep the malls open tho 👌🏽so people can buy gifts for gatherings they can’t even go to lmfao. “we can’t link cases to stores” although its literally the last thing open. long life consumerism and trying to “save the economy” , look how well that’s worked out for the us.
how is it logical to cancel christmas but not close down malls, schools and workplaces if controlling the curve is not going the way they planned.
if lives really were more important then the economy they would sacrifice everyone, not just people living alone who are going to get the worst christmas of their lives and might not even live to the next one.
but yeah, gotta work, consume, sleep, repeat.
at this point no one will ever trust the words he says. i can't remember how many times he's pulled a bait and switch. not an easy job he has for sure. 
as far as i'm concerned, if the past two months hasn't helped slow us down then nothing will. this covid thing will not be under control until we get vaccine roll outs. people just are too tired of it all, don't care enough to protect themselves and others and really, this thing is just so contagious.
i'll admit that i and my family are not taking the news very well. even if we understand.
i absolutely don't have a single milligram of pity and patience left for the deep fools who don't want to wear a mask and don't believe in covid 19.
i have a great deal of trouble with this government and their way of operating. i understand people who reverse their allegiance, who doubt or who no longer cooperate.
on a smaller scale, someone doing this to you you stop trusting, see you cut them squarely out of your circle.
we know that management in times of crisis is difficult, but it is becoming psychological torture now. give hope and then withdraw and kill this same hope. i am demoralized, it is really moving.
can't say we didn't earn this outcome.
the real mistake was the initial dangle.
let's not forget about the most important part of the holidays: capitalism.
just celebrate christmas at carrefour laval
good, that was a half baked idea to begin with.  relying on people to voluntarily self isolate for 7 days right before christmas was never a realistic expectation.
so, i guess we are just gonna deal with 1000-1500 cases a day until the spring then? cause they havent implemented any new restrictions in schools or businsses which are the main sources of outbreaks right now. hell, they had all summer to try and work with nurses and doctors to better their conditions and pay them better for the second wave, but instead they just did nothing. i am not paying for the government's mistakes with my sanity, sorry.
why say it and then go back on it? because poor mental health and increased suicide rates are cool cool :/
and then they wonder why everyone is starting to believe conspiracies...
what happened to december 11?? that was two days ago. we all knew the situation wouldn't change, but why announce "a decision on december 11" only to announce two days later, "nvm we took our decision". i just don't get it.
thank you to my neighbors for having had 2 parties each in recent weeks
i can't believe the shopping centers stayed open. this is largely why we are here.
totally unsurprising but still disappointing.
remember when legault and arruda were seen as heroes in the spring? what happened?
is there any new information about efforts to reduce travel between areas, such as the highway checkpoints they had before?
instead of having 2-3 "28 day challenge" we should have had a real re-containment like in the spring. but we have a government that does not want to help companies in hard times (the preuvre watch what happens to the restaurant and bar industries almost completely abandoned).
we could have saved christmas two months ago but the government's stubbornness in wanting to "save the economy" will cost us much more and in the end we will have saved nothing. neither the economy, nor the mental health of the population, nor the health system ...
by wanting to govern in the short term, we get results in half measure.
[deleted]
> "legault acknowledged that those who live alone, particularly the elderly, would welcome some company. he said they can have a single visitor, but he urged both people to wear a mask and maintain their distance."
fuck that's rough.
i mean i get the decision, but seeing it written like that really drives home how much this sucks for some people.
🤡
the real life grinch who stole christmas
[deleted]
why not just reduce the number of people that can meet? honest question.
pay me
the data shows that hospitals are currently under capacity: 
keep in mind that hospitals in quebec operate over capacity every winter.
2018: 
2017: 
2016: 
any plans for enforcement or going on morals?
it was predictable .. i understand the exasperation but i do not understand why the world will not respect the instructions. it's not as if we won't have more gatherings ... there will be other christmases, easter is not worse too ... it's hotter.
i know it's cheesy but ... this too, shall pass ♥️
yeah, ok, lol.
yep.  don't want to end up like the us.  absolutely.  je suis d'accord.
long live the fools who did not want to know anything about social welfare. well done. your party of 20 people in a house 🤦
nowel .. not christmas
it is probably time to get into reading. 
i suggest this book
[
[deleted]
literally i've been busting my ass off this year trying to be safe as freaking possible. why do montrealers fuck everything up? i have been nothing but going to work and just staying home. 
now your telling me my significant other cannot come over? for fucks sake!
legault is so unprofessional,  he promised us something now we can't have it. 
i'm seriously fed up with him, i just want this to freaking pass as i wanna see the end as much as other people. 
my  mental health has been an all time low and that its just crushing that i cannot see my family at christmas let alone i live with my parents but still i want to see my grandparents  and talk to them  its so damn annoying. 
i really hate this. alo,  thanks for ruining christmas.
we will do it anyway but we promise to put on our masks !! and not to spit too hard! ahahah
it is sad to see a majority of people in this "sub" which is both "intelligent" but at the same time naive to such an extent that if the legault government and its sidekick arruda tell you that it is now compulsory to inject "purell" into the body to slow down transmission, or you will be fined, all of you will do it without hesitation ... because it is the rules of the ... government.
and the rest who refuse to do it, we are accused of recalcitrant, right?
yes, the same government that bans christmas gatherings but leaves schools with more than 100 students open. wow !! and do you still have that confidence in what the government is telling you?
meh, plans are made. my wife and i are essentially 0 risk while the people we will be spending the 24th are pretty low! good luck even attempting to police this anyways (they will be celebrating with their families/friends anyways). anyone who feels comfortable seeing other for christmas continue planning on doing so ... it's not as if your neighbors will stop themselves.
yeah that's going to stop us.
i'll enjoy my dual citizenship and spend christmas across the border with my american family. no harm done. thanks for the suggestion legault!
[removed]
this is how the caq works. "act now, think about it later". that way they seem to be proactive, and when it goes wrong (even if that was 100% predictable), they can just come along and apologize and move on. the best example of this is jolin-barrette's immigration reform.
the logic is pretty much the same here: the population wanted to have an idea of what was going to happen at christmas, legault came out too early to say: yes yes we will be able to get together (knowing full well that the situation was not going to happen). 'improve enough in a month). and after when the very predictable finding that the number of hospitalizations is too high arrives, he gives a press conference, looking pitiful to apologize for having been too quick in business.
the caq government has always be extremely demagogic, so they don't have a far-reaching vision, they just go wherever the wind blows. which puts them in a very akward position in the pandemic, because there is an actual crisis to manage and a large portion of their base is scientifically illiterate, conspirationist and/or opposed to government spending, so keeping them happy while managing an actual crisis is not easy and keeping their base happy is all caq knows how to do. 
so, to avoid spending as much as they could and give a sense of "libârté" to their base, they fully opened schools and workplaces with barely any restrictions (apart from indoor dining and museums and what not), but forbade pretty much every that fell outside of money-making activities. so, they look like they're handling the crisis, cause we can't hang out with friends even in safer settings, but we can go to work pretty much unencumbered. so, it's a bit like carbon offset. they have accepted that the many many cases that will come from unregulated workplaces are unavoidable and offset them with the statistically insignificant number of cases that would have emerged from going to the botanical garden or to the cinema. 
their base doesn't like governmental handouts, so they're happy they get to work, and they're probably largely family oriented, so they don't really care about seeing people outside of their family unit. 
the problem is, since they are generally more tradition-oriented, they fucking love christmas. so, the caq, in classical demagogic mode, promised them christmas. but without changing anything from workplaces, where most outbreaks occur, they knew damn well it was not going to happen. that's where the genius of their "all-friends, only work" plan comes in, because was always the plan to put the onus of prevention back on the individuals. so, they promised us christmas, pull the rug from under us, and who's fault is it? not the caq for failing to regulate workplaces and staunchly refusing to recognize the role of aerosol in contamination. the fault can now be put on some faceless imaginary millenials or whatever that didn't follow the rules and that the caq base can fume about without questioning the poor state of the school's air vents.
beautiful composition
beautiful! (here's [my version🙂]( i used to live next to this park...  one of my favourite places...
beautiful picture !
love running there
this is stunning! i want to draw it :)
this is making angri, non!
thank you !
op took pictures of [phragmite] ( you took [cattails] ( % a0_larges_feuilles), then you win.
thank you
thanks !
@ u/rubrum_:  i learned something today! ( [phragmite](  ) i always thought it was [pampas grass](
fuck the phragmite, it has invaded all humid and semi-humid environments on the south shore.
pampas grass is nice, phragmites is a pest you can see all along the highways :(
@ u/rubrum_: i used to [see these]( ([and in winter]( on the grounds of the douglas hospital (where i worked) all year round. i always liked seeing them.  all these years i've been telling everyone it was pampas grass.  have i been wrong all these years?
yeah i'm pretty sure that's phragmites sorry. i think pampas is denser and paler.
this is so sad. i bike on that road multiple times per week, sometimes at night (with lights), and i’ve always felt it was pretty safe with the wide shoulder. 
but at the same time, people are regularly speeding by. the same thing happens on the long stretches of road in île-bizard. it’s not uncommon to see cars racing side-by-side in these areas, especially with the bored kids driving daddy’s car during the pandemic. 
then there’s the whole other issue of texting while driving. 
i’m not saying that was the case here, but it’s a real shame that someone is dead. cycling in the west island is already sketchy as hell, but to die on a relatively “quiet” road in the middle of the day with a well-used bike path is pretty terrifying.
i bike on that road (chemin de l'anse à l'orme) several times per week and it's hard to imagine how this could have happened.  the road is flat and made of several straight as an arrow stretches with fairly mild curves and great visibility.
on the other hand people do drive very fast on that road (100km/h+) quite regularly, and being so smooth and straight it's easy to get a false sense of security and get distracted.  i am hoping this was not the case.
[google maps - chemin de l'anse a l'orme](
[deleted]
woman, 50, fatally shot by gun
people don't drive very well here. you add the state of the roads. the lack of space for the bike then the aggressiveness of the drivers towards the bikes and bam #facedepikackusurpris
the car didn’t hit the fucking lady the stupid ass driver did.
they need to add concrete barriers here
didn't a guy get hit near that exact spot only a couple days ago?
i bike regularly there and it can get scary at times, lower cars try to avoid pit holes and come more on the side 
it’s sad 😞
i've biked there once and did not feel safe at all. wife and i were just talking yesterday about avoiding that road for our bike rides.
road has 0 stops, long strip, and has a very nice wide curve to incentivise speeding.
i just saw a woman get ran over by a garbage truck yesterday, the same road a cyclist was killed on a couple of months ago. i am kinda terrified to walk around or bike right now.
she was the mother of one of my friends... she has 3 sons. obviously it is unbelievably tragic. i seriously hope that the driver wasn’t intoxicated or on their phone or something; the family is in shambles right now.
it has to be distracted driving or some sort of mechanical issue...this road is as simple as it comes with basically zero distractions.
i absolutely can't believe this happens, all the time. how hard is it to slow down and give a big space when you see cyclists in the open road and there is space to make a safety zone?????????????
the curse of cars without ~~ drivers ~~ drivers.
> police investigating to determine why driver failed to navigate curve on l'anse-à-l'orme road
because people can't drive for shit.
i just moved here from west coast. being a driver myself, i find montreal drivers impatient, pushy, and sometimes dangerous. that being said, most cyclists are entitled and oblivious of rules.
"driver of car kills 50 year old woman". newspapers need to stop letting drivers off the hook.
i bike and i drive a lot in montreal..i do take a lot more risks while biking than driving and i see a lot of cyclist doing so.
didn’t they hit face to face in the dark? the bike fronting on the wrong side of the road
as a driver, you have to be extra cautious. but i also know that most people on bikes don’t follow rules on the road and riding like they have 9 lives.
i don't understand why this sub cares so much about cyclists dying. people die in accidents every day; from falling, to cars, bikes etc. does there really need to be a fucking torrid conversation about this that becomes factionalized because ya'll have nothing better to do than argue about bikes vs cars? it is a tragedy, but who the fuck cares.
another fine exemple that bikes should gtfo of the road and go on bike lanes.
her child is a secondary 5 student at my school. i can’t imagine how sad it is to lose their mother at 17.
bike lanes are nice and all but solid lines don't protect bike riders from dangerous drivers. metal bars or concrete barriers are needed for that but it's expensive and the cities are not willing.
what makes you feel like cycling is sketchy in the west island? you mean due to the lack of bike paths on some roads like lakeshore? or other stuff too?
i also bike there often, no vehicle goes under 50 km/h. more like 80 to 100. try that and you’ll get a queue of angry pickups behind you. and i never saw any radar.
i agree with you. i live on one of those stretch of île-bizard and it's really boring.
all my condolences to the family.
bord du lac in ile bizard in some spots barely fits two cars side by side as it is.  it's an awful road for drivers and cyclists to have to share.
29 years old, my money's on texting. it's retarded how many people of my generation i see taking snaps, not even looking at the road while driving. what's even more infuriating is that our phones absolutely know when we drive, they should not allow you to use your phone easily while driving
it's a long stretch of road with no stops, no speed bumps. it's not surprising at all that speed was a factor.
if that road is so important for through traffic, then the city should build a physically separated bike lane and pedestrian lane.
if the road is just a park road though, then the city should install speed bumps and other speed reducing features.
same, i used to drive along l'anse-a-l'orme to go to highschool for 5 years.
there's absolutely no excuse. none. she was 100% speeding or texting while driving. it's extremely easy to navigate on that road.
i remember back when i was a kid, other rich kids from college charlemagne used to race on that road.
between the possibility that she was speeding her ass off and the possibility that she had her face buried in her instagram feed, i wonder if we're looking at another emma czornobaj type of trial.
there's a similar road heading to my sisters place, nice quiet narrow backroad, people speed so much on them, there's regularly accidents around curves or turns because of this. allow people the space to break the rules and they sure as hell will.
i know, it's a bit crazy there but i've never had really scary moments. i haven't been around there lately...however, there are some speeders and crazy drivers.
they are bending over backwards to not anger car addicts
10 years farm in a pound. having said that, what a horrible drama.
what am i missing here? the title names perfect sense to me.
note that the woman was not wearing a helmet.
this is not the case with elm handle. it is in good condition. there are bicycle lanes on both sides. it's really on the driver or a mechanical problem.
i don’t know why everyone’s getting hung up semantics here. “struck by car” is perfectly fine. 
if we say “woman killed by blow to head with baseball bat” you morons would be complaining that the baseball bat didn’t kill her the person who swung it did. we know that. it’s implied.
yes that's implied.
not sure why you hope that. what's done is done. hopefully they figure out just what happened, so that they can mete out the appropriate punishment if any. there's always the chance that it wasn't negligent operation on the driver's part... it could have been a mechanical malfunction of the car. that would be really tragic. one innocent life lost and another one scarred.
there are a lot of dumb, impulsive people out there.
talking about the west island in particular, at some times of day you'll see quite a few people doing damn near 70 km/h on boul. des sources or st-jean, which are zoned at 50 km/h for their entire lengths.
and cyclists who throw themselves on the cars.
yesterday i ate soba noodles.
the answer is no, and you might find out by reading the first 10 lines of the article.
it was at quarter after noon, full daylight.
it's an unpopular opinion but so true. i go out of my way to pass cyclists at a safe distance, even when they're riding in the street and avoiding the bike path 5 feet away. i slam on the brakes when they come flying down a side street, skip their stop sign, and dart right in front of my moving car. i am careful to spot the cyclists dressed all in black with no reflectors at nighttime and give them an extra wide berth.
i truly don't want to maim you, cyclists. please stop making it so hard...
traffic light...stop sign...i dare a cyclist to stop fully at either...even i slow down through then when i bike and i would never be like this in a car.
nuns' island has many good places for walking.
i see some rust, we throw it on the ground pi we start again! no choice.
nice pic! where is this exactly? and i'm personally a fan of the area and the people even though i don't live there. ☺
you mean verdun. 
my sister hates when i remind her that despite living on nun's island that she's part of verdun. fucking postal code snobs.
damn that'd be a nice fishing spot
looks pretty sturdy
[removed]
among other things, right in the middle of the cycle path! really a great spot for walking 4 wide. it allows me to talk to my gang all at the same time and piss off the pleb on the bike! win win! / s
rust isn't necessarily bad when it stays on the surface, it protects the rest of the part from rusting as well. what is bad is when it becomes embedded in depth and causes a loss of section per sheet of the metal part.
the two new bridges: champlain and that of nuns' island were built with pieces of steel already attacked by rust (according to a welder-fitter friend who worked on the champlain bridge). in a few years (read in 5 years max) we will have to do major work to repair or replace parts of the bridge. the main tower is already supposedly rotting.
north of the island, right under the bridge off the bicycle path, there's a path around the base of the bridge. here: 
but isnt this literally on nuns island?
and verdun is part of montreal which is part of quebec, but saying this is in quebec or verdun doesn't help to locate the actual place... it is literally on the island.
l'ile has the worst fucking people in the city. i work there and the snobbery and entitlement is off the chart, i know people who relocated because they couldnt stand the assholes client we got. they all seem to think they are all super cool because they have money.
i am not familiar with the history of this issue, what's wrong with being part of verdun?
nun's island used to be like that, but lots of diversity in recent years
that’s like correcting someone who says they live in pierrefonds and saying “no, you mean montreal”.
you’re being annoyingly obtuse and pedantic and i’d be willing to bet a lot of people dislike you immensely.
people who are like this are the worst.
“ahhhhkshually!”
nobody cares about the semantics of this. nobody is going to say “i live in verdun” who lives on that island - and yes, we all realize that it’s technically part of the same borough.
it depends where the rust is.
in some cases, it even helps protect the structure.
if you're not a materials / structure specialist, keep your fear-mongering comments to yourself, you just look like a platform manager who is whining through his hat.
(same goes for your welder-fitter friend: if he's been told to use these parts, it's because they're ok. if they're not, the engineer in charge is going to be in deep shit (aka losing his license to practice + prosecution) a professional does not want that for his career.)
thanks so much!
nuns island is part of verdun.
literally yes. but there is no longer a cloister of nuns living there, and i just enjoy reminding my sister and others that it really is part of verdun.
“where is this place?”
“quebec”
“wow great, thanks”
i’ve lived on nuns island basically my whole life. there are a few people like that, just like *basically everywhere*. the normal people just don’t draw attention to themselves, so of course you’re going to remember the worst, especially when you already hold a prejudice against them.
if you actually compare similar homes on nuns island vs verdun you will see it is cheaper to live on nuns island. the island just has a lot more high end homes built more recently. 
nuns island has tons of rental units available for under $2k for 2db, 2bth and parking. try finding this in verdun.
nun's island is a shithole, they should be happy to be included as a part of verdun. verdun has a lot more going for it than nun's island ever did.
[deleted]
the stereotype is that everyone in ids is rich and snob and doesn't want to be associated with the verdun plebs. tbh though not everyone is rich (lol, not me) or snob so don't lump us all in the same basket. i do feel it's important to tell people i live on the island and not in actual verdun because otherwise they don't understand when i don't wanna go out on sundays because the bus schedule is shit (i wasn't kidding when i said i'm not rich!).
absolutely nothing except if you live on ile des soeurs. they're like vegans who insist on telling you despite the fact it's not relevant.
serious difference in avg income, quality of homes, services.  folks on nuns island don't want to be associated with verdun.  at least the ones that care.
> platform manager
stage engineer!
take a chill pill mon coco, it really comes to seek you in the depths of your expertise in podium management. i take the words of a welder fitter, i even added a "supposedly", it's worth what it's worth.
that’s the city, but the actual island is called nun’s island, so you can be in verdun while being on nun’s island.
who cares? why would you correct for that. you're not wrong, youre just an asshole
it's like correcting someone who says he's in old montreal saying he's in ville-marie, that's correct, but just fucking stupid.
true.
i don't think i met everyone on nuns island, but the ones i met are incredibly snobby and give the whole place a "nice" reputation.
(the type that judge you because you're only driving a mitsubishi instead of a bmw.)
of course i know it's not everyone (i was visiting a friend who's not snobby), but it's a general vibe you get even at the grocery store where cashiers seem to judge you when you buy something of a cheaper brand.
our island is a weird combination of multi-million homes and us plebs in the thousands if rental units right next door. my kids came back from school a few times asking why we don't have a tesla or a chalet in the mountains like x and y in their class.
this thread is tops! 🥲🍿
just to keep the magic going - ndg > westmount because they have cheaper housing...
i'm not rich by any stretch of the imagination. i use "verdun, qc" when i give my address. but i tell people i live specifically on nuns island just because it's so geographically detached from the rest of the city and sometimes hard to access/exit because of the only 2 bridges and endless roadwork around them.
about a platform manager with a diploma in the subject.
a "supposedly" does not negate the bullshit of the rest of the paragraph.
welcome to blocked.
>youre just an asshole
so you've based your worthless opinion on me based on one sentence? how intelligent.
personally i correct people who say who will eat in saint-paul in the old port
> but just fucking stupid.
use your adult words next time.
i see you're from ile dorval and not that wretched dorval. good for you. i live on ile perrot but not in ile perrot so i better make sure everyone knows.
i mean... i hear you, but i think if the vast majority of people you meet on the island give you that impression, maybe it’s insecurity in oneself? like i said, i grew up here, my parents are low middle class income, definitely had more than some of my friends from verdun with parents on welfare growing up. but everyone who works at the grocery store, the cashiers etc don’t look in the slightest bit snobby to me- maybe a little at the iga but they’re in uniform. i’ve felt more judged in other parts of montreal. i dress like a complete stinky hobo, live in a crappy but cozy apt for under $1000 too and no one has ever lifted their nose up at me except a couple snobby grannies over the years.
i'm curious, i've always used verdun, qc for my shipping address but aren't we supposed to use montréal, qc?
i'm still living in the 80s...
do you often fart like that during trivial discussions, or do you keep it healthy that for the internet your milk rushes?
that sentence doesnt define you, b; i dont define you. but take the hint, roll it back an inch, and keep on truckin! positive vibes only dawg!
oh, i don't deny there might be a slight insecurity on my part, i only shared the general feeling i got.
looks like people "know" you're not from there and look at you in a weird way. but the same could be said of any bmw/cadillac driver (or cyclist with the stretch suit) around montreal who believe they own the soil they drive/cycle on.
(i never said it affected me, tho..  i just noticed it.)
interestingly, despite museums being closed due to covid, private galleries are open for their exhibitions (some by appointment). i saw a beautiful exhibition by françoise sullivan a few weeks ago, it puts a little color in our pocket lives.
wow, another british columbian! 
welcome to québec!
you might start hating the snow as the winter goes on.... but don't worry, we all do haha! still beautiful every year! and if you do start hating it, don't worry! spring is on its way
welcome to montreal! cool painting btw
it captures the vibe on rene levesque really well
welcome to montreal! i liked your rainy day paintings of vancouver, it's good to see you bringing that to this old city.
very nice job - may i know location?
nice!
fantastic! makes me longing even more to go back downtown every day and lose myself discovering new place. i think the lighting perfectly captures the dual calmness and wonder of montréal.
keep on on painting, you are really good. :) that's the kind of things i would like on my walls!
i can't imagine how much more you would love this place if it was a normal year and not 2020.
this is lovely!
sheesh, i wish i had money to go live in bc, but indeed, i guess you'd still be there if it wasn't so expensive, eh?
what a beautiful depiction of montreal's downtown at night! it's very cozy :)
omg this is amazing! can you contact me for a portrait commission??
do you have a website where you sell these? this is lovely.
i like this a lot lot lot.
i know this place lol
don’t speak for everyone. :) i hate snowless winters, the most depressing thing ever
thanks! i'm actually excited for the snow - i've spent a lot of time up north and in the mountains, so i'm keen to have it at home in a place that actually knows how to plow its streets!
looks like the maisonneuve bike path to me.
thanks!
sorry, i wish i could give you the exact intersection, but i took the reference photo i used on my dslr and it doesn't log location data! i'm not familiar enough with the particular regions yet to know exactly where, other than it was somewhere in/close to downtown
hey, thanks! yeah, while it's weird to relocate during covid, i'm enjoying the focus it's put on me exploring in 'safe' ways. i've been lucky to spend a ton of time on foot just wandering and getting a sense of place here. it's a beautiful city!
same! i've got friends here (also working in creative industries) who have made it their mission to let me know exactly what i'm missing, haha. i'm looking forward to maybe some degree of normal next summer!
actually, no! the insane cost of living certainly factored into it, but vancouver lacks a lots of what makes a city a 'city' and relies on it's outdoor activities as attractions... which, when you lack the time or finances to take advantage of them, makes life difficult. i'm both very arts- and culture-focused as well as very outdoorsy, and even having been doing well financially there, i still had to fight to find the time or money to enjoy my surroundings. even in the era of covid, i've found this city (in the tiny amount of time i've been here) more accomodating and appreciative of the arts, so that's an improvement already! it's so nice to be around a populace that, on average, seems to appreciate the finer things in life more.
thanks! i do [here]( :)
snow is great, heavy snow accumulation is great only on mountains. but you're right: nothing sucks more than nov-early dec weather
if that's the case, i guess it's far from what you'd find in bc but montreal has plenty of fine ski hills spread around, you should give them a look. some less than 1 hour away!   
coming from manitoba they certainly made me enjoy last winter way more than the previous ones, and now i'm actually looking forward for the snow!
also worth checking, the city maintains some great public skate rings, which might have not been an option depending on where you were in bc
everyone talks about hating the snow but i'm also a west coaster who came to the east. i just remember to keep a positive attitude and the snow is never as bad as people make it out to be!
also once you've experienced a single summer in montreal with no ac you will never complain about the cold again.
yeah, i feel like i'm at maisonneuve and metcalfe, looking towards mcgill college.
well, keep painting.  you are very talented and hope you continue to enjoy montreal.
i was in vancouver first time ever last august (and outside québec and ontario when it comes down to canada), city was beautiful, but i did found a "beverly hiĺls" vibe where i feel like i'd really need big money (basically saving money way more than i do here) to be able to "mix" with people more confidently in vancouver... but again, just a vibe for the 5 days i was there.
i've written a ton about this in very similar tones as well op. moved here from abbotsford five years ago.
i was considering vancouver since i used to visit fairly regularly for culture & activities, but i only had to visit montreal once to fall in love with the city.
the inaffordability there makes it really worse, but at it's core it's kinda a sleepy town that grew big quickly. it lacks, i find, the sort of world-facing metropolitanism i find otherwise in an older city like montreal.
people are content not being too ambitious. doing interesting things in life is secondary to making money, and that too mostly because living there has become so expensive.
it used to be the city to go to for a easy, quiet life. enjoying nature, raising your kids. i still think it hasn't much moved beyond that, but it's just become quite hard to even have that.
i imagine you grew up there as well, but as a transplant to vancouver itself, being that i was an international student and then immigrant, i found it quite isolating as a city. even though i had regular events i participated in and got to meet a lot of people, it was a hard place in getting past the cliques people had already established for themselves.
i do miss the nature though, but i feel like people actually get out as part of their regular life a lot more here. vancouver and environs have a lot of people who talk about the outdoors more than they actually partake. there's a few hardcore that totally _abuse_ the advantage of living next to such world-class nature; good for them. i've always been more into culture and i love living in canada's biggest francophone city, it's cultural heart etc.
worse is that agonizing 2 months where spring is just muddy and gross and we all waiting for the temperature to go back up and the plants to grow.
that lasts for 2 weeks, then we're melting.
thanks! i think i will (in every regard)
i totally agree, and i've spent most of my life there! every niche community is rather restricted (whether they mean to be or not) by your connections to that community, so it's hard for anyone to find their niche without squeezing their way in via events (which are often expensive) and strong social skills. it takes tons of effort to find one's way into good company outside of coworkers. i was lucky to find any degree of success in the arts the way i did, and that took more networking than any of my friends in classically higher-paying fields abroad. vancouver is a wonderful place to vacation if you have the funds to travel between the mountains and beach... but it's far from comfortably liveable.
you've hit the nail on the head here!
i did grow up in the greater vancouver region, but moved so much through the city and the suburbs as a child/young adult that i never really put roots down and therefore found my 'clique'. it is a very exclusionary region. 
i miss the nature, too - i used to run trail races, once upon a time - but i found so much lacking in my day-to-day life that not having quick access to the north   shore mountains is a worthy sacrifice. you're right: people here do get outdoors far more! i hated that, in vancouver, you either had to live directly in one of the 'artsy' neighbourhoods or regularly drive/take public transport to get anywhere with galleries or artists or live music (when that was a thing), or even some basic life needs. here, i get every amenity i could possibly require within 20-30 minutes of walking. public galleries might be concentrated in a certain area, but there's no shortage of private galleries spread out across the city, and while indoor concerts might be prohibited right now, i've certainly seen the signage around everywhere.
it's nice to hear someone reflect my thoughts on this change! i love having the opportunity to improve my still-terrible conversational french (because the west coast, at best, teaches you to read well and nothing else). i love the culture and the pride people here take in their surroundings. i don't know that anywhere quite feels like home to me, but this city definitely feels welcoming!
i understand that those silo represent a historical moment of industrial activity in the old port... but really aren't they more of an eyesore than anything else?
not every "historical" thing should be preserved.
ugly and a waste of space.
make this area a park or something nice..
or let artists paint the building and build some restaurants and activities into it, adding balconies and more.
i live nearby, and have grown really fond of it.
it is one of the worlds first reinforced concrete structures of its scale, it turned montreal into canada’s grain hub during the war, and could accept stock from land, sea, and rail at the same time. 
frankly, i don’t even think it’s ugly. no more so than a rocky cliff, which most people find beautiful.
the view from the roof is wonderful: d
so beautiful, dont touch my silo!
i love it. i think it’s got character. i would much rather look at this then a new condo building or some other generic building. this silo is part of the city’s history and i believe it should be preserved. but that’s just me.
this ugly rusty pile of concrete should be destroyed. you cannot do anything secure out of it. what a waste of usefull space on the old port. give it back to the public as a parc with outdoor street food!
you’re not wrong but i’ve had great memories in and around the silo. it would feel weird if it got replaced by condo’s
i dunno, i love it!
honestly i kinda like it
canada maltage it’s actually a big company that use the silos they are making malt for all the big beer companies
yeah, it's such a shame they're just letting it rot like this. i wish they could've turned it into something useful where we'd be allowed to go inside. i'd definitely be down for another historical museum.
thanks for  the additional info! 
it’s definitely a love/hate kinda thing.
personally, i'd rather look at this badass relic from the industrial age rather than having the place invaded by $12 gril cheese food trucks, but i do have a major fondness for old industrial behemoths like this beauty. i just love walking around this thing, looking at it..
it could be used for google's data center purposes, instead of wiping out forests on the south shore for a new building.
isn't canada maltage located right by five roses though? (you pass right by it when you take the section of the bike track that goes under the bonaventure highway towards cité du havre and the islands).
yes
anyway, soon 80% of workers in montreal will live in the suburbs, so real estate is becoming overpriced.
i'm originally from minneapolis where obviously there's been a lot of recent discussion of police reform due to george floyd and other less nationally known cases (philando castille, justine damond, etc). we have the same issue of suburbanites playing soldier downtown. i don't perceive things as being equally bad in montreal as back home but residency requirements for police was one of the options floated to make cops more connected with the communities they're supposed to protect. wonder if that could be done here.
i am not trying to excuse the situation, but i will be surprised at the% of municipal employees who live outside the city for which he / she works
i mean ok, but also...so do a ton of people in their 30s/40s/50s because who the hell can afford a family sized place in montreal anyway. no shit.
normal, it's hard to buy in montreal even with a police officer's salary.
a plateau policeman will have a hard time finding something he can afford, for example.
not surprisingly, and that potentially explains a lot.
[deleted]
[deleted]
if i was a cop the very last thing would be to live where i work. it only makes sense to not be recognized and live far away, same goes for any law enforcement profession.
in some places this is done on purpose, so police don’t have ties to the neighbourhoods where they work, makes it easier to act like garbage when you don’t have to face the neighbours / beat on people you know.
i am not criticizing the police for these choices. on the other hand, i can't help but think that if the policemen lived on the island, there might be a better understanding of the people so they are supposed to protect.
reading this reminds me of the many studies i have read over the years on "community policing" but especially [this] ( scene in the wire series.
they do not represent us in our diversity, in our way of life, etc. it's too bad.
it's just all the rental properties they own that are in the city.
all it takes is a weight on the location during your online application. if you live in montreal while you apply, but decide to move out after, it should have no weight.
why am i not surprised.
if i were a police officer, i too would avoid living in my post district. don't want to be recognized at the grocery store with my kids, it can be dangerous.
i'm sure these stats are worse at the stm.
do the count for blue collar workers and the stm, it might not be that different.
not sure you want to be the police and live not far from your job and meet some of your * customers * while shopping for groceries
not surprisingly, it is and has always been the case everywhere.
but it's a bit stupid as a statistic. if prices go up for houses in montreal, are the police forced to pay for more expensive houses?
bin yes because everyone who works in the city center must / can live there. or westmount, mtl-royal city etc ... great journalism.
large reason why it is it’s hard to buy in montreal on cuntstable pay and then you run into the risk of seeing the vermin you arrested when you’re off duty
** problem: ** police behavior (aggressive, condescending, abrupt and violent, etc.)
** solution: ** severe repercussions on bad police officers (dismissal, unpaid leave, etc.) and body cam.
** false solution: ** fo ki goes to their grocery store ak the people they supervise. fo ki play o basketball and have they laugh like in a 1980s movie clip and my feed tiktok.
and surely 100% of the police officers in nyc… it's not surprising
i think you are not allowed to work where you live
ok ... and the police probably vote for the caq, and never for qs. it is quite logical that they live in the suburbs.
montreal is perceived, often rightly, as a city of intellectuals, artists and professionals on the left. the problem is montreal which has become polarized. we just have to look at an electoral map to see it.
don't attract commuters to montreal. rather, we must convince montrealers to turn to the police forces ... and that would be an achievement.
and is it just the bosses who occupy the houses in montreal? the island of bosses.
don't worry, the suburbs are also getting overpriced
hmmm in the suburbs here it has increased by 38% in 1 year ... so it could really be bought here either
[deleted]
that's a really interesting point, i think being integrated in the actual community of the city being promoted and encouraged could really help steer away from the us vs. them mentality. i genuinely feel the regard of regular citizens being unfavourable by police in most interactions with spvm officers i've had. i hope relations improve!
> suburbanites playing soldier downtown.
best tl;dr.
one risk factor is that you don't really want your cop to meet his "customers" (ce qu'on appelle la clientèle) when he's off duty. that's a safety / harassment risk for both sides.
that said, same city doesn't mean same neighbourhood, so that would probably be an acceptable demand.
>wonder if that could be done here.
short answer, no. the scc has ruled that employers cannot force residency requirements on an employee. it would need to be done through some kind of incentive. 
realistically, houses in the suburbs on the island are beyond the pay scale of a police officer these days, so they move off the island.  
there's also the fact that the problem areas tend to be poorer and more dangerous to live in, so nobody making a decent salary would actually choose to live there and you kind of reach an impasse with this idea.
a montreal cop literally kneeled on a black teens neck the other day. pretty sure our cops are just as bad unfortunately
i understand some of what you're saying here but do you really want to force a worker to live in a part of town he or she may not be able to afford, just so they can have a job?  downtown residency is generally for doctors, lawyers, trust fund babies and the wealthy.  if the housing is affordable anywhere downtown, it is probably substandard.
not bad 50/50 i think.
but i also believe that there is a rule that the policeman cannot patrol in the same city he lives
except police are paid very well, have great job security, have great pensions and need to be held to a higher standard generally. i don't care if my dentist lives off the island.
the average policeman earns much more than the average plateau resident. or the average montrealer. the average montrealer lives on the island, despite the prices and less money. one would have to wonder why the police do not attract montrealers as a profession.
yes and the average value of a property, for example in outremont, is above $ 2m
so we forget vmr, outremont, westmount and many areas of ahuntsic, large sections of the west island and almost everywhere near waterways.
like what?
do you think café workers in manhattan have walkups off of central park?  zero chance.  they are subway'ing in from another burough or even beyond.  this has to do with affordability.
exactly. you know those news stories or situations in movies where some crazy thing happened but someone's like "don't worry! i'm an off-duty cop! not going to allow this behaviour in *my neighbourhood*!" and saves the day?! that likely hood is 20% vs other cities! 
not to mention if this continues to be the case, the % of retired cops is likely also a tiny number!
like what? that they are stuck in traffic too?
might be the logic behind it, but a lot of people who live outside montreal don't like the city and its inhabitants, so they're probably policing with that attitude. plus, there's no sense of community. they don't care what happens either way, so it doesn't change anything for them if they antagonize people.
edit: spelling
says something about the nature of the job, doesn’t it?
i think it would be _better_ if they had ties to the community, understood the locals and local issues. i think their approach would be less violent, and there would be more cooperation between residents and the police.
> if i was a cop the very last thing would be to live where i work. it only makes sense to not be recognized and live far away
imagine wanting to be a cop and being afraid of the people you serve. i mean, it explains a lot, but it's still pretty pathetic.
the very last thing you would want is accountability as an enforcer of the law in your community? sounds like a cop alright.
interestingly, the west tower is called * perseverance * and the east tower is * temperance *. the latter is directly next to an saq branch!
i like the hole in the sky
upvote for not having said "cathedral" ...
i cannot wait for things to get under control. day trips from vermont to montreal are the best.
you should cross-post to /r/evilbuilding 
it looks like a dual tower eye of sauron
nice shot.if you adjust your shadows, you'll reveal some of the dark areas of the basilica.
stunner
what the camera?
was this a cell phone camera?
can't wait to get some beer at hill farmstead in vermont!
i can’t wait for weekend trips from montreal to vermont !
sauron, now with depth perception!
you can also take down some of the highlights. [revised ndb](
iphone 12 mini!
oh wow, that looks really good! i took the photo and just posted it. i didn’t know how to edit it. thanks for the tips!
thanks!
[deleted]
isn’t this type of thing why we have the amber alert, what the hell?!
so quebec will be using amber alert to remind people to obey curfew or they will be fined but won't use it for a missing kid?
wtf?
i would check police dashcams they used to drive aboriginal woman to remote places and take their winter coats so they have to walk back in winter, as punishment for being drunk, maybe they did to her also
maybe dont wait 5 days to tell? 🤦‍♂️
the public  should know about the circonstance prior to her going missing ...how can we find her or think like a 13 yo girl ... 
13 in 2021 is not the 13 .. 1988 ..
she left with no winter coat so is it a possible familial dispute ? 
we need to know what happend ?? 
montreal police probably think she just a frustrated teenager who just runaway ..no big deal ...
i really hope they find her, i hope she is okay
just go ahead and add her name to the ever-growing list of mmiwg...
these articles make me ask what i could do to help. i'm an expat on a work permit, which makes it difficult (i can't foster until i get my pr). ideally i'd like to support young mothers, i don't know if there a any programs specifically for that. though really open to anything
[deleted]
what kind of photo is that. we can see what she looks like other than with a mugshot or she looks like 40 years old
[deleted]
no, an amber alert has three specific criteria:
> 1. the police have reason to believe that the missing child (someone under 18 years of age) has been abducted
2. the police have reason to believe that the physical safety or the life of the child is in serious danger
3. the police have information that may help locate the child, the suspect and/or the suspect's vehicle
its total bullshit. also why are we just hearing about this now
thats awful
they probably reached their work quota for the month that day, so they didn't care much about it. 🙄
or the person reporting it did it with a completely lazy/useless officer; too busy cherry picking cases.
> editor's note: cbc has removed the name and photo from this story. now that this person is no longer missing, the identity is no longer in the public interest.
i think evil lurks closer from hone
[removed]
"cecire frequented downtown montreal, police say, and investigators have reason to fear for her safety."
who is it that lets her 13 year old daughter "frequent downtown montreal"?
well, the 3 criteria seems to be checked. she is under 18 y.o., they fear for her safety and they have her description and her last location. i feel like they were amber alert for much less...
[deleted]
[deleted]
thank you for letting us know!
is that unreasonable? it's not clear to me what time of day this was nor how far from her home downtown montreal would be.
they probably don't have reason to believe she was abducted, which is needed to issue an amber alert
note that amber alerts for abducted children are just one use of the emergency notification system. if you were listening to the (broadcast) radio while driving you would get the same alert. 
people complain enough about receiving emergency notifications for amber alerts meeting the strict criteria, can you imagine the response if you got one for every missing persons case?
humans can be fucking vile
i would absolutely never let my daughters "hang out" downtown at 13 !
( in addition to the fact that we're under a lockdown for month and should not "hang out" with anyone anywhere )
shes 13 and on the streets for days, i cant think of another explanation.
no arguments here about hanging out during the pandemic.
but that aside, some people live downtown. clearly a 13 year old who lives downtown could hang out downtown. to my mind, the question is if downtown is 2 streets over or 2 towns over.
[deleted]
abduction means she would have to have been forcibly taken by someone against her will. i’m not saying this definitely didn’t happen, but it’s not the only explanation. she could be somewhere safe voluntarily, somewhere unsafe voluntarily, or even somewhere unsafe involuntarily, but unless she was taken there against her will, it wouldn’t be considered an abduction and therefore wouldn’t meet the amber alert criteria.
there’s also the tragic possibilities of suicide, homicide, or accidental death.
yes the public should be made aware and significant resources be dedicated towards finding her, because a 13 year old missing for almost a week without a coat in the middle of winter is very concerning, but unfortunately amber alert criteria is very specific.
there's no where to run. she is either in someones home, or on the streets. the streets is not really possible since it was like -20c the past few days not to mention the curfew. best case scenario an adult is knowingly allowing this which could still easily be seen as abducted. we are dealing with a very fine line here and considering her age, i wouldnt be playing around with words and just take it serious.
[deleted]
i never implied otherwise. never thought id have to clarify this. lol
you didn't it was very clear.
incidentally, the political attaché of ensemble montreal subsequently decided to delete his twitter account.
my theory is that the timing was wrong to unveil their political strategy based on a poll, as 233 deaths in bc were investigated by the heatwave.
in truth ! his poll might also not have "climate change" as a choice of answer. it's as stupid as that.
also, if the party had no climate project before having conducted a poll, it loses credibility.
i notice that the fight against corruption is not on their radar either.
happy to see they intend on governing surveys and not people
i now understand why we become more cynical as we get older. it is a defense mechanism. we are all going to die because of the government's inaction, and there is little i can do as an individual ... so i start to laugh about it. because i'm tired of stressing over things i feel like i have no control over. cynicism as a means of maintaining sanity.
but what an idiot!
the perfect guy to represent coderre ...
that caaaaave ahahaha
also, there is public transportation and bike paths on the list. from a climate change point of view, these are quite a few capital issues.
does he know it was a public question and not internal campaign brainstorming?
* appear
the same guy as when he was a journalist did an arm job for coderre. then named political attaché, it is beautiful such coincidences.
i would pose this positive though. there is something incredibly positive about being answered honestly in a context like this. it is really when the political class tells us the truth that we can most easily judge their real value.
at the risk of making me negotiate; what would be the projects at the municipal level that would have a (significant) effect in countering climate change? the electrification of public transport?
i definitely see a potential impact of large-scale projects and legislation at the provincial and federal level but let's be realistic ... building cycle paths is more a question of quality of life and good urban development rather than a project against climate changes.
edit: let's put the building code that would force the installation of electrical terminals for new condos, is that under provincial or municipal jurisdiction?
please do not vote coderre, coderre in power that would be terrible. it would leave a mark on the city
still hilarious that he gets shot because he accidentally said out loud the strategy of all political parties for 80 years in quebec and elsewhere.
nice lack of french.
funny, there are a lot of issues that relate directly to climate change and the environment.
guillaume pelletier does not seem to be an element to prioritize for montreal either.
the guy ate well today, there's no need to worry about hunger in the world.
do not appear *
i know who i won't vote for
it's funny, there is also a guillaume peltier in france and he's also a right-wing moron who tries to pick up boomers.
good deal!
political faux pas
too bad we seem not to care that governments with the powers and responsibilities to do something in the environment (caq and plc) do nothing
and concretely, i do not see what the plante government has done positively in the environmental file with the exodus to the suburbs which is taking place at the moment because of the housing crisis and the problems of quality of life in the city.
what can montreal city officials do about global warming? nothing.
what they can do is improve public transport and waste recycling services. it won't change global warming ... so, no, global warming is not a problem that montreal can solve or even have a noticeable impact.
tbk it's just the heat .... we haven't even reached the famine stage, etc.
without wanting to do in climate denial, it is not yet proven that this heat wave is due to global warming. this is possibly an anomaly that occurs very rarely. so there is a correlation, but no proof of causation yet.
moreover, it remains a survey that we answer according to the fears of the moment.
you ask that during the winter with the covid and the confinement, so economic development is important, and the bike path in the snow is not. you're asking that right now when there is a visible economic recovery but hundreds of deaths in canada because of cooking at 50 degrees celsius, the answer changes.
this is the policy. no real convictions, we probe the popular conscience to find out what we must promise to gain the confidence and the votes of the population to then do whatever the fuck we wanted in the first place.
in addition, if we look at the figures in the survey, half of the respondents are in the 65+ category ...
are you implying that this politician is showing bad faith you there?
it's coderre, does he still have credibility to lose?
the firefighters are not going to start spraying themselves.
do you think there's a lot of corruption left?
> we are all going to die because of the government's inaction,
i encourage you to get involved with green movements that put pressure on governments and take direct action (extinction rebellion, greenpeace, or whatever tempts you the most).
it is far from certain that it will work, but to do nothing is to accept that we are going against the wall.
[* this world is a comedy for those who think, a tragedy for those who \ [res \] feel. *] ( -tragedie-sentent-40005.html)
**horace walpole**
the government is us. if the population has no vision and focuses on their little individual life and their little daily problems, we have the politicians we deserve. do you have the choice to save future generations by making difficult choices or to lower taxes or keep the status quo? who are people going to vote for?
i am disheartened by the human race and understand why there is so much cynicism.
the way to maintain your sanity isn't to be cynical, it's to moderate your expectations, and focus your attention where it matters. to ignore the most negative elements that attract a feeling of cynicism such as political parties that do nothing for the environment and instead pay attention to those who do the work that matters (scientists, pro-environment political movements, etc.). if you just focus on the worst things you'll get nowhere.
cynicism is an immature and irrational way of reacting to adversity. this is whining for those who don't want to admit they whine. it's no use.
the average person is too dumb to relate these things.
thank you ! when you were a journalist then a political attaché and you don't know how to conjugate a verb in the present tense ...
i have some examples for you:
-obligation for all new urban development projects to follow leed or envision style environmental standards. (which require waste / energy / water consumption reduction, recycling and public consultation.)
-reduction / ban on the sale of single-use containers that are not biodegradable or compostable.
-paint in white or add vegetation to the roofs of buildings to reduce heat islands in the city.
there are others, but that's what comes to me "on top of my head".
indeed, the stakes are played mainly at the federal / provincial level. for the municipal, we can think of the place of the car and more broadly of the alternatives of transport (number of parking spaces, cycle paths, bixi, etc.). there is also urban sprawl (density of residential projects, access by public transport, etc.), heat islands, the preservation of natural environments, ...
there is a lot to do at the municipal level. we must prioritize the conservation of green spaces and woodlands. currently there are a lot of woodlands that will be destroyed in the coming years for the construction of condos, while there is a lot of vacant industrial land available nearby. the area near the assomption metro is a good example.
some ideas:
- pricing of all on-street parking spaces
- zoning for densification
- pedestrianization of part of the city (old montreal?)
- reduction of heat islands
- more park, less street
no more public transport (even non-electrified). it is generally poorly served when leaving the central districts and it forces many to use their car.
> but let's be realistic ... building cycle paths is more a question of quality of life and good urban development rather than a project against climate change.
if you can live on foot / by bike, then you no longer need your car and you generate less ghgs (then if fewer cars are built, less ghg production, etc.)
for example, when i could in the past, i would walk for groceries. now i have to take the car because i am in the region and it is clear that i am currently generating a lot more ghgs, to my great despair.
> edit: let's put the building code that would force the installation of electrical terminals for new condos, is that under provincial or municipal jurisdiction?
the provincial makes the [law on land use planning and development] ( then the mrcs / large cities make their plans for development, then cities and municipalities use their respective schemes to establish their regulations (texts which have direct legal force for citizens) and to tie in with regional schemes.
specifically for the example you give, it would be in the town planning regulations of a municipality that we would find this.
when the promoter submits his project to the municipality / city, it will be examined by a person in town planning and depending on the size of the project, it could range from a simple approval to a return to the promoter for changes following a meeting. a multi-departmental evaluation committee (environment, public works, town planning, etc.) but typically this will at least require an evaluation grid to establish compliance with all the criteria that apply. apply to that project.
on the other hand, the elected officials dictate the priorities a lot because they are the ones who live with the consequences of a more or less restrictive regulation in terms of being re-elected or not. if your elected officials think that citizens want beautiful parks and keep mature trees, then they will have regulations created for that, then if it is about something else, then it will be something else.
why do you say they can't do anything and then give examples of things they can do?
the question is about the * effects * of climate change. yes, the fight against climate change is important, but we have to face the facts that we will also have to mitigate the impacts that it will have.
for a large concentration of population like montreal, that can be really important. does montreal have a plan to manage extreme weather events (eg floods, tornadoes or severe thunderstorms, heat waves)?
floods in the west and north of the island in recent years have shown that montreal is vulnerable at this level. and for the heat, there have been discussions of having shuttles to bring elderly people to air-conditioned places when necessary.
i don't know if montreal really needs it, but i think it's worth discussing.
heh ... land use planning, town planning, there's still stuff. and they can put pressure on other orders (especially montreal / quebec) to integrate a more global strategy.
wait this fall, that the observation tower is open, you will have sick views
thank you! i will go back there!
video from the protest that shows that arrests were more or less unprovoked: [
i followed both this protest (and the earlier far-right/conspiracist ones). the police moved in much harder on yesterday's demo than on the conspiracists, even though yesterday's protest  was peaceful (and everyone was wearing masks) while the conspiracists both refused to wear masks while they also attacked police with rock throwing.
i've wrote multiple pages on this that i never posted because i felt like i wasn't saying exactly what i wanted to say. so i'm just going to keep it brief.
i'm 100% against the curfew. the ligue des droits et libertés is absolutely right when they said: 
["... it is obvious that the current situation is very serious and that everyone must play their part in the fight against the coronavirus. but it is not enough to put the weight on individual responsibility and on restrictions on rights and freedoms as important as a curfew. the responsibility of the state is major in this extraordinary situation that we know. "] ( )
we should absolutely be angry with the government right now. we should be angry that our liberty is being restricted because our healthcare system is underfunded and poorly prepared. we should be angry that the government has bungled their response to the pandemic over and over. we should be angry. the past year has been more than uncomfortable for me, among other things i lost my job, my passion, seen friends close their businesses, cancelled so many projects, weddings and trips. i also saw first hand as friends and family working on the front-line experienced the horrors of this pandemic in our healthcare system.
 **but i will fuck my self in the ass with a pineapple** before i go out in a group to protest a temporary suspension of my rights when it may (however unlikely) help keep others alive.  i think it's abhorrent to choose a poorly implemented government measure as a reason to be [protesting](  right now. i respect that the pandemic has affected everyone differently, my experience is not yours. but if you're someone with a similar experience to mine and you're out there protesting with a false pretension of [preserving the rights]( of everyone i'm sure i can find a pineapple for [you]( so that's where i'm at.
with that out of the way this is why **our curfew is a crock of shit**: legault's night time curfew is yet another poorly implemented bastardized half measure of what we now [know]( can be a good non-pharmaceutical response.  if our rights are going to be temporarily limited and our mental health put at risk it better be for a **fucking well thought out and scientifically supported** plan.  in fact despite the [many confounding factors]( that make a meta-analysis of curfew efficacy difficult, [studies are showing that more restrictive curfews are effective]( and before anyone jumps in and says "[what about the economy?!]( data from a meta-analysis of pandemic responses suggests: 
["the costly nature of lockdowns is not lasting when they help eradicate the virus and remove the restrictions on people and economies on a sustainable basis. meanwhile, the beneficial nature of curfews and other half-measures fades away when we see that they extend over time, multiplying the economic and social costs..."]( 
if you want some local anecdotal confirmation that's close to my heart go send a message to any of the restaurateurs who planned to open for easter weekend only to find out days before that we were flip-flopping back to a partial lock down again. exemplifying once again the weak leadership pattern of: *half-meausure* -> *cases somewhat decrease* -> *popular decision* -> *cases increase* -> *half measure*.
i think the way that legault has implemented it is only going to compound the conditions by packing people into metros/groceries/parks in more limited hours. the nighttime curfew is the worst of the [yo-yo game]( half measure bullshit that legault has been playing. the entire pandemic he has been talking about "balance"; mental vs physical health, people's lives vs the economy. truly whether he realizes it or not what legault has been "balancing" this whole time is how to displease the fewest number of people for the shortest amount of time. **this is why we are still in the shit**. for months we've been ping-ponging between his unpopular and popular decisions. "we can have christmas/we can't have christmas"; "close the schools/re-open the schools"; "open gyms and restaurants/close gyms and restaurants". it's a cycle of one week we do something out of necessity, then when we finally start to see the positive effects we reverse it for popularity. so what we end up with is a never-ending kick in the pants machine when we could have just got [one good nut shot]( and got it over with.
**so where does that bring us today:**
in terms of new [cases/deaths/hospital occupancy]( things in quebec are going [ok]( but you've got to be kidding yourself if you think that we are more of a few poor policy decisions away from looking just like ontario. today ontario [announced]( that if you have under 70% chance of surviving intubation will be left to die. this was a [direct result]( of flip-flopping between either [bowing to public opinion]( or listening to [health experts](  i just want to be clear here, covid is not the only reason you will be intubated in a hospital, there are people uninfected by covid who will die because of this, we have already seen it [here and elsewhere]( in fact the poor handling of the pandemic and over-loading of public health systems been linked to many more people dying from [other causes]( so yes you should be angry at our government. you should be angry that our healthcare system was teetering on the edge before the pandemic. you should be concerned that our rights are being suspended.  you should be worried about leaving enforcement to the spvm's best "[judgement]( since it has [revealed]( itself to be [laughable](
 yes in it's current form **the curfew is bullshit**. withstanding all this i can't for the life of me can't figure out why this is the hill to die on when the cost of hopping on that hill is only going to hurt others and you had so many hills to get on before it. 
oh and a biiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiig fuck you to anyone reading this who smashed a window last week. if you want to protest and smash things go do it at the government buildings not the small businesses you no balled pieces of shit.
[deleted]
people need to chill, otherwise we'll end up like ontario. a covid dumpster fire. i didn't vote for the current provincial party, but i'm glad their doing much better than ford.
there is a little bit that these people do not understand i do not ... if people respected the other measures at home (especially not to visit friends, families, etc.) and at work, well we do. wouldn't be there, having a curfew at 8 p.m. the government put the curfew because they had no other choice, and the next step would be a total reconfinement, closing businesses, restaurants, schools, daycares, everything, like last spring. don't think it's much better than a curfew, and i don't think they'd be happy either.
curfew is the measure that has proven to be the most effective in stabilizing transmission. why? easier to control probably, everyone at your house at 8 or 9:30, the story ends there. while the other measures are based on individual and collective good faith, and therefore, left room for people not to respect them.
[deleted]
'' hey man, we are going to demonstrate against the abuse of housing prices in montreal !!! ''
'' no time, i'm already demonstrating against the curfew! ''
''serious!! there have already been 150 demonstrations against that in the last few weeks, and there is no host demonstrating against the housing situation !!! ''
"everyone has their own priorities."
i would arrest them just for their music choice lmao
i agree with most of your message, but i don’t disparage the population for not all having the same breaking point that led them to taking some sort of stand against it all. being locked up in small spaces after 8pm (aside from that 9:30 period) for the last three or four months is a legitimate constraint on many people’s mental health. i wouldn’t fault people for not “dying” on some other hill previously as these things don’t need to be mutually exclusive. you can hate the curfew now and have been active in calling for health care reform prior to the curfew for instance.  aside from that, if this is what it takes to finally have people let the government know they’re fed up, then fine. 
secondly, because the curfew, in the opinion of many (including myself) has the potential to create more covid cases for a variety of reasons,  i don’t see any ethical impediment to protesting it. for people sharing this viewpoint, you’re lobbying for a policy shift that makes grocery stores less crowded, you’re encouraging outdoor activity in lieu of indoor activity where cases are way more likely.   if people want to die on that mountain, i salute them whole heartedly.
thanks for taking the time to write this, i really couldn't have said it better myself. seriously stuck between a rock (incompetent government) and a hard place (respecting the gravity of the health crisis). eventually, they need to be held accountable; election day is too far away and the caq popularity is astoundingly high.
thank you so much for this, it captures so much of what i’m feeling and is hilarious. especially the “ill fuck myself in the ass with a pineapple” part. hahaha
thank you!
when i was there there were a few hundred, really not 1000. but i left quite early around 7pm.
i was there, i would say about 500 during the walk (the person i was with thought 600 to 700), it seemed less in the park before the walk started, and obviously less at the very end also when it started ay have a little confrontation. 95% + masked (or even 97-98% +) and no nonsense.
yes they need to chill. outside. in parks. with their friends and families, around a picnic or a bbq. not inside their apartments when the sun is to be shining past fucking 8pm. that's what people need to do.
no one on reddit voted for the caq.  
they're all too old to use computers.
the 8pm curfew is as useful as the alcohol prohibition of the 1920's
people will find a way around it, and will still do whatever they think is reasonable for them. and for those that are unable or willing to find a way around, it's depressing as shit. no, not sad, depressing as much as people taking their lives over it. and with legault it's not just the rules themselves, it's how often they change, giving and taking back, moving goalposts, or even adding stupid "masks all the time even if you planned to picnic" to then realize you can't eat with a mask on, so then a few days later they say it's ok if you are eating, or the latest rollback of the curfew to 8pm even when the scientific numbers didn't back this decision (there was no increase in cases to justify it, and the current decrease isn't even because of the change because measures take 14-20 days to make an impact). it's just a royal mess.
mental health is as important as physical health. we reached a point with my wife where we will just move back to our country because it's impossible to live under this rollercoaster of rules. there's no light at the end of the tunnel here, no end game, just random rules being thrown at the wall to see what sticks.
do you have any proof? because i'm still waiting for proof that the curfew is a determining factor for the drop in cases and it's been four months ...
right, but i think this especially hurts the elders and single people over the age of x
it doesnt make sense to them to leave schools/daycares open, while their whole socializing space have been off limits for over a year. also, its a bitch to do your errands (groceries) when you work 7-7pm and have no time to go outside of the weekend
it’s not bad.
as much as this curfew pisses me off, i know that in fact we are paying the price for all the ostis of idiots who do not understand that we should not go to relatives to visit the house.
especially when you have a very infectious variant that is spreading. prevention is better than cure. to date it does the job.
were you there or are you talking through your hat? i was there, they jumped on a guy who picked up a box that the spvm had dropped on the ground. i saw nothing as "neutralization". i never saw them darting and pecking at the world to lose control, and people didn't bite their hooks.
acab
do you know we can go both? moreover, there is a demonstration on april 24 at 1:30 p.m. for the tenants' day at metro parc. there is also a demonstration for the rights of sex workers on may 1st, and a march for undocumented migrants arriving from montreal to ottawa in a couple of months. the social issues are multiple and different groups fight jointly against these different issues, and the system that connects them. the struggles come together.
the curfew is a stupid government decision that he can reverse with a snap of his fingers if he swallows his ego. housing prices are driven by real estate market realities and are a long-term issue over which the government has little control, especially not in the short term.
unfortunately, there is not much to do for the housing crisis. the government can adopt a few measures, but it is a complex system that relies heavily on the economy and therefore, on everyone.
absolutely people can and should change their minds as more information becomes available. it's also completely normal that they change along with their mental state. the reason i'm shitting on people jumping on here is that it smells to me too much of boredom, false outrage and being willfully under-informed mixing with people's exhaustion and mental fatigue.
i think we both agree on your second point that the nighttime curfew is exacerbating the transmission in certain cases via forcing night-time travel to day-time hours. that any gains made by reducing night-time mobility would be overshadowed by increased day-time travel. [it's not looking like that is true]( since the curfew night-time mobility has decreased 31% with only an 8% increase in daytime travel.
this alongside with it being fairly well documented that overall even ["mild lock downs"]( [specifically night-time curfews]( do  at the very least curb second waves and have statistically significant effects led me to change my mind. what's even worse though is that some projections say that these soft lockdowns [may not do enough even with an accelerated vaccine roll out](
what i'm not certain of is:
1) while mobility is [strongly]( related to covid spread how much does the 8% increase in daytime mobility offset the 31% reduction in night-time mobility? i'm fucking sure it's not good that we condensed our rush hour during a pandemic. especially in a city that relies on public transportation.
2) the effect on mental health. the curfew fucking sucks, and it is dragging on because of the government's implementation. going to work and being mandated to be in your house right after is no way to live and i am certain that we'll be feeling it's effects for a long time. there is no way to mince words here, people will probably die as a result. this is why i am outraged about the curfew, we have a poorly implemented government plan that will negatively impact people and probably lead to deaths. how does this offset whatever gains we are getting from this shitty implementation of a lockdown. can you even quantify it ethically/morally?
**so here's why i'm sure as shit not going to physically protest it and don't think other people should:** 
1) it might work. i'm willing to stay in and claw at the walls a bit more so that maybe one more person can make it through.
2) this isn't a malicious plan by legault to form an insurrection and start a regime dominating us. it's incompetence mixed political scheming. which is horrible but the former i would be out breaking (government) property, the latter doesn't outweigh my will to try and keep others safe.
3) there are other ways to change this that i am already engaged in. i've written my/our representatives. i've voted in every election that i've been able to. i'm keeping myself up to date with new information as it comes in while doing my best to change my opinions with it. and i'm doing my best to spread that information with other people. 
4) the data just doesn't suggest that even this mild lock-down wont do good. it sure as shit isn't the right plan. it sure as shit will do some harm but everything points to it doing more good than harm.
please let me know if you do find anything relevant about transmission rates specifically related to increase in population density caused by curfews i've been looking for a while and haven't found anything.
it's funny i realized the connection with little nicky after i wrote that. must have been planted in my head subconsciously for a long time.
haha fair. i'm too anglo to vote for the caq.
how can you get around a curfew? do you go to your friends or family and you stay in bed?
again, you come to break another rule. visits to the interior are prohibited.
there won't be any fucking proof for a long time, if ever. stop asking. on the other hand, there are some observable trends: ontario had no curfew and the hardship hit, while in québec we have been maintaining a fairly stable level for quite a long time.
it's hard to say as cultures are different from other provinces / states. as well as the baseline level of infected population. there will be studies for years on the various measures taken. 
just a gut feeling that tells me it's working, due to the low cases and my assumption that making people be home separates them from other people who also have to be home. (on average of course, there are exceptions but that's not what we are talking about).
i know, i was also stuck like this, not being able to run my errands after 8, which is the time i normally do. 
school and daycares are not « socializing spaces » for kids, it allows parents to go to work, it’s absolutely essential. 
i understand it sucks having to socialize over a video call, but you can’t compare your social life to the necessity for the entire society to have schools and daycare open.
on thursday after work, i open a good bottle of labatt 50, put some music on and crack open a bag of chips. i reserve a slot at metro/maxi/loblaws/iga/orwhatnots for saturday and i fill my virtual cart.
it's around 3$ for preparation+pickup and 8$ for shipping. i don't get to buy beers at pubs anymore so i really don't mind the extra fees for the time being.
fuck le spvm. acab
they also neutralized the mad passerby who started yelling "you guys are cowards!" come and fight me! ” just before the fight breaks out. it must be said that he was not demonstrating this spoilsport.
are fireworks completely legal too? that kind of trouble celebrates. [ danemark(
well that's good news! thanks for the heads-up !! (myself downvoted my original bitchy post)
[deleted]
do not
you’ve certainly done your homework. 
i still don’t think that shaving 1.5 hours off of everyone’s evening is a high yield covid reduction measure though.  total curfew aside, that extra hour and a half really made a difference for myself and a lot of people i know.  i don’t have a back yard, my place is small and my work days are long and often it’s hard to get in everything while still managing to find some time to get outside.  furthermore, the mental health impacts for many of us aren’t just “i feel sad and this is annoying and inconvenient.” i’d rather not get into my situation in detail, but i’ve learned first hand over this last year just how bad stress can fuck you up physically, let’s put it that way.  if you had asked me a few years ago, i’d never have imagined that some of the things that have happened were possible — just through sustained stress. so for me, there absolutely is a line and it has been crossed.  we need to stop covid, yes, but public health is a holistic concept.  there is much to be attained in covid reduction by applying the right policies to schools, work places and day cares. those are high yield reduction targets. when they’ve done that, then they can come and ask me for my right to go outside, but until then i say “go pound sand, mr. legault.”
exactly, since people can no longer see each other outside, they see each other indoors and for longer (sleep) which is more conducive to propagation.
people dont give a single shit about rules tbh. i spoke to an uber driver a month ago and he told me he picked up a sex worker and she said:
"i make way more money working and paying a fine then sitting at home".
most of my non-covid-caring buddies are having tons of sleepovers and such. people are fed up and don't care for rules and anyways, the chances of them getting caught sleeping over is very little unless someone reports it, so people don't care and take chances, that's the sad reality of this curfew but again that's a minority.
ontario also had open patios. how do you determine that it was the lack of a curfew that caused the increase in cases rather than the lack of other measures?
this is my point. the curfew is an extreme measure that is not supported by science. the masks are. distancing is. before a government decides to tell me when i can be outside, i would like clear proof that this is a step to take.
otherwise you agree to pass anything to you as long as the government tells you that it will work.
it sucks that you’re getting downvoted, because this is an important conversation.
the problem is we can’t identify the curfew as a determining factor in the decreasing number of cases. for instance, we knew the holiday season would cause a spike, whereas the period after would cause a steady decline.
curfews are a massive affront to personal freedom. it’s dangerous to let a government tell you when you can be outside of your home, especially when science doesn’t back it up (which so far it doesn’t).
my worry is that this crisis sets a precedent as to what governments will be able to get away with in the future.
it depends cause if keeping schools open makes it so that their will never be an end in sight to extraordinary (lol) measures, then your conclusion isn't so easy to reach. at some point you have to question whether closing everything for a set period of time would have been better than half measures for an indefinite period.
yea, but dont discard the importance of mental health for some people to socialize - my background was in events / restos, and i couldnt tell you how many people i met along my life that needed these places
i prefer our fishing technique than theirs. at least we feed them.
[
a guy who downvotes, i upvotes 🤣
the bank of canada alone can influence key rates. the government has 0 direct control over it.
the curfew is not working. the curfew never worked. the government has kept us prisoner at home for 3 months without any health reason, just to satisfy its hyper-anxious and hysterical electorate.
no matter how much you say no, i'm just going to repeat these facts over and over again.
you can also vote on the 30th and 31st october.
im predicting 40-45% turn out over two days
i have always voted, but i never had the taste to stay with us as much as for this one.
sure!
i’ve noticed that since plante took office, the road quality has improved — new pavement that’s been put down stays down, doesn’t crumble to shit within a year. that little observation indicates to me that the shameless grift and wholesale thievery (and presumably the endemic corruption) within the municipal govt has been stemmed. for that alone they got my vote. went out of my way to get registered, that lying fat fuck coderre isn’t getting back in.
i will vote on october 30
all those who say that if we don't vote, we don't cry and that voting is a citizen's duty, then do what you think and vote.
otherwise, it is dishonest.
what do we do if we are not satisfied with any of the candidates? i am against the philosophy of “voting for the least worst”, since that is the reason why our political class is so shitty. a blank vote that will simply be discarded without being counted?
even if i vote for dollarama lochness?
are there debates readily available to keep me informed? i want to go and vote but i have absolutely no knowledge of municipal politics!
i lol'd at real democracy.
hmm, how do we get to vote? are we supposed to have received a small box?
yes, go vote for the next mayor of montreal, may the best win.
i will not be in montreal on november 7th :(
plante has done quite a few skateboard trails and refurbished parks on my side of the island. it will also open the shore to the east for swimming this summer. we think we vote for her because it helps children to exercise.
me, i don't like to vote.
\ -the grumpy smurf
isn't that holness dude running on sjw identity politics platform? i nearly threw up when i read that. that's gonna go well for him.
how do i vote? born and raised in this city, do 8 just walk in to an office somewhere and cast a ballot?
given that all the candidates suck nuts i’ll pass.
"true democracy" come back to learn what it is and come back to tell me in the eyes that your once a year for a person is democracy ... fool
not one person at my door, no issue i care about, can i vote to burn the olympic stadium down through an act of terrorism and every montrealer collects a cut of the insurance money?
> your opinion counts and we feel happy to have contributed! from someone who has voted dozens of times and never "won"
i'm going to go but let's say that the more things go, the less we have the choice ...
it ended with 2 parties of mard who tries to pretend to represent everyone, but who in the end represents no one ... except maybe the black lesbian allophone transgender islamist on a bike
im predicting an incredibly low turnout like 30%
well apparently i'm not registered and the only way to do it is go to the "board of revisors" which is not available anymore..
this is idiotic, every governmental agency knows my address, why the hell aren't they updating the registry? i've been in montreal for 10 years and moved 5 times, every time i move the federal electrion system doesn't update my address even though all other agencies have the updated address - but at least they have an online system where i can update my address easily which doesn't seem to be the case for municipal
35 max
my polling place is further away than the federal election one. i'm not going.
same thing here. it's really pathetic to have two candidates as bad as plante and coderre.
i cannot speak of the plante administration, but i can confirm the depravity of coderre et ci (i know several people who worked for the city of mtl since 2000).
under them, worse tremblay before them, our taxpayer money goes 75% into the pockets of a construction and real estate boss cabal and not for initiatives that will improve the lives of citizens in a sustainable way.
agreed my street got redone also it's great quality.  they are also changing the lead pipes.   as i said before they are also building high quality skateparks.   love their work!!
it is the same after each election. i work with the public and i heard it again after the federals.
"well, the liberals again ..."
-have you been voting sir?
"well no see, s'pa mwé who makes the difference, but osti the liberals there ..."
> all those who say that if we don't vote, we don't cry and that voting is a civic duty, then do what you think and vote.
> 
> otherwise, it's dishonest.
say i'm going to vote but it's all clumsy. can i whine afterwards? is it still dishonest?
you have three choices:
1) you don't vote: the anarchists will be happy but if you do nothing else afterwards to put pressure on our political system, that's fuck all. elected officials will govern the same regardless of whether 30% or 60% of the people have gone to vote.
2) you cancel your vote: as you say, your vote will just be discarded and it will fuck all.
3) you realize that the best is sometimes the enemy of the good: it's not true that all the people who show up are just bad, there is just no perfect candidate. personally, i hate coderre's ideas and i really like plante's, but i also understand why some people like coderre because he's not basically a horrible person. you can try to find the candidates who are closest to your interests knowing that there will be no perfect match. worse as another editor told you, next time get involved!
you vote for the least worse anyway. because someone wants or doesn't want to win and if the least worse wins, it's already less worse, isn't it? :)
reduce your cynicism a bit, understand that between the worst and the least, there is still a difference to be made. you will introduce yourself next time!
it's worth learning about local candidates. it's not just plante vs coderre, there are city and district candidates with ambitions specific to the arrondissements.
incremental change. when the less worst of the parties wins the other party must adapt to become less worse than the other.
also if a 3rd party accumulates votes the other parties will have to steal ideas from this one to have a chance.
if he / she is on the ballot, then yes, go for it!
dollarama homeless*
the worst option
do you like corruption and condos? => coderre
do you like bike paths and parks? => plant
do you like to lose? => ballarama
there was a debate last night at tva but there will be more soon:
radio canada: october 26 at 6 p.m.
cbc and ctv: october 28 at 5:30 p.m.
it's not exactly the same box as the federal one, but i received mine about two weeks ago. but, anyway, you don't need the card to vote.
the same. unfortunately, the only options to vote in advance or by mail are for those who cannot show up for medical reasons.
so, don't vote for him??
it's quite nasty as a comment, but indeed we could perhaps just attribute elements of democracy to our republic. the people are not really represented for their interests.
are you 16 or mentally stopped developing at 16?
wouldn't shock me
36% to be precise
yeah the two candidates are late? you can have a mayor who will not cringe at the quality of life of montrealers, but at the same time who will not cringe at the opinion of the 80% of the population who did not vote for her.
same with me and my partner -_-. we happened to be out of the province during that registration time so we were a little sad we couldn't vote in our first montreal election
*slow clap*
don't forget that there is an even worse 3rd candidate! holness
i hate that station. it's full of creepy/agressive homeless people. i feel unsafe every time i'm there.
mental illness and substance abuse is a bad mix. these homeless people are totally unpredictable...
i'm sorry this happened to you. please report it to the police and stm. thanks for sharing also.
i think i know who you are talking about… i live really close to that exit, saw a tall black dude randomly yelling at people at least 3 times.. i am a chinese girl, now i feel worried
black gentleman: hello sir, what time is it?
if he touched u, you have to report it. there is a cop station right there. if you are a con u student, security will take the report.
can i ask what race you are? what slurs did he use?
this is what happens when the stm turns stations into "service points for people experiencing homelessness" instead of giving priority to the health and safety of users.
i’m really sorry to hear about what happened. that metro exit has always been sketchy, same as it ever was. in fact the area used to be a lot sketchier (around 15-20 years ago) but some here will wrongly disagree. cabot square was wild back in the early 2000s too.
remember; montreal used to have sometimes triple the homicide rate in the 90s (depending on the year). it doesn’t mean any of this is acceptable today though. 
please report this incident to the police.
black people seem to hate on chinese looking asians lately. no idea why and i just assume they take covid facebook too serious. just charge full speed and head butt the stomach… is what i want to do after being verbally abused by one.
please file a report with spvm and maybe even the stm. you should not have experienced this. i know a report might not do anything to you unfortunately but maybe if the trends for this is higher, they can maybe  increase security.
sorry you went through that
was he giving black history month panflets, that guy verbally harassed me twice, months apart and not even aware i was the same person, it seems he does it often.
i too saw that guy outside st mathieu station couple of days back. he was shouting at people passing by. that metro station is always problematic. as someone already suggested, it's better to take the guy entrance.
stay safe.
if i ever punch or beat this guy after he touches me, am i still gonna get arrested for it or is self defense?
man, so many events like this exactly at st mathieu metro exit. spvm need to do something about this wtf.
was he tall and wearing a (usually blue) tracksuit? there’s someone who frequents the area that might fit the description that once tried to hit me. glad you’re okay.
>houting fast foreign words
like french ?
st-mathieu exit is always...it's just so bad at all hours now. i wish i could walk fast enough in the mornings to justify going to the guy entrance instead, but i work far away and every minute counts for the commute. (this morning i had to sidestep someone bigger than me who was definitely trying to walk towards me)
glad to hear you're ok! 
(i...don't remember guy being this bad except in the last few years. nights especially...)
i'm an asian male, too. unfortunately, the way things are turning these days, we are not very welcome on this continent. you call out racism against the asian race, people usually brush it off.
i've come to my conclusion that after 12 years of living in the us and canada, if you're asian, it is best to live where there are a lot of other asian people around. that is best for your mental health.
i had a similar situation happen to me at union station in toronto in 2019, after asking this man to leave people alone on the platform he proceeded to spit in my face and call me a bitch.  he ran into the tracks after, and was caught by police within five minutes.  
ruined my whole day, and also the police wouldn't let me clean the saliva off my glasses for a good ten minutes while questioning me and taking photos.
how i know i'm in the right country, > there's no tolerance for this sort of thing. everybody's onboard at putting guys' like him in his place. this is perhaps the best country in the world in regards to fighting racism. i'm sorry this happened but the heads-up for that area around guy (although well intent) is not really necessary. thanks for sharing.
and black on asian racist attacks unfortunately don’t fit the cbc identity politics that are shoved down our throats.
downvote away though.
i was walking with my buddy and we both like very built guys. he walks towards us and says something and we both look at him and i am like " fkn idiot you want your ass kicked or what"? 
i just think he is a drunkie and dont think he is trying yo hurt anyone otherwise i dont see why would hr approach two big duds
op, this is just montreal. you will run into this type of incident over and over again from time to time. if you want to live in montreal, i suggest you get used to it. usually, it's from homeless people and people with mental health difficulties. so i try to understand and brush it off. i know homeless people have it rough and it's something they can't control. i don't get it from your everyday people but sometimes i do. 
when it really hurt was when i was at sat (venue). i walked up to the bar and there was only one barmaid. people usually don't line up in bars in montreal and are super aggressive. basically anyone that is able to get the attention of the bartender first, gets served first. i get that. i'm not an aggressive person, i can't do that shit. so she started serving everybody else and they left. i was left alone at the bar table. i ordered my drink, she pretended like she didn't hear it. i was just standing there for 15 minutes. finally, my white friend came to check up on me. only then, she served my drink.
another time, i was yelled by one guy to "go back to fucking chinatown" at la banquise. 
another time, i was picking up some veggies from a farm-to-table thing and put my english name on the list. i show up there and tell them my english name. they say they don't have anyone by that name. they make me wait for 20 minutes. only after 20 minutes, they go like "oh you're [insert english name i gave them in the first place]!!!"
these are the most ostentatious act of racism i got in my 7 years in montreal but there are countless other times that i get dirty looks from people. there is a lot of anti-asian, anti-chinese sentiment in this city.
i am 100% positive the reason this person harassed you is because you're asian. you are a victim of a racist harassment.
"a black man shouting foreign words."
[deleted]
the abundance of discriminatory discourse towards people with mental health issues and those experiencing homelessness or otherwise the subtly tinged racism and sexism - it seems accidental - discourse in this thread is of grave concern to me.
[removed]
i thought i was "radical" in the political sense.
to tell the truth i was convinced that you were a woman until i read your last sentence. 😅
it's quite strange, but since you're a man, so in better condition to defend yourself, nothing prevents you from throwing a right in his face the next time.
funny story.
for real though at lionel-groulx and guy concordia there’s always something weird going down. the worst i’ve seen was a homeless guy screaming to the top of his lungs that he was gonna kill everyone whilst pissing in the station and invading peoples personal space pants down. past 10:00pm it’s always a gamble in those stations.
does anybody know the reason for why they mainly populate that area? lots of druggies and mentally ill encounters there.
i know, i really don't like it at night. there are always weirdos and druggies etc. i'm not overly paranoid but it's really sketchy at times.
montreal illness and substance abuse
you aren’t supposed to get the police involved because they might shoot him.
rightfully so.
ya i think i saw this guy recently, just randomly pointing at people and yelling random gibberish (not even sure if they're words or just sounds). didn't see him touch anyone but i crossed the street when i got close
>in fast foreign words
aka french !
okay, but in the end what will change if the man in question matches the profile that some here have drawn up, namely a homeless person under the influence of drugs?
i'm from china and obviously he meant gtfo
well if the government is not going to help them with the mental, physical and administrative care they need to escape homelessness, they will need somewhere they can sleep and avoid bad weather. the missions do not have enough space for all the homeless.
stm cops are worse than this guy tho, so that's not an answer
which leaves me to ask a question that will generate controversy: were notions of racism exclusively taught to caucasians by caucasians for caucasians?
because inter-ethnic racism seems extremely apparent to me.
it's ridiculous to put all black people in a same bucket because the actions of some people.
the amount of racism in this comment supposedly decrying racism is astounding
you would think that a group of people who are oppressed and going through the same minority status as you are would be nice to each other, right? in my experience, it couldn't be further from the truth. there is no solidarity between marginalized groups. i'm not saying this only about black people here. every ethnic group does this. they only care about how they get treated by white people. asian people are very racist toward black people as well. i'm not saying every asian person living in canada is racist toward black people but most newcomers are likely to be. same thing as black people as well. black people are super racist to asian people as well. black people went through a lot of shit on this continent and you see a rich mainland china newcomer who look like they come from money, of course there will be some resentment. they are forgetting that chinese people also suffered in canada as indentured laborers. they are forgetting that not everybody who look chinese are actually chinese. there are japanese, korean, vietnamese and filipino people who look chinese but have nothing to do with the chinese identity.
idk if you’re a young kid but this isn’t news, chinese and black people have always had hate for one another.
idk if you’re a young kid but this isn’t news, chinese and black people have always had hate for one another.
yeah, the poor chinese did nothing to deserve this.
[deleted]
take some photos or video next time
go plant go
thats a beautiful picture
thanks everyone. no filter added to the picture btw
that's a generic comment.
thats a useless comment. are you for real? if i liked the picture i liked the picture go mind your own gd business
you must be new around here
that's an angry reply.
there is not "planet b"
you vote with your dollar more than with your vote.
let's start by getting out of this petro-state in order to have all our powers and become a model of sustainable energy in the world!
based on the reports from the anti passport protests looks like theres a couple of hundred people there
i like how they try so much but like it makes no difference if china and india dont get their shit together and right now in those countries you should know that they are too busy trying to get by to give an f about climate issues  
it really comes down to leaders and incentives.   
and there is no planet b 100% , mars will take a long long time for us to really set up.  
its a sad reality but we're headed for ultra chaos
i would have liked to have had their opinion on the addition of bike paths in montreal ...
thousands in * montreal * to whine about the transmountain pipeline 1 week after all these beautiful people voted strongly to re-elect trudeau. they were or during the elections them ...
* where the hand of man has never set foot *
*yet*
**open your eyes and see!!** 🤘
but also vote, keeping the planet habitable is not a consumer choice. no matter what the people who invented the "carbon footprint". plastic straws aren't going to offset the fishing industry's plastic release into the ocean.
if it was that simple ... kurzgesagt made a video on it: 
if, tomorrow, politicians decide to increase the carbon tax to really reflect the impact that its use has on the environment; if tomorrow your gas cost you 3x more, would you be satisfied? i think everyone imagines a smooth transition to a world without petroleum, but if we really had to act, i'm pretty sure there would be mutinies all over the country.
it's the same as when we left afghanistan, the decision is the right one in principle, the human costs in the immediate future are also very expensive, and because of the census bias, it is the latter who will be of concern to tlm. this is also why trudeau says he is pro-environment while buying a pipeline, because the human cost in the west is eg considered too great, without any real transition plan. for us in quebec, we can get away with it since it doesn't really affect us, right? i can't wait to see how we're going to get by without real national unity.
bin for that the planet would have to stop consuming oil, which is far from happening (ex: how many people do you know have an electric car). if canada stops exploiting oil other countries (dictatorships like arabia) will just do it more and with even less regulations than us.
sustainable, but without a new dam and without nuclear power of course. we will cover quebec with solar panels and wind turbines
minimum 10 millions.
[the pro of being an authoritarian regime is that you can go a lot harder when making environmentalist policies.](
it's sad because ultra chaos can be totally avoided.  but instead of meaningless protests, if people could invest in themselves to become more productive, smarter and efficient, that would be a far more effective approach to tackling the apparent problems they cite.
who, among the participants of the march (apart from fat denis), can be against more sober transport?
probably voting and getting defeated by the strong liberal majority in montreal.
even them when they found a planet b, they wrote that the russians and the americans are at war for the best spot on it. like what eh ...
we're fucking up this one pretty fast compared to how slowly we're terraforming mars
kind of building the lifeboats as the ship is sinking
if course there will be for those willing to volunteer as lifelong slaves in mega mines on mars for musk&bezos private defence monopoly.
i think my message was not clear enough, i apologize: let's achieve the independence of quebec to get out of the canadian petro-state. national unity in canada has been shown time and time again that this will not happen. let us give ourselves the powers to achieve what we want and they will be able to make their own choices without having a province that always complains.
still less polluting than the tar sands.
dams and nuclear are much more reliable energies than wind turbines and solar which are intermittent energy sources and their emission rates spread over the complete life of the installations are equivalent or even better to an equal quantity of energy. produced.
of courses plus authoritarian regime are also genocidal so less people, earth healing. a win win.
yes but good luck getting the authoritarian regimes of those countries to focus on environment issues  
think of it like this --- all the goody environment shit that canada will do will maybe make 0.5% difference at best while the shit that china n india need to do is like 10%
if everyone made little changes the result would be massive. we can't count on govs to make it for us
honestly, he's partially right. i know a lot of people who have been there and who have been to the demo or published a story about the environment but who live in the suburbs and have a completely bad lifestyle. the kind of people who whine about the traffic when they themselves are in a car in this traffic.
you will be surprised at the number !!
these don't work.
statistically improbable, but still, it was during the elections that we had to walk ...
it was half a joke of course. we must absolutely save the earth, its climate and its ecosystems. however, i hate the attitude of some environmentalists who claim that all space programs must be stopped as long as the environmental issue is topical. it will * always * be relevant, and two planets are better than one. it is a false dychotomy.
true. afterwards, if tomorrow quebec and alberta separated from the federation and did their own thing, on a net level, we would still be in the same situation. this is not an argument to keep the status quo; but at some point everyone will have to come to terms with the idea that the necessary changes will be painful for all.
let's not go to eco-fascism.
personal responsibility is propaganda created by the oil and gas industry to deflect responsibility from them.
71% of green gas emissions are caused by 100 corporations.
we'll never address climate change unless we hold those responsible accountable for their actions, and without intervention at a state level, and for this we must either elect leaders who will do so, or find a way to show our current leaders that the climate crisis will also be disruptive to them.
not only do we need protests, we need protests and demonstrations that are harder to ignore. general strikes, hunger strikes, lobbying for a carbon tax, etc.
buy an electric car. travel less. eat less meat etc. 
all more effective that heading to a self-destructive protest.
who is right? (who is he?)
yes there are a lot of hypocrites (like everywhere). but coderre is not the last to want to do everything to have more cars but to show up to a demo for the climate
no matter how hard i try, i can't understand how you can come to the conclusion that the protesters voted, or not voted, for one party or another, or that you can blame them for monday's result. probably singular logic, if there is one.
imagine nothing squealing to change anything pi participating by your inaction at the end of the world pi anything shitting on the world trying to do something from your computer.
except that a second habitable planet is an end-goal in 10,000 years. not 50.
mars will still be there in 10,000 years. if we are not able to keep the earth habitable, forget about mars ...
also, no, the hey martian scientific explorers will not come back to earth after the apocalypse and others having learned from our mistakes. just watch who's in the rockette penis.
i agree that the elite have a huge part of the responsibility but at the same time, it is the public that fuel demand for all the consumption that wrecks this planet. how many people do you know who would be willing to go vegan, who would not buy a new phone/graphic cards every 2 year, who would not view cities as cesspools full of annoying and bad people you need to get away from etc...
i feel the same way whenever anyone mentions how we would get no where if we don't get china and india to get their shit together as if we were doing so much better in relative terms. if we were to bring back enough manufacturing to the developed world for us to be self sufficient, we would be polluting almost just as bad per capita.
problem with the electric car is if you already own something that's paid for you are just putting yourself into debt. besides right now is a horrible time to purchase a car. but i understand where you are coming from so i didn't mean to come off as rude. travel less with gas car, plan trips better, stop buying garbage disposal goods that need contant replacement. walk or ride your bike more.
that is not how it works. but sure.
"ah the forest will still be there in 10,000 years. if we are not able to keep our cave habitable, forget the forest ..."
[deleted]
they're also quite expensive and not many models are as of yet available in canada.  the supercharger infrastructure isn't largely in place yet either.  and high-passenger capacity elec. cars are rare.
so a more fuel efficient vehicle, etc. will be the go-to for many of us for the time being yes.
however governments will be telling us to buy electric.  there are many electrics on the road already.
as for garbage disposal goods, it seems that various business models rely on that...  [designed obsolescence.](  this is something that people can try to overcome through their own purchasing habits, but often it is difficult to do as better products aren't made available locally.
for example, try buying a long-lasting led light bulb in canada that's going to last as long as they say it's supposed to.  it's nigh impossible.  while in dubai it's regulated.  ['the dubai bulb']( was designed by the same manufacturer, takes way less electricity to operate, and lasts as long as 25 years because it isn't coming with designed obsolescence. 
so yes we can do all sorts of things to personally decrease carbon footprints, etc.  but there are programmed limitations to this that aren't in a consumer's control.
pretty sure it's better than burning carbon to be pointlessly arrested over and over again. these people need to be more efficient and learn more skills.
false equivalence, mars is a deadly dessert without an atmosphere, not an abundant and fertile forest.
straw hats are very comfortable when it's hot and sunny.  when i travel to the caribbean i often wear a straw panama hat, small sombrero or my favourite a straw amish farmer's hat.  
it keeps the sun off your head, face and neck and straw is airy so you don't overheat.
destroyed!
these dudes look jacked.
viva méxico !!!!!! i am there
classic montréal moments
montreal - very hot !!
probably recently celebrated his birthday at 3 amigos. and is using it to his advantage!
i think pretty much every culture has developed their own straw hats because of how nice they are.
the dudes who ride on the back are all pretty fit. you have to be, it's a grueling job with little appreciation, lots of bad weather, and heavy lifting.
i wouldn't want to fuck with the small ones, let alone the jacked ones lol
i would be gassed after a few blocks..  tossing cans and keeping up with the truck in the heat?
hot in summer
i liked the fret records better.
ugh, and i don't have my ac installed yet.  i love the jungle heat but not when i'm working at home. 
but i admit, i like sitting outside late at night having a smoke, i miss that!
i'm from england, please wait, it's only may
i have an ac not badly too powerful for the area of my 3 1/2 but the air is not circulating at all so it just cools my room and the rest of my apartment is a sauna ...
i have just moved my computer in my room, the rest of my apartment is condemned, i go out for the toilet or the food, that's it.
the real heat hasn't begun yet... not looking forward to cut backyard grass in june and july...
lots of record breaking temperatures this year .
temperatures around 20-25 without humidity it's perfect, i would take it all year round. from the wet / sticky mustard of 30 and over like today especially in may, ark. roll on sunday for a return to seasonal norms.
probably a top 3 for every day of this week!
to quote lisa leblanc: ostia that is hot 🎶
wet balls
humid heat /s
[deleted]
i prefer to think of it as the coolest may 21st of the next 100
so in a few decades montreal will be underwater, right?
no no no
what planet do you live on?
sweating, tanning is life.
you had me until the word "smoke".  ugh.
[deleted]
i put mine in 2 days ago in anticipation and we were already sweating by the end of the installation
late spring in the uk is fantastic. you can walk around in shorts or pants and neither shiver nor sweat, the drizzle was like having a constant cooling fan around, and people really underestimate how nice it is to be warm but not sunny or humid. 
i just really hate the sun.
add a fan to circulate the air. i bought one for $ 20 and it made a nasty difference
if i may, and if you want to... ditch the grass, get clovers or creeping thyme and plant native, easy to maintain bushes on the edges. not only you won't be mowing grass, a non native, non helpful and extremely water-needy species, you'd have a bountiful, beautiful and shady yard.
i am no rich woman and i know the startup cost is a lot, but the benefit to your mental health to see all the greenery, and the benefit of maintaining them less than grass + the shade it will bring while reducing the heat + giving you privacy might be worth it.
if you have giant land (like acres), might i suggest looking into mowed path?
anywho, have a nice day stranger and good luck!
[deleted]
we're really good outside right now!
thank you
hot fact
fret factttt
the river at montreal is 6m above sea level. it's going to be centuries before the ocean rises that amount.
i agree, if you mean cigarettes, ugh, but it wasn't.
i guess this means we can't get married.
i rent, alas and it's small enough that one ac is sufficient.
yeah people mischaracterise british weather all the time, at least where i’m from it’s mostly alright. still, gotta live in england—i’ll take this trade even if the weather makes this place unbearable like 9 months a year lol
back into the batcave with you!
spring here is weird, early on especially. one day it's warm and balmy, and then the next day you get snow in april!
add at least 2 of these fans,
1 to help get the cold out of the 'bedroom'
the 2nd to turn these directions. 21c all over 1 hr. even with a 5,000btu. + a dehumidifier of 42 ~ 50 pints qq part. paradise. (note: payments and methods obtained for said payments to your utility and living quarters is not my responsibility)
as an outsider, is there a neighborhood where you could rent what you're talking about? versus renting an apartment with no yard. not looking for skyscraper living in the heart of downtown
pete's schweddy balls.
interesting, i was wondering when i should sell my house and move inland, lol.
if you two get married it will be montréal's hottest marriage since 1999.
sorry, the deal's off, if i have to give up the devil's lettuce.
on second thought, i'm so lonely i think i'd probably marry the neighbour's dog.
unfortunately, heavy rains increase the level of e.coli in the water.
is it in montreal? i don't see leonard cohen's wall.
what's a downpour? low tide?
gawd this beach was so murky and disappointing.
beautiful
not a fan. warm water, cars, etc enjoy!
the glare gives me ptsd from the movie shutter
yep; very little actual volume of rain came down, but it poured really big/hard drops and got quite windy for about 30s and most everyone went running. we sat in the jeep for 10 mins and then went back to claim our spot as the first to return. (-;
at least the heavy metals fall back quickly and worse, for hormones, antidepressants and antibiotics, we need them anyway!
it's a heavy downpour.
indeed ! st. timothée islands regional park to me is the nicest water for a beach. it's crystal clear waters.
they still charge an entry fee?
thanks from me too. i did not know this term in french either.
thanks
quite a trek for anyone in the city though.  there aren't many particularly good beaches in quebec
> st. timothée islands regional park 
wow thank you! i'll have to check it out! i know there are a lot of nice beaches in ontario but was hoping to find some in quebec too. i grew up here but left for a decade and now i'm back with a family (it's been 6 years now) and rediscovering this province!
ya wet in siaux.
it was the flood
ya wet to drink while standing.
no problem. :)
and by the way, tide is "tide" (thank you blondie, the song "the tide is high" taught me that!)
indeed... nothing really great.
quebec doesn't really have any good beaches but it has some pretty beach obsessed residents. ironically. they probably all dream to move to fl or become snowbirds. it's weird but very quebecois.
yeah, the main benefit of cap-saint-jacques is that we can show up around/after 5 (half price entry, but mainly "after work") without having to cross any bridges. it's a pretty easy ~20 min drive from my place.
haha well thank you again!
today i am improving my english!
speaking of tide! 
hey, this is really hot! thank you!
2 streets 3 nobels
it's true
hah, i like it!
the last two books i bought for my kid are called "connais-tu marie-curie" and "connais-tu albert einstein".
you have just found the atomic interection.
penfield and osler must be in 2nd place
there is surely a parker cellar on the corner.
that would be perfect as a pic
no, you're thinking of boulevard alfred nobel, which is just down the street.
the whole thing is in the montreal technopark.
wow that's beautiful! where were you to take this picture? i've never seen this angle before. or was it with a drone?
beautiful! how crowded was it today? do you also have a color version of this?
wow ... it's a shame that the smog makes everything gray
i went to st. anne's today, lots of people walking around enjoying the nice weather, really makes me happy to see normal life coming back.
i fell for this crap a couple years back lol.
thanks! 
it was just at the chalet at mount royal!
oh it was super crowded, like my partner got a bit freaked out by it but we had a nice time still. [and yeah here is a color version](
[deleted]
that's great! do you rent the chalet on airbnb? do you recommend people going there? is it expensive?
the last chalet i rented was near mont-tremblant, it was very expensive but the view wasn't as nice as this one, only trees and nature.
[deleted]
thanks so much!
🤣
what you are doing is still funny tho
ah sorry it's just the place on the top of mount royale you can walk up to called chalet mount royal i think. it's a popular viewing point.
nice troll
🤣
incredible, i have lived in montreal for several years and have never seen this shot! did you use a secret path?
kondiaronk belvedere i think it's called. top of those deadly stairs lol
yeah i was a bit suspicious as it's basically the most popular photo spot in the city but didn't wanna be a dick lol
why does [deleted] make you laugh so maniacally?
no secret path. take the path to the belvedere. it is not far from the cross.
sorry brah don't speak the francis... you wanna tell me a secret?
we’re just used to the bi-weekly pictures of that angle... next week it’ll be the cohen mural with another story!
also, we kid with sarcasm... so don’t worry about it!
if it's so popular, why doesn't anyone ever post this view on the sub?
lol well before it was deleted, the person asked if all the windows were tinted black like that. i honestly thought they were kidding haha
it must be a path only for people who do rock climbing, we have never seen a photo from this point of view here!
my name is not francis sorry!
maybe it will be in black and white?
ah yeah no worries, just had a nice day climbing the mountain, enjoyed the day and liked the shot and wanted to share it. 
if people have other places they would suggest to go out to to get a shot of i am all ears. love this city and would love to explore and shoot more.
oh yeah. that was u/calmyotitz. i also responded in the same way to zer other comment above.
me neither my name is francis
the summit circle lookout is worth a visit, similar view but much less busy.
belvédère outremont offers another great lookout. it's relatively quiet, and has cool stuff around.
first picture is awesome, was a nice view for 5-10 minutes and then it vanished!
the sky was beautiful tonight!
was coming home and just couldn't stop looking at the sunset, truly magical. thanks for the share! absolument magnifique!
red sky at night, sailors delight. red sky in the morning, sailors warning!
such a special place! gorgeous.
magnificent
fking gorgeous
i was at the restaurant in front of a window and i kept looking at the sky (to the point of distracting my friend), it was beautiful tonight!
you misspelled "ontario". i have yet to see oratoire
saint brother andré. pray for us.
i like this. they are not the christ of the photo of an iphone full of grain
thank you!
put some!
the sky really was beautiful today!
didn’t know that! now i know
> l'allier said the fire started when a barbecue propane tank exploded on the balcony of a nearby unit
how
my dread of being woken up in the middle of the night and being forced to leave my house because of a fire and not having time to take nothing but my boots and my coat.
and ** all ** lose.
something similar happened in pat last summer.  an exploding propane tank resulted in a huge condo fire.  kinda scary.
i feel bad, but.....her friend starting a gofundme for $100 000 is pretty obnoxious to me.  home insurance is there for a reason and any sane person should have 'replacement value' in theirs. i get she's an olympian, but i hope the gofundme is a bust. if you can't be generous to a local charity, why donate to somebody who already has an earning capacity higher than most people? the public has already financed her athletic endeavours, why would people willingly finance her lifestyle? and her husband is a pro football player.
[deleted]
we need to get hank hill on the case. 
meaghan is awesome and hope she can somehow get her medals replaced and i am happy she’s alright.
i've met a few olympians through my line of work and most keep them in bank boxes. looks like it's a good idea.
faulty/tempered with tank, use with improper accessory, improper seals, leaking lines, improper storage, operator error and that's just off the top of my head. i'm sure there are dozens more ways
sometimes the line between the tank and the barbecue can rupture which causes a gas leak which can explode if the barbecue is on at the time.
it's also possible that the fire started on the balcony for another reason and only got really intense once the propane tank got involved.
source : i am a fire investigator
edit: i just looked at some pictures of the site of the fire and the building is completely demolished. no fire investigator would be able to objectively determine the cause of the fire in those circumstances, so witness testimony would be the only evidence available. it would all depend on who saw the fire first / where it was / what did the occupants do in the hours before the fire. did they use the barbecue? did they smoke a cigarette on the balcony? was there an exterior outlet with something plugged in? did the fire start inside the condo and then propagate to the balcony? etc
maybe by heating the carboy on the charcoal bbq
you’d be amazed the amount of poorly maintained tanks that rust and leak. it’s called a bleve, it happens more than you think.
having seen some similar stuff, some people who don't take care of their bbqs at all let the grease in them accumulate until it overflows and drips down to the tank/hose, and sometimes catches fire as well.
see for yourself, while i have no ideas how it initially started, the fire did start from a bbq propane tank and moved on to another 
explosion at 13:12
luckily the firefighters managed to put it out and from what i can see from my place, only the two affected units remain empty
sounds unlikely...it is hard to blow up a tank according to myth busters.
tip: i have prepared a small, easy-to-access place with my important documents (papers, visa, health, bank, etc.), some cash, a hard drive that backs up my computers, an old laptop, an old smart phone and my gameboy sp.
an improvement would be to have a bag with a minimum of resistance to fire history that if i lose it during the evacuation ... but i do not know what to take at the moment.
50/50 chance. either it happens or it doesn't. :)
even melted down, it's apparently 6oz of gold and the rest silver.  maybe someone will find it
only problem i have with that is if it was any of that... the article would be about how a person blew themselves to oblivion and _then_ the entire building... not burned medals and mental health... so what happened for a tank to just blow up on its own
[deleted]
cool job! (right?)
me in my little suitcase i just put my gameboy sp and the little light with pokémon
it seems to me that there are fire-resistant safes
it wouldn't blow up on its own, someone would have had to use the barbecue at the time or earlier in the day.
it wouldn't be random. poorly secured tank or leaky line, or just leaving it on by mistake and something getting too hot over time near the gas line.
not really. propane tanks are quite resilient and it's safer to store it outside so firefighters can easily remove it or spray water on it to prevent it from exploding during a fire.
propane tanks are used a lot for heating on industrial sites during the winter so there's no problem with tanks getting cold.
maybe just cover it with a tarp during the winter to prevent ice buildup around the valve, and make sure to give your valve and barbecue line a good visual inspection at the start of barbecue season. look for cracks or deformation.
they just protect the paper, a lot of the time. the temperature will still rise inside and the plastic will melt.
why not fire up the safe then and protect everything else?
well that's reassuring
who is using a barbecue in the dead of winter? it's literally -15°c outside, use your oven like everyone else.
canadians.
i am...some foods just taste better on the bbq! the cold cannot stop me from tasty food.
lots do
it’s warm by the bbq, so you don’t feel it. better tasting.
i am bbq-ing tonight lol ...and you call yourself a montrealer 🙄😆
i'll bbq to about -5c.  ain't frying no steaks.
why wouldn't you?
as a matter of fact, we seldom do, but do it nonetheless.
oh i know, i'm canadian. and snow has never stopped me from using a bbq haha
what has made this winter so pleasant is the lack of freeze thaw cycles.  we haven't had to deal with much slush or ice because there haven't been many partial melts.
42cm of snow? where?
there hasn't been a great warm spell since the first snows.
it seems, in any case, it appears on my terrace which is in the shade.
i really want to snowboard but my loved ones are at risk ... so make the most of it for me. the conditions were suddenly disgusting.
does anyone else wish they wouldn't remove the snow? i mean of course it makes practical sense, but the child in me feels like i'm missing out on the experience of a record snow day because it all gets hauled away and when i look out my window it looks just like any other winter day.
[the photos of the city pre-snow removal look incredible.](
we've had a really mild winter so far
yesterday was my first time in montreal in the winter. i am from brazil (a place without snow), and i was thinking today "jesus, it is always like that?".
i think 2008 was when we had a huge snowstorm during march break. made for a good week for my lazy cegep self who stayed inside playing videogames all week. i feel like we don't have that much snow outside but maybe it's because i've only had to shovel out my car like.... once so far, and it wasn't even a two-timer with the shovel (as in, shovel, get in car, try to move, still stuck, had to get out and shovel again) just shoveled once and vroomed right out of there.
i remember that winter. shoveling was no fun
if there’s something i’ve learned since moving to montreal is that every year there’s a new record of something 😂
we haven't had a lot of huge snowstorms...that xmas rain would have been snow but it was too warm. we also haven't had deep-freezes with -30 temps and so far, no freezing rain or ice storms.
but let's not jinx the no-hitter!
however, the ski/snow conditions must be fantastic.
are you just me or do i find it normal for the amount of snow?
it's a bit sad all the same. i remember the winters before that when there was a lot more snow than that.
i'm curious where you took this data from.
mmmm ... it sounds like the floods in the spring :(
our snow-on-the-ground chart for this year looks like the burj khalifa in dubai. makes me feel proud.
oh shit i misread that, i thought we were having 42cm of snow today and i was like... shit how did i miss this, did i really not look out of the window for that long??
has it really been that snowy of a winter? it doesn't feel like it to me. *shrug*
we're up in the laurentians and it is less than it was a couple of years ago. we don't get the thaws you get in montreal though.
i want to see how deep the pot holes will be and how long the useless mrs weed, our mayor will take to patch them. if her bs was asphalt it wouldn't take long....
[deleted]
now we will see if we will pay the price with flooding in the spring.
hopefully it won't all melt at once.
so true. last year was such a freaking mess. the puddles were huge and our neighbour had flooding, when melted snow cascaded down their driveway.
noticed it snowboarding, last year it was full of ice everywhere. this year the season started late, but the snow has been amazing so far!
unless you own a roof.  a lot of people will be in for a bad surprise when the 1st big thaw comes.
that’s fair but i feel like there’s too much snow around my property. i feel it needs a melt and like other comment, hopefully not all at once
outside, the place no one goes anymore.
:-d
i'm in mhm (more precisely in longue pointe)... and i can say there's at least 40cm of accumulated snow on my front yard, backyard and root of my garden shed.
at the airport.
must've been measured at 12:01 am, because today is warm and everything is melting. there was more snow yesterday.
my balcony has at least that much, and it’s south-facing
phew i don't want to be boring ... but you have absolutely zero chance of being at risk snowboarding. extra vitamin d bonus. take advantage of it because otherwise you will have lost 1 year of skiing for nothing.
at worst, rent yourself some split-snow equipment, go up by yourself and go down the slopes !!
there aren't a lot of less risky activities than snowboarding honestly. it's less worse than walking in the street, you only go up with people from your bubble, so if you go alone you have a chair of your own. and in the lines at the bottom everyone is more than two meters away, outside, with a mask.
it sounds fun, but it poses a series of serious consequences.
i come from the maritimes where a lot if cities don't have the budget to haul away much snow.  the problem is that snow banks end up so big that you have to design your streets differently (the sidewalks are further from the street to allow space for snow to pile up between them).
note the shmoes manually removing snow in your photo :)
i’d love if we left the snow around, people would be cross-country skiing to the store and having loud-ass snowmobile accidents
hahah good luck
it is normal to have some snow on the ground at this time of the year, but this is more than typical.
i still remember that year because my front door’s lock broke and i couldn’t open the door. i had to get out by the back door and walk in at least 3-4 feet of snow. i remember walking to the metro station and the snow was high enough to almost cover the city’s garbage bins. it was something else!
records for 1941-2021 are from pierre elliot trudeau airport ( [ )
records for 1871-1940 are from mcgill ( [ )
we had a warm fall, so the ground was not frozen for as long as in 2019. also, it will really depend on the spring.
it depends on how fast it melts.
if it melts slowly not quickly, it will be fine, but if we have a big week of really hot weather it will melt faster than the rivers can support it.
oddly, no.  but we haven't had a thaw so the snow just keeps piling up.
depends on rain and all kinds of other factors. a week of 5°c will take a lot of the sting out, but even with much less snow hard rain could cause flooding.
took up skiing this year. it’s been phenomenal.
i have a steep roof.
same here
wow, really? can you link to whatever topographical snowfall map you've got? sounds cool. what's the snowiest habitable montréal neighborhood?
it was measured at 7am, at the airport.
yeah, but i really can't take a risk. not for me but for my family rather. i can do without a winter of snowboarding if that means everyone stays healthy.
what is archi platte pcq conditions are disgusting this year.
\+ emergency vehicules still need to move around. covid or not.
metro to mt-royal, then slide to work.
slide to square-victoria and metro home at the end.
until hes in front of you on a hill.
ah yes that guy. you can usually see him walking around with a big board that says "look at me".
pardon me sir, but could you spare a tuppance for a pint of guiness?
it's called a penny-farthing! they're actually super difficult to ride. i tried once in a museum.
cringe. anyone riding something like that went out of their way. they didn't do it because it's a better option, they did it because they want attention.
ahhhh..a lachine canal hipster, spotted in the wild...st-henri which used to be cheap, dirty, ghetto fabulous... is now gentrified hipster hell, back-to-back $12 taco shops even if i wanted to, i couldn't afford to move back there, rents have more than doubled.
where's the old timey moustache and the bow tie
itt [no fun allowed](
typical montreal eccentric looking for attention.
ok
until he falls and creates an accident. and no helmet perched that high, what a dumbass. he's no better than the roadies that go full gas on that section of the canal.
going up.
i’m still trying to figure out how he gets on that thing
to be fair, this photo was taken in pointe-saint-charles. 
as far as 12$ tacos, i don’t know of many around st henri, but for a small fortune you can get a bucket of fried chicken!
nonsense! they gave it a coat of paint and swept the streets. 
12$ taco shops almost had me in tears lol. i feel that many of those types try way too hard to out style or out hipster eachother. at least he's over to the side vs riding in the middle so +1
montreal should not be exposed as a cheap city, it attracted ontarians here!
hilarious
i'll admit i was that person before but then i realised i'm in my mid 30s and likely won't be getting a call from a pro team , if i crash bones suck to heal but most importantly i don't want to injure a kid. i take my chances on st patrick or ride that section of canal early in the day. before 10am...
i think he starts out kind of like doing a wheelie and then hoists himself up... but not sure!
yes, technically this is in the pointe, but not really,  it's near atwater market on the st. patrick side.
lol! trendy fried chicken
nothing wrong with pushing sometimes. that’s what the street is for. that section of the canal is full of kids, pedestrians, leisure cyclists. we all have to cohabitate.
haha yah for sure, either way i love the canal for a nice afternoon run, hipsters or not!
i feel that the $1.25 steamee choux-moutarde rotteux hotdog is an endangered species in 
st -henri.
agreed 100% now i just chill along that section when it's busy. i've changed my ways
greenspot will always have your back! i believe a bellepro just opened near the iga too. booming
i work in a bar and honestly wtf is the difference selling alcohol till 1 or until 3 other than our sales?
can i stop wearing a mask in a 45 degree kitchen yet?
these capacity restrictions are completely pointless at this point frankly.
only to have everything revoked third week of september lol
vaccine passport when
so i can try to get tickets to the habs/rangers game in october?
you know society is messed up when alcohol is so important lol
does anyone know about what this means for weddings? i’m assuming the 250 people for seated venues doesn’t apply.
why is the header in english and the flyer in french?
both would be helpful and reaching out to a larger public, thank you.
and also in spanish 😉
esti which are thick… no common sense the fact that the last call is at midnight or 1 am… the world gather in afters. it changes sweet fuck all
still not a peep about martial arts; fucking shame considering a montreal woman just took a bronze medal in judo at the olympics.
i'm guessing we'll finally know we're out of the woods when the mask mandate is lifted. as a sweaty fat man that's my valhalla. until then, keep safe everyone!
poker is coming back wahooo
assuming this goes into effect at midnight: does that mean bars will be serving until 1am sunday "morning"?
people infected with delta apparently shed 1260 times the virus as compared to alpha. that’s a multiple factor as compared to alpha, not a percentage increase.
do i still need to wear a mask?
people get drunker as the night goes on, more closes contacts, etc..
what about having to wear a mask when standing up and walking but not while sitting. makes less sense than a monkey's ass.
useless as you say. was with a friend that was ordering so much at 00 to keep going for as long as he can. even i was drinking maybe the same amount by reaching 3, now i have to drink that amount before midnight!
i agree completely. this is a dumb rule made by some old ass disconnected person that doesn’t realize that people will simply accelerate their drinking as it moves closer to closing time, whenever that is.
prohibition era leftovers, 100%. gotta control that alcohol.
it could be to avoid everyone going out to a bar to celebrate laxed restrictions
virtue signaling
sitting on a crowded bus sweating my actual face off as i type this. the day the mask mandate is lifted is the day i rejoice. i can't even begin to imagine what retail workers and kitchen staff go through.
or when doing sports indoors in a giant room full of young vaccinated people? can we...? this shit is dragging on forever summer is halfway done already...
masks are the easiest lowest cheapest effort to mitigate propagation.
different situation, but california has reinstated mask mandates. it's not going away for a while.
i already stopped. i try, but it’s just too hot.
that was my thought as well.  i assume the size restrictions were related to the ability to contact trace.
then again our 7-day average is 59 case/day so maybe they can warrant that since our capabilities are so high from the april wave.  also our vaccination rate is good and still improving.  maybe it is time to show people the reward of doing the right thing as long as we keep vigilant and are ok with returning to more restrictions if things see an uptick.
edit:  7 day average of 59 cases/day was from google and seems to be incorrect.  from [ it seems like on july 3rd the cases are 101, 99, 103, 76, 61  (two day gap), 83 which means roughly a 7 day average of 87 cases per day.
it’s damage limitation in case there is a super spreader event. in europe you’re seeing  clubs/bars where 50 cases can be traced back to one night of partying.
yeah, i can't imagine that it makes any difference once you're at 500 people.
why? you don’t think the vaccines work?
they did this in france and antivaxs are mad as hell lmao! they can't eat in a restaurant without a recent covid check, how sad /s
went to a gym yesterday and i really wish it was a "vaccinated only" place. between the indoors, exertion and bro-culture it leaves me uncomfortable.
spanish too.
pretty much all martial arts training centers are open, and have been since july 1st (green zone).
source: am judoka, have been back on the mats for a few weeks now.
fwiw, klimkait's from ontario but the national judo centre is in montréal.
what do the olympics have to do with it?
like the stuff said in here. not peer reviewed yet but still discouraging. 
yeah gonna need a source for that one.
source.
forever. the quebec gov loves them like babies love their diapers.
fair point, however, from what i can see at work is that people just start pounding shots earlier than before. i dont think the hour we close bars has much of an effect on consumer consumption.
furthermore, i also worked in european bars that only closed after the last clients left and i’ve noticed that customers here tend to binge drink more “because theres only x amount of time left”.
im no law maker, my work experience isnt any per reviewed research as well so idk...
idk, in my place of work i can clearly see the reason. there’s alot of room between the clients and inter-table mingling is limited by this measure i find.
transmission was predominantly through aerosols, which would circulate indoors. all of the mask on and off stuff is really nonsense unless the business has really good air circulation and probably an air filtration system, which most don’t. a lot of these rules are pure virtue theater at this point. they should lift them for fully vaccinated people.
i finally started going back to the gym and it’s frankly gross seeing people touching their masks every two minutes to take them off/put them back on, then touch/handle equipment, then put their mask right back on. i see people get to a machine and take off their mask and put it down on the machine or in a cup holder then back on their face once their done. yucky. i had pockets the first time i went so kept my mask there but yesterday didn’t have anywhere to stow it so i just kept it on the whole time. turned my weight lifting sesh into some cardio.
you’re proving my point bud
lol which virtue? selling booze?
holy fuck i'm on the other end of the spectrum. i am anything but a germaphobe, but i'm considering wearing a mask on the metro and bus forever.
imagine what it was like in a class with no air conditioning in a heat of 30 ° c +, for 7 hours of time (the mask was also compulsory outside)
the fact that they haven’t lifted mask mandates for fully vaccinated people has made me lose all faith in this government. honestly, this is total nonsense. the people wearing masks 8+ hours a day in this ridiculous heat is just unnecessary torture that drives some imaginary virtue signaling bullshit that some canadians seem to thrive on. 
anyway, i couldn’t agree more with you. we are all vaccinated, at least with one shot. in a few weeks we will be near 75% with two shots. it’s time to fucking move on. the only thing that is killing our summer is this ridiculous government.
of course the guy is nowhere to be found.
prison.
this is so incredibly sad. imagine working hard your whole life, making sacrifices, and then your money just disappears and it's not coming back.
prison for the real estate fraudster and the architect for the mcmansion
number one rule when dealing with contractors. never pay upfront. if they do not have the money to start a job, then they are not trustworthy. you are not to act like their bank. you pay as the job goes on and you are satisfied with the amount of work they have done compared to the money they are asking.
til some people dream is to have a house in laval.
i hear of so many people who have been conned out of their business/life savings. it seems to be a real thing here in quebec, so many predatory amoral people committing fraud and larceny- with few consequences.
if someone has the money to put a down payment on a house, they are going to do it. the shitty thing about it is these people are nervously trying to find a place as quick as possible for the amount they can afford before it gets bought by a huge corporation. i personally can't imagine owning a home because it would cost too much but these people have every right to save up and purchase a home, but we need to make it easier, affordable, and unreachable by major corporations or wannabe slum lords.
there should be a rule to ensure that the home owners are protected in the same way that the banks and large businesses are protected when they go under.
i just put a down payment for a newly built house from another builder and the agent from the builder did a cgr acompte paper that say i have give a cheque for x amount. if your under the 50 000$ your okay. this is for the first deposit.
second deposit is to be given at the notary. so nothing stop anyone from putting more, you just need to know what the max that your cover. a good agent will tell you that amount.
[deleted]
'buyers lose millions' ... oh no!
apparently his suppliers are actively looking for him.
i have the impression that he will not make any prison and will not have paid anything.
fuck.
is it really not coming back? isn't there a way to fix this? it's scary to lose that much money
i'm not so sure that people that young who have $250k in the bank "worked hard their whole life and made sacrifices".
it's not crazy money, but it's definitely not working-man's money.
many of us don't need to imagine. similar situation happening to me.
you just described lebanon
[deleted]
well, it's not so much mcmansions just the somewhat cubic "modern" style. are not badly different from the mcmansions in the youtube link above / below (amalgamation of elements that make castle-style on a suburban lot).
[mcmansions: the houses that people love to hate](
this wasn't a contractor, he was posing as a real estate developer.  putting a deposit on a new build is normal.
exactly. you make your down payment with the bank for your mortgage. that's it.
i know you're getting a lot of upvotes but your comment doesn't apply to the situation.  this was a land developer taking deposits.  no deposit, no home.
this wasn't time and material contractor work.
you'll want to buy a house yourself one day and you'll understand why people move to the rive-nord and rive-sud.
> til some people dream is to have a house ~~in laval~~.
ftfy
[deleted]
as much as i love laval bashing, montreal isn't really a good option for people who want families of more than one kid, so yes some people might dream of having a house in the suburbs and a fairly well sized yard.
this made me laugh so hard
jesus, what a fucking snob.
if we said that for every piece of news, there could have been some news. strongly compassion.
i'm confused, are you being sarcastic? do you like people losing their money?
[deleted]
probably with a flashlight and a rifle? someone to whom we owe money may do anything to find us. at the gang they should get there!
there's not much they can do. literally all the guy has to do is ensure his company is insolvable and he won't have to pay a dime even if he's found and tried. before they can go after the administrators of the company he has plenty of time to get out.
out of pure curiosity, why do you have this feeling?
the article mentions the downpayments were 150k, 200k. then it says:
> there is a glimmer of hope, however, as in quebec, new homeowners are protected by what is called the homebuilders' construction warranty monitored by an industry oversight group. however, it only pays back up to $50,000.
gotta be a way.
>that young
how old were they exactly? the article does not mention it.
and what can it do? someone worked for that amount of money. and today it is almost impossible for a young couple to buy a property without the help of parents.
they're in their mid to late 30s. how is it not working-man (or woman's) money? for a couple, that's 100-125k each over a 15+ year career, that's not crazy. 
that can be just earning a good salary and investing it for a few years, or it could be making money off previous homes, or it could be living at home until buying a first home and never having spent money on rent, or it could be just being very frugal the entire time. you never know how or why someone has the money they do, everyone has different priorities, needs, and goals.
multi-generational wealth. she could be speaking on behalf of her whole family, and taking charge of the project. it doesn't have to be her home.
especially cash! lots of people in their 30s who will have that equity built up in their property, but as a cash downpayment that's crazy.
crazy in multiple ways though, because that's barely 20% of many homes nowadays.
it's not that much. they could be 40-45. that's a 15-20 year working career where they saved 10-20k a year. or it could be equity on an existing house that they own and have paid a lot into. you'd be surprised what you can save when you cut the fat and how much that grows over time.
not fair to judge
i have close to that and i'm early 30s, husband late 30s, and we did indeed work very very hard and made a lot of risks and sacrifices. my family helped me out with rent until i finished university. that's certainly privilege but i still did a lot of work, i just didn't have to worry about paying rent or food while studying. my husband on the other hand had none of that, only work.
what are you talking about? what makes you think they're rich?
what a shitty thing to say.  define rich?  i don't think many, if any, of these people were millionaires.  they lost their life savings.  some have contemplated suicide.
this guy fucked off with $17m of theire money and your opinion is "fuck em, they're rich".  wow.
i grant you, these modern houses have a much more uniform style
it stays as slippery as the criss
that was hard to watch, incredibly pretentious.
what's worse is it seems he wasn't posing. he has built a lot of homes before. so if you did a normal amount of due diligence, it could seem like he was credible based on his track record. as the one person said, they even went and visited prior homes to see if they were happy with the actual quality. 
so horrible.
putting that much money as deposit isn’t normal.   normal is 15, 20000.   or up to the guaranteed 50,000.  not more.  
this guy told buyers that for every 100,000$ they’d put as a deposit he’d knock off 10,000 on the price of the house.  that’s one of the reasons people out so much.
so, you are telling me that there is a chance?
there are certainly people who pay $ 500 for their rent in montreal, but these units are not available.
it is clear that the salary did not increase as much as the price of rents.
when you got a $ 5 million house
[
i seriously doubt legault has ever rented an apartment in his life. if he ever did, it hasn't been in the last 3 decades. he may have grown up in a humble family but the dude has become and elitist twat. his exemption of the homeless during the curfew was closer to enmity than just lack of empathy.
i know montreal faces many challenges, but in my opinion high land prices are how it dies. it strangles innovation, small businesses and communities.
where are our elected officials? this situation serves a minority of people who do not create the value that generates their high rents.
what people also forget is that in her original question, manon massé asked for the ** median ** cost. i find many who defend legault by saying that he is technically right because housing has been found at $ 500; it is simply wrong. he is not technically correct in his answer. a median is a single number, not an interval.
you may find it pedantic, but i find it revealing. it indicates that he was absolutely unable to say a single digit that looks great, so he came out with a number range that was just huge and absurd. to give a similar example, it's a bit like saying that the median salary is "it starts at $ 25,000 and goes up quickly to 80,000". if someone is pm and denies that there is currently a housing crisis, we are entitled to expect that they have accurate and up-to-date information on the subject to make such a statement.
i conclude that he either does not know the file and is disconnected, or does not have sufficient math skills to know what a median is, which is perhaps worse.
at that point, i would at least have found it funny if he had said: "between zero and infinity" or "it is a real number".
almost $ 600 for a place so small you can't even have an oven. when will the dorms-style buildings with shared kitchen and toilet?
oh, is that harry potter’s under-the-stairs cubbyhole?
it makes me sad.  i rented a studio for $550, not that many years ago.  it was a but pricey for my student budget but worth it for me at the time.   i really feel for students and low-income folks. 
this is why it is a good idea to transfer your lease rather than giving it up; it is perfectly legal but prevents landlord from jacking up the rent
haha, that made me remember the banana cost meme. how much can it be????? these people are out of touch with reality, and they are the one making decisions for us...
available, not in all active leases.
denying systemic racism. denying the fucked up rent issue. there may be a pattern there when it comes to things he doesn’t give a fuck about fixing.
i had a nice renovation last year :) i was paying 650 for a 3 1/2.
the price displayed is now $ 1,100.
the renovations? painting, sanding floors and changing the vanity in the bathroom.
the market is sad.
am i the only one who believes that this statement by legault is not a simple error, but a political calculation? the kind that serves to demonstrate to the rural and regional population that not only is he disconnected from the reality of wicked montrealers, but that in addition, he does not care. contempt for major centers seems to be the norm for populist governments around the world and history ...
i helped a guy get on his feet about 10 years ago. he stayed rent free with me for 4 years. 
last time i spoke to him, he was telling me how he's putting his old tenants put using loopholes. some are old and have been living at that place forever. 
money changes people. it's one of those life is testing you moments. we might hate who we become when we make it.
tabarque. is there someone from the caq going on reddit.
come on dumbasses. câlisse.
even the plq was a problem and disconnected from reality. ffs. and the pq.
you want to run the government? ben start fucking working for the people ffs
i rented an apartment in ndg in 2009, à large 4.5 with fridge and stove, second floor with two balcony. 550 was my rent. that same apartment is now going for over 1100.
well its air i do not rent my 3 1/2 dear asser lol
no, according to our pm it costs $ 250.
> yes, there are rents at 600, at 1000 $, especially when there are two of us to share a rent, "the prime minister said on wednesday. (on the press today)
rents are also high because the city surcharges to pay an army of 20-30% too many civil servants earning 40% more than the average city citizen ...
according to our premiers, living in quebec costs nothing! $ 500 per month for housing and $ 75 per week to feed a family!
*laughs in torontonian and vacouverite*
my guess is that the price will crumble themselves as the people who can afford those prices are now allowed to work full time at home.
currently waiting for the bubble to pop to buy something nice very far from montreal: i will never need to work in an office again anyway.
i was paying $ 625 for a 2 1/2 muddy in a basement 9 years ago .. i don't imagine how much it's made these days
it is clear that in sharing with friends you can find something affordable 400-500 / ch or around $ 600 each all inclusive. but you have to look, be a little lucky and have good credit otherwise you're fucked
ok i am not saying that there are many but only one? there seem to be a couple of them when you put the right filters on kijiji ... is it me missing something?
chipping in as a landlord of a few units, all costs went up, insurance though i have never made a claim, continues to go up like 5 to 15% a year, taxes which the city promised would not increase did increase as well, mine went up 150$.
then theirs the cost of labor, ex repaint and fix up a apartment, getting a 4.5 painted a few years ago was like 800$, this year 2200$ yes for a guy to come in spray white paint everywhere for 2 days and leave.
i also had to fix all the damage the old tenants caused, since theirs no security deposit it was all out of pocket for about 9k. so ya theirs not more cheap apartments because everything went up.
unlike many landlords i followed the rules i increased by 3% for the next tenant, or 20$/ so... now the math (not including all the other increases) i paid 11.2k to fix this place up to make 240$ more a year that is taxed. so its going to take me over 4 years to recupe this cost and in that time %100 there will be more expense, after 4 years of being a landlord i have not profited yet, theirs always more to fix.
yes i get to discount these expense, but its on money i had to spend in the first place, that was already taxed, that i will again pay tax on.
so when someone increase by a lot more so they can actually cover their costs, its because everything went up and everybody is just being over taxed and costs go up faster than pay.
oh then theirs the argument your building is gaining value, yes it is but that's part of the trap right, capital gain are 50% so that government that's taxing me already on everything will get half my "profit" after sale. 
sometimes i question if buying in low appreciation areas is better, yes the building doesn't gain as much value yet its less capital gain to pay at sale.
people are talking about it, but i do not see what the government could honestly do.
the alarm that the real estate market is being driven mad in canada was sounded a long time ago when we saw prices in vancouver soar. then followed toronto as there was no real concrete action either.
the federal government has done virtually nothing concrete, if only to add an additional tax, typical of a government that sees a problem as a way of making money. it didn't stop the flow.
in montreal it's slower, especially because of the french fact, but it catches up quite quickly anyway. valérie plante did nothing on the latest news either; its ads are largely on social housing that the majority of people who work / work in montreal are inadmissible.
now we are astonished that legault does not act, but i do not see how it would be up to him to do something; my understanding of the problem is that the pressure on the real estate market comes from the international market which could only be curbed at the federal level. i don't really see what the municipal government could do, and then the provincial government with the tal seems to supervise rental better than elsewhere in canada.
jesus, even the apartments that cost $600 are better than anything you can get in london for 3 times the price...
cheap apartments is a huge selling point for montreal and is the main reason i moved here. i'd hate to see that decline.
i gotta move back to montreal.  you guys have it so good as far as cost of living
i was paying $ 575 for a bachelor near the water's edge in lasalle last year.
he said prices *started at* $500-600.
guess he was right. why the fuss?
so technically he wasn't wrong lol
so factually he was right to say that ** it starts ** at this price. because he doesn't seem to have any accommodation below $ 500 on the island
one chance, one shot, one opportunity
i found an apartment for 575$ in the west island just a few weeks ago so i’d say close enough lol
there are people who paid $ 12 for their microsoft shares as well and that price is no longer available. it is moron to calculate the price of housing on the price that some people have been paying for 20 years when it is impossible to find housing at that price.
who is going to want to move with such cheap rent? and if they move it's sure that the next tenant will pay 2x more or less.
i think they do, i’ve tripled my salary in the past decade. you can always find someone to pay you 10% more than whatever you’re making now, or change careers to something more lucrative.
on the other hand salaries for menial jobs remain low. but no one should strive to be a grocery store cashier as a career really...
"nooo, there is no housing crisis"
i mean it's one banana michael. how much could it cost? ten dollars?
ah he meant 5,000,000 steps 500, it was just a typo ...
he doesn't have the right to have a house of 5 million? i do not understand your comment.
it was only after a man died in a porta-potty that he exempted the homeless.
he's worth 10 millions, in france, he would be a pequenot.
you know, being rich in québec doesn't mean jackshit when it's come to other countries, even compared to the other provinces.
would you believe it, france has 5000+ billionaires families. where, in québec, we have desmarais, jean coutu, and the owner of dollorama, which name evade me a the moment.
my point is that, even fitzgibbon, with is 30m value is a smallfish.
he sold his home just last month. five million dollars.
it's not really his responsibility to manage a city "crisis" either. people can also vote with their wallet. nobody needs to have a 5 and a half on the plateau. they want it, but it comes with a price. if the owners ask too much, they won't rent it... simple as that. why would they ask a lower price when they can ask more and rent it?  
if i offer you 50$ or 200$, will you take only 50$? there are laws to avoid extorsion by the owners. but renoviction, is 100% legal and if an owner want to invest in a building to improve the apartments and rent them at a higher price, they can...
they are busy profiting.
the truth is that the rising prices are 100% the responsibility of the city. if the zoning laws changed and allowed for all single story houses to be converted into triplexes we wouldn’t have any issue right now.
our elected officials are the problem. they don’t want to work together with the population to create a solution. i don’t want affordable housing, i want to be able to afford to buy a house and we meet more co-ops. put the power in the peoples hands and maybe all these useless politicians can go back to work in the private sector where they belong.
i think you did not understand the rules of r / montreal. here, only photos of mount royal taken from the belvedere with a view of the city center are authorized!
nice photos, i like the 4th one :)
great pics! 👍👍👍
are there any racoons right now?
is this a rethorical question? at this point, the mountain has become a single unmoving mass of racoons.
🤣🤣 thanks! i'm gonna go next weekend then. do they hang out there during daytime too?
no, but it's painful, damn it.
i’m honestly so angry rn - maybe it was just my section of the park, but people were being the most respectful i’ve seen in awhile. socially distanced, no crowds were too loud/rowdy, but i have never seen so many cops in my life. they kept circling the park after about 9pm and made it intensely uncomfortable to be there. the constant noise from the helicopter also drowned out any conversation you were having. so many of us don’t have large backyards and properties!! we rely on parks for socialization and normalcy... the spvm is systematically trying to take this from us by creating a hostile and uncomfortable environment. the curfew may be gone but the pressure from the police to go home is still very much present... i just want to try to rebuild my social life at least a little lol
edit: typos
the helicopter's light was pointing directly at jeanne-mance park and about twenty police tanks also came. as far as i know it was just full of people celebrating
i came here for the answer. anyone have an rpg?
is it possible to call the police to make a noise complaint ... against the police?
defund them
it's the nh, they're still looking for matthews, marner
ah lol the subreddit was not loading and i just posted the same thing ha ha
the helicopter is motionless just above my bacon it's dazzling as fuck their lights
then the noise is ultra loud i can't anymore lol
hundreds of police at jeanne mance park with the helicopter pi his big beam over it. it's really intense, everyone is just chilling in the park.
please make it stop my baby wont sleep 😭
[edit]
they heard me! maybe just went for a refuel and will come back :p
it's gonna turn all the fucking conspirators on for months.
"the lego dictatorship ..."
sigh ...
c'est fucking ridicule.
helico of the spvm, apparently to send his spotlight in front of people in the parks and break the ears of all residents! we confine and intimidate ...
defund the police
probably unrelated, but does anyone know what happened in parc lafontaine around 2100?
saw a cop push a lady 3 times with full force as a bunch of them were gathered around an ambulance. not much later, i saw another cop car flying through the pedestrian path, almost hitting two different groups of kids, and an officer jumped out of the car and tackled someone to arrest them... 
seemed like a very intense night compared to last friday..
i’ve been wondering the same thing it’s right above my place
lol fuck the government that still controls the populace. i can understand that we want to minimize contact but sacrament that is abuse.
there are people who will have serious questions to answer tonight and tomorrow.
it's been up here for more than 30 minutes now
think it's over, head to laval!
police intimidation tactics.
it's a police helicopter, she kept her beacon over the crowds of people at jm park for at least an hour. then she went to lafontaine park.
hope everything is okay out there
it's heading out now. no idea what that was about.
i can't imagine the amount of money that was spent last night to harass some people hanging out in a park. 
cops just doing everything they can to prove defunding is the right thing to do.
ok, finally gone: p
lighting by helicopter is included in the rental of the plateau
the first few times call the police to make complaints about the noise.
~~ ghetto ~~ bird candle
habs win cellebration gone out of hand?
i'm getting reports from plateau bros that it could be multiple helicopters now. any truth to this?
hope nobody is hurt.
do not really fuck denis coderre
i had nothing to do with it, i swear
why not just use a drone with a thermal camera?
is the helicopter at the top of st-laurent or at the base of the mountain?
[removed]
seems to be above the skatepark near van horne. cops are there too.
exploooooose!!!!
parties on the mountain being crashed?
i also saw
woop woop, that’s the sound of the police
i think the old gang settling of scores recently made them do that.
the purge.
"no, you weren't imagining things. that was a police helicopter flying over montreal last night"
[
it's been happening for years .... why is everyone freaking out for nothing ???
montreal police is so funny. they said it's for visibility but they hide to give you tickets 😆
same, cant be about people gathering can it?
and have you abducted kek'un?
no burnside or redpath in brutalist mode to obscure the view, but ... a big chimney behind the main building ???
this picture is the eastern edge of the golden square mile with its mansions. you can see the imposing ravenscrag mansion on the top left, across the mctavish reservoir and off of pine avenue. poshest residence in montreal with a lot of ground space and the mount surrounding it. it was eventually fused and expanded into the mental health wing of the royal victoria hospital.
very cool!! i never knew the soccer field covers what use to be a lake. makes a lot of sense!
the extension to the football stadium is really an eyesore!
would be nice to see the view from today
i imagine there was some controversy about the very tall (8- or 9-storey) apartment building right across from the main entrance to the mcgill campus -- in 1925 it really dwarfed everything else right there among the stately mansions, and sticks out like a sore thumb in this picture.
is it where this little lake ???
well yes, it was the old boiler room. now the ferrier building i believe
yes indeed. fun fact: golden square mile is not the term that was used back then, it was just square mile.
golden square mile was written into a book, with golden in quotes, to make a reference to the area's location of montreal's 'gilded age'. it was never actually used to describe the area at the height of its wealth and power. it was just square mile.
not a lake but a man-made [reservoir]( it's still there albeit covered by the field.
maybe. there was a building height restriction in effect at the time that limited height based on the size of the lot, but didn't limit height based on location (such as we have today).
i can't quite figure out how the photo was taken, but if it was from the roof of a building, the sun life would be my guess. that said, i'd revise the date, as the sun life was only completed in 1931 and i believe they hadn't yet started building the tower in the mid-1920s. otherwise it would have had to have been a low-flying airplane. 
that building still stands today, i think it's all super expensive apartments largely used by students. it was in the news a few years ago because the owner hadn't made a bunch of needed repairs. when it first opened it would have been just another luxury apartment building in the square mile, so i don't think anyone was really complaining. sherbrooke had bigger buildings at that time.
this is the mctavish reservoir before it went underground in the 1950s
it has become the city's drinking water reservoir. it used to be where the current carré st-louis is.
the current reservoir is undergoing major work. the section of rue docteur-penfield that runs alongside it will be closed for several years.
omg that’s the reservoir that gave us flood girl??
> i can't quite figure out how the photo was taken, but if it was from the roof of a building, the sun life would be my guess.
given the sightline, it might've been taken from the top of the dome of mary, queen of the world cathedral, which [wikipedia says was completed in 1895]( the sun life building wouldn't have been in the way then either.
ahhhhhhhhhh ok ok
yep!
never forget
beautiful photo
ward of dawn
the biosphere in parc jean-drapeau
rosemont-petite-patrie.
i like how everyone guesses but it's probably the photo that gives the least to guess haha.
i grew up in this neighborhood. it is typical in rosemont of the 3 floors next to a 2 floor. no wonder there is sometimes a shoebox in all of this.
i miss my neighborhood so much.
i miss montreal so much
welcome to montreal!
verdun?
mile end life ?
ochlagg?
it's so beautiful <3
that's a lot of green
the top level hang their compost and recycling bin off the railing!?! i live on a top floor like that and i’d be afraid that they would blow off and fall on someone’s head.
i miss the city..
plateau or ville-émard?
jackie robinson?
my mother lives in rosemont,  she is in a building much like the one you see on the right with the outdoor shed.
funny, i have always loved these old apartments with the outside staircases which i had read somewhere were purposely built to encourage the community to know and see each other. 
beautiful
kirkland?
px
right answer!
haha! i thought it looked like home, but really, it's just the look of all the apartment blocks in petite-patrie.
i love my neighborhood. we are in heaven here. we don't need anything else
(maybe a parking lot ahah)
the balconies rarely get the wind due to the resistance found in alley ways and the mature maples on the streets. it's usually only when we place them on the streets, that they then fly all around onto people's heads next door.
699k ?
part of my rpp jungle: 
i lived 5 minutes walk from the rosemont metro station. i had no alley, i had 2 streets. in addition to a garage and a solid ground. with a large courtyard. i reluctantly left him. i'm going to stop it there, it twists my heart to talk about it. it's still fresh 1 month and a half.
mine is sooo windy it would kill a few people.
i don't know if you're talking about price, but there's a similar quintuplex that sold 1.4 million earlier this year on my street. completely stupid.
[deleted]
wow it's crazy as a video, well done !! i couldn't even observe it from home ... thank you for capturing this moment 👊🏽
really nice!
i assume you had a special filter on your camera lens?
i tried taking a picture with my phone but it just looked like a big bright spot. then i tried filming through my eclipse glasses, and while there was no brightness, everything else was pitch black.
where is this park?
so beautiful!
thanks for the video.
don't worry, if you're patient there is a total solar eclipse on april 8, 2024 between 3 p.m. and 4 p.m., all of which will pass over montreal! it will be a big event for the whole city.
thank you :-) !
yes i had a filter a long telephoto lens, what a gorgeous scene that was !
if you turned your brightness to the lowest possible you were able to see the moon on your phone but the quality was pretty bad
here: [ 4.3(
another discovery of the day :-)
thank you !
remindme! april 7 2024
good to know! although the next solar eclipse over mtl is 2024 i think, but knowing me, i'll probably have the same phone :)
no shit! he's at the end of the island! the toponymy commission lacked ideas i think.
common sense. giving tickets to people who have no shelter or money or support doesn't make a lot of sense.
i hope that pm legault will show humanity in relation to this situation.
how are they not exempted already? it says you can't be "outside your residence". you can't be outside your residence if you don't have a residence.
it's embarrassing that this is actually a discussion.
too little, too late. i am amazed that the quebec government has seemingly convinced people to turn against their neighbors during this time and point the finger at each other instead of at the failure of a government we have. the real anger should come with why when they have had a year of interaction with this virus they have been unable to design and implement protocols that work? why is their solution to give an already "hopped up on power" group of people the ability to fine individuals during an economic crisis? why has no real help been provided? the curfew is ridiculous it is their attempt at pretending to do something while seemingly doing nothing. these same individuals allowed and supported police in destroying a homeless encampment right before the start of winter, have allowed police officers to ticket these individuals, and have allowed police the ability to essentially enter peoples homes without warrant (which is incredibly alarming for people of color seeing as all, except the government of quebec, know racism and classism run rampant in this province). as citizens of this province it is our right to make the government work in favor of the people. i applaud all individuals who are seemingly fine with the way this lockdown has been going and implore you to recognize the privilege of that stance. for many the lockdown is alarmingly dangerous. whether it be for the homeless, whether it be for those afflicted by drug addictions, for those who are suicidal, or individuals who reside in homes with highly abusive environments that they cannot escape without the risk of fine. i am so tired of seeing people use new zealand as an example when it was clear from the beginning that their government has been competent in their actions ensuring the benefit of their people. stop getting angry at your neighbors and start demanding helpful and useful protocols from the government. ones that are wholly scientifically based and biased against large groups of individuals.
10 minutes later, everyone dresses in rags to be able to go out ...
ok why are we sticking to details, there should be a block of people pushing to overturn the curfew ... it has no scientific basis, it is purely a punitive distraction for the incompetence of legault in relation to the 5,000+ deaths in chsld and his lack of leadership / transparency.
sad that it took a dead man for things to change.
exemptions won't mean much. there is so much more that needs to be done. community groups have tried to contact the mayors office for months about the impending tragedy, and they were met by silence, told not to call, and blocked from social media. 
this is donald trump level of criminal neglect.
it pisses me off that fines are only relevant to the working class. rich motherfuckers dont give a shit about a $ 1000 fine, and here we are. a poor worker, for whom the ticket would be painful to pay, should not be able to pretend to be homeless to get by! fuck legault is an old asshole.
what happened to common sense?  why drop a 1500$ fine on a person that is trying to figure out where to sleep or what to eat.  why would the police need an exemption to figure this out?
i'm curious because legault said people would just say their homeless to get out of a 1k fine. i can't say i disagree, people that don't have the means will say anything to get out of a fine. 
how do you prove that someone is not homeless? 
anyway i do think it's horrendous giving out firms to homeless people...geez
> “i have great confidence in our police officers. i think they do an amazing job and they don't do it on purpose to give tickets to homeless people, ”he said.
>  
> "you have to understand that if we put in the regulations the fact that an itinerant cannot receive a ticket, anyone could say 'me, i am an itinerant, so you do not have the right to give me a contravention "", argued mr. legault during his press conference tuesday.
ok ... so no exception but he asks the police not to give them tickets.
well that makes sense. what the mayor is asking is to write in the ministerial decree that this does not apply to homeless people.
so to all those who find it inhuman how it is now, i ask you: what is the definition of “homeless”? what prevents me from going out at night telling the police that i am homeless? will you be written in black and white in the regulation "if the person stinks, has holes in or dirty clothes, he is an itinerant"? well no. but then even if i have a kanuk with leather boots and a fancy hat, there's nothing stopping me from claiming that i'm homeless, and the police wouldn't have any way of verifying my “free” status. status ".
it's simple, if there is a legislative exception for this category of people, it is social profiling and it requires defining the legal status of a person based solely on their appearance. mayor plante surely understands, but plays politics with that, and it's deplorable.
10 days later ....
the more i see her, the more she looks like bruce willis
it has just been communicated that there will be no exemption
> i hope that pm legault will show humanity in relation to this situation.
if people get indignant enough that he is afraid for his popularity, but otherwise he cares about them as much as unaddressed people vote for him.
do you think that the quebecois trump will show humanity?
how would exempting them help? the man froze to death. instructing police to bring him to a shelter would have saved him if shelters had enough room. the real problem is not enough shelter spaces.
the instruction is to direct them (and even take them) to a refuge that has availability and that the fine is only as a last resort.
well, now that a gentleman has died in such an unfortunate situation, she'll pretend to give a shit. 
as if her page hasn't blocked/ignored an organization (organizations?) that had been appealing to her for this exact situation days prior.
smart.gif
>how are they not exempted already? 
they are.
> “i have great confidence in our police officers. i think they do an amazing job and they don't do it on purpose to give tickets to homeless people, ”he said.
>  
> "you have to understand that if we put in the regulations the fact that an itinerant cannot receive a ticket, anyone could say 'me, i am an itinerant, so you do not have the right to give me a contravention "", argued mr. legault during his press conference tuesday.
in a gray way.
i hope it's sarcasm your comment
indeed. the world who laugh at you may not have seen the ads on kijiji to rent a dog after 8 p.m. the world are crazy.
the caq's instructions are to take the homeless to a shelter. the problem is clearly a lack of shelters! leaving them outside after 8 p.m. will not protect them from the cold.
exactly. the mayor knows that too, it's just politics on her part.
the problem is, the people against the curfew (for the right reasons) don't want to be associated with the conspirators.
there was an anti-curfew and pro-science protest 3 days ago in hochelaga.
« over one-hundred protesters gathered in east-end montreal yesterday afternoon (january 16, 2021), to express opposition to the government-imposed pandemic curfew as well as to highlight measures to combat the pandemic rooted in solidarity and support for the most marginalized of society. the demonstration, which successfully marched through the streets of hochelaga, emphasized the cruel negative impacts of the curfew and related police harassment on the homeless, sex workers, drug users, undocumented workers and others.
the demo organizers -- an ad hoc group called pas de solution policière à la crise sanitaire / no police solution to a health crisis -- emphasized that the protest was in favour of covid-19 mitigation measures, but rejected the curfew as authoritarian and detrimental to an effective pandemic response. the organizers also made a point of rejecting the involvement and presence of anyone associated with far-right, anti-science, conspiracy theorists, highlighting instead a social justice-rooted, pro-science approach to the pandemic (exemplified by one sign at the protest reading: "pro-science, pro-mask, pro-vaccine, anti-curfew"). »
source : no borders media ( [ )
nothing changed. legault just announced that they won’t be exempted... extremely sad indeed
nothing will change; the argument is that people who get caught will say that they are robin to escape the ticket ...
did the mayor impose a curfew?
q: what do you think the cops do with homeless people when there is no curfew ?
a: apparently the same thing they do when there is one. gotta fine 'em all!!
well, you force that person to goto a shelter for the night. at some point you will realize you're not going home anymore
and relying on the 'good judgment of the police' is not a good thing. if you're polite to them, it can be okay. if you have mental problems and it's less fun to deal with you, they may well give you a fine for pissing them off.
whether it's written in the decree or not, how can the police rely on their good judgment if someone is disguising themselves? and how do they know if the person is in disguise or not?
this seems like just another tool for the police to oppress the poor. as somebody who works from home and lives in the suburbs this has 0 effect on me, but boy does it fuck with people who don't have those luxuries. these law makers seem to have no empathy for those with tougher situations than their own.
wtf? host that's stupid. as if the homeless situation wasn't crappy enough as well. it pisses me off. it's inhumane.
what a heartless fucking awful person. an inuk man died because of this, because shelters must close in the evening too, a person has died. i am so pissed. i need to find out where i can send me complaints too.
everyday that passes i hate this "businessman" more and more
he's a real idiot, and even worse inhuman
do we have a source for this inflammatory information?
i do not understand why, what is blocking or. is it because if they make an exception for them, it opens the door to other exceptions? i do not see how that inspires the people that. i know pm legault is business oriented, is there a business issue here?
it would take a lot given the lack of competition.
i can't feel legault, but don't you think you're exaggerating a bit anyway?
"we are going to build a wall to keep all of the homeless out of montreal. it's going to be yuge. simply tremendous."
why are you talking about maxime bernier here?
the man froze to death right outside a shelter. the shelter was shut down because of curfew.
the shelters that were already overwhelmed before the curfew ...
still, i don't see how they can legally be fined if they don't have residences.
which organization?
> in a gray way.
like a lot of things since march ...
they are clearly not excluded ...
the stm has a good marketing team, probably external, but there are people inside who must approve all of this.
mcgrinch for mcgill hahaha. and merry-uqam lool. i like that i will participate!
this is pretty darn impressive, that they have names for each station!
[deleted]
\ +1 for the attempt to brighten up 2020
the potato peel ... only if it's a willy waller
* water my turkey *
it's cute
save us from 2020 😄
exactly the humor that i find not funny but it hurts no one
the guy who got paid to do this has my dream job. even better than the one who made the titles of * voir *, at the time.
friendly! my favorite station: lutin-l'allier
honorable mention to: de la papermanne
[stminfo](
merry-uqam 🎄😁
they changed the spelling of a lot of stations but they couldn't conjugate "sauvé-nous de 2020" properly? (sauvez-nous). that infuriated me.
it's funny how it went from "haha we are going to give that to the intern" to we are going to pay the pros
i'm surprised they were allowed to post it tbh. love it.
i prefer the paul patates
there is also a "pie 2021 ??" (like "pis 2021 \ [also \] ??" i think?) 😆
that station is literally named sauvé...
it's all in good fun, mate. why do you have to be that guy? sometimes in french humour they conjugate the play on words, sometimes they don't. this is not en essay on the acquisition of wealth by mansa musa, it's a clever joke. cheer up, bruh!
that's the pun my guy, it's on purpose.
that was on purpose
it "infuriate you"? hey boy, i wouldn't like it to be caught in traffic with you ...
another english-speaking criss that one takes for a parisian.
well, simonac is barely swearing, if that is what you are referring to. frette is slang, but harmless and widely used below -20.
hiring on merit should never be an issue. i support equality of opportunity not of outcomes.
damn, when did merit stop being good enough?
this is a whole bunch of stupidity and bad politics, not unexpected from an american scientist.
he got grants rejected because he refused to fulfill some basic bureaucratic obligation that everyone else at the university is obviously having no difficulty doing. from the article it appears that all he needs to do is simply make a stated declaration that he will consider diversity in hiring or something, which he refused to do so he could make his stupid reactionary point. 
don't put your egghead politics above the health of your research program and you won't have any problems.
i have a lot of admiration for this gentleman, if you are reading this, well done for your convictions.
at the same time, shame on the federal government apparatus which has completely lost control.
"the canadian institutes of health research, gave dr. lana ray, a professor at lakehead university in thunder bay, ont., a $1.2-million grant to study cancer prevention using traditional indigenous healing practices. when the award was announced, ray said “we need to stop framing prevalent risk factors of cancer as such and start thinking about them as symptoms of colonialism.”" 
this is the part that interests me. what kind of healing practices are we talking about here and why are we bringing colonialism into cancer research? is that even relevant?
knowing how the engineering labs are staffed, i'm pretty sure it's a matter of gender equality rather than color of skin. i would have said that yes, finding women is hard in engineering, but chemical ? i have seen chemical engineering labs almost full with women of colors, so let me have some doubts about him hiring "based on merits".
source: spent way too much time in uni labs in this city.
this is a really hard issue.  when i was younger i would have probably sided with prof. kambhampati, but now i don't really agree.  we have seen time and time again that just the act of inclusion and diversity breed more inclusion and diversity which in turn promotes voices that we normally wouldn't have heard. he is a scientist so if he really wants to understand he should probably look into the research.
>“i think what’s happened is the woke and the social justice warriors have made a moralistic argument the way the religious right used to make moralistic arguments. and now people are afraid to challenge them. but i think it’s okay to say i believe that equality is a morally valid position. i believe that meritocracy is a morally valid position.”
sorry but using the term 'woke' and social justice warriors hurts your argument.  those are derogatory terms and not desirable for civilized discussion.  its not a religion, its math.  women make up 50% of the population, but i assume your lab is no where near 50% female.  hence why government grants probably want you to consider being more diverse.
it seems like nserc has been completely captured by the edi true believers and opportunists. look no further than their embarrassing response to the tomas hudlicky essay in 2020. everyone, including the nserc president, was quick to denounce what was a fairly standard conservative opinion.
the only way i see this changing in the short-term is if the qc government tells the federal government to stop forcing our scientists to pass these edi purity tests. there's basically no political pressure coming from anywhere else as all the university admins are on board with the program.
long-term, these are bad ideas and will run their course but by that point our universities will be filled with a bunch of mediocre researchers.
well, he has a point.
to judge a person on the basis of their race instead of their merits = being racist.
this teacher didn't get his grant because he wasn't racist enough.
first of all, we all know how fucked up and literally shooting in the dark looking hiring is. we haven’t figured out this hiring thing, yeah it’s pretty hard. anyone who thinks it’s easy hasn’t really done it enough and certainly anyone who thinks people hire just on merit is a dumbo (expect a reddit sub to be full of folks who have never hired a single person in their lives, and hopefully never in a position to do so. think overpaid software engineer who thinks he is king of the world for writing some lines of code some lame ass adtech company) yeah it’s easier to hire based on merit in some disciplines and industries relative to others but this “we only hire on merit” isn’t going to cut it either. that argument died 10 years ago so people be ready to have something else. just go do a tour of stem undergrads or even high schools and see how dismissive and sexist guys can be towards their female colleagues as well as the attitudes teachers and professors who are men can have towards them and then you got some dumbass talking about equality of opportunity or whatever. this is like the guy who is like why can’t you get an a in calculus man,  just quite your job and focus on classes, easy for you to say when your dad is paying your rent and has 100k waiting for you to use in a downpayment for a condo. there is no such thing as equality of opportunity. you must be some privileged upper class white man with the endowment benefits of having had ancestors who were colonizers, slave owners and coerced their way into becoming land owners to think that.
not recruiting based on merit is discrimination at this point. at this point we systematically favor pocs which kinda already taints what merit constitutes since some people were given opportunities they didn't necessarily deserve in the first place.
these are some big claims. odd that the only evidence to back it up is, "i’ve had two people say that was the kiss of death.” apparently all of academia and society is crumbling because two random anonymous people said so.
the tread over in /r/canada has lots of info in it for anyone interested.
we need more courageous people like this.
finally someone speak up about this.
such a misleading title. "he believes he was denied..." ok great national post, why is this a f***ing article even. complete bs propaganda
lmao this is not academia works and this article is incredibly misleading
it’s ranked one of the best schools in mtl. just out of curiosity, is this royal west?
i know a white guy who played the gay card to get promoted to the c-suite, and it turns out he wasn't even gay. his face can be seen in posters promoting diversity for financial ________.
just googled his lab:  
7/9 men
meanwhile, mcgill’s graduate admits in the faculty of science are 50-60% women: 
but yeah, he hires based on merit.
if he truly believes in merit, then why does he support potentially having more privileged white people on his team who probably wouldn't be there if people of colour had more equal opportunities?
beautiful comment by simone lefebvfe in the original article - worth highlighting so it reaches more audience:
“maybe we should hire blind people to fly air canada jets. or maybe people with parkinson’s disease who shake non stop to perform open heart surgeries? ya know, equity and all.”
are we redefining how scientific doctrines should be managed by bureaucrats, sidelining canadian interests? 😔
edit: i’d love to hear your thoughts on why the downvotes. here’s my logic: i see them as professionals first: doctors, engineers, mathematicians. i don’t see the reason to introduce race/ gender/ creed/ sexual orientation etc. esp. “in a scientific doctrine” where they can enter on their merit.
in other words, in my humble opinion (and i may be wrong so please correct me): should someone be chosen if they are (female/ lgbtq/ white or non-white) rather than what potential or capabilities they show?
yes but we don't have equality of opportunities if poor people don't get the same education and lived experience. which may be impossible really... so why not just have representative employment at easy to do public jobs?
don't tell your employer, you'll be next on the chopping block.
it never did. the people who get their positions on merit aren't the ones complaining.
the only folks who get riled up about "merit" are the mediocre masses who are managing to squeak on by in life. they dislike measures that assist minorities because they see them as a threat to what little status they have. the people who actually have merit have no problems finding grants or jobs or anything for that matter because they actually have skills.
the policies of the 70s and 90s, based on the idea that skin color and sex is superficial and not important, have worked too well. there has been a tremendous amount of progress, and by the turn of the century, those who had built a career out of these struggles were facing short to medium term unemployment. they therefore changed their strategy to permanently break down the divisions between people based on racist and sexist criteria.
around 2003
i mean... the headline itself tells you this article is a thinly-disguised editorial, and not an objective reporting of news. it's the national post. this ''woke-ism is destroying society'' stuff is their bread and butter, while they and the globe and mail continue to wonder why no one under 50 even knows they exist anymore.  
anyone who thinks the national post is an objective source, or understands or cares about quebec, should go back and look at how they reported on the 2012 student protests.
first, as far as edi is concerned he's indian. second, he didn't refuse any obligation. he wrote up an edi section for his grant but it was still rejected. what he wrote seems very reasonable and is not dismissive of edi, so i can understand why he's pissed off:
"the academic team consists of the pk group. our group is highly diverse, being populated by men and women from many countries and religions and cultures. our group is also highly diverse in terms of intellectual background and research areas of expertise. our group has a long history of inclusion of women into ultrafast laser science, which has some of the lowest populations of women in stem. the corporate partners are also highly diverse, spanning several countries of origin with a number of women in stem in key roles for photon etc and few-cycle. we will recruit a diverse array of students and hqp during the course of this project. we will hire the most qualified people based upon their skills and mutual interests, with outreach activities to help. we will advertise in women in stem organizations. we will recruit via word of mount, noting my recent female phd is now on a tenure track position in physics in germany. she is now one of the leading young women in physics in the globe, who was trained and mentored in my system."
he actually did write a statement about how his team is/will be diverse and the panel considering his grant deemed it insufficient not because of his actual research proposal, but on that diversity statement alone. he wrote one, it just wasn't good enough for them and that alone was disqualifying.
>he got grants rejected because he refused to fulfill some basic bureaucratic obligation
forced quotas based on race, religion, gender etc are not 'basic bureaucratic obligations'
>don't put your egghead politics above the health of your research program and you won't have any problems.
not hiring the best people and being forced to hire based on external characteristics that have nothing to do with the position is literally putting egghead politics above all else.
don't trust the article too much. when you ask for academic funding, the slightest mistake is fatal. i lost $ 35,000 in funding because i scanned a document incorrectly and the bottom 2 cm was missing. i know someone who was on a team that lost $ 170,000 in funding because they used the wrong bibliographic style. the professor in the article declined to say that he would consider the edi criteria (equity, diversity and inclusion). he didn't even have to do it for real, just to say he was going to do it. an unfulfilled request is an ineligible request. he was not turned down because he was simply not considered. this is how the academy works and he was very aware of it. his aim was purely to play the victim and to blame "wokeism"
in case you're looking for a serious answer: indigenous communities in canada often live in *extremely* poor environmental & socioeconomic conditions. food in northern and remote communities (including indigenous communities) is [extremely expensive]( and of poor quality (processed junk is *much* cheaper than fresh produce, for example). basic necessities (such as soap) are similarly expensive. there have been [significant ongoing water quality crises]( in indigenous communities, caused by a number of environmental factors. here's a gov't website showing there are currently [43 ongoing drinking water advisories]( 
so to begin with, it's extremely difficult for indigenous communities to access healthy food and clean water. and these things only exacerbate the proven health effects of poverty.
healthcare for indigenous people in canada is basically a [gigantic fucking mess]( they aren't covered under provincial health plans, and the system that does exist for reimbursement is super complicated and frustrating to access. and it still doesn't cover much.
this is what it means when we talk about "colonialism" in this context. basically, canada's health and social systems are *designed* to put indigenous people at a severe disadvantage. 
now, when we talk about "indigenous healing practices", it doesn't mean someone's going to do tribal magic over a bowl of entrails or tobacco or whatever. more likely, it refers to adopting healthcare approaches based on the medicine wheel and similar traditions.
broadly, the difference between western and indigenous medicine is in the approach—western medicine is individualized, physical, and disease-based while indigenous healing is holistic (physical, mental, emotional, spiritual) and community-driven. so while the doctors you might be used to would focus on one problem, fix it, and send you on your way, an indigenous healer might check in on your mental health and ask about your relationships when you come in. neither way is *right*, but they're based in fundamentally different beliefs.
i'm not sure what the relevant risk factors for cancer that the article mentions are, but it sounds like the intention is to move away from thinking of these "risk factors" as an isolated list of things and to instead consider how they're a part of people's lives, and what can be done to help people find safer alternatives.
idk if i’m interpreting this right but this is what i i think she means: indigenous people are more likely to experience certain risk factors for cancer (i’m assuming lifestyle factors) and her belief is that these risks are common in indigenous folks as a result of colonialism. so her plan is to get rid of the risk factors by starting at the root cause. so the traditional healing practices would be things that reduce whatever the risk factors are. that’s my take at least
i don’t see how it is relevant at all.
professor number one got their grant rejected for not meeting diversity criteria.
professor two in a different field in a different city in a different province applying to a different grant from a different government organization got their grant approved in a research field that people might feel shouldn’t be researched. 
the link isn’t directly stated but implied so we can all get angry about the irrationality of people who think diversity is important instead of discussing the reasons of each situation individually and whether or not each makes sense.
i'm going to hazard a guess that it's not.
you shouldn't have to try to hire women or minorities, but whoever would be best. at one point we collectively decided we shouldn't give a shit about the gender or ethnicity of people. but now it's important again.
you know who super happy right now? the far right. because the far left is pushing normal people towards them.
moderate left wingers need to confront these assholes or we'll be in deep shit in no time.
i think he's in chemistry, not chem eng. 
being a chem eng myself from his uni, we have a 50/50 split when it comes to gender.
yeah he's just in chemistry, not chemical engineering, where there are definitely less women than men as graduate students
you can see all his grad students past and present here: 
we need equality of opportunity, not equality of results.
the national post publishing deliberately inciteful articles? never in my life would i have imagined it!!
/s
>we have seen time and time again that just the act of inclusion and diversity breed more inclusion and diversity which in turn promotes voices that we normally wouldn't have heard. 
what does this have to do with the ability to do the job?  answer: nothing!
>he is a scientist so if he really wants to understand he should probably look into the research.
i'm sure he's already busy with his own research instead of validating your point of view.  
>sorry but using the term 'woke' and social justice warriors hurts your argument. those are derogatory terms and not desirable for civilized discussion. 
stop trying to police language to silence someone or control the discussion.  you don't like the terms, then don't use em.  
>its not a religion, its math. women make up 50% of the population, but i assume your lab is no where near 50% female. hence why government grants probably want you to consider being more diverse.
just because women are 50% of the population doesn't mean they will be represented on a one to one ratio with men in any given field of employment.  people are individuals and they make their own choices.
inclusion and diversity that you promote is only ever good when the minoritiee are more numerous than white males.
you, and anyone like you, will always defend an entire company of poc and women, but still expect boards of white people or male to promote more diversity.
you are just biased and racist, for whatever reason.
merit is the only thing that should matter when recruiting
maybe it's mostly because women have different preferences than men? gosh the thought that men and women are different! holy crap
>  women make up 50% of the population, but i assume your lab is no where near 50% female
this argument makes no sense. i doubt women make up 50% of the pool of individuals who have the qualifications to work in that lab. by your logic all professions should have an equal number of men and women at all times. how many female lumberjacks or garbagemen do you think exist? the most qualified individual should be getting hired, all the more so in a field like science where there are only facts and having a diverse number of voices and opinions isn't as important (like in design, or government).
so we should have a perfect 50/50 split for garbage removers, construction workers, plumbers and janitors too; right?
you are a danger to society!  nuancing the conversation about equality of outcome policy. boo. keep out my town.
so all jobs should be 50% men, 50% women? the trans, non-binary, and others, they are in which category? how many% of jobs should go to these groups? nursing positions in hospitals, should 50% be kept for men? where do we stop?
as someone who voted coderre in the last two elections, and who was not too sure about plante's candidacy 4 years ago (even if i had nothing against his program a priori), well i'm going vote for her this time, no hesitation.
pu able to coderre. it just might have related, and i don't even know what he's supposed to do anymore. i don't even think he knows it himself.
4 years ago, plante had no experience, that's what made me doubt. but there she has it, and frankly, even if her mandate was not perfect, it was good enough to renew her.
honestly, i'm not crazy about a lot of things she's done but she seems to be competent and i also remember how bad it was under coderre. at least when she spends money, we are getting useful things that improve the city.
*"because she's not coderre."*  saved everyone five minutes.
the author of the article is on point about plante's accomplishments and the many challenges she was up against. and the fact there wasn't any corruption scandal during her tenure is a big plus.
definitely, i'm voting for projet montreal and valerie's team.
i hope denis coderre stays out of politics for good after his defeat.
best part:
>while coderre has always boasted about flashy projects that were supposed to “put montreal on the map,” plante, in fact, did just that — but in her own way. urban landscapers and environmentalists around the world point to our city as an example of so many things being done right. montreal has never been more of a joy to walk and bike in, to sit in a park, on a terrasse, or by the waterfront. as far as i’m concerned, that matters — not only for ecological reasons but for the sheer joy of urban living.
when denis coderre took office, the bar was very, very low. basically, if he managed not to be corrupt, people would be happy ... but after 4 years, i think montrealers realized that it was not enough, especially after all the fiascos that they made us endure (formula e, electric vls, etc.).
it's all the more funny because now he refuses to publish his sources of income "before being elected". so what little he could offer (ethics) he lost.
valérie plante is certainly not perfect, but at least she offers a progressive vision of the city.
last year, i almost ran over some cyclists head when he, out of nowhere, swerved and fell face down on the road. gotta say, almost decapitating someone at 5:45 am kinda messes up your day. thats why i want more bike lanes, so that they aren't in the way of 1500 lbs+ metal deathmachines.
by pulling a "trump", coderre proves why he does not deserve our vote.
**he literally said that he would release his tax returns only if he gets elected...** 
[
coderre is a con man!
already voted! stressful time to be a montrealer
[deleted]
people dunk on coderre here all the time, but i don't hear about any reasons for disliking plante. yes she's better than coderre, but why do people dislike her?
i appreciate the open conversation taking place here
coderre is such a sleaze ball. i hope valerie plante wins.
this is kind of a no-brainer
my question is more about sue montgomery - did plante completely screw up their relationship or is montgomery a power hungry maniac? or both? i basically want projet to have another term and continue to make montreal change, but i also want to send the message that valerie and friends have got to learn politics better and end the public embarrassments and self inflicted wounds. i'm wondering whether to split my vote ie one for plante and one for montgomery.
i will never vote for this woman! because i live in quebec. i love montreal and have no plans to move there in the short term. but let's say ... quickly, i would certainly vote against denis coderre.
anyone but that corrupt gangster coderre.
i would have probably skipped my vote if coderre did not show up. she got my vote already nonetheless, because i still recognize the sleazy arrogant coderre, who’s still the same aside of his lighter weight
only 2 real options, 2 candidate pockets. it feels like the usa.
i suggest everyone to familiarize themselves with the alternative in order to make a fully educated decision.
this is my first municipal election since i moved to montreal.  what should i know?
there has never been a "new denis". it's a trap.
i don't know how i ended up here but i'm definitely voting for coderre just because he loves and respects black people
go, valerie!
affordable housing... plante... ????????????
she is all about quality of life if you live on the plateau and she had nothing of value against the the costs that overrun the city. codere took the fight to the unions directly in overcostx
never!
she supports bill 96 so she’s just as ignorant as legault and blanchet. next!
who cares it's 110% rigged 🙄
voting for my local socialist. both of these parties have enabled crooked real estate agents and landlords.
they are all zero and reflect the current level. is that the best available?
❤️❤️❤️coderre 2021 !!! ❤️❤️❤️
she wants to further punish law abiding gun owners by asking the federal government to ban handguns and "assault weapons", so that's a no from me
i only have three issues with plante which i’m sure she will work on for her next mandate.
first, she puts so much focus on making the bike paths accessible during winter that the sidewalks of pedestrians are a complete mess. i understand that as a progressive city, you want bikes over cars, but it shouldn’t penalize people that walk.
secondly, it really feels like the security of montreal is going down a rabbit hole. there’s more and more violence and its not just the north east end, but downtown as well. especially old port.
lastly, i feel like the construction on the island is even slower than before. more and more sites are being opened for repairs and they just never end. take peel street for example, it just doesn’t end.
can we agree theyre all bad choices?
far leftist voting for far leftist candidat who would have thought.
why i'm voting for denis codere....valerie plante.
if i get downvoted, so be it.
she sucks, but coderre is coderre. i don't know who i'm going to vote for yet.
i'm a little amazed that people forget there is a viable third candidate  in mouvement montreal. don't like plante or coderre then vote for someone else!
i prefer a mayor who cares more about her citizens by favoring pedestrians and cyclists than a mayor who just cares about companies and motorists who come from elsewhere.
exactly...it's wild how coderre is accusing her of spending on "frivolous" things when he blew huge sums of money on things like the formula e, ugly granite stumps in the park, and gaudily lighting up the champlain.  for the vast majority of people, these are not amenities.
i like her style. she needs more time.
precisely my thoughts
i am asking this without any aggressivity, i am still a bit new to mtl politics and just trying to understand what is the main things you dislike about plante ?
like what?
there's a lot more going on than just this.
i'll just throw out the incredible job they have done on parks, green spaces, bicycle infrastructure, and generally keeping things better for the public.
"being not coderre" is huge!
same deal for ville st. laurent. alan desousa has been the vsl mayor for ages, and it's time for some new blood.
a lot of sketchy nonsense construction projects, plus he flipped his lid and forced a school near his home to change their after-school dismissal schedule because the buses were delaying his afternoon commute (i wish i was making this up).
exactly.
r/brutalism
one of my favorite architectural styles.
the original minecraft.
render distance needs a bump up
more crop
holy humidity, batman!
i call it ‘’ minecraft landscape ‘’
there’s something bladerunnerish about this.
cyberpunk
i have to congratulate you on managing to get a novel take (to me anyway) on this structure we've otherwise seen a million times!
the olympic village is another amazing local example.
brutalism is just [this]( plus [this](
change my mind.
*laughs in place bonaventure*
brutalism is [this] ( + [this]
( with a hint of [this] (
edit: formating lol
[hmmmmm](
while i don't personally like brutalism, i'm glad someone in this city appreciates it (since it's everywhere).
if the numbers go up in 1-2 weeks, you don't have to be 100 watts to see the link.
i still don't understand why there is a curfew when the schools are open.
it's inconsistent to leave an obvious focus of transmission (with its set of counterintuitive distancing rule) open while you restrict population movements.
it should be “all or all” in one direction or the other, not a bit of both while standing still.
shockedpikachu.jpg
800+ maskless children playing on top of each other at recess every day in all schools? no.
working in a high school on the island of montreal, i will answer:
yes.
i'm really tired of the curfew, already my job as a truck driver was not easy with the rules. before 2020 i never had to hold back the urge to shit for 3-4 hours because i was able to access a toilet. when the curfew arrives, i often finish at 7 o'clock in the evening i even had time to buy groceries. i stopped at a truck stop to grab some mcdo after 10am without a break. ben mcdo osti next to a truck stop i don't want to look for my order inside, i don't want to go to the drive-thru service on foot, well it's not like i'm going to parker my 53 'in the parking lot for who come to bring it to me. already rated truck stop in montreal region its hard. all that so that the national lesson can give each other a pat on the back by saying: i did what!
the most frustrating part of all this (beyond legault’s incompetence, corruption and flagrant conflict of interest) is that we will have learned nothing. if another pandemic hit 12 months from now, we would rinse and repeat everything that is happening now. no one talks about how shitfully poor our health care infrastructure is. why did the system collapse so easily? where does the funding go mr legault? why is our entire public infrastructure trash?
is the water wet?
if you close the schools, you must give financial support to the workers so that they can stay at home with their young people. the employers 'council will never let the government do that, and legault will never stand up to the employers' council.
they say they keep them open for the sake of the kids, but as long as it's pretty clear to me it's more to avoid depriving companies of their exploitable "human capital".
my friend and her family (blonde, daughter, guy, mom, dad, stepfather and sister) all snagged the covid even though they were vigilant. public health believes it was the youngest that brought it home from school.
yes.
gov't: everything is locked down, but kids can go in a large building where they are in contact with each other. 
schools: contaminate! contaminate!
gov't: surprisedpikachu.jpg
tomorrow in homework, are cat hair allergies caused by cats?
a lady in my place of employment has covid because of her daughter who goes to school so i think so
o rly?
the real problem is that the government uses public health data to make its decisions and the models used are made to assess virality in the adult population.
these models do not seem to take into account (i searched and found no data on the subject) that more than 70% of children are asymptomatic.
the model uses patient testimony as to the source of their focus of infection.
if you work, have children at school and contract the virus, your first instinct will be to blame public transport or the work environment if your kids show no symptoms.
the races result in a significant under-representation of the virality level of children in school.
duuuuuhhhhhh ...
no shit sherlock.
euuuuuh .... yes? even the government figures show it.
have you seen a youngster? they are 50% snot by weight.
[what else is happening in early september? ] (
but can someone kindly why this obsession with keeping schools open?
i'm not asking for an opinion whether it's bad or not, i'm looking to find out the motivation. why does the government seem to be keen on it?
in other news, fire is hot. “touch it to see if it’s hot, it’s a calculated risk” says legault.
are there other things that were only open between september and mid-december?
i've been saying this for months, and i'm a jerk on the internet. but no, the problem is not the hundreds of children gathered at school, it is i who would like to receive two people every two weeks for a coffee with us.
[removed]
everyone complains about open schools. what would be the alternative?
for some parents this is a big problem. for example, a friend of mine is a firefighter and his wife is a nurse. both are essential workers. their children are young and cannot be left unattended. one is in kindergarten and the other in 3rd. we can not trust to leave them alone to do online courses either, because parents must be there to support and help them.
what are they supposed to do if the schools close?
yeeeeeeep. i saw students take off their masks to cough, share poutines, drink from the same bottles of water, kiss each other on the cheeks, sit with students from other groups without distancing and without a mask. family members they infect should be included in school numbers.
3rd and 4th waves too.
i think so, too, but hard to say exactly, it's no worse than companies that don't allow remote work and that aren't essential
what makes me unhappy is that my sister arrives at a year in tele-school in argentina. the state has made every effort to guarantee access to the internet pi at a personal computer per child. teachers get shut up: the trauma of killing your own family is worse than missing a school year. she's fine, much better to live in fear of being the potential cause of contamination of my 50+ parents who are approaching 60ene.
argentina, a country that has a much worse financial situation than quebec, is making better choices.
argentina manufactures its own vaccines now, having obtained a beneficiary from russia: they mass produce the sputnik v vaccine. my sister, my mother, my father, all will have the vaccines before me, before the majority of quebecers. it is shameful for quebec. nothing but vaccine policy makes no sense and is fundamentally a ridiculous geopolitical choice. do we not have enough pfizer or moderna? and well, it's not very hard to even go to russia or china. tabarnak.
not to mention the fact that the west as a whole was totally born on containment strategies. however, it is not very complicated: one, the individual confinement in your home is cellar in estie. you spread it to the whole household. do you test positive? you go to a quarantine center with the other positives, isolate yourself from the home.
two, you close all the schools. home school, basta.
third, you send the salary to all non-essential workers who do not have access to teleworking but whose activity is not important to the people: 1) retail which is not necessary. 2) bars and restaurants. 3) constructions and industrial manufacture not necessary, etc. universal pcu unconditional pi freeze of rents and mortgages. at the expense of the state. if there is a lack of piasses, well we nationalize industries and increase taxes to the bourgeoisie. me in caliss.
finally, contact tracing without mercy. obligation to install the covid app. 14-day quarantine requirement at the hotel with police surveillance for any incoming traveler, citizen, resident (permanent or temporary), or tourist.
this is what china, korea, vietnam, new zealand, taiwan, some province in australia, have all done. results? impact on the economy in the short term but return to normal after a few months.
we are shit. and it ended up being. in the end the government, in its short-term madness to "save the economy" flaw has its own objective. i can guarantee you that the economy, and collective / national mental health, well they would be in better shape if we would have done like china / vietnam / korea / new zealand.
i was little able to estie from this crass incompetence.
[deleted]
if the cases go up, that might not prevent legault from invoking other reasons and his followers from stupidly repeating his words.
the numbers have risen very high since december 25 when schools were closed for the holidays. so for sure private gatherings are responsible and i don't believe its going to be limited to christmas gatherings.
now we can see that the numbers are going down. the likely conclusion is that the curfew is effective. we will check the figures over the next few weeks with the reopening of schools.
the only conclusion is that closing schools during christmas had little impact on the number of covid cases.
i think that it is completely coherent for a company to prioritize certain activities at the expense of others considered less essential.
because school is more important than going for a walk at -20 ° c in january.
[deleted]
i think the decision to do both can be seen logically:
most of the people hospitalized are seniors. let's say the kids are a big spreader - if the kids aren't in school, they're going to be looked after by their grandparents while mom and dad are working, and going to play in parks or in groups at home. teens do not follow the rules of distancing themselves that i have seen. if the kids are in school and there is no curfew, the grandparents will come and see them, and babysit one or two nights a week because the grandparents don't care about the rules.
with schools open and a curfew in place, legault et co. cut the vectors linking children to elders. this is his, i think, logic. if its gonna work or not, i don't know.
[deleted]
kids at school = parents can work.
if everyone stops working, there is no more cash flow. no cash flow = everyone starves. 
it's not hard to understand.
the lack of judgment is great, how can we not see children sharing the virus?
i know someone who works in a primary school, and there is a certain separation: lunches are done in class, recess are done half in class and half in the yard, in order to avoid too much contact. in addition, as soon as a student has experienced a case in his entourage, the whole class passes away ... but yes indeed, it is still an outbreak despite the measures.
not true.
children should wear masks in hallways or outside their classroom.
source: i have a 6 year old boy and we have received instructions from the school board.
exact. in schools, recess takes place in class groups and the children do not really have contact with other groups. it may not be 100% certain that the children do not meet other children in other groups, but at my daughter's school i know they are very strict. there were cases in his school, but these cases never spread to other classes. it has been like this since the start of the 2020-2021 school year. on the other hand, i'm just talking about the school that i know ...
i am a teacher on an internship in the eastern townships ... it is clearly the schools
what pisses me off is that they have been saying since september our healthcare system is struggled with all the new hospitlaztions, but the government hasnt actually lifted a finger to do anything about it... like why coudnt we call in the army to help the nurses and doctors like we did for the chslds? why arent we fast tracking immigration status for people who have previously worked in the medical field to get them a job here asap? raising salaries for nurses so they will be more inclined to stay in the field? literally anything at all?
>the most frustrating part of all this (beyond legault’s incompetence, corruption and flagrant conflict of interest) is that we will have learned nothing.  
what corruption and conflict of interest?
i absolutely agree with you on the "we will have learned nothing".
during the first wave, many seniors in chslds died.  we were unprepared, we made mistakes.  tragic mistakes.  now we are in the second wave and guess what?  again lots of seniors in chslds have died.  how are we ok with this as a society?  we, as a rich nation, should be protecting our most vulnerable.   and we know legault will blame the federal government and aaron derfel (of the gazette), and people vacationing, etc... but the second wave we can blame solidly on this government.
this one wont be over in 12 months.
we still have between 2 to 3 years of this one. possibly more because the authorities are only trying to slow things down - thus prolong it - and have no plan or strategy how to seek an end to it
it's not clear: the water is wet, but can the water itself be considered wet? i would not be ready to say categorically yes.
is an oil soaked towel wet? if so, could we say that putting oil in the water wets the water? and does that mean that the water also wets the oil?
or we stop lying to each other and accept that the virus will circulate as long as there is not enough immunities and instead of wasting a titanic amount of resources on ineffective measures aimed at slowing things down without a crisis exit strategy , we redirect them to strategies to adapt to the situation of increasing the capacity of hospitals, isolating vulnerable people and making it easy and normal to take time off from work when we suspect that we are infected.
yeah, same thing for my workplace. a colleague of mine had to stay in quarantine at home because his 5-year-old nephew brought covid from school to his home (my colleague lives with his brother and his family).
underrated
doctor here who trained in quebec. been like that for a long time. most wait times are about 2 years in montreal to get a family doctor. 
you can blame the prem system which is basically that the quebec government wants to restrict and force doctors to work where there is the highest need. 
makes sense in theory, terrible in execution.
essentially what you have to do if you want to practice in quebec as a family doctor is you have to: 
1) get clinic approval to work somewhere, but that alone means nothing.
2) you then apply for a "prem"  8-10 months in advance to be able to work in that region (can only be done once a year which is insane). you select a few regions you want to work in (presumably ranked from favoured to less favourable). 
3) there is an interview process whereby 2 random doctors or admin staff basically interrogate you for why you are wanting to work in a particular region. this would happen over that useless 8-10 month period, and often you'd have to fly into montreal for these interviews if you weren't already in town (twiddling your thumbs). 
4) they either accept or refuse your request (i know many fam docs who got refused for no apparent reason, even when a clinic already accepted them to work there, and was in need). 
5) if you get accepted to a region, you can pretty much only work in that region. you'd have to apply to work in another spot if you had to move clinics.
if a doctor retires, another new doctor outside of that clinic/region, can't immediately come take over their practice, because that fam doc has to apply for the nearly year long process and only maybe be given the prem. so their panel of ~2000 patients is now left without a doctor and if another doc at that clinic isn't willing to take them on, they have no choice but to let those patients go back onto the waitlist to find another family doctor. cycle continues.
it's a ridiculous system that does nothing to improve access to doctors, and instead pushes new doctors away from being able to practice in montreal where there is great need. 
edit: grammar, clarity.
also, sorry don't have suggestions for finding a family doctor faster apart from what others have mentioned in the chat. it's a really shitty system in montreal/quebec unfortunately. if you need something soon, go to a walk in first thing in the am (and expect to wait still). good luck.
call 811, inform them of your situation and needs. and they'll usually point you in the right direction.
walk-in clinic. but you don't actually walk-in, you call the morning of or the day before for an appointment.
it's very tricky here but this is what i've learned: to see a specialist like a cardiologist, you need a referral first. you can get that referral from any dr at a walk in clinic or your family dr. obviously you don't have a family doctor or you wouldn't be asking this question. to get an appointment at a walk in clinic, you have a couple options: 
1. you can go on bonjour santa and pay a small fee for them to find you an appointment. i think 20$. 
2. you can go on rvsq.ca and try to book an appointment there. this will be tricky as often there are few appointments but if you try early in the morning and keep refreshing all day, you might get one. because of covid,you appointment will likely be telephone at first and the dr will tell you if you need to be seen in person. if so, have that dr help you make an appointment at their clinic in person. 
 3. you can locate specific walkin clinics in your neighborhood and find out what time they open for walk in rendezvous. it's different at each clinic. for example the 2 close to me, one opens at 5 pm the day before and the other at 9pm. the website of the clinic should either have a phone number or place online to make the appointment right there. this is a good option if you want to try to keep all your medical care in one place, and only go to the same clinic for your appointments. but it's not as good an option if you feel like you need to be seen urgently. 
general tip is that it's easier for people within the system (ie drs, secretaries, etc) to make appointments and get around the bureaucracy than it is for the patient him or herself. so if you need to make more appointments, do it with the secretary before you leave, or get help from them.
hello health. it costs $ 5 but you have an appointment.
if you're having cardiac symptoms you'll get seen by a doctor in the er, and get blood work and an ekg done pretty quick. i work in the er, we take cardiac symptoms pretty seriously. if you'd prefer go through the clinic first because you feel like it's not urgent you can always get an appointment online on rvsq (rendez vous santé quebec).
you don't see a doctor here, you just pay taxes and die
if you're having cardiac issues, go to the emergency department at your local hospital.
the montreal heart institute is located in rosemont. the main entrance is accessible via viau street. please note that a major infrastructure work project is currently underway.  we make every effort to reduce the inconvenience caused by noise and some temporary arrangements put in place to accommodate visitors and patients.
5000, bélanger street
montreal h1t 1c8
quebec
tel. : 514-376-3330 or toll-free 1-855-922-6387
do you have work insurance? many benefit packages have dialogue or similar which allows you to see doctors virtually, right away.
make an appointment online from the (free) govt website 
it's for "walk in clinics", i've never failed to get an appointment at least the next morning if i'm booking the night before. it's effective
when you go to the appointment be clear with the doctor that you would like a referral for a cardiologist. most doctors will be willing to give you one that easily if you explain your heart situation. that's pretty much it. once you're in with the specialist they'll follow up with you. apply for a family doctor in the mean time, but that takes at least a year to get.
link can be found on the other answer, but you can find walk-in / same or next day consultations here: [ -vous /] (
this often requires you do go there early in the morning to reserve a spot for the day.
otherwise, registering for a family doctor will take months and months before they assign you someone.
i read through the comments and didn’t find anyone with this tip. if you want to have a family doctor there’s a much quicker way than putting your name on the government wait list. google clinics in your area and start calling them up. ask if any of the doctors are accepting new patients. rinse and repeat until you find one. you’ll have a better shot with newer clinics/doctors. i found one within a couple of weeks when i took this approach years ago. but even with a family doctor, walk-in clinic is the quickest way to see someone if you have something that’s not hospital emergency room type situation.
greater montréal area guy here. i was on the waiting list in 2016 or 2017. but the day i made 45, i had my family doctor. same with all my friends. everyone that was on a list (doesn't matter for how long) had a family doctor when they reached 45.
my family doctor (which is only for me, not exactly for the family) works in a modern clinic with very little wait times and a web page appointment service. if i want to see him next week, i just take an appointment on the web page and that's it.
my wife on the other hand, has no luck with her doctor. hers is old school. call by phone and see you when i see you. 
and yeah, my kids have another one (not mine and not my wife's). placed a demand to be transfered to mine but i need both doctors to agree.
crazy system. and i know crazy systems, i'm from the balkans.
tap medical app has saved me a few times.
do the emerg thing as said in previous post. don’t mess around if it is your heart. straight to emerg and that is how to see a doctor in quebec!
i used bonjour-sante for doctor appointments for years
there's an online system to get a family doctor. it will tell you that you will get one in 440 days, but don't worry, it will likely be 500+.
edit: 1500+ for some apparently.
take a sharp knife, go to the hospital. as you walk through the er door, cut your arm so that you will bleed profusely. with any luck, you should see someone relatively quickly (probably before you bleed out).
find a walk-in or community clinic (or doctor who has some walk-in hours) where you generally feel that they are on the ball and stick with it. here generally they will start making scheduled appointments when they start investigating things. you want a clinic where the docs are sticking around- it isn’t just a half-way point to elsewhere. and when you find someone or somewhere stick with them as long as it is working out.  mine has moved to the other side of the city and i drive all the way out there.
i think walk-ins are a scourge and should be abolished, but patients (not meaning you!) have to stop treating health-care like fast-food, just going anywhere. there has to be a partnership for efficient and comprehensive care.
there is also the gov website to take appointments: [ (it's like bonjour santé, but free - however, i never tried it myself, dunno if it is good.)
it depends, are you a quebec resident? a canadian citizen?
i registered for a family doctor about 6 months ago and was given a wait time of 917 days.
another health related problem:  if you are visiting quebec and need some medical care quebec is the only province that doesn't have reciprocal agreements with other provinces - so you have to pay and get your money back from your health plan.
not really very friendly way for a neighbour to act.
following this thread because i need to know too.  lifelong montreal resident lol.
have you tried some of these clinics? [
all these people talking about family doctors are being a bit nutso, obviously people see doctors all the time even when they don't have a family doctor.
you can call walk in clinics around you to see what their appointment policy is. as far as i can tell all of the "walk ins" are not actually walk in anymore, you call or go to their website or bonjour santé to make an appointment either the day of or the day before.
you can also call 811 and talk to them (which is a truly amazing service that i use all the time and people don't hype up enough) or use  to make an appointment at a random clinic.
pay for bonjour santé for a few months about 24.95 i think. cheaper than spending 200$ to see a private doctor. it's not right that the system is broken, but it's such a clusterfuck that it's probably not worth choosing this particular  hill to die on.
try [rvsq.gouv.qc.ca]( you can book an appointment with a doctor on there.
before i had a family doctor, bonjour-santé always worked for me. btw, i got my family doctor trough a friend recommendation, not trough the waiting list. worth mentionning to your new friends from montreal that you are looking for one.
not sure why this isn't suggested, but you can book a "walk in" type appointment with a normal gp here: [
right now, it's mostly by telephone, so you can basically pick any postal code because it doesn't matter for phone purposes. i have lived in bc and on previously, and i found that the qc booking system for those without a gp is soooo much better than just going to a random walk-in in the case of more serious health issues (context: i have a few chronic conditions which require monitoring or follow-up during flares). 
although i think the system is a bit stressed right now, i have never had an issue getting appointments - often possible to get one next day! wild considering that i was previously used to either a) waiting hours in a walk-in, b) several week wait for appt
bonjour santé is the easiest way. i've had some docs tell me if i see them enough times i could come on as a regular patient (they'd be my gp)
bonjour-sante or go the emergency at a hospital.
i would go into a walk-in clinic and if anything they will refer you to see a specialist
if you aren't from quebec, there are walk-in clinics here that can assess you; but please check with them/call to see if they take out-of-province medicare cards in advance. some do not, it's really irritating. if you ever have to go to the hospital, they for some reason don't seem to understand that out of province people exist here also so you have to be pretty vocal about it. took me awhile to explain to them i've lived here for 3 years and can't apply for residency as a student hence my nb healthcare card.
hopefully you find something!
if you feel like you're having symptoms, go to the er of the hospital you'd like. 
very good chance you get referred to a specialist there. 
i have a fantastic family doctor but when i had an issue, that's more or less what happened and my care has been fast and incredible.
i've seen numerous specialists, had calls from other specialists to explain certain non-urgent things just so i'm aware, etc. never waited more than about 3 weeks to see one, had follow ups exactly on schedule.
honestly very impressive. i've always thought if i had an issue, i would go to a private hospital in another country but i never even considered it through this. 
this was at the chum/ st-denis.
you can go to a clsc and you will get information. or walk-in clinic and ask the physician, if necessary, a medical referral to see a specialist.
impatience in these matters isn't optional. the last resort is the emergency (chum sanguinet offers good service, not to sure about the cusm glenn however).
tia health app is free in montreal now. i started using it a month ago and have had appointments 3x with the same doctor over the phone (i had to get a referral to a specialist which is in june). they write prescriptions, do referrals, etc. if you have a health card you don't pay anything.
try a walk in clinic. it’s extremely hard and frustrating trying to find a doctor in good ole quebec 🤦🏻‍♀️
book an overnight reservation. i believe the new patient is for a family doctor
i moved here a few months ago and have the same question.
i’m thinking a walk-in?
to register for a family doctor you do it here (might take time but if you have a serious and chronic condition they’ll probably call you sooner than you think  
to make an immediate appt do here, it will be a telemedicine call to start but if you need to be referred to a specialist they can 
and i recently got a family doctor at this clinic; maybe if you call directly they’ll have an opening and can take you 
long story short, don’t freak out just call around. and in the interim just be your own advocate / history taker (take notes, ask for copies of your tests) so that you can pass through to the next doctor you see 
good luck!
good question, thanks for aking. i lived here forever and don't know how. last time i thought it would be a good idea to consult because my gf says i have sleep apnea..  i tried my local clinic's website and app and it just didn't work. i abandonned after fucking around for half an hour. i'm going to give clic santé a try.
walk in clinic is the easiest way to see a dr. even if it's just a student it's easiest to go that route
socialized medicine not all it’s cracked up to be.
use bonjour-santé online to secure an appointment with a doctor in a clinic locally, you can get referals from them to see specialists as well. if you have insurance you can contact a private clinic. also get on the waitlist for a family doc. good luck
go to a clinic. you will need to pay (cash) $47.50 for the visit with the doctor who is on call "medecin de garde". then wait in the waiting room for the doctor to call you into their office.
i had an emergency while in montreal a few weeks ago, and could not sign up for the clinic online because i'm not living in quebec at the moment. i showed up first thing in the morning at the walk-in clinic, and stated my symptoms. i had to pay cash to see the doctor, but i did see one after less than an hour's wait. it was quick, efficient, i got a prescription and was treated.
honestly, i'm in the same boat. been waiting 2 years for a family doctor now. if you can afford it and your issue is urgent/worrisome, i recommend seeing a family doctor at rockland md (the one on rockland road) in order to get relatively quick treatment. saw a specialist there last year and a family doctor this year, and it was better than any public health service i've received to date. it sucks to have to pay in a system of supposedly universal healthcare, but it's that or wait forever...
cardiogenics. private clinic if you can afford it, but hecka of a good service.
hello. i did this recently as someone who does not have a family doctor. system is a bit strange but is easy to use once you understand. i had an appointment within a day and in person within a week. **you must register online and you should be able to get an appointment the next day**. 
if it's covid related and you need assistance er. otherwise you must book an appointment online with a general practitioner, all walk in clinics are reservation only. the doctor may simply do an online/phone consultation and then refer you to a specialist for in person check up.
the government site is  alternatively for a small fee you may sign up for  which is basically the same type of thing but has different listing of clinics. these are all still public clinics but different cliniques use one platform or the other. bonjour santé is overall a better more functional service than the government's i used it. 
**important: you just keep checking these websites multiple times a day if you go now you'll likely see nothing**. the clinics each post their availability for next day appointments only starting at the end of the day and all at different hourly increments starting afaik as early as 4:00 pm. **you must therefore check the site exactly at 4:00 pm, then 5:00 pm, 6:00 pm, 7:00 pm, 8:00 pm. expect appointments to only remain listed for a maximum of 30 minutes** before having to wait for the next hourly increment. for example a clinic in one location may update their bookings every day at 4:00 pm where as a different clinic updates it every day at 6:00 pm.
checking at hourly increments you should hopefully still be able to get an appointment in one or two days.
if it cannot wait 1 or 2 days or few days more for referral then call 811 for minor emergency or go to the er.
speeding in downtown montreal is physically impossible during daylight hours. maybe at 4 am…
who owns all these fancy cars that keep showing up in the old port? a black ferrari with the plate cypher comes to mind..
is it me, or is every 10th car suddenly a 2010 ford escape these days?
imagine if the hulk transformer makes a cameo in the movie they're shooting!
*proceeds crashing to chitauri leviathan*
some surprisingly manage to speed on a short stretch that's just one block long (like one block uphill on cresecent in downtown) or on a cul-de-sac i live in - while obviously ignoring the chance that they hit a kid here. :p
gtr won't be getting any trophy at red light drag racing against some tuned up awd performance cars... just keep rolling normally will tune more heads than doing hooligans on public street...
the other day i spotted a benz with a plate reads dooq or some shit it was unreal
me too i like it to put 3 years of salary in a car then to be stuck in the traffic like everyone anyways: p
what's that car? nio?
not the most "hulk" car i've ever seen.
definitely the ugliest paint job on a mercedes i've ever seen.
can confirm, live on parc
0-100 in 3seconds speedong is totally an option for him
you got to be kidding robert bourassa just south of this picture is very wide and you can get triple digit speed very easily.
can confirm. 
i live in griffintown and bassins is right outside my balcony. it’s not uncommon to hear lamborghinis and ferraris driving up and down the street way past the 30 speed limit after midnight.
when i was young and still in university, some arab kid in one of my class lived at the ritz-carlton and drove his red ferrari 4 blocks to mcgill university.
just saw the cypher car, girl driving.
there is no car traffic in the old port .... not quite what you're talking about.
[deleted]
my question is why would you flex on a car like this in montreal with all the people running red lights? literally takes one mistake and the damage to your car is probably worth the value of the other guy's entire car. sick vanity plate though.
yeah!! i used to onlg see them on tv plugs. guess they sold them off to the public
you need an suv to drive on montreal roads with any kind of comfort.
the guy can do it 3 weeks ...
mercedes amg gtr
it’s an amg gtr i think so .. it’s an original spec
that's the stock amg green
i find it hilarious when they start a race corner milton/parc and theres suddenly 3 cops just right there they didnt see...
i can see that street corner from my apartment, this happens almost every night at least once/
more 0 in 0 if he's downtown
just because dudes love flooring 500whp+ vehicles in the city doesn't mean it's an option lol. you either learn that early on or end up as a clip in the supercrar crash compilations on youtube 💯.
that is a beautiful juxtaposition of the old and new indeed. all the best with your hunt!
you know, most people don’t get into accidents every day, right?
more like, the potholes.
so you would be the garage showcar type of guy, that's fine but id rather drive it as much as possible. also insurance.
oh! ok thx
robert bourrassa is very wide and you can easily get triple digit speed just a bit south of this picture, also 720 is downtown and i bet that amg can get 200+ in there.
ok we won’t get into the specifics about how a 500whp transforms the linear power from the pistons to rotational power, calculate the michelin super sport friction coefficient against the montreal pavement and find if it accelerates fast enough.
it just can.
720 is a bit fucked up right now. with how hard the suspension is in that car you'll probably shoot out of the roof if you go 200 in that thing.
everyone can nail the jump from the light until they can't. we all think the rear wheel won't break loose. we are all wrong.
this is not a car forum. but your arguments don’t really make sense. i could just counter that the limit there is 50.. and if you speed up at 80 between two blocks… you’re technically already speeding. so, the question was, can you do speeding in downtown. answer is yes. 
no hard feelings.
you're supposed to take pictures and shame them on social media. it's the closest thing we have to justice now.
the other day i saw 3 police cars do a u-turn on avenue du parc when there's a sign telling you not to. it's kinda dangerous because when you're the 3rd car, you probably feel peer pressured to go for it even tho you're getting short on time.
another time, a police car didn't stop when i was looking to cross on a yellow pedetrian cross walk.
shame.
not just "technically". they recently arrested someone for biking on the sidewalk. the reality is that the police consider themselves to be above traffic laws.
if you’re walking, and need money... throw yourself in front of them and then sue. 
there is no justice, only settlements.
police are above the law in canada and we have no one to call to stop them.
choose your battles. this is not worth fighting for.
i mean, i only care if i get ticketed for doing the same. 
and if they actually nearly run me over or something.. but otherwise, this isn't a problem.
because they have the power to ticket/arrest/beat/kill you and you don't have the same power over them.
>so why should we?
because every idiot who justifies breaking laws for this reason encourages another idiot to do the same?
bruh y'all never bike and it shows. sometimes it's safest or the best way to hop on the sidewalk for a bit. of course i always slow down to walking speed if there are pedestrians, but there's no danger.  
and i appreciate when a police officer sees me not being a problem and simply ignores me when i do it. i see no problem in giving them the same respect.
rules for thee but not for me
i treat cops as parking managers as thats all i see em do
they do it all the time on prince-arthur, a pedestrian street, where cyclists regularly get tickets for not walking their bike.
i mean i live in lasalle, and every day... people, their families, police you name it, they're all on bikes and they're all on the side walks at one point or another... why are you so bent out of shape over your experience with the police today?
it's a dangerous street. sometime is safer to cycle on the sidewalk at a slow reasonable speed.
i myself use the sidewalks once in a while on dangerous streets like on some spot of atwater near the market.
safety first!
were they biking fast? were there a lot of people around?
they are cadets patrolling the area. while on the job they can use sidewalk. 
why you flagged them? sounds to me you just like to disturb the shit.
i used to hate cops for everything and would get in their face when i saw them breaking laws and i still think we should re-purpose and disarm them. anyway, with age i try and give everyone the benefit of the doubt as long as they aren't being an ass and it's made my life a lot more enjoyable, do what you want, i had to get that out there :) oh yea, as to your question, i think we shouldn't blindly obey laws and the cops do give this example but it's also the cops job to give us tickets, otherwise they lose their jobs...
im sure there's a lot more context to this, if their cadets their likely patrolling around parks so you'll see them come on and off the street. their just doing their job and their cadets so their still learning
they are special they are just like emergency vehicles… i suppose without sirens 🚨
i think i saw them too but it was on jolicoeur. they were waiting to cross la verendrye on wrong side of road too. must be the same cops lol
fuck me hey. the other day i saw a police office carrying a firearm. in public on their belt... #shocked face here i am seeing the police officer do something a regular citizen can’t.
i’m shocked and need to voice my concern to everybody else who is also #shocked and probably also offended that someone would put them in such a dangerous position. 
*shocked face*
guys, let's focus our outrage on something more productive.
police don't make the dumb laws; bureaucrats do. i've literally never been stopped or warned or fined for biking on the side walk. ofc when there's no bike path, and not flying past people walking.
deflate the police
saw a police motorcycle on a bike path on de maisonneuve yesterday
i've seen many times spvm agents being idiotically sarcastic (or trying to, as they usually aren't smart enough to do good sarcarsm) when faced to a question like that. they just do not care. once i was crossing a 10km/h street in the pedestrian lane and almost got hit by their car, which was running slow but didn't care to stop. a "hey, there's priority here" was answered by a loud laugh by one of them.
the spvm is the worst police corp that i got to know in life. i try to imagine what kind of formation they have to become such assholes against the public they're supposed to serve.
> our police can't even follow the laws  
yep, sometimes they don't even know the law, and when they do they think it does not apply to them even in non-emergency situations.
😱
i was sitting in my car parked roughly 3 car lengths from a mall entrance door,waiting for someone,car running in the winter.cop tells me to move or i’ll get a ticket for illegally stopping in the fire lane.i told him “i’m just picking someone up,it won’t even be 5 mins and plus the sign says no parking,not no stopping!”..says “ move now smart ass”.so i move into a legal parking spot.as i leave and drive around the mall parking lot past the next entrance door,the asshole left his cruiser parked dead center blocking the sidewalk handicap ramp.
on the topic of police, anyone have a clue why there were more than a thousand police with a dozen paddywagons in the concordia area on saturday?
one must break laws to enforce laws!
this is unfortunately how our system has been designed!
i read cycling as crying for some reason
that's what happens when police are held lesser standard. when in fact, they should be held to higher standards in front of the law. because not only do they represent the law, but they also should know it better.
doesn't make sense that civilians are held to higher standards, when we don't represent the law, don't enforce it and don't know it as well.
don't understand why our so called modern state doesn't have an anti police squad yet. they should take care of the complaints and have the authority to arrest officers and give them fines as well. in other words, treat the police just like they treat us.
cycling on the sidewalk is such a pet peeve of mine.
get on the road.
in their minds, these laws don't apply to them bcuz they think they are the law.
cops do this all the time! they turn on their lights, perform an illegal move like run a red light or do an illegal u turn, then turn off their lights and drive off normally.
i've almost been hit in crosswalks by cops. my fault though! seeing a cop approaching a crosswalk and expecting them to follow the rules!
not just traffic laws, all laws. and, they are. who’s going to ticket or arrest them?
my husband got a ticket 2 summers ago for biking on the sidewalk on langelier near highway 40 (if you’re not familiar, it’s a super busy intersection/area)
unfortunately this isn't america, individual settlements are capped around 100k in canada (someone correct me if i'm wrong) . which basically means even if someone hits you with a car and makes your quadraplegic the most they can be legally sued for is 100k. if you're gonna nosedive for money better not make it here, it's hardly worth it.
you specify "in canada," i wonder if you know of a country where the police are not above the law and there is someone to call? genuinely curious.
technically, the crcc which is an independent agency is supposed to police the police and the rcmp. not sure how it works though. i just passed my citizenship exam so had to learn a couple of things lol.
i said nothing about fighting. and i also assume you've never been an elderly person/ child walking down a narrow sidewalk when a cyclist just about knocks you over.
they do ticket people for doing the same.
yeah, why complain that cops aren’t being stricter lmao
they dont, theyre cadets
technically civilians *can* legally detain cops if they see them breaking the law until other cops come to arrest them. good luck with that though. they'll just shoot you, gang beat up your corpse, sue your family for the stains your blood did to their uniform and get a freaking medal for heroism.
the conservative mantra !
glorified revenue collectors for the state
that's top-notch. you should brand this.
legit would buy
just not gildan, do it with "c'est beau" for a local product
the nail…. it has been hit on the head.
it's a great job, if you can produce a few hundred, you can apply to the city's tender for ppe!
id buy one
love this and would buy! keep us posted if you decide to sell :)
ooh nice follow-up! thought this was just for a halloween costume before :)
if you do more tests, consider making the logo in white (like a negative on the orange space for example)?
you should make matching pants :)
i love this. i would absolutely purchase this t shirt! 😁
that’s brilliant! i’d buy that in a heart beat!
jesus would wear this.
we will confuse you with an orange cone in the street!
that's a really good but i wouldn't even know where to start. i'll do some research, thanks
i prefer kirkland brand t shirts but the gildans are good for trying stuff out that might fail. if i ever sell these i would use kirkland.
me too
good idea. i'll try that
clown pants like the cops a little while ago…
your t-shirt should be on sale in the [ponto] store ( aovvaw2vytpgzfn9e3ndzdo1nosf)
i mean, in a way you’re buying local…gildan’s head office is in montreal!
i asked ponto. ponto said "no". :(
ye but it's beautiful the production, the t shirt and the byreaux are here
i felt more the way you do when their manufacturing was still in montreal. they've lost a bit - but thankfully not all - of their appeal to me.
put it on redbubble and/or etsy. i'd buy one!
:'(
i live for this nerd fight in the comments.
it's pretty. thank you. does it often happen that the sky is a solid orange like that in this corner?
that’s an a350 on approach to yul there!
edit: i was wrong, it's an a330!
nice pic, and you caught the airplane in the photo. 👍👍👍 actually, not nice, but great pic!
planet arrakis, can't wait for denis villeneuve's dune, soon this fall.
./. with
yes, it was a beautiful sunset, but very ordinary, typical of june. then, as i zoomed in quite a bit, we can't see the gradient towards pink, higher up.
close!  it's actually a 777, you can tell by the nose :)
i bet that plane flew over my place in park-ex!
i don’t think it is, look at the main landing gear, seems to only have 8 wheels and not the 12 of a triple 7. it also has winglets, which triple 7s don’t have. im now more inclined to say it’s an a330 though now looking at the nose.
ah good catch; i didn't zoom in on the landing gear, i was just going by the overall pointed profile which usually says "boeing aircraft", but it could be an a330.  either that or a 767.
the winglets on the a330 are pretty low profile too, which the aircraft in this picture seems to be.  further research required!
edit:
upon closer inspection, it appears to be a 767.  the landing gear appear to be tilted forward instead of tilted backwards, which unless we get a good look at the windows, is one of the key differences between an a330 and a 767.
zoom in pal, the wheels are indeed tilted forward like those on an a330 and it has that slight nose up approach angle, plus i do not believe there are any current 767 with winglet operators to yul. before covid, os used to operate a daily flight but they stopped at the beginning of the pandemic. also, we have several a330 operators to montreal, air canada, air transat, tunisair, air algérie and lufthansa off the top of my head. so it seems like it is much more likely to be an a330
you just contradicted yourself.
you observed that the wheels are tilted forward, but that's not how an a330 is configured.  the wheels are tilted backwards in an a330.
that's a 767.
when i say tilted forward, i mean that the rear wheel is lower than the front, if it is a 767 who is operating it?
it's an a330
that is not what is displayed in the picture.  the rear wheels are higher than the front on the main landing gear.
not only that, but your observation about a "nose-up approach angle" is also incorrect:
[
that is not a nose-up approach angle.
judging by the livery i would guess that this is a fedex or ups 767f, both which do service cyul.
neither of those companies operate into yul, they both operate into ymx and neither of them operate 767s with winglets.
 it is 100% an a330.
looking here: [
i cannot find any 767 arrivals, but there are at least 10 a330 arrivals in the past 48 hours. 
looking at the arrival schedule last night and with the sun setting at approximately 8:45 pm last night, there is flight ac306, an airbus a330 which landed at yul at 8:44pm last night and taxied to the gate at 9 pm.
so you're just going to ignore that you've made a host of incorrect observations.
even these 'winglets' you are talking about are possibly little more than photographic artifacting.  there's not much to them. 
so let's recap:
you claimed at first that it was an a350 - that was determined to be incorrect.
then you yourself pointed out that the landing gear was tilted in the wrong direction for it to be an a330.
you also claimed that it had a "nose-up approach angle" which anyone with a *ruler* can see is wrong.
you're trying frantically to prove some level of competency that i'm just not seeing here.  
you have only been right about one thing: it's not a 777.
the photo was taken around 8:40 p.m., indeed, and it looks a lot like an a330.
another adjustable story with body cameras for police officers
i work in banking and i guarantee clients say worse things to me all the time... but i don't get bent out of shape, track them down, and bust into their home like the kool-ade man to whup their asses. the "thin blue line" should be renamed to the "thin-skinned blue line".
all i know is what's in the article. but i do know something else... i live across the street from an expensive, and very big, daycare center, and some parents simply don't give a shit about parking rules because "it's only 2 minutes". my driveway is always blocked by some entitled asshole. i've tried telling them nicely, they don't care. i tried telling them a little more forcefully, they get even more mad at me. i've tried talking to the daycare administration, they act all apologetic but nothing happens.
coincidentally, this morning it happened again and i called the city to tow or at least ticket their asses. i've spoken to my neighbors and we all have the same problem. it's a one lane, one way street, with a bike path. the chaos at 3 p.m. is ridiculous.
to reiterate, these people dropping off their kids do not care at all. that being said, to have police enter your house and tackle you over a parking fine is beyond ridiculous as well, but the way humans are in general, both civilian and law enforcement, it doesn't surprise me that a situation would degenerate to this point.
this is what happens when cops are untouchable in montreal. is the guy a jerk? yes but those public security officers are asshats as well. this is precisely why you need security cameras to a cloud in and outside of your home
who cares he's a doctor? is it to give it credibility?
obstruction of justice. nothing more than a bullsh*t power trip tactic on the part of police to charge/arrest anyone who dares to argue with or question them.
it's fine, we have 7 cops walking the streets to connect with people on some pilot that's going to be cancelled next year. we're good here.
i don't understand the psychology here: they're acting all tough beating up people for no reason, but at the same time they're little pussies who feel "threatened" by any random word or "fear for their life" when a scrawny unarmed homeless person charges at them.
does anyone here really believe that the police attended the man's house three hours after the altercation with a security guard just because he said "go ahead" when threatened to tow him? come on. the police are not saints, far from it, especially those of montreal. but the security guard's version is clearly missing here. he certainly said something less harmless than "go ahead" to get the police to show up at his house.
technical question, are town of mount royal public security officers of the peace?
acab here, acab everywhere. 
give angry and violent men weapons and power, and let them handle minor altercations, good idea… /s
devastating trauma for the cops, better give them another 300 million $ for some reason
winning point for the candidates .. fucking bodycams, now!
acab
woa did he really dare the police?
the guys was a dick to the security guard no doubt but the security guard and the police overreacted in a criminal manner.  disgraceful.
acab
i would so like to know if it was perfectly free, or if it was after the police asked him 150 times to do something or if it is somewhere in between?
strongly bodycams !!
a crime is a crime. 
i think he should be at least sentenced to three years of labor concentration camp in yukon. 
then after his last supper, he can choose between lethal injection, electrocution, lethal gas, firing squad, or hanging
these cops are a great example of the acab syndrome
so another one sided story?
nobody's said it yet but i will, this would not have happened if this man wasn't an immigrant.
yeah because they mistook him for the professor's brother, in money heist
i was listening to nantel yesterday and i think ma cyr would find that a good thing.
wait. i just read the article and maybe he would find it unacceptable, because of the last name.
on the other hand, doctors are rich so he would probably find that to be fine. and even good.
he's a progressive. he chooses his fights ...
"he at first said he’d just stay in the spot, since he’d already been ticketed"
yeah, no buddy - that's not how it works. i find it infuriating these entitled assholes feel that they're entitled to continue to illegal park when 1. they stay in the car 2. they've already received a ticket. no, none of these give you the right to park.
but wow. the rest of the account is pretty horrifying and really hope that the police will be held accountable. something does not add up. my gut tells me that he did assault the security officer, but i could be wrong. what could trigger a security officer to go through all that trouble?
i have the impression that with the outbreak of violence in montreal, there are a lot of police officers who do not feel safe and who will therefore increasingly resort to gangster tactics to assert their authority. for example, showing disproportionate violence towards anyone who dares to challenge a member of their gang.
i find his story hard to believe
the notion of the police invading his house and assaulting him and his spouse, sounds implausible
people who don't like the police will want to believe it though
attaran?
you see that my doctor believes himself above the law. he receives a statement of offense to be parked where he cannot, is asked to move his vehicle but acts like a jerk and refuses because he has already received a ticket, is told that the vehicle will then be towed, gives a aggressive and condescending reply then will park a little further away or it is also forbidden. did you launch a more serious threat in this exchange?
that in no way excuses the police operation at the doctor's, but tse isn't there a proverb that sows, harvests?
such!
i would suggest:
bodycam compulsory.
and while we're at it, remove the agents who do radar and replace with ... radars.
it seems to me that it is expensive to pay 1 or 2 monies for this brainless task.
thin blue skin?
used to work at a bank and i was threatened by junkies on my first day can confirm
> my driveway is always blocked by some entitled asshole.
i had the same problem at work with a day care. every morning someone was in my spot dropping off their kid. clearly marked reverve sign. there's a 15 minute spot for drop offs right in front they never use. (it's always the expensive cars too) 
i used to wait for them. sometimes it was 20 minutes. i'd get so mad! even more agree when i confronted them they didn't care or just said "relax. it's just 2 minutes".
anyway, i started blocking them in and leaving a note on their car with the phone number to call me. the rage when i told them it would be "just 2 minutes"... was glorious. they haven't done it in couple years now.
brutal. i would do the same thing as you... no point in being nice to people in this situation. 
fwiw, i run/bike a lot and by far the scariest place to go by is a daycare/elementary school at open/close. people drive like absolute sociopaths. i don't know what it is, i guess people get weird tunnel vision when it's something to do with their kid and they go "f\*ck everyone else." many are distracted, but many will also look me in the eye while doing something that puts me at risk. 
[this isn't just anecdotal]( school drop off/pick up zones are one of the most common sites of fatal car-human incidents for children. ironic since many people drive their kids to school/daycare because they feel that walking or biking is "too dangerous." to make matters worse, now that suvs are more popular, you are more likely to be killed if you are struck by a car, especially if you are smaller like a child.
ya and the assholes running into the saq for “2 minutes” take the only 2 parking spots clearly marked reserved for daycare every day. people are assholes about parking, it doesn’t matter what you are doing.
my daycare sent out a letter a few years back after complaints from neighbours that parents were blocking their driveways. it hasn't happened again. now we just park on the yellow corners. lol
so i have a question? how would you solve this issue? people have to get their kids and it looks like their isn’t anywhere for them to park.
if you bought a house beside a golf course, would you get all mad because you had some golf balls in your backyard?
because our society is classist af and judges the credibility of civilians' interactions with the police upon their position in society.
no choice to put a positive designation for a tmr resident.
yes, medicins such as engineers, lawyers, plumbers, or accountants among others, are members of an order and they have a license and obligations of ethics and behavior. which in reality doesn't mean a lot, but still.
surprised there was no race card played.
he didn't even argue with police, be argued with a civilian tmr employee.
dr's generally have friends who are good defense lawyers or a neighbor. i'm going to laugh when the city ends up having to pay him 40-50k
yeah dude, that's a pillar of fascistic behavior - they're the supermen of humanity and so strong, yet they're also somehow beset on all sides by a credible enemy who threatens their very existence. 
it's why so many cops and fascists are cry bullies
i have lived here all my life and this is a very believable story. cops in this city have an ego the size of the bell center and they have been getting away with worse than this for years.
absoutely. are we supposed to literally believe the doctor who thinks he has the right to do what he wants and send the peace officer for a walk? they must be insulted all day long, if it deserved a follow-up in this cos it is probably that something serious has been said.
no, just like those on the west island. sq and spvm are the only police officers who have jurisdiction in montreal. sq has somewhat limited jurisdiction if i'm not mistaken
municipal public security agents are authorized to make arrests (and to use force, but they do not carry guns).
yes:
they had to show him who was boss. scary.
you also painted casseau leaving montreal. am i right saying acrylic isn't easy as oil ?
at first glance, i thought this was digital art! i love it!
[deleted]
oh! the neon hockey stick escalators!
this is amazing
love this - wonderful style to it
awesome painting! i thought that the apparent structural steel currently visible on the exterior was part of the original forum design, but now thanks to your painting i see that this was not the case during its glory days. much nicer the way it was...
i paint in both but i prefer acrylic because it dries faster and does not have an odour.
they both have their difficulties, depends what you’re painting
thank you so very much!
thanks!
thank you!
thank you so very much!
thank you!
ok thanks.
superb. the star is probably venus.
taken 10 minutes ago. no filter.
see a star in montreal? fake news
jupiter
taking the silo? is the place still accessible ??
yes, it is venus (a planet), the brightest star in our sky after the sun and the moon
beautiful for real :)
taking 5 minutes on 3d google maps, i think the photo would have been taken from 1569 st-hubert (the new "zenith" tower in mondev)
the space station seemed to me like it was pretty bright
yes well done! it's at zenith, at a friend's house.
sounds kinda gay.
this isn't meant to be a negative comment, but didn't we just have a pride month?
seems to me that every time i read this acronym it is longer than the time before, i'm all lost
but so much the better if it can help the people concerned
holy hell that’s a long acronym
i figured the comments would be a mess
what does the ia2 mean... ?
[deleted]
cool, it makes sense. montreal is a pretty great place to be if you're lgbtq, all things considered
ok, what’s the ia2 supposed to mean? i thought the + was already supposed to include the other subsets.
[deleted]
the amount of dumb assholes in this thread, as ever, is proof positive of why we need celebrations like pride. if you don’t like it, no problem, shut the fuck up and stay home—easy!
sigh.. and the chat is infested again..
is it me or is it a little cave to have a pandemic parade?
free alphabet soup!
i'm not sure that the lgbs would like to have their parade again instead of mixing with 40 other groups that have nothing to do with their sexual orientation ... the rainbow flag is more and more hidden by all the rest , that is seriously ridiculous, it is not inclusion it is literally the appropriation of a symbol made there. i am not a big fan, especially since the additions of recent years under the banner of "inclusion" are arbitrary in tabarnak ..
i remember pride in 2007 was starting the same weekend montreal hosted a(and the only one) nascar race at gilles villeneuve 😅
cos (((lgbtqia+)^3)/2.5)
i remember back in 1987 or '88 watching near berri metro station a few dozen guys  walking beside their bicycles down st-catherine. two or three of them holding signs. i'm pretty sure that was the first one.
ia2+ the hell is that
montreal is always up to something !
oh lord the streets will be filled with trash on the ground after this festival or what ever you want to call it. [trash](
lgbtqia2+omglolwtfbbqchicken
it feels like that acronym just gets longer and longer every time i see it. i'm guessing the + symbol means there are others not mentioned in the acronym itself. 
question, how gay do you need to be to get on the full blown acronym?
umm... toronto?
[removed]
lgbtqia2+asundir4-$$?@(_)_)===d
i honestly don't understand why we need so many sexual orientations?
[why does montreal host pride events in august?](
pride celebrations don't take place all in that month everywhere. in montreal, our events to celebrate pride are in august.
pride is in august in canada. always has been, its when the riots happened here. june pride is american pride month.
personally, i see it as an opportunity: people celebrate in their “hometown” during pride month and come to montreal for the celebration at the end of the summer!
i think that's why there is a + at the end. it's like "ugh ok and all the others".
yeah
it's getting a bit much lol
personally, i've always preferred [**sgm**](  it's a much more efficient alternative.
i remember the days of lgbt, then lgbtq.
i have no ideas what the i a 2 + stands for.
and why is that ? all people here are in perfect mental state.
[deleted]
did you have the right to multiple choices, or just one?
[removed]
2-spirit, there is this gender identity in some indigenous cultures 
they ran out of letters?
at one point its gonna be "everyone except you"
[removed]
i see more curious people than "anti" people here. you should be happy that people are educating themselves, right?
serious question, what offended you? most people are here to ask what the ia2 means...
i got nothing against the parade but your argument is silly, it's like saying : "if you dont like kkk parades, no problem, shut the fuck up.and stah home - easy!" 😂
outside the risk is less. at worst, a parade with a distance of 2m between everyone.
don't speak for the rest of us.
i'm not going to throw my trans sisters under the bus because you have a hard time with acronyms.
you were triggered by a string of letters. nice
humans are complex and our language evolves to suit our needs. sorry if that bothers you.
basically lol! they also call themselves a community instead of people for some odd reason... 🤔
the way you make friends in montreal is the same way you make friends anywhere in the world. consistency is all that matters.
the reason it is so easy to make friends in your youth is because we show up to school and extracurriculars on a regular basis. (it sounds like you already do this with rock climbing) showing up regularly does 2 things:
1. the strangers around you become familiar to you in that space.
2. you become familiar to the strangers around you in that space
without knowing it the mind builds trust with these people and the space around it. this is a crucial prerequisite for the final and hardest step, making a move.
eventually you have to bite your tongue and ask a question, or tell a joke, or complement the individual, or offer something, or let them know they seem cool and you want to get to know them better.
they are bound to be friendly and if not you don't want that sort of individual as a friend anyways. keep your head up, you got this!
i've always found that the best way is friends of friends: you tag along at parties where you just know one person and meet people!
i've met a ton of people through various boardgaming / wargaming groups in mtl. quite often, people you meet at an event (gaming café, game store) will later invite you to their home for gaming evenings with friends, where you get to meet more people.
of course, most of that disappeared with the pandemic...
want to make friends? go to a place regularly: club, bar, gym and talk to people, be constant and you'll make some guaranteed
have kids and be forced to mingle with other parents at the park daily 😂
i took a few group classes for things that interested me. met a bunch of people with the same interests as me. i made a point of asking if they'd like to grab a bite/coffee/beer after class. some of those people are still my friends after 20+ years
i heard that bumble (the dating app) has a friends feature! it may sound odd at first, but i have a sibling who tried it when moving to a new city and apparently it’s a good way to initiate a first contact with potential friends. maybe look into that, good luck!
go to bouldering gyms and talk to people there.
your hobby is the way forward.
softball. super chill, social sport.
i(27f) moved to montreal from utah(no i'm not a mormon) earlier this year. looking for friends to hang out with too! dm's are open and snapchat is on my page. i look forward to hearing from people!
don't be afraid to talk with strangers. i've made a lot of friends this way. follow-up with them. be consistent in their lives
make friends with your friend's friends. you have a lot in common with your friends, and by extension, their friends too.
my philosophy is:
make quality friends. you are who you make friends with. don't settle for sub par people, and you yourself won't be sub-par, and thus, will be more enjoyable to hang around with. there's a ton of quality people out there.
i’m in the same boat, looking to make friends. moved to montréal just before the pandemic and finally exploring activities where i can connect with mindful people. i use the meetup app- it’s great to meet people with different interests.
very much looking to explore climbing, could use a mentor to accelerate the learning curve. i’ve been following bloc shop and shakti but haven’t booked a session yet.
* find activities you like that involve other people.
* go regularly, consistently, for a long time.
[deleted]
hey i boulder and sport climb regularly as well, we should team up some day!  
what gym do you usually go to? before the pandemic i was a regular at shakti, now i've been going to nomad bloc
i didn’t.
hey! i’m a 25 years old guy working in marketing, moving to mtl in two weeks. would love to learn about what you do since i’ve been thinking about exploring some independent projects as well.
we moved to montreal in october.
first in ahuntsic, where i didn't like neighborhood life at all.
and we have just moved a stone's throw from the lachine canal and atwater.
clearly the covid has prevented us from having the slightest encounter. 0 activity and no way to share hobbies / passions.
today the new district gives me the impression of coming back to life!
but for all that, still no bars or other to meet people ...
it's a little hard to jump on people in the parks like "hey we're looking for friends. are you okay?"
so if there are any in the area who love beer, play board / video games, biking and want to discover montreal, don't hesitate!
as a socially anxious person, i forced my self to work in a busy place in customer service, even when i did not need the money and the work was a bit tiring, i became more comfortable around people and made tons of friends from customers and coworkers, i still work there part time for the same reason, eventhough i have another better paying job that is also part time (also french is a huge factor)
volunteer somewhere. could be a soup kitchen, a museum, garden club, a church, literacy - you name it.
i would literally join random groups around mont royal and ask to hang out. i still have really close friends from that
if you'd like you are more than welcome to join the discord server i created to help make friends in montreal. started it at the beginning of the pandemic and its been great so far.
you can try the meetup app, there are a lot of groups on there!
two sports that were great for me for meeting people were beer-league hockey and competitive squash.  hockey has a tradition of a sitting around with a beer after the game and the montreal squash league actually used to have a rule that the home team had to take the away team out for a beer after the game.  i met so many people, many of whom have become good friends, through both.
you talk. you talk the shit out of another person and adopt them if you're an extrovert. but if you're an introvert, wait for some extrovert to adopt you.
where do you live in montreal?
school, work, and people i knew from high school. i’m 29 and i feel you, it’s hard.
we live in the digital world now. friends are so 2006
workplace, common interest groups, being a good communicator (french is essential).
i recommend going to occupy the hood events.
queer safe space & black empowerment. great place to meet a diverse group of people.
i asked for someone to play battletoads with me until i met u/_not_reasonable_
i would also like to know the trick in the case of a 32 year old guy forever alone introvert anxious social, lol
this thread is giving better advice for making friends than any rescource you can find online lmao
reddit, and it was unexpected. i moved to montreal last year and all my friends from this area i have met through reddit and a few through dating apps. also, it was not from the montreal sub, but more specific to my hobbies.
montreal is one city where people have cliques and have long-term friends from cegep and seem not to allow new people into their respective groups.  
i found it easier to make friends in vancouver and edmonton, and windsor than montreal for some strange reason.  
anyhow, the advice given here is very much the best in simply finding an area of interest and meeting people.  
also, another observation is that i have found people a bit less friendly at times, but that may be the sign of changing times.
ild suggest the following: 1- try learning a lil french here and there because thats the reality in which you're living, 2- go to bars and sit at the bar, you'll be able to chat with the person working there and also with the people sitting next to you, i suggest going to a place where they have happy hours (called "5 à 7" in french). usually you'll have a good majority of regulars that will go there and when you become a regular yourself, you'll be more incline to speak with familiar faces, 3- join a sport league either street hockey, baseball, football... they oftenly need someone to join in and you'll not only have all the chances in the world to make new friends there but also it will be a neat access to learning french quickly, 4- dungeons and dragons groups are majorly bilingual in quebec so you'ld fit right in, 5- volonteering puts you in contact with organisms that are not too picky because they really need hands and plenty of people to talk to, 5- your neighboorhood might have some associations that you could join.
et voilà, its essencially by exposure that you'll make new friends. once you make 1 connection, its only a matter of time before you make more. be patient and you'll get there! hope it helps!
a lot of my more recent friends have come from forming open communications with the people who live in my neighbourhood and also by getting involved in some community initiatives. especially during covid, it’s been amazing to have people around to rely on!
on the corner of the saint-urbain and st catherine, there's a huge chess game. it's been there for almost 10 years and the people who come here and play usually end up being friends! 
you should find a common hobby with people and start joining events.
made new friends through sports group, namely beach vball. i usually play at jeanne-mance. had also made some new ones through ball hockey but i dropped that
i found a roommate my first year in a new city. along with a new friendship, i also became friends with her friends. after the year, i moved out into my own place.
i usually start with my neighbours :) it’s easy to be friendly to the people next door. 
plus everyone is so cool these days.
allez up climbing is a great gym, and is full of regulars (well before covid) i started going there consistently a few years back and met people pretty quickly! just started saying hello to familiar faces and it turns into a belayshonship etc etc
joined a rugby club, best choice of my life. my life would not be the same without it.
you sound like a super cool dude. i'll be your friend.
me too.
i came here last summer but haven't met new people yet. i work from home so maybe that's the reason.
i met my boyfriend in a swing dance class! i thought i was the youngest in their 30s, but i was average!
wherever theres alcohol
theres opportunity
yeah i’ve found any sports team or organization is basically just a social club / drinking club with a ball. 100s to choose from, softball is super chill and welcoming.
i just moved here from vancouver last year!
men, i admit that it was a pleasant moment. right before going to want to die for eight hours. estie.
[deleted]
i mean, you have ample more time to catch sunrises from just about anywhere on the island. just go out.
wow beautiful pic.... i miss working downtown.... getting my coffee..... walking to work...... i love montreal....
it's a nice view for sure but personally, i don't miss commuting downtown for work at all.
so true. never thought i’d miss commuting at sunrise but i truly do.
maybe when it's +20°c
it will be 1 year since i went to this corner of the city.
the only upside with working from home is not having to step out of my house monday mornings. otherwise, everything about it sucks ass. i miss seeing people. my motivation has dropped to none. i like my job, i have a great salary, i get along well with most of my colleagues, but i can't stand not having anyone to shoot the shit with, or teams meetings where everyone interrupts one another constantly/people are stuck on mute/presenter struggles in sharing their screen.
not at this time of year. ugh.
i miss it tbh. wfh isn't so bad, just the fact that everything is closed/etc is depressing. we really need to get going again soon.
the photo has been heavily trafficked in ps. in reality, nothing special about this '' sunrise '' ...
sometimes i tell myself that i'm not paid enough and that i should look for something else, but when i see the feeling that some people have towards their work, i am very happy to have mine.
yep. i don't miss the commute, but i love walking downtown in the morning and especially at noon in summer.
what? i have experienced this kind of sunrise hundreds of times on cold winter mornings.
cautiously optimistic.
yeh!
serous question : i have copd (emphysema, 1/3 of lung removed, 1/3 healthy, 1/3 with emphysema), but i am young (35 years old). where /how can i register to obtain the vaccine faster, as part of the vulnerable population? i mean, not right now, but not with the rest of the 35 years olds...
\*happy noises\*
for me it will be thursday morning at 7:10 am.
[
[deleted]
anyone know what more getting the vaccine “helps”? is anyone who has received the vaccine supposed to be resuming some semblance of normal (example: safely visiting other people who have had the vaccine) and is it like other vaccines and the asymptomatic transmission will no longer occur for those vaccinated? or will it take the whole population before it makes itself felt?
very good thread for tagging idiots on your res like.
wonder if they'll be able to stock it better than the flu vaccine which ritualistically runs out each year lmao
it's better not to cut pcu 2.0 right away, i'll be proud of it until the end of january
the vaccine does nothing to prevent the virus from spreading.
the vaccine has no hindsight and no scientific reading, just press releases.
i'm not anti-vaxx, but the ability you have to trust and take down people who have doubts is astounding.
how to politicize it all. well done
no thanks
you will take the vaccine. you will eat the bugs. you will consoom.
[thank you obi wan](
this will be a huge relief for the very at risk community mainly chsld who end up in hospitals at a much higher percentage so hopefully should give our healthcare workers such much needed relief down the line.
i would try and consult with your family doctor i am certain that there is a way that doctors can help people more at risk get fast tracked.
sounds like a question for 811
talk to your respirologist or surgeon.
for anyone who reads this thread at a later date, it was this comic:
is there actually a website
dogs yes.
everyone knows that cats cannot be controlled.
(i am not an antivax)
[deleted]
it's still unknown. so far it's known that the vaccine protects you against the harsh symptoms of the virus, but there were no published studies about whether a vaccinated person can transmit the virus.  
we'll know more in the months to come.
they literally bought something like ~~8~~10 times more doses than there are people in the country. [the most per capita of any western country.]( so yeah shouldn't be a problem.
you will go to the bs instead if working is too hard.
it smells like a troll here ...
> the vaccine does not in any way prevent the virus from spreading
[citation needed]
> i am not anti-vaxx
said the person with anti-vaxx speech.
misery.
> how to politicize everything. well done
why politicize? i saw nothing politicized in the article, except legault's tweet.
sorry for the bad french, i'm learning. please correct me if there's any error.
hin? who politicizes what?
what are we politicizing? lol live? beat the covid? the "war" on covid is the only thing that unites us but ok.
i wonder how many down votes i'll get for stating that i will also not be taking the vaccine.
lol at the downvotes for your polite honesty.
theres more chemical in bacons than vaccines lmao
you are a net negative for humanity, leave !
interesting that you say that, when everyone else taking their vaccine is what will protect you. selfish.
so i assume you don't have a cellphone and you are not using the internet?
lmao
it’s interesting that such a low % of chsld staff to whom the vaccine was made available even wanted to be vaccinated. that’s quite low.
the part i dont understand is why the immunocompromised are almost last on that list.
unfortunately, i have no family doctor. that's part of my problem. been waiting to get one for years now...
ah! i did not think of that! thanks a lot!
i would be surprised.  
maybe when there will be a general population vaccination program, but i assume people will just receive a specific appointment (location, date, time) for the 1st and 2nd injection.
it's true i'm not very informed, i have a lot in my mind already. sorry about the arrogance, i didn't realize it. it was a silly question. nevermind what i said.
uhm i thought canada only ordered 3 million doses so far?
hey thats great
not paying enough to survive
seriously how you want to pay for a lousy apartment, food, internet and weed with $ 600 a month.
$ 2000 you got it all. give it to me the worse i work more in my life
 and that's dumb dumb
> the certification will be required of landlords who have buildings with eight or more units throughout the city of montreal, representing nearly 216,000 units.
that's really not great, still better than nothing i guess.
does anyone actually think through these fucking policies or are they all developed for news headlines?
all i see is a set of reasons to further encourage commercial landlords to neglect their buildings into complete disrepair. we're not going to be talking about renovictions, we're going to be talking about teardown and rebuild condos.
[deleted]
i don't feel like this is enough. this wouldn't have saved my apartment from a $1325 to $1700 rent increase, my landlord only owns two units. nothing will change until we reimagine how housing functions. it shouldn't be an investment tool.
let the pro-landlord circlejerk begin! (hint: a rental certification already exists in toronto for the last 15 years, do you see any slowdown in investment?...)
yes, because increasing overhead and fines reduces rental costs very effectively.
but increasing supply by allowing to build higher and denser?  oh no.  can't have that!
i predict increased rents if this ever passes.
current situation: owner of a triplex, i rent the basement $ 550 / month, (the market in my area is between $ 700-900 for shovels) heated hot water provided. it is a huge 3-1 / 2, renovated up to date and luxurious. plenty of parking spaces (free), snow plowed (free and by me, not when the snow plow passes), access to the yard and its facilities (dequoi de pamal nice), i live in the building and i am an exemplary owner , proactive and responsive down to the second. why am i renting so low? i had troubles, i wanted a station wagon and i rent to a reliable acquaintance who arrives tight to have peace, otherwise i get picked up by the tax if i do not rent it to all crooked and i leave it housing vacant.
situation to come: the tenant is going to leave, i'm going to be at the mercy of the management, i'm leaving with the mentality of marde that i am an owner of marde who boost his rent of marde, it will be hell, j 'i'm going to get bored, i'm going to squeal a' 'for sale' 'sign, a real estate developer is going to buy (gain the overbid that an individual cannot accost) the triplex, squeal it on the ground, build 2 condo buildings on the ground and rent that $ 1,200 + / month.
result: well, don't mess around with your cheap dream accommodation and keep kidding with your '' rental certification ''. i agree that not all homeowners are like me, that renovations are real and most are unjustifiable. but i also agree that measures like this will also make us lose the few opportunities to rent homes like mine, to have an exemplary owner and to pay for what you have or even less: that's fine. disappear completely instead of being rare.
there is a way to legislate owners who abuse without discouraging those who do not: fuck project montreal with this certification which only masks the major problems that contribute to this situation, of which they themselves are the instigators.
didn't valery plant turn her own building into a unfamilial unit, and then voted a city bilaw to keep ppl from doing that
ok... now let's have the same for landlords. qualified tenants that won't destroy your apartment. this way, landlords can put less money aside for renovations and do them more often. theses qualified tenants will take care of the unit, so prices won't go up.
genuine question: when people say rents are too high, what are they comparing them to? what would be an affordable rent price and what data was used to come to the conclusion that this is a fair price?
doesn't this make it even less likely that developers will build something for rental? i expect this will make the quality of the rentals better but i feel like it'll be at the cost of the quantity of rentals.
i dunno, i find being a landlord so unappealing already. i just sold a condo and got two offers to rent it instead while it was listed. think about that, people are so desperate for decent rentals they were calling someone who's trying to sell....it's gotten crazy.
but it is an investment. the reason rent goes up is because of the housing prices are high enough to not be able to buy, demand is high enough for apartments because of lack of investors. people in general think landlords are aholes because they charge too much, open your eyes and think if houses prices surge what do you think buildings prices will be and how do you think the morgage is paid, taxes... oh yeah if you don't pay it than the landlord don't pay it either, maintenance is that something to be considered, in other provinces if we leave the apartment in bad shape we pay to fix it, here we don't who do you think pay for it??? the city???
government rent-control will always cause a negative effect on the market. you control rent, investors and developers no longer invest in new properties because it is no longer economically feasible. this creates a shortage of rental units. shortages creates rental cost increase. so because of government intervention, prices will keep going up even faster.
adding regulations will simply push the problem away, or turn it into another. quebec is one of the places in america that has the most protections for tenants ...
* so where are housing construction projects?
* why not grants for the appropriation of houses and multiplexes by families?
* go further! why not talk about the creation of an institution that organizes and encourages community real estate projects so that the population can not only take their reality in hand, but also build it ...
and i'm not even a politician ... but creak i have the taste to become one when i see mediocre ideas like these ... it's lamentable
so people have been getting renovicted heavily for the past two years, and *now* she decides to act? fuck her.
coderre ain't any better, btw
what a shitty batch of candidates this time.
it's a start. or another empty election promise. sorry "proposal".
as long as adding more bureaucracy and more waste, why not just buy everything and have it managed by the city?
we often talk about the dynamics between owners and tenants, but what happens with the people who rent 489,292 apartments, without the owners' knowledge, and sublet them even more expensive?
there isn't really a housing crisis in montreal, just a gentrification effect. i am for gentrification: beautiful neighborhoods, beautiful restaurants, pleasant. those who can't afford the rent will have to go further and take more subways, sorry.
>still better than nothing i guess.
nope, worse than nothing. no more bureaucracy, no more apartments, no less demand, and a big incentive to never renovate buildings (as if the ~~ rrq ~~ rlq wasn't enough).
tell that to the landlords that have to pay thousands upons thousands of dollars in renovations after the tenant trashes the place before leaving.
exactly, this is bs.
> or are they all developed for news headlines?
that one. it will be a disaster but it fits in the narrative of the-nice-mayor-who-attacks-the-bad-owners.
i'm pretty sure lots of landlords neglect their buildings without policymakers "forcing" them via regulations lol. weak excuse.
it is true that jurisdiction with rent control tend to have the most neglected buildings.
he has no right to increase you just have to refuse and he will have to go to the control to justify the increase.
here are the laws that apply to increases.
no where in here, despite what some of these whiny boys say, does it say that the landlord is allowed to raise the rents because they decided to pay 900k for an income property.
they can raise your rent but it's legally no more than $100 at best. 
fight every notice they send you. get everyone in the building on board and go together.
there are many laws protecting the tenants from rent hikes.
don't listen to these losers on here about how you shouldn't expect to live "in a cushy low rent". the landlord can't hike rents just because he is wealthy enough to buy an income property. he isn't your kind. we don't live in the commons any more.
everything the new landlord proposes or tells you they're doing, submit it to the régie as a complain of harassment and also as a rejection of their offer.
there are tenants rights advocates that can help as well.
trust me when i tell you, the landlord has very little ground to stand on. stick up for yourself. get organized with the other tenants and don't let these losers dissuad you from pursuing the landlord even in small claims court.
sue the shit out of them!!!!! don't take the harassment!!!
like jerry said, let your new owner go and explain it to the management. he will have to provide papers to justify the increase and it cannot exceed a certain percentage as i recall, regardless of your current rent.
if your still paying 600$ for a 5 1/2 in a duplex that sold for 900k, it will be quite a wake-up call... no amount of negotiation will look reasonable when the true value is like 2k/month...
tell yourself that the less you pay, the more you have the big end of the stick and the more game you have to negotiate. if he is not in his right to take back your accommodation (otherwise, you have little to do), do not hesitate to make him pay.
the root of the problem is that land supply is limited, and as such, land ownership is a great store of value. housing is just a byproduct
what's the alternative? we have a free market and housing is a necessary commodity with a very high demand, and limited supply.
we're face to face with the laws of supply and demand here.
im sure it put an end to slum lords
no, instead all of the investment is for condos instead of rentals.
i do think that if implemented well this could be a good idea (as long as it's combined with measures to help fix the real source of the problem). but using toronto as an example of a healthy rental market is just not good for your argument.
i would gladly have a rental regestry if i could rent at toronto prices
you know what else exist in toronto? month to month rent after the first year's lease. meaning people can just walk away from their apartments with a one months notice, instead of the charade of passing along cheap rents through lease transfers.
did it stop rent hikes in toronto?
"the certification will be required of landlords who have buildings with eight or more units throughout the city of montreal, representing nearly 216,000 units," 
how does your triplex concern? so read a little before you catch fire! take a deep breath and read the article, this is just for 8+ unit large plexes.
not really. she merged two units in her 5plex, which is still allowed under new rules. also, this is under borough jurisdiction, so the mayor doesn't vote on such changes.
found the bootlicker
montréal used to have absurdly cheap rents. we’re talking, have a huge apartment to yourself  kind of rent
>i expect this will make the quality of the rentals better but i feel like it'll be at the cost of the quantity of rentals.
both quality and quantity.
* quality: rent is somehow locked (it already is anyway) plus you have to go through a considerable list of admin crap. why would a landlord pour money into an unit to make it better with all the costs (taxes, upkeep, materials, etc.) going up?
* quantity: why build more if a promoter knows a potential buyer won't get the same returns and that therefore landlords won't pay good cash for their shitty buildings? they'll just build more condos where they can get a good roi and single homes for people who can actually afford to sink 1m+ in a house.
projet montréal is doing shit for both tenants and landlords. tenants are already protected against unreasonable rent hikes and evictions. the tal is already there to provide this kind of protection and they are really zealous about that. valérie is just campaigning with more stupid empty promises to get the tenants' votes. simple as that.
or they wanted to get in the door to extort the future buyer to vacate the place early when they want to move into their newly purchased property.
not disagreeing but adding nuance: rents are not subject to control for 5 years in new constructions. 
also, more than half of new units produced in montreal these past few years were not condos, but rental units
to advise people with their potential real estate purchases, i can tell you that for 95% it is simply inconceivable to build a new building in the montreal area and rent “standard” apartments there.
almost everything new is condo construction or luxury apartments. investors just have no interest in building something that will contain apartments, they want to avoid being under the jurisdiction of the board at all costs, and reading some of their decisions i can't blame them.
in short, there will be no construction of a new apartment.
lol, what!
"that those who work to serve me slam an hour of transport for their job as servants, i don't want to see the * pôves * except when preparing my $ 6 latte there. it's just a matter of making the neighborhood more * pleasant *, quite normal. "
my god.
"these people" serve you your coffee and your food, take you to the cash register and answer the phone when you call for service!
for all the time that the associations of owners and their fanbase have been repeating that this or that new regulation will discourage investment. however, the regulations are always extra-soft and full of holes which means that they have never discouraged real estate investment. seriously, real estate is only going higher and higher until the next crash.
what good news! it should never be forgotten that the hallmark of a just society is how it treats its most vulnerable members.
[deleted]
what would help even more is if their staff were treated well <3
[deleted]
glad about the investment but from what i understand it is not in an ideal place. a big part of the indigenous homelessness in that area is because there was a shelter (near the ymca or at the ymca) that was nearby. many of the people who would be seen needed a nearby park to hang out at, and at night had missed the curfew so were forced to sleep rough. moreover that shelter/hostel was used a lot for flown in northerners needing to see a specialist at the hospital. obviously the location made sense before the mega hospital but i can not help but think something a little closer to the glen would be ideal.
"unprecedented donation for shelter that works with homeless people from indigenous communities"
is the second headline, i am glad they used the word invests in the main headline.
these should be looked at as investments that strengthen our communities; not a cost nor a donation!
we should easily save $3million on all the different costs (hospital resources, social programs, having healthier and more secure families, police resources, etc etc etc).
i would love to see some pilot program go on that has unthreatening social workers respond to or even hang around the square cabot area instead of heavy police monitoring.
it seems that we are forgetting that more and more these days. it's good to see good news for a change!
meanwhile the contract goes to snc lavalin  and the initial 3 million projected cost to taxpayers that is will probably run us around 15 million. ahhhhhh yes, because when was the last time that you saw a downtown house being built at $3 million dollars, impossibl. i think there needs to be more of a traceability when it comes to contracts like this and quebecers need to be more vigilant and follow the money and hold these companies and dealings with a system of checks and balances in order to follow through and assure that these are being done on the up and up.
because government subsidiarities and tax breaks for these corporations that have gone in and gentrified neighborhoods and taken away from affordable costing housing for not only the homeless but for everyone and forcing us out of our neighborhoods and further out of the city because of the rising costs. which in fact falling to the cost of the people of montreal me and you with rising tax prices for property tax the cost of school tax neighborhood tax and it's just keeps on going up and these billion-dollar corporations a 3 million dollar donation is a drop in the bucket especially if you take into account the future estimated earnings that these corporations will pull in.
unfortunately it's like that everywhere.
are you telling me it's not cool to fire your employees when they try to unionize?!
volenteered there in the summer, it was very cool, staff was chill, laid back atmosphere. came back in october.. it wasn't the same..
let's not make it a quebec vs roc thing and just celebrate some positive news for a change.
local problems  require local solutions.
the church at the corner of rené-lévesque and atwater closed years ago, then they closed the square for at least a year to fix it up. homeless people still came back after all that. i think it's great that they put it near there, that's where they like to hang out, let them!
your understanding isn't accurate
yes the company spends too much time on tiktok.
> lava land
impossibl
[deleted]
resilience went the extra mile and fired all their staff who were trying to unionize.
i am! a friend of mine worked there and was so poorly treated when they tried to unionize, it's awful, it's so unfortunate that the org's great work is tarnished by their shitty practices
want to explain why or should i assume that the beauty of cabot square is just too irresistible?
these two comments sound quite boomer ...
weren't the newspapers full of bad news in your good old days?
not to be confused with its groovier cousin, snc lava lamp
fair enough that's a good point you know but they just you know and i'm not trying to take away from this good news either and i apologize for seeing being like a debbie downer, this is excellent news and and i'm happy for the people that are going to be able to benifit. 
all i'm saying is that we need to make sure that these type of transactions are followed through. it's that if we follow the money and see where it's being going and see these contracts continually be going to these types of companies as a sub default when something goes wrong i don't consider that a solution i mean banks have just this year have made 3.8 billion dollars in profits that's more than last year when we weren't in a pandemic i'm sorry but i don't know anybody who's making a lot of money this year on the contrary i know a lot of people that are struggling and getting through bill to bill and worried about the future but yet the banks are able to make more money this year than they did last year get the f*** out of here, how? from where if interest rates have been dropped due to pandemic relief to an all-time low it's not from interest rates so where are they getting this money that at the end of the day is paid by taxpayers me and you.. 
you think that is a coincidence that construction workers have secured jobs for the next $250 years i don't think so how was that the strongest job potential in quebec at the moment for future well at least it was last year and the thing is i don't know how many times i've seen them fix the same pothole or the same part of the street numerous times yet there's no system to check these obvious fraudulent well i'll give you does help the economy by giving people jobs but yet there's got to be a medium of an acceptable amount of fraudulent activity versus full on flat in your face boom n g a f attitude and the general consensus of this egregious acts of our government is "c'est comme ça ça marche ici au québec" attitude of complacency which i'm sorry is not an adequate solution or excuse for what's going on . if we continue to allow these companies to continue to us which protect them and don't protect the citizens you think that they're going to work on an honor based code not all canadians are honorable so what makes you think that these companies that are run on a larger scale based on profit and shareholders if they as well when given the choice between getting paper or doing the honorable right thing what do you think they're going to choose? 100 to one if you look at their track record but you know there's always the future possibility that they might do the right thing eventually.
that's illegal too bad they probably don't have enough money to get a lawyer to represent them and take them to court and i mean f*** suing a yeah that's really f***** up. at the local grocery store where i work i'm there in direct contact all the time with people and the fact that they really don't try to slow down the amount of people inside that grocery store and i asked them i was like when you guys getting your vaccines you should be soon right you're essential workers and places are just really doing these people dirty.
yeah, i know one of the employees. sounds like their case at the labour board is going well, at least.
people go there to go there, because they know other northerners will be there in a city of millions. 
it is more due to that than due to the old shelter influence, as that reason predates the shelter being so popular in the first place.
 it's a holdover from the children's hospital era nearby like you said, but it's less about missing curfews to the shelters you were talking about than you're assuming so they have to sleep there, and more just a place inuit and cree know they can find inuit and cree.
** everything ** was fine until 2016. poverty is an invention of zoomers.
fucking genis
probably also worth noting that they're purchasing the building, not buying a new one...
the employees took em to the labour board and from what i hear it's actually gone pretty well - they'll have to pay out a fair amount of money, apologize, etc.
from what i hear the employees took em to the labour board and are likely to agree to a pretty solid settlement.
ok great. so while it is currently a holdover, that does not mean it will be in five years. that is why i suggested the investment should go somewhere closer to the glen that will be more pragmatic in fifteen years.
but the thing is like a day shelters nice but $3 million for a place where people can't even spend the night is a bit of a slap in the face. on top of that i think that we need to increase the representation of indigenous people within the government so we don't have another french quebec white man saying what the indigenous community needs and doesn't need cuz i mean common sense for me tells me that if you build the shelter it should shelter people at night when people need shelter not during the day ( that's what the stm is for)
okay that's a good point actually i was unaware of that but why are they purchasing the building was it because the previous owner was unable to get contracts and permits required by the city in order to build it? i know a lot of buildings out the parts stadium have had numerous problems with s*** like that. but you're right to read furnish a building versus building a new one from scratch yeah it's a lot less costly that's that's for darn sure. i wonder what the taxes on a building like that would be annually, or would it be like a church where they don't have to pay taxes since it's like a charitable.
no, you're missing the point, it's no longer anchored by medical services. 
we know where the hospitals are, we know where places to stay are. 
that's just a place we know we can run into other northerners. that's why people go there now. that's totally different than what you think is the raison d'être. it's not a "holdover", it's a meeting place for the sake of meeting.
not every hangout remains as such though. it may be for the next few years, but it could well change. i would love to see you suggest there is something other that maintains the space longterm brides this investment. i like the idea of there being an "indigenous mosaic" in the city like there is a china town, but nothing about the area seems to have enshrined northerners to have that (yet or in the time when the services made it such)
looks like a face with the lighting.. nom nom
big drop in quality at home unfortunately
only thing i hate about that area is the 10 mile exit line to get off decarie for jean-talon. it's literally traffic 24/7 there. has to be the worst exit in montreal after the saint-michel one on the 40 or the 440 one on the 15
great burgers but they're damn expensive.
a classic, when we came back from europe by plane we stopped to take a poutine, nothing more og than that!
oh you just made me want hot dogs!
the orange!!
thank you for the beautiful photo! go bring my daughter to evening for 2 roasts and a julep!
is the vintage car show on wednesdays still going?
pacman eating a car!
the pricing there makes me want to puke. like $16 for a hot dog, poutine and a small julep.
why do the orange juice feels like more and more sugarcane every time i visit.
seriously! can't unsee
almost wonder if there should be a face. the big apple, on the way to toronto has a face.
i started going around 1980 and i never really went for the quality, i like their food but it's extra-greesy fast food.
yes worse just opposite there is a la belle province which is not bad better
what? i know the price is expensive but to me it tastes the same
meh, we go there not so much for the food but for the juice, and watching people pimp their cars.
m'a t'prend 'two burpy all-dress steamed, s'ou-plat.
yes, and motorcyclists usually gather there on thursdays
yes, it’s from around 6 to 9. but it’s always best to come earlier than later!
haha yeah it’s certainly one of its kind!
who's going for the food tho? all about that juice
cool! someone mentioned that it's a lot of newer cars now, is there still a decent vintage crowd? :)
i have only been there once, but there are still many many old cars there from what i saw on youtube!
you know the new awning is super useful when you need an umbrella under it.
are the streets all filled in and repaired? haven't been since sdqc first opened.
[deleted]
perfume stores that have no name !!!
should post this in /r/raining
this new marquee is completely tasteless, soulless and generic, in addition to letting the precipitation pass (i know there is a technical reason related to the facades, though).
the old one was ugly but had personality, something distinctive, kitsch that you learn to appreciate.
it's a shame because the plaza is great, there is excellent food, interesting bars and shops.
great shot! i just wish it was a permanent pedestrian street. sigh
honestly i would take the pigeons back if it meant not being rained/snowed on. did many late evening walks from iga to the 18 bus, two sacks of groceries in hand and no hands left for an umbrella heheh.
ah yes, the street equivalent to the 6th page of results on amazon with all the cheap bébelles with big markups.
it is boring to say, but the problem of the street was not the marquise, but the cheap stores. they all look like dollaramas, but who each sell a department (here we have the cheap shoes, here the cheap perfumes, here the ...)
damm, what time did you take that yesterday? we might've crossed paths
with the invisible stems osties!
integral beauty
why make something bulky useful rather than just aesthetic (questionable)?
it's dry below (i was walking there yesterday) but there is indeed a gap between the awning and the facade.
but tse, was it so useful when you left? even with its (more?) functional awnings, the city centers which tried to compete with the shopping centers in the 80s made potato because the wind still brings the water in on the side and it is necessary to ben cross the street at one point and it's just not fun to be outside when it's raining.
we had marquees in downtown sherbrooke when i was little and it was a no man's land with varying degrees of gloominess depending on the year. it's much better now without the marquees (and also the culture has coincidentally generally shifted anyway and people have regained a taste for out-of-town shopping).
we sacrifice practicality for aesthetics.
yes, and it's fully pedestrian until sunday iirc.
aaaaaaahhhhhhhh. i hate you angry. lol
big wedding dresses!
wig and nail application shops!
personally i prefer the new to the old, but obviously all tastes are in nature.
it depends on the height of the street. between bélanger and beaubien there are nevertheless nice places for clothes, a few beautiful bookstores, one of the best ice cream parlors in town, a few cool restaurants and bars.
after north of jt it's less nice, you just have wedding clothes and wig stores next to each other.
i think you should go back. there are a lot of "new" businesses. barbers, furniture, restaurants, bookstores, tattoo shops, etc.
would you like to gentrify the plaza st-hubert?
why not both considering all the money and planning time allocated?
yep, that makes me so sick! make the snow accumulate on both sides, but even below, you have the posts blocking the path so that when it's ugly, well we can be 1-2 max below.
i found them really useful! i live close by and it was super nice to have the sidewalk dry in any season. after crossing the street it is 1 minute compared to a 1-2 hour shopping trip.
it intrigues me the marquises in the city center .. i would tend to think that it was creepy because the city center is gray and a lot of buildings ..
yeah right, the plaza, especially the southern section, is really cool. add to your list one of the best places for dumplings, a super efficient shoemaker, gaming / hobby shops and an old performance hall with character.
yes it's getting better and better. but that is precisely my point.
the streets are getting better because the cheap baby stores are being replaced little by little by nice shops.
> but the problem in the street was not the marquise, but the cheaps stores.
it was up.
now it's made down.
i wish it would go back to up.
hey in the past, the plaza st-hubert was a shopping place like saint-catherine ...
if for you to replace the shit bébelle stores which clearly do not attract anyone by quality stores, it is "gentrification" ...
whether the stores change or not, it doesn't change the gentrification of saint-hubert, it is already much too late. the surrounding houses and condos are selling at prices that are completely beyond the reach of the vast majority of locals. it's just a matter of time now.
in the case of sherbrooke, i think that the opening of a big shopping center just killed the city center, as it happened in many places (like what is told in la rue principale des colocs) .
in the 1980s, the malls were just really exciting and the downtown businesses just moved to the ashes or rushed for several years.
in sherbrooke, the city installed awnings, telling itself that people went to the shopping center to avoid bad weather, but in the context where people were excited by the very concept of shopping centers, the marquees did not. at all the weight, rain or shine. with half of the businesses closed and the few remaining businesses that were just too dodgy for the mall, it ended up making downtown no worse creepy.
nowadays, the craze for shopping centers is decreasing, so with a good development plan (which included the complete dismantling of the canopies, because they were made quite a lot of money) and financial incentives, businesses and restaurants have started to settle in the city center again and it's still cute, bordering on a bit too bohemian.
completely removing the canopies still made the street brighter in sherbrooke. i imagine the purpose in the plaza was to make a compromise between protection from rain and light. or it's just aesthetic and it is a corner of the eye at the time of the marquise de la plaza.
and also one of the nicest tailors in town, gamache tailleur!
completely agree, i just hope the pandemic has not killed the slim hope that st-hubert might be filled with cheap stores and bridal shops.
it's the same with ontario, st-laurent, wellington (verdun), notre-dame (st-henri) ...
but except for wedding dresses, it's never been that up ...
when i was young my mother bought my clothes from croteau and my babies came from rossy and others 5-10-15
super interesting, thanks for the prospect! it's true that i grew up with shopping malls - it must have been crazy in the 80s!
ah well if all become horrible it is quite acceptable to have stores with just 5000 made in china gougounes which fart 3 seconds after having put them.
very important to level down otherwise there are people who shout "gentrification"
it was already more up than it is now. it pulls out of the way compared to what it was before.
well, i'm not soooo old, so i just remember the late 80s and 90s, when the damage was already done and the idea of just going downtown was unthinkable.
i haven't been to this corner for a long time, i believe you. but for me it was never very "hot". (70s and 80s)
i didn't grow up in montreal so i admit that i don't really know.
i grew up in sherbrooke, so i don't know what montreal looked like either. my mom seemed to think there were daily drive-by shoots, but she's a bit sheltered.
good; that's a better use of our public green space. it will be nice to have one dang place in this city i can go for a few hours without seeing, hearing, or smelling a car. 
and unlike the closure of voie camillien-houde, it's not part of anyone's regular commute, so i imagine there will be less outcry and less reason to later reverse this.
it has a metro station. leave the car in longueuil, or take the orange or green and transfer. my only slight concern is that the station doesn't have an elevator, so they either need to leave parking for folks with disabilities, or accelerate the construction of elevators along the yellow line. (or both!)
it's me or the photo used in the article taken before the construction of evenko square (reminds me of the real name) shows how milky this affair is. there were plenty of trees before and there is a big slab of concrete and gravel :(
awesome! people should go to parc jean-drapeau the same way they go to parc lafontaine or jeanne-mance, we have a huge space so close to downtown and it looks like we use it for 3 events a year and that's all.
so no more f1? lol 😂
and the creation of filter marshes!
> the number of parking spaces on the two islands will be considerably reduced
my favorite words.
awesome! finally some progress! as usual all the pro car people will huff and puff and then when they go they will be like “wow, this park i never spent any time in is awesome! love it”. some people resist change at all cost. same with the st denis rev. all parking complaint people have suddenly “disappeared” when they see that there is still plenty of parking, but one can actually comfortably walk without being next to millions of parked cars. bravo!
and la ronde agreed to this how?
great idea
first images here: 
are they going to bring the racing cars for f1 by ferry?
okay ... rip me who works all around and who lives almost 50 minutes by chariot i guess (public transport will take 1h40-2h and the bus ride is very unreliable where i live): s
how are we going to do what we who work at la ronde? personally, i take the metro but the majority go there by car because for many, going there by public transport does not suit them
i wonder if you'll still be able to pass around it? i use it every day to commute to work since i work on the south shore. it saves so much time not having to pass on peel where all the construction is to get to the highway just to get to jaques cartier bridge. it's great coming back too, i avoid all the traffic at the end of the bridge. oh well, even if it closes, i plan on leaving the island in a year for the shore. this will probably take 10 years before anything gets done haha
so, apart from f1, no more cars at all on the gilles villeneuve circuit?
ah well ..., it will now be easier for quebecers to get to six flags in lake george, ny
meh, as long as they keep parking spots there i don't see this as a big deal imo.
yuck even more people in the metro.
caliss ....
a promotion with the metro would be nice too. i don't know how it can work. but a family of 4 or 5 will cost 20-25 dollars more to go to the park.
!!!
yes. i run/bike quite often in jean drapeau (from my place, usually via the jacques cartier bridge or de la concorde) and holyyyy is it sketchy sometimes. from the jacques cartier pedestrian/bike lane there are no sidewalks until you get down the hill, and cars drive like it's the f1. i would estimate that 90% don't even do a rolling stop for any stop sign and dodge the speed bumps (sometimes nearly hitting people). many drivers are extremely belligerent towards pedestrians/cyclists they meet as well. you. are. in. a. park. on. an. island. none. of. these. roads. go. anywhere. this. shit. is. not. serious. 
there is really no excuse for this. the park is accessible by metro, bike/foot from both sides, and there's also a ferry if you want to do the scenic thing. the park has an internal bus shuttle as well if you are less mobile and want to get around. there's also a bixi station or two.
do people really commute through camilien houde? unless you live at the summit circle and are going to jeanne-mance, i can't see how it's ever the most efficient route. going through pine instead can't be that much longer.
aren't cars still allowed to parc there though
back when i was a young idiot, i used to drive to work downtown and one favourite traffic bypass was to take jacques cartier and then get off and take the island drive to downtown and vice versa at night. could save 10-15 minutes and it was a pleasant drive.
in addition, the river shuttle will be reinforced, in particular with a second landing stage on ile notre-dame
a nice gift from coderre to his friends in evenko.
ayoye yes it's a bit sad! comparison: 
in addition, at the only heavy montreal he had there, it is hot with this cement everywhere! it's ridiculous and ugly. and they didn't take the opportunity to put abrevoires and toilets everywhere, noooo, still 3h lineup to piss (when you're not drunk enough to just piss more or less next to a tree, fence, truck food or security officer)
when you see the poor access that the société du pont deigns to grant to pedestrians and bicycles on the bridge, it makes you want to go there.
the ferry should be included in the opus card.
not the same island
also, with the amount of money it brings, it would really surprise me if anyone would really try to cancel the race, especially since the contract is good for another 10 years or so.
it would be nice to put coderre there, just to filter it once and for all!
yeah i don't think so. as a driver, i can tell you that driving there is a fucking calamity if you're even moderately concerned about safety.
the intersections are all fucky, you can't see shit anywhere, there are stops in the weirdest places and the lighting is awful. google maps redirected me through there once and no, never again. i'd rather take the long way around.
la ronde has its own lot and it includes parking ... it's mandatory. the city will not be able to prevent the travel of cars to la ronde.
parc jean-drapeau! = île sainte-hélène.
yes n . great the park no car but i hadn't thought of that. families who are not from mtl who go around will have to park or in the future
they are renters. and considering they’ve been doing the bare minimum to keep their contract, they can just suck it for all i care
six flags perhaps would like this idea to take parking lot and build more rides as this is something they always wanted since they acquired la ronde.
the original idea was to remove the marina but then it was government owned and they couldn't.
[deleted]
what is the new building next to the circle in the second picture?
what is this photoshop lol
i imagine the cars are in trucks .. and the article says that delivery trucks will still be allowed to circulate.
is it worth working at la ronde tho? i heard the working conditions are ass.
why not take champlain? the new bridge is awesome and the 15 in that direction is mostly clear in the morning.
i am downvoted because i ask a question? reddit / r / montreal is weird at times.
estie that this six flags is pocket, seriously i didn't think it was worse than la ronde before i visited the great escape. it is falling apart.
isn't parking like $ 15 for the day?
i often go to the park, just to walk ... but i'm curious, what are small families going to do there?
i've had the exact same experience. not sure who in their right mind thinks it's ok to go double the speed limit in a park, but holy shit do i not feel safe biking in some parts of it.
when i lived at rockhill and i worked at hydro downtown, it was really the fastest in the car by far. but it was even better by bike or even on foot.
been using communauto myself for a month or so to go hiking within 150km around mtl. i usually go on fridays, reserve for a whole day at a nearby station 2-3 days in advance and it's been working well so far. it's $70-90 a pop so it makes the hikes a bit expensive but having no other use for a car, it's still cheaper than buying and having to deal with insurance, gas, parking, general maintenance and ugh.. winter amirite 😅. 
point is, i'm pretty happy. thanks for coming to my ted talk.
i feel you. i'm in rosemont and its the same situation. i'm probably going to end up buying a car.
haha yeah i feel you. in general tho communauto is excellent. i'm surprised i like it as much as i do.
did communauto increase their offer when car2go left the city or is there a vacuum that hasnt been filled since?
i used communauto for 3-4 years 10 years ago ... and already at that time having cars available was a real problem. running tanks to all four corners of the city was the only solution. i bought a car since and i won't go back!
the colonization of the french is observed
it is impossible to park south of st-joseph to the old port honestly.
it is truly an ordeal without solution. politics either ignore the problem or the empire.
i'm actually shocked you have so many cars available, must have been very early in the afternoon. last 2 weekends i kept refreshing and there was about 3 flex available in the entire city.   
it's got to a point where i honestly don't always follow the "leave car in a spot free of parking restrictions until midnight the next day" rule because i know the car will snatched way before i'd get a ticket.
we have a small car that has already been paid for, bought second-hand in 2015, and when it dies, we hesitate to use communauto, but i admit that it does not seem very well supplied in our sector (hochelaga maisonneuve) and above all, i am not convinced of the efficiency with two small children whose car seats will always have to be transferred for each trip: - /
even communauto, try getting a car on weekends its like a competition renting 30 days before you need one. 
i find the best place to get a automobile is st-michele, my friend can pretty much get them whenever as people keep dropping them off there.
eli5: never used this app, so if i understand right, there are cars pretty much all over the city except in the plateau?
if only there was something like [this] ( in mtl, it would cause a little less problems like that, and probably a little less cars too. .
st henri knows your pain 😩
try turo sometimes its an alternative... my car as been rented most of the summer since june .. but you might find gems on the platform
all the fucking tiiime. after 7:30, forget about it. very disagreeable.
annoying but if you’re not in a rush take public transit to one of the cars with the little gift on it. 30 free minutes!
(but yeah, very annoying when you’re in a rush)
ooof yeah verdun is usually pretty sad too, fridays and weekends i usually have to grab a bixi to ville emard to find one.  
honestly these last two years the service has been pretty lousy. the cars are alwats super dirty, broken, or need a fluid fill up and tire fill. also the app is buggy as hell.
you should have seen it on the long weekend, there were like 2 cars on the entire island.
i’m considering cancelling because of this. i rent full days from time to time but not so often, and i was really looking forward to an option for unplanned trips and quick errands.
i think we need new players in the market, with the electrical shift coming communauto will grow stronger i guess.
why isn't communauto in toronto though?
ooh there’s one in verdun near me
as you can see, rosemont isnt doing any better lol. when the so and i try to book one, it usually has to be a good 2 weeks in advance to have one within a reasonable walking distance.
i love it for the flex cars in the city. i love being able to drive somewhere and then take public transit back, or vice versa, plus never getting a parking ticket -- amazing! 
what i don't love is the long distance cars. they've been impossible to reserve all summer, and that's mostly why i need a car. i use flex for errands and for work, but i could get taxi's/budget for more time on public transit if i didn't have communauto. because of the difficulty in booking long distance cars, i won't be continuing after my first year membership is over.
no one has mentioned that they continue to expand their zones more north and east. for folks that are living closer to the core of the city, it’s just going to get worse as more and more cars get left at the edges of the growing zones even if they add more cars. not exactly sure how they will figure that part out. either way, i still enjoy using flex by nabbing a car early morning and keeping it, or booking weeks in advance for a regular communauto. it’s still cheaper and more convenient than owning a car, and i’m saying this as a member for over a decade.
turo?
uber ?
hahahahhahahahahaha
if you're going to reserve it for a whole day in advance, and pay that much, what's the benefit over an old fashioned rental? /genuine
>it's still cheaper than buying and having to deal with insurance, gas, parking, general maintenance and ugh.. winter amirite 😅. 
100% 
i'm only cribbing about flex. although reserving a car for the weekend has to be done 3 weeks in advance :d
other than that it's an amazing service that in my opinion should be expanded considerably.
[deleted]
i live on the south shore (longueuil métro), i stopped using them because the cars were never available (even for short trips like grocery shopping) and the cars were always either damaged, dirty or had some sort of mechanical issue.
bought a car, more expensive but i can at least use it now lol
any hikes you'd recommend ? i'm desperate to go on one but don't really know where people go around here
same for us, actually getting one inspected this weekend. i'm sick of stopping at a garage and inflating the tires of the communautos, or struggling to find one at all.
consider an ebike ;) or a cheap second hand car!
good luck with that the car industry is as busy and in demand
oh i love it. other than the availability of flex, i make reservations for the weekends and they're amazing!
otoh, when i do find a flex, i feel like i've won the lottery and that totally makes my day :d
i miss car2go every day, the cars were a lot cleaner and they had a better selection. if they were still in town we wouldn't be looking for a car to buy right now, i think.
they've been hit by the car shortages too. they're trying their best to up their offering (i complained to them this week about the same thing) and are having a hard time procuring the cars to meet demand at this point.
they have added hundreds of cars since, but it’s a complicated business model. summer week end is peak chalet seasons for the communauto crowd, taking car for expanded amounts of time, but you just have to think about what happens to this car on a random tuesday in november.
they did.
>regarding the flex offer, following the departure of sharenow announced last december, communauto reacted quickly by ordering 325 vehicles which will be added to its free-floating offer which already included 730 units.
source: 
they bought more cars. i don’t miss car2go. less space in the car because ikea/costco/ rona/ etc. also not that much cheaper for a car less pleasurable to drive. parking was easy tho!
the number of times i had a reservation and someone had run away with the car! before the mobile application ... i imagine that now this is no longer possible.
if it's for round trips, look at the community stations (not flex) around you, some station cars already have a child seat in the car, which can be practical (just 1 on the other hand)
it's difficult to make the transition ... what i missed the most when i was 100% communauto was spontaneity. if you decide friday pm that you are going to move, it's usually too late, everything is booked. so on weekends you have to book in advance and cancel last minute when you don't need it, otherwise it's just impossible. also, models with baby seats are rare and it is a struggle to install and uninstall them every time ...
i find if you camp and refresh throughout the course of a day you can find something relatively easily.   
i've had decent success with people cancelling or literally communauto adding new cars into the system and snagging them as they show up.   
i drive maybe once a month though and usually know well ahead of time when i will need the car so i'm one of those snagging the saturday reservations a month-ahead .
it's basically bixi with cars, except that you can park anywhere within the service range and in a legal parking spot, including residential parking zones.
given how many people live on the plateau (and don't have cars as compared to the rest of montreal) the service is somewhat lacking for the ideal core customer base.
yup. this means that users of the plateau (and my area, rosemont!) take a car in the morning to leave the neighborhood and do not always bring them back to the neighborhood of origin, or they will bring it back later at the end of the day. .
without having listened to the whole video ... i apologize.
isn't this exactly the communauto model? except for cargo vans. communautos in station must already be returned to where they are taken.
it is. :)
it is!
unfortunately, i am afraid that, even today, for many, bilingual means that francophones must learn english to prevent others from learning french in quebec.
as my friend who works for the government of canada says: "there are two official languages in the government of canada, english and its translations"
again does the free and independent republic of beaconsfield bravely defend itself against tyrannical and opressive attacks by the government of quebec. bravo!
good. montréal and it's suburbs are bilingual cities, time they stood up for it.
reread the article read read the article if you haven't. beaconsfield applies a provision of law 96 ie affirming that the city is bilingual so that it is considered bilingual and not unilingual french before law 96 changes the status of towns to unilingual french.
beaconsfield play the game according to the new law. 
inhale, exhale, inhale, exhale. reread the article, reflect, reread the article, understand the article.
yes, the new language bill allows them to do this under its explicit provisions and protections for majority anglophone communities?
what a bizarre article and headline.
they could rename the city to "beacon fields" or "beacon field" to be bilingual. / s
the big bad "west-island" - where all the evil english people dwell. i already knew the comments would be toxic. montreal is a bilingual city - bonjour/hi.
we're not talking about rouyn-noranda here.. beaconsfield is a community with a large anglophone population. i see no problem with a bilingual community reaffirming their bilingual status
this is getting scarier every day. we have done so much for the french language here in québec. bill c-96 is only to appease french only speakers.
i spoke french at home when i was a kid, and i still speak french with my parents. i went to school in french up to cegep where i went to champlain college in lennoxville. i did my university in french, but funnily enough, the only good books were in english.
i am bilingual and i feel very offended every time someone tries to tell me otherwise.
the 2021 census is a very good exemple of that.
the population of beaconsfield is [predominantly english speaking] ( (see page 17).
it is therefore normal that she wants to preserve her display rights in english.
french should be more supportive of someone learning their language
the fact that we have a second language as a course from the first year to secondary 5 and that there are still people who do not have a minimum basis is downright pathetic.
this course has always been treated as a "free for all" period.
what a refreshing informative article that is factual and not opinionated or biased. 
anyone who would know: does billingual status in any way hurt residents? so long as services are being offered fully in french (in every sense of the word service), why is the provincial government interfering?
pointe-claire did this too but beaconsfield is always an easy shaming target somehow.
that’s not news lol
bilingual!!!!!!!!!
just to be served in french in certain businesses in beaconsfield is a way of the cross.
there are still a lot of unilingual anglophones who don't give a shit about french.
\ -hello madame here ginet robidoux who is conducting a survey. 1st question: how do you fell when i spoke french pi tu understood rien? "yes! no! or what!
\-what!
\ -ok next question ...................
i would like so much to find this segment of powder blue
[deleted]
baeconsfield bilingual lol, here is a good one.
i grew up in the west island.  i hate going back there.
> as my friend who works for the government of canada says: "there are two official languages in the government of canada, english and its translations"
it's a bit funny considering that a disproportionate percentage of public servants are francophones (because they require bilingualism)
why is it downvoted? it is literally the experience of all francophones who must interact with canadians / anglophones.
the people who talk to you veil their eyes.
in the canadian forces the concept of respect for the spoken language is important. in other words, if a francophone wants to be treated in french, efforts are made to ensure that it is. i must add that the francos are disproportionately represented in the caf.
that makes sense, since only about 20% of the population speaks french, and less than half speaks only french (and not english). where english is about 90% of the population.
so as a government, it would be strange of your representatives speak a different language than that of the people that are represented.
plus if you ever have to do business in north america, your better off speaking spanish (20%) then french (under 5%), where almost everyone speaks english (over 80%).
that is why the gov't du québec and the bloc should promote and defend french in the rest of the country. instead, they sabotage initiatives for the rights of francophone minorities for fear that it will help the anglophone minority here.
i don't even know if thats a joke at this point
have you read law 96? there are some pretty discriminatory bits in there. like the penalization of employees who try to help someone in english.
i'm fed up with this government's "little" village racism. the scarves of muslim nurses now penalize the elderly who do not have the same knowledge of french as their children. most unilingual anglophone people are immigrants who had to work because they had children, and they never obtained a good knowledge of french. their children are still bilingual, however.
i know it is boring to have to comply for a minority of francophone citizens in beaconsfield, but they only have to acquiesce to the law simply for the sake of form without necessarily changing the practice.
in fact, not at all. the english-speaking percentage (native speakers) is considerably lower than that for the allophonie, for the francophonie it is even further. what gives the impression of "bilingual cities" is that the attraction as a common language of english among allophones is completely disproportionate to the attraction of french as a common language.
if by montreal and its suburbs, you mean the west island, yes, if not, not at all.
in my suburb, the first time i heard english in the streets was 2 years ago.
not true at all.
precisely, the problem is not beaconsfield but the law 96
what's bizarre is that in a period when there's plenty of things to fix after the pandemic, mini-duplessis is concentrating on restricting the language of study of cegep students. because that and 3 muslim women wearing a headscarf is the biggest problems quebec is facing. the government's management of chsld's cost the lives of a few thousand seniors but they would have gladly given their lives to know that quebec has a distinct society status now.
"leaders". well, lead my cellar gang, do something useful for the world for once.
i vote for a “champs de phares” metro station.
[deleted]
[get ready](
how does the city being officially bilingual or unilingual make you bilingual or not? then i am interested in knowing, are you french speaking? if you spoke french at home when you were young, why did that change you?
> bill c-96 is only to appease french only speakers.
bin quin. they are at home here and shouldn't have to learn a foreign language to find work.
what specific actions do you think would be supportive?
lmao the irony of writing that in english
french as a second language?
not one of my french teachers in my highschool years were québecois. i had 2 hatian teachers, 1 morroccon, 1 vietnamese, and an algerian. the heavy unfamiliar accents made understanding and learning very tough.
i don't know how it is today, but it was pretty much the same with esl classes in french schools when i was there. the big advantage is popular culture and the big american media. the daughters of caleb didn't really interest me when i was a young teenager.
i am okay. but i'm not sure which course you're talking about.
government services in english help make learning french optional. a language is a tool: if you don't * need * it, you won't learn it.
residents who are unable to communicate in the language of the society are isolated and not integrated, which is bad for the society and, in my opinion, also for them.
pointe-claire has a french name so they are not picked up by the language police as easily.  same with baie d'urfe which no one actually ever proncounces it in french even though they spell it with an accent on the e.
yup, that's what the anglos think.
google: define billingual
i live in beaconsfield and it is indeed bilingual ... mostly english speaking yes but still bilingual!
you for sure moved to either griffintown, westmount or monkland village if you’re still in quebec, which is the next level up from the wi🤣🤣
“379 views • may 21, 2018”
awèye kevun, continue come
snowdown?!?
and monk .. 🤓
amazing. when worlds collide. i legit listened to the pokérap on my way to work yesterday
jtrip ben stiff guy
i'm really listening to this in the morning :).
pain...
* **peel!!!**
i do not hate at all the colors in the names for the connections between the lines!
pokémanan go is like facebook but you have to go outside
this is fun! thanks for making me smile!
he's his own musical instruments he's a great master rapper.
excellent
[deleted]
it's been a while since i had seen an autistic sing in the metro. thanks for those pre covid memories.
a classic
1.3k this morning!
check well mtlblog resume this in a few days
another classic lol
it's an ambitious beat.
legit, when i wrote this i had found a way to put all the stations except peel and monk and i didn't know where to put them anymore
in my opinion, this is the best idea of the video.
another point, if you have a telescopic pole to clean your roof, watch out for your power lines.
also...don't do it from a ladder...
also... don't stand under the snow.
yeah...
and do it safely and especially not alone.
in my condo, we are asked to remove the snow accumulated on the windows and patio doors to reduce the risk of infiltration.
[deleted]
it's nice of you to warn people
[deleted]
so i suppose this is the best thread to ask this...
my gf and i live on the 3rd floor of one of those apartments in verdun where it's like 6 apartments in one housing block. the balcony honestly doesn't seem like it could handle much more snow. we really want to shovel it to prevent any kind of accidents, but we can't just throw the snow off our balcony as it would block other tenant's doors, and we have some extremely vocal neighbors who will likely complain. does anyone have any suggestions or experiences on how to go about this?
good idea thank you!
i am a roofer and i guarantee that since sunday, the residential roofs (shingles) flow en masse !! ice dams retain water until water rises past the self-adhesive eave membrane.
a guy got pretty badly hurt on the weekend trying to cope with a tempo full of snow in ste-thérèse:
so i have a two story flat roof house in ville emard, and a 30 foot ladder to get on top. you really think this is a necessary thing to do?
[deleted]
my roof isn't insulated. i wonder if there's much left up there at this point 🤔   
anyone have a drone i could borrow? lol
thissss!! i'm always amazed by how few people bother to clear snow off of their homes and then wonder why their balconies have a tilt
remove snow *
good point!
i have a big problem with ice and melting snow in one of my blocks. the gutters are blocked and water is seeping through the balconies to an apartment, it's hell !!!
with a flat roof with central drain is it still necessary? i've heard it's not, but i am not sure i understand it!
this.
such a smart and relevant psa... i've got a steep / flat'ish roof combo that causes ice dams and leaks and have been doing this solo - steel roof 15-18 feet off ground - without sufficient passive restraints.. or none.
but .. it's absolutely important to do this sooner rather than later... the roof will just get heavier and heavier and with larger ice dams.
soyez vigilant pour les lignes électriques - et surtout votre sécurité physique sur le toit - ... take a cell phone in a secure pocket, tell someone you're going up and how long you expect to stay and...  take breaks shovelling to oxygenate and protect your heart!  
if you can - hire, invite or negotiate help to it alone if at all for the moral support never mind the security perspective!
i live in 6 apartments ah 3rd floor and there are 5 identical buildings next to each other. apart from me and my balcony neighbor, the other 4 balconies have not been negated once. it's all balconies held up by the brick wall and no support below. i can't wait to see if they will hold up 😐
yes and another point is that the march 3-4 system seems to be quite snowy so it's important to do it as soon as possible.
i must be the only person in my apartment building who shovels snow off the balcony so...if there's a fire, everyone can pass through my 5th floor apartment balcony door to get on the fireman's ladder!🤔
absolutely. just did it this weekend, there was about 45cm of snow near the drain (low point = most room for accumulation). and it was fairly dense too, not the nice fluffy stuff. 
it's no joke, this is probably more snow than your roof is designed for unless it's a fairly big building (structural engineer, ama... tl;dr this is more snow than specified by part 9 of the building code). with a bunch of rain it definitely will be.
how concerned should i be about this if my condo building is fairly new (2014-2015)?
[deleted]
yes, definitely, always have at least two to do this job, or hire professionals to do it for you.
this. always remove the snow from the windowsills otherwise it has a "tablet effect" which melts it, and the water infiltrates.
house, apt, condo, wtv. must. aauve on the hydro bill because you stay well insulated, no mold or humidity inside.
it already happened to mine and let me tell you it's not nice.
call professionals if it's too dangerous to do it yourself. you can contact me directly if you want, we'll take care of it.
bring it into the bathtub and let it melt
if you can, shovel the snow off from the balcony and immediately go downstairs to cleanup the snow that may have gone in front of your neighbours doors.
one of you go down to "direct traffic" while the other one shovels. then clear the snow out of any paths that it lands on.
tbh if it's not super densely-packed and there's a bit of a breeze, you can often just throw shovelfuls off and they'll dissipate in the wind and just kinda fall to the ground like a flurry.
(maybe test this with a small shovelful before you start just pouring it down on your neighbors.)
i would talk to the other tenants, explain the situation.  better to have some snow fall down than an entire balcony
tell your neighbors to fuck off?
this is the most libertarian shit i've read today.
"i need to shovel my stairs, but i don't want to shovel anyone else's stuff, so what can i do?"
uhhhhhh, just shovel the the mess you make, lol
i was actually so annoyed at my mom for always making me shovel our path twice (once. then she'd make the snow fall off the tempo roof onto the path. shovel a 2nd time).
upon a google research, found out tempo brand tempos recommend to remove the snow every day. dang it, she was right. -\_-
guys, shovel your tempos.
if you can do it safely, yes, absolutely
[deleted]
also who can i call? i can't even get up onto my roof because of how stupidly the balconies are made.
same here! no insulation and i’m wondering too! with all the experts here i hope we can get an answer! can’t even climb up there myself!
your roof isn't insulated? at all?
my gutters are frozen solid too :(
it most definitely is. :) no matter how great your drain is, it can't drain the crazy amount of snow we've had.   
source: century-old house with a flat roof and central drain. all of my roof has leaked through the years, espc. when there's big snowfalls + snow melts later on.
they are bound by more than that. the brackets for “unsupported” balconies continue a few feet inside the structure. cantilevered.
[
so i live in a 7 story condo building, what's the risk for that type of structure ?
i contacted the company that takes care of my condo building, mine dates from 2013. they told me that the roof was built with this kind of weight in mind and that it shouldn't have any breakage. or infiltration. i hope they are right, i live upstairs completely (4th) and if there is an infiltration we will be the first to know.
\ * clear the snow ... i'm just trying to help the world here, thank you.
excuse for the question may be silly, but my roof is ~ flat (very slight slope), is it really risky doing this alone or are there risks that i don't expect?
this has already happened to me and i can say that it is not pleasant.
do you have a general idea of the price for this kind of service for a single family house on two floors?
tinky winky, dipsy, laa laa, po !
can't wait for this parc to fully open.  those rolling hills and that pit are going to be such a nice place to spend a summer day.
in another galaxy near you .....
interesting view.  looks like it could be a set from a sci-fi movie.
no man's saint-michel
can you walk through the middle part of it yet? having such a wide open space in the city will be huge.
3 weeks ago it was still thick snow covered.... i was there, on some paths i stumped half my leg in to the snow if not careful
does anyone know the date by which it should be fully open??
also, i saw a couple of turkey vultures there last year. has anyone else seen em?
the middle part was open for a while but they closed it off in september i think. those umbrella things are new i don't know why they put them up they are useful (not next to picnic tables).
really cool parc. it's my go to bike ride.
looks like a colony on an alien planet
this man gets it
i hope they fill the pit with water.
all i can see is [bliss, the windows xp wallpaper]( but post-climate change or post-apocalyptic.
would make a neat wallpaper if taken with a better camera. nice job op.
not yet, the shot was taken right behind the fence...
i have walked the entire park twice a day since the start of the pandemic. i don't think you were on a hiking trail but rather on a skidoo track. either you went to the top of the hill or you took the path near cantor which links the peripheral path to the interior path. in both cases they are theoretically open for cross-country skiing and not scratched like the rest.
it's as if snow disappears somehow
yes! i saw one turkey vulture most weeks on my sunday morning long run, it tends to hang out near the south west corner of the park. haven't seen it yet this year. i've only ever seen one at a time so i'm assuming it's always the same individual, would be cool of there was a mated couple raising chicks though!
i also heard the coyotes once, though i never actually saw them (thankfully, no idea what i would do if i came face to face with one)!
2026 apparently!
the pit is huge, there will be a lake within it! i think north west corner, near the stadium.
username checks out.
thanks! i can't wait!
i'm suprised to see some cities manage to beat chicago.
canada in general is simply second to none in terms of security compared to the us.
explain why canadian gun laws make sense in one image
also why kc? is it the bbq making people so angry?
i get comparing homicide rate between cities, but why compare the ones with soccer teams? what does the major league soccer has to do with it?
it's not going well in kansas city!
already we find it heavy here lately here, imagine 30 times more.
a record is a record. congrats to montreal!
let's go!
r/oddlyspecific
*\* cries in* u/eric_bousquet *\**
dat nyc/newark ratio
chuis pretty ignorant in the initials, what is mls?
wonder where montreal ranked when we lost the expos?
some people have to much time on their hands.
for the moment!
chicago! come for the willis tower, stay because you got murdered!
chicago is actually not in the top 20 cities in the us for per-capita murder . it's just the largest city with a high rate.
chicago is not actually one of the 20 american cities with the highest murder rates per capita. it's just the biggest city that has a high rate.
much less people.
i would be mad tho paying a frog half a billion
canadian gun laws aren't that great , registering guns is absolutely stupid and there should be more check ups on people before allowing them to buy and use guns. as a hunter since i was a kid , i am well educated about guns and think that if more people were , the fear of guns would be much lesser. a sharp knife is as dangerous as a gun , sorry not sorry
this chart was created for /r/mls for fun.
it was shared elsewhere after.
it's a completely arbitrary selection, and it happens to be one that excludes the five worst cities in the us.
in a couple of years, st louis will be added to that list, and their #1 rate of 66/100k would be quite an outlier.
of course these rates aren't really comparable anyway, since they're using municipal boundaries where some cities include huge suburban sprawl and others are limited to the city core.
it’s one of the reasons i love traveling to montreal.  it just seems safe.  
the people of montreal deserve a lot of credit for this too.
what do you mean?
major league soccer
[1.7 per 100k](
except if you're white or asian ¯\\\_(ツ)_/¯
[deleted]
irrelevant. it’s murders per 100k. 
it’s just safer. less guns, less extreme poverty, less systematic racism, better education, better social safety nets.
the murder capital of canada is thunder bay.
rate per hundred thousand. rate rate rate.
not by metropolis, but indeed, it is incomparable.
what?
[deleted]
no, a knife, sharp or not, is not as dangerous as a gun. you can't be serious.
>a sharp knife is as dangerous as a gun
have you ever heard the saying "don't bring a knife to gunfight"?
ha, that makes sense in the context.
i suspect this is part of why canadian cities are at the bottom. the mtl and toronto municipalities comprise more outlying suburban areas than their american equivalent which drops statistical crimes rates, since those areas are low-crime.
the result would probably be similar with a comparison of metropolitan areas, but the difference might be monis large.
it’s safe unless you’re a bicycle☺️!!!! like bicycle theft is top tier👌🏼
he's that guy that spams the subreddit with every news article about murders, thefts, violent crimes, etc      
he claims that the reputation and image that montreal city is false, and thinks of himself as some kind of hero from bringing that side of the city to light
marci ben
so, not multiple listing service #realtors
what is the cause?
maybe you don't know that there isn't an mls team in every city
inequality is the biggest difference between the united states and canada. everywhere with a lot of inequalities has high crime (for example: latin america, south africa and to a lesser extent, the united states)
inequality is the biggest difference between usa and canada. everywhere with a lot of inequality has high levels of crime (for example: latin america, south africa, and to a lesser extent, the united states)
patrick mahomes
true!
yeah, except if you’re an expert knife thrower that can throw over 100m.
i'd have to find the article but about 4years ago there was a guy in a subway in london that stabbed about 30 people before people started noticing , believe me , you'd need only one gun shot for everybody to know what's happening , now come tell me you can't make as much damage with a knife. 
also , i am very serious , thanks for asking.
i know it feels that way and it sucks if you got your bike stolen, but it's much better than in other cities.  
in vancouver you'd have to be crazy to leave your bike chained on downtown, and in winnipeg you'd never leave your bike outside at night, it'd probably not see the light of day. a friend once got his bike stolen from a garage, and another one had hers stolen from a *balcony* over there. 
meanwhile over here the plateau is filled with bikes sleeping outside, you see them all over the place.
yes.  i know.  someone tried to take my bike but they couldn’t get past the lock.  probably didn’t have the time for the next step.  
hopefully technology will get involved someday with some kind of embedded chip to find bikes.  idk
in london people inject glue into your bike lock so you can't take it away.  then they come back at night and steal it.
lol.  
(in time immemorial)
i had a few books that i forgot to return to the outremont library i was so scared to return them and get quibbled and ask for money that i stopped going! ! :-d
there is an increasingly large movement in the library systems in the us and canada to eliminate late fees in order to encourage usage (c.f.: [ ).  
the idea being that some low-income users who get dinged one-time may be hesitant to return. moreover, fees don't account for that much of a library system's revenue.
ah, i remember going to get books from the cégep library and being told that i owed 20 cents lol
article in french here: 
i am perfectly content with being unopinionated about this.
im still waiting for one library card for all libraries
is it that hard to return a book?
anyone ever had dreams where they had a bunch of content they forgot to return to the library for a very long time?
going the blockbuster way it seems.
[deleted]
don’t libraries use the late fees to help support themselves?
why? they’re just never going to get the books back. 
i grew up in the damn ghetto. do they not know people from the ghetto? i know some people who, even after getting out of the ghetto and doing well for themselves, still buy clothes they can’t afford, keep the tags on, wear them out, then return it the next day to take advantage of lax return policies.
this is just going to make our libraries devoid of books and more expensive to maintain due to replacement costs.
this doesn’t serve the poor. this serves the dishonourable amongst the population.
the ahuntsic library accused me of being responsible for an ink stain on a book by jules verne. i was intimidated and stopped going. the article does not talk about this kind of situation.
this is exactly one of the reasons why late fees should be abolished!
haha me to. and i did some math to figure out my late fees and i was probably wrong somewhere because it was giving me like $ 75 in fees and when you're an 8-9 year old kid, that's a estie of fortune. in the end it was like $ 2-3.
that's me. i have a 40$ late-fee. kept a few books for a couple extra weeks. seems pretty ridiculous to charge people late-fees when they can just renew their books online.
starts running out of the library
my first reaction was that this makes no sense but then i have no arguments either. on either side. so yeah i'll stay unopinionated for now.
but they were deceived all of them, for one library card was made to rule them all....
it's already the case...
yes. i have no legs.
yeah sometimes
omg yes. my worst nightmare. glad i'm not alone.
more like the netflix way. online catalog from libraries are super useful.
if everyone does that, libraries might go extinct and that would be a damn shame.
i hope not. that would be like having roads financed on speed tickets.
you would need a lot of late fees to buy 1 book.
i think we have reached the point where the dishonorable don't often bother setting foot in a library.
big book's silent bullying crisis
you hadn't learned the decimals yet, i think🤣🤣
living life on the edge i see!
not for the banq
still isn't any harder to return a book than it was to check it out in the first place.
username checks out esp if at a home library.
oh wait……..
well, it's not the same network. but if you have a bibliothèque de montréal card, you have access to all the libraries in the city.
doubles my legless work
true! thanks for this tip. when did they change it? for the longest time ive had one card at the banq, one for the cavendish ndg library and one on the south shore but none would work at other spots
i'm not sure exactly! i'm just glad i can easily borrow a book from any library and it's delivered at my local one.
could be said about every product ever. 
but yeah… i’ve always felt the vibe in mtl has shifted to luxury appearances as a status symbol even for those who don’t even have a lot of money. fashion, cars, restaurants, condos, etc.
the builders are simply supplying the demand.
does anyone actually have evidence that these new condos are built poorly? it always comes up in the comments but i've not heard anything reliable about it.
montréal has become the french toronto. and we’ve become just as materialistic as them and just as narcissistic. i blame social meeja.
i always wonder who are the people living there? as part of a young couple shopping for condos i’ve been to many showrooms for these buildings. the costs just don’t justify the size and space
buyers must say to themselves "as long as you pay 400k and more to stay on the island, they might as well afford a little luxury"
condos that the majority can't afford.
so what? are you expecting them to work the other way around and make then as uncool as possible? i don’t get it.
how can everybody in this subreddit complain about rent/housing prices and new development of housing at the same time? guys *more supply=lower prices* more condos is a good thing for the average person!
they can market them as luxury all they like, if they flood the market with luxury to the point that they can't fill their buildings, the price for that caliber of apartment will go down which will push down the price for all tiers of condos.
and the good old 'luxury' aka cheap cheap shiny stuff, done by the cheapest bidder using the cheapest materials so maximum profit for the developer! and you get a beautiful view for a month until they build another condo building 10 meters away from your window.
i think the worst part is seeing said condos empty at night , just sitting there as a foreign investment or to launder money , which then drives prices up and makes it harder for the average montrealer to find a decent living place .
a good thing. densification.
well this was a useless rant. of course you wanna stand out as an architect. or are you just expecting all of them to follow the same prototype, design and  be just plain unoriginal?
*"montreal is over!"*
i see that as good news, competition can lead to better architectural quality.
it's also a contest about who can fit the most 
ø, ö or å in their project names, still waiting for them to use ß
i wish they would still build simple, normal condos that we can actually afford. i don't want a gym or a pool or a security guard at the door...🙄
went to look the gasby tower website and it so funny. they really trying to selll you a lifestyle. they said something like ;relive the legend ! like wtf does that mean ? im looking for a nice place to tay with nice amenty like greenspace , pool etc not reliving the book ?!? anyways it start at 600k but their is a bar in the building !
i've always wondered what kind of jobs people have to be able to afford 4-500k+ condos. the average salary in qc is between 58-75k ([ 
let's say you are lucky and you are in a relationship and both of you earn 75k each, you're in your late 20's, early 30's, still clearing up student debts, haven't really had the time to stash money in your rrsp, savings, etc because you're just starting out in life, graduating at around 22-ish. 
how do you afford that condo? you don't, unless you're fortunate enough that your parents can maybe chip in. so you try to find something outside of montreal, which is a bit cheaper but that's not true anymore with the bidding wars. 
i just saw a small town house for sale in laval, asking 100 000$ over the city evaluation. and you know what? at 355 000$ it's probably going to sell for a higher price because people are insane and bidding blindly.
and here i am, single, late 30's, trying to buy something and i'm pretty much screwed. add that dating in the lgbtq+ community is already hard, it's pretty much impossible during a pandemic. i'm going to die alone in a 1 bedroom apartment that is overpriced lol
it's part of the game. in places where increasing density is political torture, the only time the money is there is when there is demand for luxury units which they can sell for massive markups. so they add some pointless bells and whistles, charge way more for it, and the rich people eat it up. in the process, the places they leave end up worth less. that's why today's midrange apartment and condos buildings are often 10-30 year old luxury buildings.
if the process sounds filled with flaws, that's because it is. but until some combination of the following happens:
1) developers are allowed to build enough luxury buildings to saturate that market
2) the market speculation is reigned in
3) there are government incentives provided to make building cheaper units more profitable
4) we stop being capitalist
they will continue to maximize profit.
used to work in security for these type of buildings. its not for us peasants. its for people like saputo and his family.
when i saw they're building a new hood with 12stories buildings in hochelaga i thought just like you....
if all condos are luxury, none of them are.
i love how it seems that every new condo project is always winning the 'best new project' award or something awarded by some random entity
> best and the coolest condo building in town
1. the coolest building in town will never be a luxury condo building. they're for basic people with simplistic aspirations.
2. the best building in town will never be a luxury condo building, because, objectively, the best building in town will always be one that has a soul.
more accurately, it's a contest between different developers to see who can hire the best marketing team to convince basic people that their mass-produced human filing cabinet is a status symbol worth paying for.
it's a dick measuring contest where people make millions of dollars, whether they win or lose. if i'm invited to participate, i'd be unbuttoning my pants in no time.
what irks me the most is when developers advertise some as luxury condos when it's no really different from a regular condo... only difference being like the quartz countertop in the kitchen and slightly prettier tiles in the bathroom but hey im gonna sell that shit for 100k more expensive.
well since you are paying anywhere between 550$ and 1000$ per square foot (sometimes more for penthouses), they need to brand their product as a luxury or at east a upscale lifestyle item.
its less about the developer and more about the people they want to sell too : people who pay a million bucks for a downtown condo built essentially the same way than any other condo need it to feel special a bit, and when the quartz backspash isn’t enough then you need to make it pop a bit outside too.
i mean, its the same as driving a “luxury” car really, its 25% quality-performance and 75% status symbol. its not just about showing off to others, its also the image it reflects back at you (essentially, success)
in that sense yes its an ego thing.
this comment section is an prime example of the echo chamber effect
they are so god damn ugly. i was just near rouge condos next to namur. i wanted to throw up
it's just marketing bro.  that's what they do.
what i'm surprised about is how nobody seems to question the fact that 80%+ of these new developments are all "luxury" developments. after a while that word starts to no longer mean anything..
it is a cockfight. i know a few people that work/worked at the biggest montreal condo dev shops in the investment team and it’s really a fight for the tallest condo building. mine is bigger than yours...
some of the condos i see have \*amazing\* view, but absolutely no where to put a tv; so people end up putting their tvs in front of the window.
> these developments like 90% about them **making money**
**\^** fixed it for you.
it's a luxury condo.  nothing in my mind screams style over substance more than that.  looking at practicality in a luxury condo is like buying a bmw for reliability.
i agree, these condos do not represent what the majority of the metropolitan population needs, large enough, durable, modest and less expensive housing. not the crunch of luxury.
> the builders are simply supplying the demand.
yup.
just go back 30 years ago, driving as bmw or a mercedes meant you were a rich person... nowadays, the streets are flooded with mercedes and bmw's... are they cheaper? no!  are the people richer? no.
the difference is that they finance you this car over 10 years, so it looks easy on payments.
we are a consuming society, what once was a family of 7-8 children is no longer because the newer generation of parents 1) both work 2) live above their budget 3) want to have 2 weeks down south every year...
the line ups are bigger at the apple store when a new iphone comes out tahn the lineup at pop's
> i’ve always felt the vibe in mtl has shifted to luxury 
if you've always felt that way, then how recent can this shift have been
well at the end of the day, people take what's available. and the developers decide what to make available to people. after a while, expectations take shape and i suppose so does demand. but it's the developers themselves who laid the blueprint for the modern condo development, not the consumers themselves.
toronto culture oozing into montreal.
maybe it's the anglicization of the city. as it becomes more anglophone, more people who'd live in toronto come here for cheaper rent.
it's not "proof" of anything, but i can say anecdotally that i work in the montreal construction industry, including some condo projects, and depending on your definitions of poorly built there's a strong case to be made that they're poorly *designed*.
i can't really speak to the fundamentals of poor construction (i'm a landscape architect/urban designer, not a builder/architect) but i get to see the process, speak with the clients, project managers and internal stakeholders, and i am privy to what developers value and what they don't.
what that has taught me is that for many of these urban condo projects, developers are selling an idea much more than they're selling a reality. they are squeezing every cent of profit out of those builds, and they do it in a variety of ways. that includes preparing sales material with graphics which show one outcome, only to enact cost cutting measures afterwards which reduce the quality of the final product (removing amenities like planting, outdoor space etc, swapping out expensive materials for low cost, low quality replacements), allowing practical concerns like mechanical equipment to dictate the design of user spaces and not the other way around... the list of minor moves which all add up to a final product of severely reduced quality is long and diverse.
while building regulations and zoning aren't always good (they can be too rigid, stifle creative development etc), these rules, along with regulatory boards like the ccus are often the only tools that designers can use to maintain quality control in their work. because generally we're a part of a design team who genuinely wants to do good work. but when your client has absolutely no pretenses of anything other than selling residential units for the maximum dollars per square metre rate, every single line item is fair game for cost cutting and it is a real challenge to deliver developments that actually have a standard of quality to them.
(and when it comes to caring at all about the impact of these developments on the urban fabric of the neighbourhoods they're built in, well that's even worse)
i have a friend who does building inspections. he likes to take me on walks and point out how sloppily built some newer buildings are. just little details, things that the casual observer wouldn't notice. a brick slightly out of place, hand railing not aligned perfectly. once you notice you can see it everywhere.
plumber in montreal here. i do mainly service work like repairs and such. i can tell you firsthand that many many newer buildings are built so quickly that the majority of the finishes are sloppy at best. the materials are extremely cheap, especially the plumbing fixtures. there are condos with $30k bathroom setups that are using no-name 'designer' faucets and showers that are almost impossible to find parts for and almost always need to be replaced entirely as soon as an issue comes up. 
for example, there is a condo building in saint-laurent that i work in often. it's not even 10 years old and i already had to change many faucets out. and the building is designed without a 'booster' pump in the basement to increase the pressure coming in from the city. city pressure(approximately 50-60 psi) is enough to get to 4 floors, even after 3 its a very good idea to have a booster pump to provide adequate water to higher floors. this building has 6 floors and a 2 floor garage, so the owner of the penthouse on the top floor has so little water pressure that his giant 10'x10' "luxury" shower with a no-name faucet can't even spray water to the middle of the shower. i've unblocked his drains at least 3x in the past 3 years because there is simply not enough water to properly clean the drains of soap, grime, food scraps, etc. not to mention his bathroom windows don't seal properly so there is a massive draft. not to mention the giant tiles that aren't well done, if you can hear an empty noise when knocking your tools on your tiles (and there are differences in sound when you hit different tiles) the job is not well done. sometimes i'm actually afraid to crack a tile they seem to be so poorly put in.
another pet peeve, is this new trend of having very dimly lit hallways with dark paint. i work with a headlamp, and as soon as most of those hallways have a light shined in them you would be surprised how many spots are missing paint, trim moulding, etc that you don't see because of the poor lighting.
i had friend who bought one and he and the whole condo where in several battles to fix everything. it finally got all done but it took a few years and a lof of stress and shit.
he's happy now but it's not something i would want to go through with.
luxury is style, not quality. the difference in cost between building a regular condo and a luxury condo is almost negligible, so the cheapest trim that can pass as luxury is what anybody trying to make money will use.
[deleted]
i only have anecdotes.. i'm also curious if there are any datasets or similar systematic surveys about repairs etc. i've rented 3 condos downtown/griffintown over 6 years and they were all trash. cheap appliances (and utilities like ac) that break down after a couple of years, floor joints start coming undone, weird loud noises emanating from the walls and ceilings, poor sealing around the windows, janky patio doors, actual doors that don't fit or close properly, very cheap closet rails etc. maybe i was just unlucky, but overall i'm very unimpressed with the quality of housing in montreal.
it takes a few years for those deficiencies to be provable against a developer.
if you think canadian developers are special that is fine, otherwise google "australia meriton" to see your future. i was stuck in montreal during the first 6 months of the pandemic. i looked at stuff and yeah you guys have your own versions of "meriton companies" and they are a few years into the process i'd guess. in 10 they'll be in court.
what kind of evidence are you looking for?
 the stuff i notice is somewhat like the stuff you notice going from a german luxury car to an american one- uneven gaps in decorative panels, rapid wear, and designs that look terrible once worn slightly or dirty. is
 it's like they managed to capture the dispose-ability of a cell phone in a home.
i would assume montreal has a reputation for poor infrastructure. we also have a reputation for some pretty note worthy and impressive infrastructure. i guess people wouldn’t be wrong to assume some of the new condo projects are poorly built without evidence. it’s montreal, don’t need more evidence than that.
nuns island?
you think you can provide us with the same photo on a clear day, the view looks amazing!
that tiny building peaking out of the clouds on the right is just perfect
its my fav weather condition. i looked out my window this morning and was filled with joy
which floor ??!!!
it was super freaky haha from the glen site i was like onto of the cloud of fog then when i drove down into st henri i was in it haha
nice view
the one bad thing about working an afternoon shift is that i miss the fog.
a fellow neighbor hahaha, the view over the water was really pretty too!
my dyslexic ass was looking for a frog.
my god ... it's ugly this corner. where is it?
and there you go! [ danemark( a photo from this morning
evolo x i believe.
i found it hilarious yesterday! made the picture so much better
same!! it was like being in the clouds. i want every day to be like that
that's so weird!! i heard driving was a nightmare yesterday
yeah! the peak of the bridge was funny, peaking out of the fog. i posted a pic to r/foggypics
lol when someone from hochelag says another part of montreal is ugly
hey, from the top of the mast of the samuel-de-champlain bridge, we can see your building protruding, it's magnificent
lucky us it was the same this morning 🥰
everything was backed up haha
hochelaga is beautiful screeching. come take a walk, instead of making an ignorant comment.
it's true people who live in poorer neighborhoods don't have the right to express an opinion whether or not they like condo tower neighborhoods. / s
yeah! i got a 2 second time lapse today and a ton more pictures
your comment is as ignorant as his, except his was funny.
his comment was an attempt to humiliate me because i live in a historically poor neighborhood that is criticized as ugly. do you find it funny, rooftop, insulting someone because they come from a working-class neighborhood? does poverty make you laugh?
yes, his joke made me laugh and i don't have to justify myself. you were boring to make fun of this neighborhood, without argument and someone gave you a good line, it was deserved.
finding an ugly neighborhood is subjective. i felt at first it was toronto with the tall towers and the brand new big condo blocks downstairs. i find it ugly to die for. architecture has no soul. and to my taste, it's ugly.
wanting to laugh at me because i live in a working-class neighborhood and therefore i don't have the right to comment on the visual beauty of a neighborhood, i find it small. and you too are a little person if you find that funny.
she was a joke, you don't need to be offended the same. i also prefer hochelag to nuns' island, but your comment was sassy and someone made a good line, there's nothing wrong with humor.
i wasn't laughing at you, your social / economic condition or the neighborhood you live in, but his line which was very well placed.
tomorrow, june 24, is the full moon.
perigee happens tomorrow, technically. t 2:40 p.m.
but cool shot, anyway! :)
i have the perfect view from my front porch, beautiful....
*"the moon belongs to everyone...the best things in life are free!"*
2 nights in a row we have a full moon
the moon is nice but i wouldnt stand on that balcony.
st john. vegas face elimination, first hot day in 2-3 day, full moon.
i wouldn't want to be a mtl policeman today.
yes, you're right, but at 2:39 pm tomorrow. i wanted to share how she presents herself tonight. maybe she would be better tomorrow night. i can't wait to see the other photos!
yep! at 2:39pm so figured the view tonight was pretty good, so shared how it appears now, but i look forward to better photos tomorrow if the weather permits
like a beautiful work of art, rising up in the sky to meet our gaze.
technically it won't be 100% full tonight, but we won't notice. 
everyone will be watching the habs anyways.
did you see me climbing?? because i did
i work in the night emergency tonight hahaha it's gonna get grooooosss
i said the same thing to my partner: i am happy not to live in montreal at the moment!
yeah we're gonna get minor supermooned.
do we have the right to arrive with boxes of tim coffee and donuts and muffins in the emergency room?
fuck ouaaaaaisss hahaha
"got you two pfizers, one moderna, and two diet coke's."
to quote a great man: superb!
with a double-double for the road!
/s
glad .. anything that can facilitate the vaccination can only increase the rate of vacinnation
enweille shoot me that in the big arm!
ok i am really curious to know how it works: currently they ask to stay 15 minutes in observation after being vaccinated, how would it work at the wheel especially for the driver?
i wonder how that would work for the 15-30 min wait period after that. for example, i had vagal shock a few minutes after receiving my vaccine and had a few seconds to react and tell the lady watching that i was having vagal shock and that i needed help. if i had been alone in a vehicle i would have just walked out, i wouldn't have been able to open the door to get help. i imagine that they will make unaccompanied people wait in a common area?
i'm glad they are finally doing that! already got my vaccine but it's good! i do wonder what they have in place to avoid ppl trying to get their second dose by re-registering 3 weeks later.
i just miss the tank
yeah, it might hurt to get bitten while driving on montreal potholes
in the empty parking lots of yul airport, it's a marquee-tent festival right now .... i imagine that's why !!
they should do this on decarie in rush hour
do you have anyone out there who would like to build a business plan for non-vr medical clinics with me? it's the future
anyone know which vaccine they’re giving at this location?
cool now gimme the bike and walk through one!
*pepsi
fries with that?
a corona with that?
rodolphe giroux?
we laughed but i already spoke with the volunteers of héma québec and its appearance for a long time as a snack after donating blood there was a shot of drink.
if you've never had a beer after a donation, the beer slap 2x harder already, but they kept giving and you had to drive to come back? what an idea!
they should do this with tranquilizer guns, as if to put bears to sleep in the animal kingdom of omaha mutual. they could give jobs to the snipers of the canadian armed forces and we wouldn't even have to slow down. roll in a straitjacket, disinfect your shoulder with purell, worse pow! vaccinated!
do you park in a designer area and wait 15 minutes before leaving?
you just have to park and wait. i imagine they will have attendants or nurses who will watch everyone.
the parking lot has a capacity of around 2000 spaces so it's not going to be overcrowded there.
in the us, if you feel any negative effects, they ask you to flash your lights. otherwise, after 15 mins you leave after waiting in an apart area
same as any other vax clinic, i would think.
there is a computerized vaccine registry in quebec.
also on the metropolitan 40
"your 2nd dose: in 6 weeks, same place and same time."
technically i think all of the current ones are walk-through.
*grape
no it will be the nonion ring
absoutely.
the customs of other times ... still funny!
ohhh would have to try! but in uber after of course lol
it was the idea of jean-rené dufort!
 (at 10m28s, after the advertisements)
yeah, it's like that in the us. if you feel any negative effects, they ask you to flash your lights. otherwise, after 15 mins you leave
or normally travel to laval around 2:30 pm.
if they did that at the gilles villeneuve circuit, we could make laps in the meantime.
and if you're watching a cover of the jmp hour, what do you do?
ah that's a good idea!
"the 2nd dose is only available on decarie. sorry"
and bike too ..if you can find a post or something
i am going to be vaccinated several times by quoting another great man: because they give a donut!
it's sick! same joke, same reference! i can't blame anyone for thinking that i plagiarized my joke on infoman. you don't have to believe me, but it came out on its own last night.
> they ask you to flash your lights
jean marc parent will do it anyway
the 440 at any time of the week
explain to you how brilliant you are to each nurse who comes to see you to ask you what is wrong.
so you need a third dose
and car too. you just have to park!
they give donuts ???? i can make an appointment just tomorrow ... but i can't wait.
parking is free in addition to the olympic stadium if you go there to be vaccinated
wait so that's the same cop that said covid is a hoax ?
edit: a letter
i don't like it being presented as a question of money ("seeking $ 275,000"), people could stop at the sum. but he is surely right, i hope i never get arrested the way he was.
[deleted]
when was the last time cops arrested a white person with this kind of exaggerated aggression?  yet i bet i can find a list of stories of black and indigenous people being brutalized by cops.    not all cops are racists about racists gravitate towards being cops - clearly, or there wouldn't be story after story after story of this kind of abuse.  here's a survey of racist police violence compiled by the  gazette.   
[
quebec has some of the most racist police in the country
[deleted]
did he deserve it?
if you have nothing to hide, why don't you do as they say? every video i see like this, they never want to comply so you get what you deserve.
deserved 100%, listen to the cop and you avoid any issues. act like a tough guy, well you get what you deserve. 
these people think they're above the law and try to act like hereos by going against the cops orders.
he can make any lawsuit he likes, he won’t win. while i don’t agree with the cop at all, if you keep questioning the cops and refusing to get out of the car when they ask, you bet your ass you’ll get an “entrave” charge. he’s lucky he didnt....
too often, people try to play i know my rights, without even having a clue what your legal obligations/freedoms actually are. this guy was in the wrong, and so was the cop for his dealing of the situation. i say play stupid games, win stupid prizes.
yup the people's policeman
peace officer ?! phew. what an irony!
ffs
"reason to believe there are drugs in the car"?
what reason? the color of their skin?
in the end, they had nothing so they fined them $ 1,500 for violating social distancing rules.
kind of stuff that they stick when they have nothing else to put on.
these police officers tarnish the image of their institution. euros actions put their badge to shame. and unfortunately the system is so rotten that i do not sincerely believe that there will be justice in this case.
born and raised there .  also working around police tech students and listening to their conversations.  that said it has improved considerably since the 90ties
wtf.
you’re full of shit. this cop is clearly in the wrong, and the guy is absolutely a victim of racism.
ok clan leader when’s the next meeting?
that doesn’t give a cop or anyone else the right to pull you by your hair.
why was he in the wrong? did he have to get out of the car?
[deleted]
i wanted to reply to a comment and posted it stand alone so i deleted the error comment and pasted its content on the right place
stop it with this race shit, go ahead, act like a clown when being stopped, resist arrest, be uncooperative and you'll see what happens regardless of your race.
[deleted]
[deleted]
"a la fin ils avaient rien" refers to the fact that the entire arrest and search was based on the premise that they had "reason to believe there were drugs in the car". 
if the social distancing was the reason, they'd have said so in the first place. the way it all went down, it sounds like they had their target in mind already and were just trying to make something stick.
you should absolutely know your right in these type of situation.
to sit there and accept the wrongdoing of a cop is not ok. he was questioning the reason and they had nothing to give in return, which means cop provoked him for nothing/ or for racial reasons.
"in the constitution act, under the legal act; 9. everyone has the right not to be arbitrarily detained or imprisoned."
and no we have as much rights as the us.
and in this case, the cop was an anti believer of covid. so i doubt his senses were about how they were breaking the social distancing. 
these type of people think differently...
literally...
[deleted]
god help those under your mercy..
great idea!
i started hosting (free and safe) art and music events to help people find stuff to do post-covid
ill make sure to add updates there so people can meet!
well done / well done!
well done. being pro-active is the way to go. good luck.
hey, anyone fully vaccinated wanna come play [micro mages]( with me on my nes and my giant 180-pound crt?
very cool. good job :)
[meetup.com]( is also a great place to find activities to do
this is great, merci!
great idea, thx
thanks for making this! ended up going out and meeting some nice people from discord
great idea! i am moderator for two montrealers subreddit, i spread the word!
it's been so hard meeting people here. unfortunately i've been considering moving to a larger city lately, but if i end up staying this could be a major help. thanks.
this is super dope! great initiative. 
if anyome is into poker nights id be dowm to.throw one in a park or something!
great initiative!
great idea! however, the discord link doesn't seem to be working
took you long enough
yea!!! i'm always down for art activities covid cut my lifestyle off at the knees. queen bee of free art studios; swarms of munchkins making crafts on sundays...and then nothing. just me and my tackle box of blue glue sticks and glitter. making finger puppets for friends.
i wanted to do listening parties before it all started :(
thank you!
180 lb crt? damn, that's gotta be like a 5 inch screen!
[deleted]
im hella down. i can bring my controller :)
yes
to add to meetup, eventbrite is great for finding activities and meetings.
don't wanna be a downer but it's not any better in toronto or vancouver lemme tell ya.
that'd be cool tbh!
haha, it's actually one of the largest, last-gen flat-screen crts. i'm very proud of it! it's like, uhhhh... a metre by a metre and a half?
link please!
i have four nes gamepads! but if you wanna use a dogbone or a nes advantage or something, sure, bring it!
yes, that too, but for both certain activities are sometimes not free, so r / makefriendsmtl is a good alternative / addition
toronto has so many more people in it though, i would think getting to meet people is more natural. and i don't speak french which makes me an outsider here :(
it's probably very valuable then, take care of it =d crt's have a lot of performance characteristics that modern lcd's oled's, etc can't match yet. obviously you know this, but hopefully other people will note that this is actually cool and not insane.
[deleted]
just dm me if you ever want to!
/r/askto is the local reddit for frequently asked questions and you constantly have people complaining how everyone's so cold here, stuck with their high school groups, fake friendships that only stay at work. made harder during covid.
it's not just the amount of people that makes it work, it's just going out and doing hobbies/sports/volunteer literally any interest and just evolving those relationships.
people think that moving in a bigger city instantly makes it easier when it's the same numbers game it is anywhere else. just get involved as much as you can!
best of luck!
> toronto has so many more people in it though,
i thought that when i first moved there too. remarkably unsociable. not even eye contact. people you had a great convo with at a supper/bbq will not even say hello if they see you the next day. this is a standard experience, not just me. it went on for *years*. dreadful. go anywhere else.
do 'language exchanges' with francos to meet people. also, join club montreal sport & social at  - very fun.
edit: you might also like café pi   (as in 3.14...) there's chess and board games there. it's a mixed language kinda place. see: 
i once was trying to play melee competitively, stopped playing for a long while (meanwhile crts died pretty definitively), and picked it/project m up again for a short while a few years ago. was pretty unreal to walk into an event with a room full of crts.
omg totes down for arcade mtl. i was actually thinking of bringing my stuff there!
they have an nes but sometimes they unplug it. we could talk to them ahead of time and then have a micro mages session there?
will do! i'm liking more the arcade mtl idea right now, maybe we'll coordinate that instead.
more people means a wider variety of things to do and more people to do them. a large population here in mtl are just passing through for school and such too. the rest form their niches and start families if they stay. i'm beyond that age group now so it's not really accessible to do hobbies. i tried doing meetups for a few things and couldn't find more people in my age bracket, that's also english to boot.
but this discord looks considerably better than that attempts already. so i will try to check it out while i still can.
> i thought that when i first moved there too. remarkably unsociable. not even eye contact. people you had a great convo with at a supper/bbq will not even say hello if they see you the next day. this is a standard experience, not just me. it went on for years. dreadful. go anywhere else.
i mean that sounds like here. i have a feeling that is universal.
chess/board game places dont work solo. people have established groups, so you're just there by yourself. meetups is the only way to break into that, but age range on meetup is whacky af here. lots of older people.
my husband is chinese and we know chinese in vancouver, new york and san francisco, it happened in all these cities, and much worse than in quebec (old people attacked in the street for example). it worries me for my son, i know that young people sometimes make pocket comments, the worst i think is the little innuendos which end up making him ashamed, he even told me that he would have preferred to be "fair" quebecer ". he no longer wants me to give him rice in his lunch, for example. racism is not far from dead.
just naturally hateful and sad people who found a justification (in their minds) to hate others.
i find it really good that we are finally talking about racism against asians. on the other hand, can we denounce racism without labeling the victims as “real quebecers?” because if they weren't “real quebecois” that would be more acceptable?
a racist attack is unacceptable, whether the person is “quebecois” or not!
it's so heavy to be treated differently just because of the way you look. especially when you love montreal as much as everyone else.
i was in montreal last year when the pandemic began. i’m an asian woman and i remember coming back to my res from a date and my friends were immediately all over me asking if i was ok because the attacks on the two koreans downtown had just happened. it was a strange feeling knowing that the world had gotten even more dangerous for me than before.
i was walking the other day and a lady who was walking on the same side of the sidewalk as me spat when she saw me saying something about covid. i was the only other person on the street.
i instantly felt how i feel every time something like this happens to me - it starts with fear (that i am being physically attacked), then confusion, then denial where i tell myself it is. not so bad, then it annoys me, and at the end, i feel completely empty, sad.
but things like that based on my appearance, it happens to me once in a while since i was young. it's hard but it's rare and it happens. it doesn't surprise me.
all sane and rational people know that racism is a consequence of societies with diversity, lack of empathy and easy generalization. it gets worse when the economic situation is difficult in a country. it's not difficult to understand.
what is difficult to understand is the lack of empathy.
i rarely talk about my experiences because when i do, even my close friends start 9/10 with "don't take it personal, forget it". okay ... but how can i take it personal. isn't it natural to feel what i'm feeling without being asked to rush and move on?
it's hard to understand how uneasiness about broaching / accepting difficult subjects leads people to ask victims of these acts to act in a ... not humane way. let people feel angry, frustrated, sad. give them support and listen. and if they go too far, say so, but when it just happened, give them the chance to express themselves on it.
and the same goes for when describing a difficult personal experience, whether it is verbal, physical, psychological or sexual assault or harassment.
it makes me so sad to see this happening here too ... horrible.
racism? in quebec?
edit: wow we are quick to deny facts lol. for those who are in a sad state of denial, how about seeing how hate crimes in quebec (esp. montreal or we are more diverse) are [* so * * numerous] ( //www150.statcan.gc .ca / t1 / tbl1 / en / tv.action? pid = 3510019101 & cubetimeframe.startyear = 2017 & cubetimeframe.endyear = 2019 & referenceperiods = 20170101% 2c20190101) than those in the rest of canada and not to attack anyone who denounces them. don't shoot the messenger, i didn't commit the hate crimes.
edit 2: changed one word, as we can agree that quebec racism is *as bad as* the rest of canada (waves a tiny flag unenthusiastically). my point was that quebec has a racism problem, so it is not surprising to see this sad news.
i'm glad lapresse made an article about it. finally!
who are these racists?
well, don’t have any instruction and no cultural training
at the beginning of the pandemic i was already wearing a mask before it was really mandated, the nice korean lady who runs my fave resto in verdun was telling me to be careful, there'd been 3 attacks on koreans. there's also been a rise in vandalism against asian commerces, especially in chinatown. it's just really fucking awful.
with the caq turning a deaf ear, things may get worse :(
i had to intervene in the metro this summer. an enlightened muslim would blatant racist discourse, from the teachings of his imam to what he said, and became more and more aggressive. the poor couple of young asians sitting nearby looked really distraught. i walked between the couple sitting down and the other redneck and interposed looking the dude in the eye and shaking my head for 5 stations lol. it calmed the game but the madman was still well up ....
during the first wave, i was downtown heading to work when a guy came up and pushed me down. he insulted me with racial slurs before walking away. this was during daytime. i didn't react violently but was just stunned it happened in my montreal. 
i was even more sad when i saw people looking at me like i was the one who committed a crime. no one helped me up nor asked if i was ok.
as an intersectional woman, i just felt powerless and sadly, all i got from friends was "there are dumb asses everywhere.". another moment of racism against asians brushed as nothing strange.
how can we protect them?
maybe if the media weren't constantly bawling at us against the chinese it would be less worse. yellow peril 2.0 courtesy of yellow journalism 2.0
everyone's just looking for someone to blame. interestingly, in china the situation seems to be flipped--chinese people are blaming the spread of the virus on foreigners and are treating them poorly as a result. my (not chinese) brother lives there and was recently asked to move out of his apartment due to his neighbours not wanting to live next to a foreigner who they assumed was a covid risk.
last year there were even reports of black people being banned from hotels and businesses in china for the same reason.
lots of cloudy judgment these days.
a couple weeks ago i asked my depp's clerk if she's from china with the intention of wishing her a happy chinese new year.
man, the amount of defensiveness in her gaze when she answered. don't know what they are going through but it must be tough.
the carriers of prejudices should be included in a process of community interaction with the aim of humanizing the victim. radicalization must be avoided at all costs.
there are things in life that i will never understand, and racism is one of them.
:-(
i am still surprised that these racist acts have persisted throughout the year. at the start of the pandemic i was less surprised, but even now?
fake news
more reporting to preserve the powerful class
[deleted]
i find it really nice to see that you are so understanding and sensitive to the reality that your son is going through. it's so important to be proud of who you are. i can kind of identify with him because i grew up in a white environment in the laurentians and until i was 18 i was ashamed to be asian. this is not the case at all now for me! but the fact that he has a mom like you who pays attention to this stuff will make all the difference in his acceptance of himself i think :)
maannnn. i understand. it's been 20 years since i was in elementary school and even then i was laughed at for my lunches. how sad that 20 years later, some parents have not evolved enough to teach their children not to act like jerks, and to have an open and curious gaze towards what they consider to be different.
personally i have eaten my cultural food and i have touched, but it greatly affected me. courage to your son.
in the american west it is just a continuation of a known phenomenon, the elderly asians are attacked a lot more because they use the banks less so often have more money on them which makes them prey enticing to thieves. recent events are just one more "justification" for attacking them.
> he no longer wants me to give him rice in his lunch
as if the rice was something strictly chinese ... these young people are really looking not far away.
it is as if we had learned nothing from the post-1941 japanese internment camps, or the filthy acts committed against the first nations communities, or all the social justice movements of the 50's and 60's.
calisse, humanity.
it may also have to do with the permanent anti-china discourse that the mainstream media have been serving us for a year, right?
excellent point. it's crazy that some victims are so in shock from what they went through that they imply that it would be correct / less worse if they were less good at french ?!
i met online a chinese girl as i was looking to improve my mandarin, and she wanted to improve her french. of course, being super into the chinese culture and her telling me the story of when she immigrated to canada, i asked her after a while where she was from in china, and she was so shy to say she came from wuhan. it broke my heart. people should always feel free to be proud of their culture.
i'm shocked that your friends are answering you like that. you are not asking them for advice, you are sharing a difficult experience that you had. it is very ignorant.
you're better off without those 'friends' tbh. i would cut them off.
i don't understand why you would think this isn't happening here?
we have to stop thinking that the place we live is the most perfect in the world ...
i look at your link, and i can't see the statistic which indicates that hate crimes are more numerous in quebec (i would not be surprised if this is the case, but the table does not seem to indicate that).
say that i take 2 large cities in ontario and 2 large cities in quebec, per 100,000 inhabitants in 2019
toronto : 7.2
montreal : 5.4
also vancouver: 8.2
calcary : 5.2
ottawa : 10.8 
quebec city: 8.6
average in urban centers (according to the table): 6.0 per 100,000 inhabitants.
once again, no one denies racism in quebec.
exactly as implied, you now explicity say québec is more racist than the rest of canada, which in itself is a very common and old francophobic trope. weirdly enough, your own link doesn't show how much montréal, which you say is especially typical of our hate crimes, is that much worse than the other metropolises : 
montréal :  number of hate crime incidents 311(2017) 258 (2018) 231 (2019) rate per 100,000 population  7.4 (2017)  6.1 (2018)  5.4  (2019)
 toronto : number of hate crime incidents 519 (2017) 408 (2018) 419 (2019) rate per 100,000 population 9.3  (2017) 7.2 (2018)  7.2 (2019)
 vancouver :  number of hate crime incidents 183(2017)  196 (2018) 220 (2019) rate per 100,000 population  7.0(2017)   7.4(2018)  8.2 (2019)
i know it's hard to fight your own bias, but come on. 
québec has a pretty big racism problem. but pegging québec, and ''especially montréal'' as the most racist of canada is a problem in itself.
yes. it exists, just like anywhere else.
the difference is that when the same thing happens in ontario or bc nobody is going to make the same comment you just did. which is ironic when commenting an article about racism.
edit to respond to your edit:
you're full of crap and can't even read statistics properly. rates are lower (or at worst comparable) for montréal than for toronto, vancouver, ottawa.
> more numerous
according to this there less hate crimes in montreal vs toronto.
why is are you so passionate about this mistaken belief that quebec is more racist than the rest of canada?
its not only in quebec it’s all over canada and others countries too..
come on this can’t be true
[deleted]
[deleted]
gazette subscribers found reddit, as i see it.
quebec is generally less racist. that’s a fact. nobody ever said it doesn’t exist, that’s ridiculous. 
if you want to play statistics and point fingers at people: the majority of asians are in montreal. the majority of montrealers are of immigrant origin. we can say that a good part of hateful acts against asians therefore come from immigrants or from immigrant origins.
as if racism was only in quebec that there is some?
your stats make you ashamed
your comment is like a flame to moths...racist moths.
name a more open society, i’ll wait.
i work there but to be honest, i prefer seeing it as a photo while working from home rather than seeing it day in and day out.
it's / r / evilbuildings almost
hey, i just wanted to shop for downvotes today ...
i work nearby but i like what they have in the esplanade with the boats, artificial turf and small houses ... sometimes there is live music
i work on this street corner too - not been in the office since march 2020 - at least the pandemic will have given that good: work from home !!
shiller again? damn this guy
wait you’re telling me those buildings aren’t already protected/heritage worthy? i always assumed they were.
my mechanic is retiring and was a huge part of the community for 40 years.
the buyer is gonna scrap everything and build condos.
i get that we need places to live but holy shit i don't want our city to just be turned into a bunch of condos with nothing to see
why i always see shiller in this kind of news; and that's never good news. (asking for a friend).
i'm happy with the progress mayor plante has made on things like bike paths, and overall pedestrianization generally, but i feel like she's not done nearly enough to fight back on protecting the historical character of our neighborhoods. from commercial owners booting out long time tenants so they can raise rents to being on duty while investors are poised to reshape chinatown... it's a huge failure.  i feel pretty apathetic about the next election to be honest.
edit: corrected typo
shitler lavatories inc strikes again, these fucking assholes
i am worried.
furious but unsurprised. chinatown has been stagnating for years, even decades i would say. 
i'll fight tooth and nail to save what little chinatown has left though. it's good to see young people involving themselves and hope they garner enough support.
love it. let them continue to buy up everything and destroy neighborhoods - there will come a point where someone finally will look at them and will then be powerless to do anything because they'll own so much - and then they'll finally make montreal like every other city
what montréal needs is a vacancy tax and an oligopoly land holding law, plus someone at the revenu québec to check that these mega-landlord owners are not laundering money because these purchases are so sketchy.
here is the zoning information for the properties in question:
* [file 0175] (
* [file 0284] (
in both cases, the zoning permits construction up to 65 metres, which is equivalent to a 20-storey building. correct me if i'm wrong, but i think that means shiller could build a high-rise on the site without needing a zoning derogation. however, the properties are also part of a heritage zone because they are near to the saint-esprit church. that could give the city leverage to deny any demolition permits.
this is a strange photo to use
all the city needs to do is issue them zero work permits for anything other than preservation related works. if schiller lavy want to take on the role of custodians of heritage sites, let them!
i was just thinking that montreal needs more ugly-ass, unaffordable condos instead of vibrant and diverse cultural spaces.
the of an era i guess :(
this is terrible
yes dad!
[deleted]
"nobody eats chinese food anymore!"
so what, all of montreal downtown looks like shit eitherway, about time things get renovated/updated.
people talking about heritage but there's no preservation to begin with, it's like keeping an old moldy mcdonalds without putting the effort to put it in a resin cube; like sure it's from the 19 hundreds but it also stinks up the whole place
the chinese mob needs their cut...what a joke.
that area is getting irrelevant and there is a new chinatown popping somewhere because there is just no space and no development in the existing one.
heritage preservation is a typical nimby excuse.
this is the new sergakis!
i don't know if people realize there are 2 shiller's. so the name comes up often because there are 2 people. there's stephen shiller of shiller-lavy and then there's brandon shiller and jeremy kornbluth (his business partner). both involved in nasty real-estate investment schemes but one is mostly in commercial real-estate and the other in residential.
the shiller from shiller-lavy is the father of brandon shiller.
it's honestly astonishing how few of montreal's buildings have heritage protection. part of the problem is that heritage protection is a provincial jurisdiction and montreal is specifically prohibited from giving any structures historic designation:
[charter of city of montreal, metropolis of quebec] (
section 34 
>the following powers may not be delegated:  
(1.1)  the power to pass a heritage identification or recognition by-law referred to in chapter iv of the cultural heritage act ([chapter p-9.002](
plus the condos are butt ugly. no sense of architectural style. just boxes with shitty paneling
as a torontonian i don't believe the people of mtl will let what happened in toronto happen to your city. you guys are too passionate.
> i get that we need places to live but holy shit i don't want our city to just be turned into a bunch of condos with nothing to see
pretty sure that's called griffintown.
most of the condos aren't even affordable by the average canadian.
it's not popular to be a bottom feeder.
better than coderre, who now apparently wants more skyscrapers, taller than the mountain even!
she's fighting the easy battles and won't touch the hard ones with a ten foot pole. her bubbly and smiling appearances in the media are honestly shameful at this point. she is unable to inspire any type of gravitas and gives the impression that she would easily get walked over by promoters and big moneys types.
there's not much left. many of the buildings are in terrible shape, some abandoned, others have been 'renovated' very poorly with ugly siding and stucco. i don't like that it's sl,  but i think it's good that some capital may be invested to help rejuvenate the area. such a prime location, such a shame that the city didn't do more with it.
shiller represents greed and money interests.  the city needs to do a better job protecting properties they care about because people like shiller, sergakis and countless unamed parties will carve up the city.
you would be surprised at the percentage his father's company already owns.
it's members of the activist group trying to stop the disney-fication of our chinatown. they are doing great work and deserve more press.
they about to drop the hawtest mix tape this summer
'hey you, act like youre proposing to this lady here'
hi!   
if the work permit request follow existing zoning a city can not refuse to grant work permits.   
if a city does refuse a permit when the request is coherent with zoning, the person or company asking for the permit can easily sue and the court will issue (or force issue) the permit (with penalties).
i don't know what you're showing here...
am i misreading your comment? where’s the other chinatown?
a lot bigger than sergakis i think
correction: the shillers again? damn these guys (thanks for the clarification by the way)
on the flip side if you make them look better you up the already-way-too-expensive-for-a-regular-joe selling price
[deleted]
i heard they fucked up allowing too many condos to be built and don't even have a school within the district but that might just be a myth
seriously. i'd like to buy a house one day and considered maybe a condo would be a reasonable first step.
nope
densification is bad ?
i'm no coderre apologist but we should be aiming to densify downtown as much as possible no ?
do you think the mayor personally approves every single property transaction in the city? 
besides, read the article. cathy wong and robert beaudry are monitoring this case and it sounds like they will try to block any application for demolition or a zoning derogation.
municipalities have limited powers under quebec law. you can't blame valérie plante for everything happening in the city.
> but i think it's good that some capital may be invested to help rejuvenate the area.
you're dreaming. the shillers are famous of buying up lands, evict tenants and let it sit vacant. they are speculating the price of the land and will only rent out to big retailers.
both tenants and landlords should deal with the tribunal administratif du logement instead of each other. this way abuse on either side is hitting the body in charge of it instead of being swept away.
landlords set rents, report it to the regie, the regie collects them, and then hands the payments to landlords. a portion of this can by insurance against deadbeat tenants so that landlords in good standing don't suffer. property taxes can be collected at this point too. no need for private individuals to run credit checks.
if a tenant reports a slum, then the regie can withhold the rent payments and use that to resolve the issue of un-livability. 
if a landlord reports abuse to the regie and they don't do anything (property damage, non payment) then they can claim it against the insruance.
there would be a readily available history of landlord/tennants behaviours.
the renovictions here in verdun are bad. pretty sure our neighbours, who seemed like a quiet immigrant family, were here one week and gone the next. that same week, there was a crew who came in and demoed their unit, did some renovations and now they’re renting that one and the one below it for ~1500$.
it’s very much a lipstick on a pig situation. building is in terrible shape, stairs are about to fall, ants that we can’t get rid of, no soundproofing whatsoever, pretty sure it’s shifting heavily one way since there’s a lot of new cracks and they don’t give a shit about their tenants.
a registry of landlords and registered rental units would be ideal. a landlord should have to register their accommodation (free of charge) with the government, the rent each year, if there have been any complaints with the tal ... this information should be public and easily accessible.
repost
look, no one should take their own life for any reason (read the article). but to do a demonstration believing that the renovations was the cause is a bit of a push. our triplexes and duplexes date from 1950 and most have not really been renovated since the 70s. if the world has been in these buildings for 30-40 years and the person has never changed, the price of accommodation per month no longer represents the reality we are in.
it's normal that everyone wants to renovate everything to increase the price (which better reflects reality). yes apartments are expensive if you want something in montreal near a metro. if you don't have the money, go further right?
this is not the underlying problem, for if the rent was not unaffordable to the common worker, réno and rona would be blistering with both tentants and landlords alike. when is the affordable housing project taking shape, valerie?
maybe the landlords can also have transparency with their tenants to show their cost of living as well. perhaps the owner is senior and needs the rent to survive in the forever increasing price of *senior residence homes*. how does taking all your income, pension, and other annuities sound as payment to exist?
this protest is pure trash, i'm sorry. again, this is not to be targeted at home owners. many many landlords went through epic hardships in their lifetimes to be where they are at.
having a 3rd party who keeps the tenants' money 2 months in advance would solve a lot of problems, but would be particularly expensive in managing and verifying all the complaints. you could put the cost on the rented property, but the cost would pass directly to the tenants and you end up with another increase every time the costs of managing government go up.
that is without counting the problems and reluctance to have a level of government interfere with the investments of individuals.
the current market is not ideal, but i believe that it is better to improve what we have than to rebuild from scratch. on the other hand, we should really start with airbnb apps which reduce the annual rental market.
there needs to be some way to limit the cost of rent though. too many landlords do renovictions, or jack the price by $300 at the end of a lease because the new tenant either doesn’t know they can go to the régi, or they don’t want to start off on a bad note with the landlord who may then « take their time » to fix things or do their duty.
> administrative court of housing
can you imagine their backlog right now?
do you think landlords will actually trust le tal for one second? the same guys that tell you they aren't ready to hear your case after waiting for 4 months, the guys that only allow you to raise rent 10$ a month after you renovate a complete kitchen and expect you to pay it off in 43 years when it will only last 15 years. i can go on and on but fuck me is the tal the last person i trust in these matters.
this seems like a great idea... who’s gonna pay for it? more taxes? take the money from the rent the landlords are supposed to receive? get rent from the tenants and add a little extra for this board? without money, ideas are just that, ideas.
if that would be the case, rents would be double what they are now... and most properties would be owned by big corporations.
the way it works, is that you get a deadbeat tenant that doesn't pay rent for 6 months, you finally kick them out, and then they have to pay you back the rent during the next few years. 
when i did it with a tenant, the tenant was supposed to pay 11$/month and the regie fees were 15$/month... so 4 work days wasted + 200$ a few times to get back 11$ minus 15$ fees for the next 29 years...  or drop the case.
this is the most sensible thing i've ever read regarding housing issues. better yet, the regie can intervene directly if the landlord is trying to pull a fast one on renting price.
that being said, if i'm not mistaken a landlord has no right to require a credit check; it's just that if you decline, they'll automatically bin your application.
> if you don't have the money, go further right?
/r/thanksimcured/
the problem is that on the one hand, you have people who have difficulty finding accommodation, on the other you have owners who want more cash.
this is really imbalance, price inflation only helps the rich.
when you see the "professional landlords" who put people on the streets for places, it's really hard to be in their favor. whether legal or not, they are nasty assholes and they should feel it every day.
i don't have the solution, i think it's for complex problems like that that we need experts but i can't believe that "it's the same now" is the best we can can do.
> yes apartments are expensive if you want something in montreal near a metro. if you don't have the money, go further right?
argument a little bad, without the metro, you have to have a car in mtl. the buses are very bad overall, maybe a point that the city should work on.
> our triplexes and duplexes date from 1950 and most have not really been renovated since the 1970s.
on the other hand here, i completely agree. and these years are crucial in the renovation because it is during this time when asbestos was king. today if you have to do a renovation, two choices, either you cover it or you remove it.
the first case is possible depending on the state of the asbestos (friable or not, damaged or not, etc.). if you fall into the second case, it costs a fortune (negative pressure, qualified employee needed, intense cleaning after work, etc ...).
i went to chambly, close to nothing, in a 4 and a half because it took me an office. my rent is 780, the sink puffs up its water through the hole in the dishwasher, the patio door does not bar, the light fixtures are broken, in a block of 24 units. the janitor here himself says the owners are getting stuck in the block.
it is no longer a question of placement. it is a question of society. it's not normal that i have to find myself a blonde or a roommate to live in a decent place. it is not normal that 34% of my monthly salary is rent when the recommendations are not to pay more than 25% of your salary.
you know who benefits from proximity to metros and living in walkable neighbourhoods? people who don't drive ford escalades in the fucking city. yuppies go back to your trashy griffintown condos.
also, our communities are not your get-rich-quick schemes.
it's very obvious that there is work at hand, trying to displace vulnerable people from the resources they require for the purpose of disnefying our neighbourhoods for the entertainment of the upper classes. it's time to send these trash bags back to the wasteland they created.
ten years ago, these npcs wouldn't have taken a shit in a bush, in villeray but now that ricardo says that its a vibrant cultural gunuine urban experience, they don't like their worthless, vapid griffintown condos anymore.
in fact it's also that when you have a building from 1950-70 and you've never completely renovated it, there is nothing close to being up to standard and you are full of asbestos. it's expensive to renovate for real.
> but to make a demonstration believing that the renovations was the cause is a little pushing.
absolutely, it was only the catalyst.
exactly
maybe 10-15 years ago, but this is a whole new class of real estate investors who just want to take advantage of the housing boom and do anything to make it worse. the amount of renoviction has just exploded and no it's not the small owners who bought blocks for their old age and live on the ground floor who are behind. i have a friend who got a letter that said 'new owner gtfo, we are renovating and the grandmother is moving in', only they sent the exact same letter with the same grandmother to dozens and dozens of tenants in all their housing stock. and shady stories too, there are shoveling. the son of my current owners told us quite a bit, as soon as my parents die, we do it to you. it is pure parasitism.
while i agree with the part oboist retirement homes taking thousands a month, that has to be such a small percentage of landlords in that position. 
they should sell their property off they need the lonely, not try to create an income. being a landlord shouldn’t be a job. it honestly is reficulous how people buy property just so they won’t have a job, and live off the passive income and do little to no work. plus, because these people don’t sell their property there is a housing shortage and it makes home prices skyrocket due to lack of availability.
so true i work in condo construction and phase 1 of the buildings that we build literally 4 of the 7 floors of the building book for airbnb rental
> management and verification of all complaints
these complaints exist whether they are handled or not and cost just as much.
> we could put the cost on the rented property, but the cost would be passed directly to the tenants
i would really like it if we put in place long-term plans to reclaim the home.
other than their initial investments, the owners are fucking pointless and your post illustrates that very well. a third part like that would make them completely obsolete, even more so with greater rent control, etc.
once there, the house should be a matter of business as you sit down at the bank, you decide how much you put in and wait for your return of interest and that's all. the rest should be managed publicly.
and if the landlord had to justify things to the regie instead of a uniformed immigrant, then they wouldn't be able to exploit.
i can give you my perspective as a developer who builds **mid-rise new constructions** specifically for montreal.
renoviction will probably keep rising simply because it's the only avenue to get market rents. i mean, just look at it from their perspective, if you spend $1000 to fix a bathroom that your tenant damaged, under current tal rules, you make that back in 43 years? so are we really surprised by renoviction when leases are auto-renewed?
not to mention, my most recent project of a building extension (adding 30 large 3-bedroom units) has tenants paying $350-700 in rent for a 1400 sqrt foot 3 bedroom apartment in cdn (the current landlord of this particular building bought it this year and has been able to raise it by 5-10$) lol.
the problem with rapidly rising rents for when they become available --> is there isn't enough supplies due to rent control, & regulations at the provincial and municipal level.
for example, outside downtown montreal, over half of new construction occurs in cdn-ndg because that borough has regulations in place for owners to extend their buildings and build brand new apartments. but when you look at the borough right next door (ville saint-laurent), it took me over 2 years to get permits (compared to 3 weeks in cdn). in fact, most boroughs in montreal has rules that makes it extremely hard to build (pointe-claire, verdun, & rosemont being some of the hardest). you have a situation where developers like me has 90% of their projects either in downtown or cdn-ndg (meaning 2 boroughs are carrying the entire weight).
with the lack of appartements/houses. the landlord doesn't even need to raise the price by himself. so many people will want it, that it will start a bidding war.
so fund them better.
i dgaf if they trust the tal or not. plenty of folks don't trust the saaq, but that system works fine.
maybe, just maybe you wouldn't have to renovate the whole fucking kitchen if landlord actually took care of their properties.
just like you don't need to change your car every other year because you take it to the garage for minor repairs.
fuck, how is this so hard to fathom?
that's not how it works in reality mate. getting the rent from the "deadbeat" tenant that finally leaves? be my guest to chase after them or have a third party go after them. 90% of landlords can't be bothered because less be honest, they're just relieved that they're done with it.
the market is especially unbalanced in terms of real estate value and rent.
unless you have the property already paid for, or inherited and even then you eat up the capital gain, it is practically impossible to put in a rent that is not going to leave you negative cashflow in the best case if your tenants pay monthly.
yes, you are going to make money by reselling, especially since it explodes, but precisely that just promotes the foaming of prices to exchange properties.
if real estate values were and rose reasonably and that on the other side it would be possible to put a rent that will cover the maintenance, the mortgage and a cut for the owner, you would have a general vision of the market much longer term with buildings that do not change hands every decade. it doesn't help at all that mortgages get longer. hanging around for 30 years is hard.
of course, basing real estate investment on the value of the building while tenant management does not even lead you to break even, and therefore where you are encouraged to increase rents as much as possible to reduce your monthly deficit just leads to bad luck for everyone.
it's not for nothing that everyone ends up just selling everything in a condo.
asbestos, pyrite, lead pipes, buildings from the 60s and 70s are just not very good.
the apartments are in a miserable condition because the rules make it impossible to maintain them. and here we have a demonstration that would like these rules to be even worse. yes you are right it does not look good, but it is not the fault of the owners, nor the fault of the tenants, it is the combination of an increase in the population with anti-development laws and regulations .
being a landlord shouldnt be a job... ha!. i see you've never dealt with tennants...  tennants can be really a handfull... renos are a handfull, emergencies are also a handfull, banks are hell ... tennants don't alwase see  all that is involved in managing a multiplexe...
i agree to sell off, however many of our aged home owners might also not be in a sound mind to sign off on any legal matters. when it comes to estates, their children are not permitted to sign a sale for them. these aged folks are in near similar ratio in and around montreal, that are people afflicted with renoviction. i could be wrong, but we still have a healthy amount of living european migrants of near yester century that aren't currently participating in stimulating the monetary market.
it would help but not sure that would stop all the exploitation. also non-immigrants are also abused. the average person i know has a slumlord as a landlord. i’ve had maybe 2 good/decent landlords in all of montréal almost 6 years.
yeah, sounds like beaurocratic bs. i think a major issue is lack of government support of subsidy to build for a rapidly growing population. there are already people living 2 or 3 person in an apartment meant for 1
that’s another problem altogether. but the landlord shouldn’t be able to just jack the price due to demand. i live in toronto for 6 years before loving to montréal and people (myself included) were paying 75% of their monthly income just to pay rent. just because the demand is there doesn’t mean it’s ethical, because these people have no choice but to enter poverty to cover rent prices. because either they ou the price or have nowhere to live. yes, are people “willing” to pay it? in a sense. they have to.
i would abolish them if i had the money
the saaq doesn't really have disputes to settle, though.
you are ignorant.
that's what i'm saying, i wasted time and money for something that was not enforced at all... so basically waste of time.
are you suggesting that landlords should pay their mortgage with rent? seems that it is with their job that they should pay the mortgage, the rent is for the maintenance and their time.
i understand that the owners are trying, but i have the impression that you define "negative cash flow" as "not able to charge my building by my tenants", and that this justifies their behavior; i hope i am wrong.
if the building is in such bad condition that the renovations are not covered by the rents, well i hope that the building has not been expensive, because the renovations are part of your astheur investment. no question of putting the owner's investment on the backs of the tenants so let's see
come tell me that there is a regulation that makes it impossible for my landlord to put a plug on my plumbing or have my patio door changed.
edit to add: currently, rather than maintaining their property, they are building a condo block. just sayin '
the average landlord who owns a 2 or 3 storey does nothing. i’ve have at least 10 apartments in 12ish years and they’re all pretty bad and very rarely are things done for tenants. they’re run as businesses to maximize profit and lower cost. 
i know how much goes into owning a property, i’m a homeowner.
i’d think if they aren’t in a frame of mind to sell their home they’re not in a frame of mind to be a landlord either.
single payer works for healthcare to stop exploitation, i see no reason it wont work for housing.
and you're right. uniformed immigrant, uninformed student, uniformed single parent, it's all interchangeable.
if a slumlord wants to try to exploit, let them try to exploit the only client they can ever have and see how well it works out for them
\ # 5 '' avoid honking next to a bicycle '' - so try to avoid honking in general, it won't hurt anyone ... seriously, 9 out of 10 times it's useless.
isn't it illegal to report in montreal?
basically, know how to drive and use common sense when in a crowded/narrow area. no need to go 50km/h in a narrow ass ruelle just because you don't see a car in front of you
i almost got hit by a buffoon in his pickup in the city center. he passed a few inches from me. when i confronted him he came out of his shit to tell me that i had nothing to give a fuck on the road because "it's for cars". the tone quickly rose and he ended up insulting me as a dirty frenchman, that i had to return to my country 👌🏻
fun fact: these rules make the streets safer for other non-car road users too. pedestrians, people on mobility scooters, kids whose ball rolled on the street, dogs, etc.
6.5 when turning right, bikers in a bike lane going straight have right of way so look both ways and pause before turning. 
overall the bike lanes make things safer for bikers, but there is that one situation that makes me so nervous. i've seen a biker get hit by a car who thought all was clear because they were turning right. the biker was ok but still traumatic
the amount of cars in the cycle paths is absolutely incredible.
the police who pass by without giving tickets ...
cyclists: to avoid endangering you, obey the signs: traffic lights and stops.
a good infographic would also have rules for cyclists ... they too put themselves in danger.
for # 6 i dare say that it would be really better if the bikes also followed the unique sense because a pedestrian crossing in the middle of a quiet street will only have the reflex to look where the traffic is coming from for them. cars, and will not necessarily look the other way around, which could create an accident.
i live on a one-way street and have been close to getting hit by a reverse-directional bike.
i would also like to point out that a car coming out of a parking space located on a lot will not necessarily have the reflex to look in the opposite direction of traffic * for bicycles * either. he might look to see if a pedestrian is coming, but since there are cars parked between the sidewalk and where the bikes are going, he probably won't look if a bike is going in the opposite direction.
missing: maintain 1-1.5m distance when passing bicycles
for point 3: 
the safety of cyclists should be the responsibility of the city and the ministry of transport. it would be much more effective to integrate multiple road users into the road construction rules to improve safety for all. road, pedestrian, bicycle and public transport infrastructures must be integrated to coexist well. amsterdam did this brilliantly. [here is a video on the subject which is very interesting!] ( show your will to your elected officials!
the same \ [post has been made on /r/france\^(( *  \ _pas \ _mettre \ _les \ _cyclistes /] ( and there was no shitshow that we had on / r / quebec.
in your opinion, what is it that makes people so anti-cyclists in montreal? is this just a north american reflex?
i do love how 60-70% of the comments are just "what about cyclists"?!
guys, it's ok to take a second and say "yeah, drivers do a lot of shitty things that put people's lives in danger. we should work on that.". 
it's also possible this kind of attitude is what leads to a lot of these accidents. if you're more worried about being angry at cyclists than respecting them as road users, you're a huge part of the problem. be better citizens.
1- respect cars can run you over
2- don’t try to squeeze between cars to get in front of us all.
3- look around you when people are crossing the street so you don’t clip them.
4- signal all direction changes
5- don’t cut off cars at your slower pace while listening to airpods
6- don’t burn red lights because you don’t feel like stopping.
how fun this game is.
i like that kind of post, lots of people just can't help but say, "yes, but cyclists have to follow rules too!" more than two seconds.
"what's indicating?" - 50% of montreal drivers probably
isn't that like… already some driving course material?
no driver wants to hit a cyclist, i follow all of these rules but of course, cyclists also need to do their part. if they are on the road i expect them, to bike in the correct direction, not scoot along the right hand side of cars putting themselves in cars blind spots, to signal like cars have to, to respect signalling and to stop at stop signs the same way cars have to.
cyclist here; none of this is necessary. please just be mindful of  cyclists. and cyclists, stop being so angry at everything. we share the road with vehicles 20 to +1000x our weight, accept it and be careful. regardless of the rules, when you collide with a vehicle, you will lose every time. if you dont get hurt, be happy, not destructive at the person who may have been at fault. love you all.
please be careful on the streets for those bikers. fun fact; stats show most accidents involving bicycles are caused by the riders. so be extra careful on a bike!  no matter who’s fault it is, it will always end up with the big heavy car winning that battle.
r/coolguides
so like be aware of your surroundings and be courteous? good luck!
i will start cycling soon as a method of transportation. is there a resource that dictates the rules on the road? * hopefully * not a 100 page .pdf document: p
from what i understand, you have the same rules as a car, except that you have to take the bike path if there is one.
i avoid squeezing next to a bus or a big car while stopping at a red light, don't want to take a chance that they don't see me and are turning right. unless there is that green bike area in front and enough space on the bike lane.
anyone else hate biking on saint-urbain between place-des-arts and place d'armes? the bike lane ends in the middle of the street and leaves little space for bikes while many cars are turning right on renée-lévesque
i'm just fed up with making myself shout stupid things, like going on the sidewalks, pcq i'm on the road and i drive slower, i'm always on the right except if i want to turn left or to avoid obstacles ( car stops etc.).
long live the pogo stick .
glad to see this messaging on the other foot :) i was taught these things in driving school, things can change little by little!
point 3!! happened to me twice on the same day..
to a certain extent when you hop on the bike in the city you gotta expect everything. rode for your safety not for the traffic laws.
yes yes and yes avoid honking, that scares us and generally c people who are just impatient
basically, you have to drive according to the normal code of conduct.
being a guy who lives in the suburban part of montreal, i totally agree, the drivers are moron and not used to it but the cyclists too.
i have a bad habit of thinking that cyclists will stop at the stop sign or at the lights, like a car ... when this is clearly not the case in town
we will have to make a poster for cyclists,
it would be nice if they actually used the bike paths to begin with.....
the other side of this diagram is that there are so many ways a driver can kill a cyclist inadvertently.  i don't miss driving downtown...and i'm sure downtown doesn't miss me and my car.
stay tuned for your eleven o'clock news, here's what's trending:
17 cyclists were struck down within 48 hours by distracted drivers while reading about 6 golden rules on their devices while operating a vehicle..
if only everyone respect the rules of the road this wouldn’t be an issue. some of these rules are in place because either party is guilty of frequently breaking them.
so many great minds here, amazing.
as if all motorists were without drawings.
a lot of cyclists do not respect the code at all and drive innocently too.
be respectful of others too.
cyclists should also know they're not cars though. 
both have a responsibility to each other. 
problem is , even if the cyclist is the one who makes the mistake..the river gets the blame because he rarely gets hurt.
where's the infographic for bikers to stay safe around fast-moving (harder to control) hunks of metal?
if it was in english, fewer cyclists would die.
now
cyclists should also learn not to bike around like if they own the road and cross streets without even looking.
they should do rules for the bicycles too.  i mean, a bike can’t be riding in the middle of the road with his kid behind too right.
edit: i may be downvoted by saying that bicycles need rules too.  though, aren’t we looking for the safety of bicycles here??
or, are we looking to give to the cyclists to drive wherever they want. even in the middle of the road, between cars, passing red lights or going in packs of bicycles on intersections..
100% agree.
now for cyclists:
1-do not ride in the street when there is a bike path just across the street, do not cross intersections diagonally, do not get stuck between two tanks at an intersection
2-don't stop in the street to kid on your cellphone
3-look elsewhere than right in front of you when you decide to turn
4-report any change of direction
5-avoid crowning after a motorist who has just seen you because he must also look everywhere (there is not just you on the road, my cyclist friend!)
6-do not forget that the highway code is also for bicycles
have a good day!
lol r / bicycle, start by doing your pi stop by stopping at red lights.
we are lucky in montreal, motorists do not often honk their horns.
how else do i get the driver in front of me to enter the intersection 0.2 seconds after the green light instead of 0.8 seconds?
some background on this:
the inspector walked into the store after closing hours, asked what was the least expensive item they had to sell, purchased it, and then stated that the store had broken the law, issuing them a fine.
which seems like some kind of entrapment if you ask me.
the other thing is this: this law only applies to small businesses. you can go buy toys at the pharmacy, which is allowed to be open late. or at the department store. or walmart. all of the big businesses are given exceptions to these rules.
remember this the next time the quebec gov't tells you they're pro-business.
they'll happily give your money to the bronfmans to build a baseball stadium, but they'll also take your money if you dare to be open five minutes after the provincially-mandated closing time.
hi there. my name is jordan and i work at a record store in the mile-end. i've been speaking to one of the owners of jouet lol toys the past couple days and we discovered that  this is the same inspector who gave fines to a bunch of shops in the mile-end a couple years ago. even though the inspector told each store (mine included) that he was giving us a warning and we wouldn't be fined if we changed our hours, we still received fines of close to $3000. [
it's pretty telling that, in an era of amazon's stranglehold and increased corporate franchising, the province is choosing to target small business - many of who struggle to pay rent and basic needs of operation.  look at all the vacant storefronts around the city and wonder why our government is sending out inspectors to dole out these types of fines.
someone worth questioning regarding all of this is pierre fitzgibbon, quebec's economy minister. the fines stem from his department. this is a guy who had to temporarily leave his post earlier this year for ethical conflicts because he owned shares in two huge investment companies (white star capital and immervision). he's back in power again, so that whole conflict-of-interest saga is worth brushing up on if you want to get a sense of what kind of wealthy and entitled people are behind the inspections and fines.
i wouldn't be surprised if these are calculated shakedowns - couched in a shroud of so-called legal definitions - that officials in positions of power use to allocate money for their own personal interests; especially in the event where a longstanding business has to declare bankruptcy, allowing real estate and large chains an opportunity to swoop in and buy the building.
jouet lol toys are probably far from the only small businesses being targeted in this manner, so i hope others may come forward if this situation happened to them, too.
why the fuck is there a 5pm time limit for small stores on the weekend? who voted for that???
why are we paying for inspectors to monitor stores opening hours?
i support the store. it is ridiculous how much everything closes too soon, when we have to work long hours. i wonder who is going to shop in office hours?
i don't understand why small businesses have to close at 5. that seems counterintuitive to competitiveness if all major retailers can stay open till 9. maybe that's why i still haven't been able to visit the bookshop that's on the way home. could still hightail it down to indigo downtown, but the local shop must close at 5 because \[redacted\].
why the fuck do we even have laws telling stores when they can be open and closed? stores should be allowed to be open whenever they like. the absurdity of this is frightening and only serves to lower people's opinions of this city/province.
sad! 😢 how to put people out of business during a pandemic 🤦🏽‍♀️ so glad they’re fighting this, i hope they set a precedent for other small businesses. wishing the store the best ❤️ this is so frustrating for small businesses!
so fucked up. i know the family and they're so sweet. they really don't deserve this
didn't even know he had a legal closing time, wtf? what year do we live in?
i understand that there were good reasons for the working hours laws to be enacted and i support those reasons.
however, things changed in 30 years and we live in a completely different commercial context. 5pm is just too early and there has to be some exceptions for businesses exclusively operated by their owners.
i sometimes wonder if i actually disagree with the laws in quebec or if i just hate how they are enforced. the inspector in this article, for example, was being a fucking cunt.
the dogmatic adherence to bureaucratic regulations in french society is an absolute plague upon this province. and, if you ask me, it has a lot to do with latent catholic culture. the same reason why it is necessary for stores to close early on the weekends.
how about sex toys stores closing late? 😅
wont someone think of the children????!?!
the new normal: businesses, churches and schools punished for catering to the public.
if i own a business and i want to stay open all the damn day and work there personally 7 days a week, what does it really matter? at worst, i understand that we do not want to encourage unfair competition and start an hour-of-service war ... but the business in question is open to the public from wednesday to saturday until the anarchic hour of 6 p.m. maximum. ye or the problem !? i can't help but be cynical about all of this.
might be time to just elect governments that will act like the rest of canada and not control every aspect of your lives. between thos, language laws and other restrictions i am surprised small businesses still exist. there really should not be so much red tape...
article says his court date was yesterday. anyone know how to find the results? i'm curious what happened to him.
i mean if we're going to impose a 5pm limit then we might as well force amazon and all of e-retail to follow the same schedule (can you imagine the chaos?!)
well what about amazon or shopping online? like fuck this shit! yet another law trying fuck the livelihood of hardworking people and push in the wealth transfer. makes me sick
ok, how can we realistically do something about this overzealous inspector?
explains why i've started seeing stores for smokers selling food. gotta pretend to be a dépanneur.
ok, let's say that i arrive 5 minutes after the closing of a store for some reason x. that the employee is still inside behind his cashier doing his closure ... worse he says to himself in his head: well, i'm going to do the dude in the window a favor and let him in the same. quick, take the business you need, pay ciao bye.
in the place of the client i would be extremely happy to have had my cossin instead of having to travel again. worse, the employee is doing the store a favor by increasing their income while helping another human. everyone is a winner in this ... wtf
i propose that only equal partners or sole owners are allowed to work past the regulated hours. that will allow small business like jouets lol toys to run at later hours while ensuring that retail labour isn\`t forced to work at unsual hours.
damn, if only there was an upcoming election that could address this kind of issue...
r / pasloignon
why can't people close their store whenever they want?
rizzuto for sure
i don't get it. why renaud-bray/walmart/archambault can be open until 21h but small businesses have to close that early? after that they tell us we have to buy local to help the economy because of the pandemic. i totally agree with buying local, it's just that their panier bleu is really hypocrital. 
maybe is a double-ticket: you don't have to fairly pay taxes and you can close late! 
but i'm wondering if dollorama closes that early because it started here (even if it's a pretty big store now). renaud-bray is also a business from montreal...
dcf - quasi-libertarian edgelord who complain that the government regulates work and opening hours.
the law should be changed, owners should be exempted if they want to work longer themselves, large chains should be targets of this law like small businesses and sundays should be closed for businesses.
why would you want to be open when other people are not working?
i grew up in montreal and have lived in france for the last 10 years.  i really like that everything is closed on sunday.  makes things much more calm everywhere.   however there is always a pharmacy open somewhere nearby or the odd cafe open.   then again it’s nice that rona is open at 830 pm on a sunday when your sink drain falls apart
the nine most terrifying words in the english launguage are, "i"m from the government and i'm here to help."
important context, thank you
the worst part is that it's not the first time they pull that off. every time it makes it to the news. and they keep doing it. how can these inspectors still have a job?
you're right, department stores should also be subject to these laws.
i agree, laws on opening hours are absolutely unnecessary.
i mean, the canadians were allowed to play hockey for big money but kids couldn't play outdoors on a public rink. big business always wins in the end.
so gross
damn, if only there was an upcoming election that could address this kind of issue...
they are pro-big business, not small business. and cops go on power trip, they do not even realize the reason why they patrol is to keep the public safe from covid. for them, its just a game and another place where they can flex their power. ugh
the department stores and walmart (even the ones with groceries) also close at 5pm on weekends.
this is a eye opening message. thank you. damn bro... being so difficult for small businesses to compete, and they even get knee capped by their own government...
walmart is not open past 5 on saturdays and sundays, no department store are.
it sounds like these businesses should egregiously abuse the online purchase loophole… have the customer place the order on the internet in the store, then use the same day pick up service, and walk out…
pharmaceutical, hygienic or sanitary products, newspapers, periodicals, books, tobacco or articles required for the use of tobacco" ([légis québec]( you're allowed to be open later. groceries, restaurants, cultural establishments, etc are also exempt from this restriction. walmart, as an example, has grocery items plus all the aforementioned, hence why they are allowed to remain open while a clothing store is not. maybe simon's ought to start selling tampons lol?
also, the intent of the law was to give the primarily minimum-wage workers who are in retail time off on the "standard weekend" so that they can hang out with everyone else.
i for one am willing to suffer the minor inconvenience of not being able to buy clothes, toys, games, furniture, etc. after 5pm on weekends so that those people can have a life.
obviously they need the small buisness cash cow that don't have top tier lawyers on retainer... plus all the small guys pay for everything while the big corporations pay absolutely no tax income and treat employees like shit
you know what's funny. most around here support the fine without realising that the most hours put in at a small business is done by the owner not employees. if it was up to most people on r/montreal all business would be owned by the state
historical laws. they had some sense, but with online stuff now, they are useless.
i thought it was some sort of cultural thing as to why everything closes so early.  
my wife and i are used to hang out and buy stuff kind of late, so the first time that we went out around 9pm (a bit early where we are from) we were shocked when we found everything already closed.  
but we just told ourselves this should be what everyone is used to, not that it was a law.
i really like it! i like how the sculptures seem real and partaking on the fun. however .... after a close inspection, i think that guy shouldn't be touching the bike that way.
really really cool!
i missed tamtams ..
this is still goin on?it’s awesome been hearing about it for years!
you have an amazing style.  very expressive. great work.
wow i love it :)
hahahahha, he’s actually napping next to it, but ya you’re right, definitely needs some work in terms of selling the illusion of distance ;)
thank you so much!
thanks a lot!
thanks :)
rosemont 💜
i have affection for this small cinema and its park next door!
[oh i've lived there for years. here is the same cinema from another angle] (
thanks for listing! small error on the other hand, i guarantee you that the casino de montreal is closed at present.
thank you so much!
thanks for listing!
small error on the other hand, nomad bloc (bouldering olympic stadium) is currently closed, to my great despair :(
westmount is open? bin tabarnak!
thank you, it's very interesting! on the other hand, a small mistake, the beaubien cinema is open.
can we get another $ next to orange julep? that shit is **expensive** now!
great list though. a nice mix of different areas on the island too!
thank you for the beautiful sharing!
great and appreciated, thank you!
thank you!!
where is graffiti alley? seems interesting
thank you
the threads we need on this sub <3 thank you!
crew has been open since wednesday!
let me add a couple just over the bridge in the south shore:
- ($) récré-o-parc (in sainte-catherine) skating, sliding, on weekends
- ($) rail museum (delson)
- ($) dix30 (brossard)
-parc de la cité (longeuil)
- ($) mont saint-bruno park
- ($) skiing at mont saint-bruno
- ($) mont saint-hilaire reserve
-parc du fort de chambly
im sure im missing a bunch. i tried to avoid things that are only for residents like the new brossard aqua-parc.
very nice initiative - thank you!
i will propose the bike / pedestrian path on the new samuel-de-champlain bridge? arguably one of the finest views of the montreal skyline.
thank you
you're right! i just saw it from the outside anyway as i am not interested in gambling. i will update
dsl, i was there in december so i had to leave it.
did the prices go up again?? 😭 i am an unashamed big fan.
hey, it’s at: 10 avenue duluth o, montréal, qc h2w 1j4, canada according to google maps but the whole area around it has a bunch of graffiti (some more known ones on st. laurent but some new ones every couple of weeks)
thank you! if you have any recommendations or think i missed out on anything feel free to recommend stuff!!!
as i predicted. ~~ leafs in 5. leafs in 6. ~~ canadians in 7.
humiliating the leafs is almost as good as getting to the finals
beating the leafs is like winning the cup anyway
unbelievable! go habs go !!!
the leafs were in too much of a hurry to go play golf lol
it honks a lot in the sherbrooke / mountain area 🥳🥳🥳🏆🏆🏆
literally the greatest montreal canadiens moment since winning the cup in 93. 
this surpasses the halak run as we humiliated the leafs.
the rds forum was a nice emotional gang that wanted bergevin's head when the habs were in deficit. where are they now today? so glad these "so-called" "connoisseurs" are wrong tonight!
come on montreal.
good job!
i am equally satisfied between watching the habs win as i am watching my leaf fans heads implode...
we set off a club that chokes from year to year, without their captain, muzzin and a second-rate goaler. in 7 games.
it smells like the cut!
theory: ontario is still confined. it was an exception to have 550 spectators at this match, and besides they were all health workers invited by the pm ...
that being said, it's more profitable for the league to have montreal in the series because there are tickets that sell.
let's take the theory even further ... revenue sharing with eliminated teams ?!
all this took into account, if the rest of canada does not deconfine ... montreal in the final of the cup, loses in 7 games.
cash pass; the league is happy
return of hockey to the bell center; the fans are happy
canadians lose cup in final; everyone else in the league is happy.
is that "win-win"?
we reassure ourselves as best we can. it is impressive the cognitive strategies deployed to avoid suffering.
the 2014 run was great too. if kreider didnt injure price, habs wouldve been in the finals.
humiliating crosby was more satisfying imo
they weren't wrong
campbell was excellent. he had better stats than price. dafuk you talking about.
wow, amazing that i haven't seen this major conspiracy to favor the ch over the leafs / s
don't forget your meds.
i think everyone is expert in this with containment.
yeah that was a good one for sure. fucking kreider.
we wish his stats better luck next year lol!
it's like the masks so let's see !!!
hooray poor people can go to the states now!
i’m a vermonter here only live 90 minutes from montreal. it’s been 21 months since i have been to canada and we have missed it so so much. we ussalt come up for nye and my birthday which is halloween every year on top of truly a half dozen or more sporadic weekend trips and multiple day trips. we are finally coming to montreal this weekend and can’t wait 😭.
yesss baby
i thought they went bankrupt!
i used to take it all the time between ottawa and montreal, will that be the case in the (near) future?
how cheeper is it compared to flying?
my friend was a driver on this route for years. he loved spending every second night in nyc!
is it worth taking the bus for a quick 3 day trip to nyc ?
[deleted]
that’s not good, greyhound is a horrible company
i wonder if the adirondack train line is planned for a reopening too?
the delta variant approves. s/
*those who are vaxxed and who are not so poor that they can afford the pcr re-entry test (if they wish to return).
just in time! the cones are slowly starting to hibernate 😊
welcome back!
happy to have you, welcome back :)
happy to have you back! is there any good places to visit the opposite direction? i'm from the uk and the u.s. is still novel to me, would love to visit a bit more now things are open again. taking a day trip on a bus to the u.s. is a really fun idea.
> i thought they went bankrupt!
greyhound shut down their canadian division, but cross-border routes were not operated by the canadian division.
~$150-$200 bus round trip vs $320-$500 flying
edit: also, there's no need for a covid test when entering the us by bus.
what i've done numerous times in the past is drive down to albany, park the car for a long weekend, and take the greyhound all the way to nyc. it's a budget-friendly and easier way to travel so you're not driving or in a bus for more than 6 hours.
(edit: deleted extra words)
that's only because the train service between mtl and nyc is woefully deficient. otherwise it'd be flight>train>rideshare>drive>...>bus. and if we had a bullet train, it'd be train>flight>rideshare...
it's so fucking bad. last time i took the bus we had seats made out of cement and i was stuck next to a large guy that hogged the arm rest for 7 hours. never again.
they've been acquired by flixbus a few days ago. maybe they'll change.
okay stay locked up
walgreens offers pcr tests for free.
[deleted]
[removed]
ah man!
thanks for the info!
id wager that flying despite being more expensive, is still worth it over the bus. montreal to my home town took my mom over 24 hours, when it’s a 3 hour flight and 10 hour drive. then again some people don’t have a choice.
take the train from albany!
where do you park the car?
> and if we had a bullet train
if ever there was a country that was designed for bullet trains, it's canada.
the train is terribly slow but it is considerably more comfortable and enjoyable than the bus even if it takes several hours more.
if the train ran over night, i'd never fly. flying is awful. but 12 hours on a train with a bed is not awful at all. and doing gare central to penn station is so much nicer than going to the airport, wasting time at the airport, being inside a plane for more than 5 minutes, then being in another far away airport, and getting from said far away airport to manhattan.
is flight really that good though?
going to nyc - let's say you have a 22:00 flight. that means be at trudeau airport at 20:00, probably leave your home around 19:15.
arrive at 23:00 in nyc - let's hope it's at guardia or jfk - wait for baggage, get into town (train & bus stop you right downtown). assuming you're staying somewhere close to manhattan (bronx, maybe) - it'll take you another hour to arrive. so say 5hrs door to door - which isn't so much better than the other options... 
and at that time you're not fighting traffic to get to mtl's airport or into nyc from the airports. also hoping for no flight delays. also not assuming we're arriving into newark airport. 
and nevermind flying is the most expensive... 
imo drive>train>flight>bus.
rideshare? if i'm going with friends - sure. but do people really cross the border with random rideshare people of kijiji out whatever site?
i'd be worried about crossing the border with strangers in my car... people who have done it - how'd it go?
i rode the greyhound bus to boston before covid and it wasn't bad at all.
cvs as well
interesting, any idea how fast the turn around is?
in practice usually 1-4 hours if you go to a covid express site. yes these are pcr tests meeting canada's standards despite the fast turnaround. they have labs in the basement of those sites.
a molecular test within 72 hours is required for arrival by air or land.
of course flying makes more sense outside of the mtl-nyc corridor.
ooo i haven't even thought about that. how long is the ride? i've done nyc to montreal before. as nice as it was, it killed a whole day t__t
there's a multi-level parking just a block or two from the greyhound station, it was about $21 usd for 3 days back when i went down regularly.
couldn’t agree more, iirc half the fucking population of the country lives on the quebec city-windsor corridor, it boggles my mind that we haven’t seized the opportunity. instead we’re stuck with via sharing freight lines causing perpetual delays, on 75 year old train stock…
yes and no.  our extreme shifts in temperature and difficult winter weather make the technology hard to implement.  tunnelling might help relieve that problem, but that adds an expense that our relatively small population can't afford.
honestly, traditional train service that was more frequent, and on it's own set of tracks (that aren't beat to shit by heavy freight) would be a big improvement.  when i used to commute to montreal, the train was a no-brainer.  even with the stops, it was faster than driving, plus i didn't arrive exhausted from fighting traffic across the 401.  i had places downtown in both cities (king west in toronto, and griffintown in montreal), so it was super convenient since it was a couple subway stops or a $15 cab ride...
the only other thing i would have preferred is if there were two 'express commuter' trains a day - one departing at 6am and arriving at 10am, and another departing at 6pm arriving at 10pm, with no stops.
yes, bring board games and once the train is on the us side you can drink beers to pass time!
pre covid i went to new york quite regularly (for about 20 years). i took all means of transport and the bus was by far the least fun experience. yes, i took some worse steps, but on average it was not super pleasant rides, especially post 9/11 with the interminable border controls (although it is not uncommon for it to break with the train too, but at least you're confused).
you have to choose according to the circumstances of course. sometimes you're in no hurry and the train does the trick. sometimes you have less money and the bus is suitable. the plane is really not that bad even with the wait, but the deal has to be really good for it to be interesting.
i'd like to try a hybrid mode next time, like drive up to albany and take the bus from there, something like that. but i don't know when it's going to happen, i'm in no rush to visit our neighbors to the south right now.
do cvs sometimes they get me my test back within less than 24 hours, but sign up early as possible
yep get your test on the way down on friday in plattsburgh etc and have the results back by sunday for return
i now have flashbacks from the albany bus station and the mandatory stop any buses are doing there. ughh.
about 3hr to penn station. last few trips to nyc we just drove all the way i got street parking or the hotel offered a good rate (no exit) for around 25$ a day. ez- pass is highly suggested for tolls.
honestly i was not sure of the idea of the rev, it's such a love-hate between motorists in montreal, * but * this summer i used the shit out of it, i felt safer as a cyclist, i felt less annoyed as a driver, and it was really cool to see st denis looking more .. human.
i’ll take the rev and madame plante’s cycling infrastructure over coderre’s which amounted to “painted lines” (where you still can easily be at risk from dangerous drivers)
tldr: i was scared for the longest time to cycle all across the city, with plante’s new infrastructure, myself and many other people are now happily cycling across the city safely and far more frequently than before.
but no one uses it! / s
i use it daily. i go 15 minutes out of my way to use it because it’s just so much safer than my normal route. hopefully we can see more of this infrastructure in the near future. 
… maybe take down the stupid fence on acadie and add it there..? pls..?
rev is waste! we could have thrown ourselves a baseball stadium with all that money!
luckily coderre will come back to town hall and bring back the parking lot and the commuters with him
and, we hope, another great party for the 381st montreal!
i should have written “for his first year”, for a more precise title, but hey. it is possible to consult the data of bicycle counters across the city here:
[
`` the dream is every day ''
\ - a frustrated surely
impeccable timing for tonight's debate. i can't wait to see coderre shit on the rev when this important milestone was reached today!
my deepest gratitude to the people who designed this stretch. efficient, fast. safe. the figures prove it.
coderre will never dare to dismantle this track if he is elected ... even if he is not lacking the desire.
yep, it’s great, love taking the rev. i biked all through last year, even winter, and the bike infrastructure like this made it easy.
before the rev i often had problems with passing motorists, etc. which did not encourage me to reach the city center by bicycle. now it's good but a rev in the city center is sorely lacking, not this pathetic bike path on maisonneuve in the left blind spot of the cars which required separate traffic lights and in addition not synchronized so stop and go to all the two seconds is boring ...
it's one of the best lanes in the city now! barely affects parking, separates everyone. and makes it super safe & direct to go north in the city. hopefully it helps start a push for more lanes like it.
really, i started really riding my bike this summer, and i loved the rev.
beautiful achievement.
i worked on the construction for 3 months, as my job was canceled due to the covid ... them, 90%, didn't like the rev! ):
this saturday we take a bike ride to celebrate and demand that we keep the track on bellechasse! 
that's awesome. i'd love to know how many cars use the street as well in the same time period. but then again, it's not like anyone looks at pedestrian counts versus car counts as an argument for abolishing sidewalks. so maybe it's all just a moot point. roads, sidewalks, and separated bike lanes everywhere, so everyone can enjoy getting around how they wish. what a concept!
don't be distracted by a talkative italian owner who has lost his parking spot; the cycle path on bellechasse is also used extensively.
that's amazing !
a bit forced like fr english, but good to each his own.
this year is my first time riding a bike in montreal, i was too scared before. these cycle paths like the rev change everything !!
i'm the same. i never rode in the city before due to fear. i moved to the east end  the rev is amazing!!!! got a bixi membership and rode everywhere
its the same dude doing a million trips /s
and it bothers me for the two times a year that i go to st-denis from terrebonne / s
and winter, do we think about winter? it's snowing and it's snowing - 20 8 months of the year! / s
we must stop building bicycle piss! / s
i used it quite a bit this summer on the weekends and it is awesome. it is an amazingly safe way to cross the island in long bike rides. i hope it ends up being a model that gets repeated all over the island and not just an oddity.
yes, it would be amazing, maybe they could turn it into a bike path
15 min over how much transit time for fun?
with a race also please
coderre will save us with the park on décarie. the children will be able to play between the traffic of the service road
louis boucher on facebook.
i live in la and all of this makes me so jealous :(
maisonneuve is disgusting. i prefer to walk there
it's montreal braillon. i like it 🙂
this is the biggest point to make. one of the reasons there are not so many cyclists is that many fear for their safety. infrastructures like the rev allow more "casual" cyclists to circulate in the city. by making these changes, we can see an increase in bicycle use, and with the price of gasoline continuing to rise, this is good timing.
bike race on the rev would be nice, sometimes in the morning it already seems to be the case hahaa
i like to ride on sherbrooke better, it's almost less dangerous and at least it's synchronized
i wanted to write in french but realized it would take 3x more text! 😬
the race of the dead is more exciting.
i like it, it brings life :)
but you still do a tldr which is half of the initial text. you may just have trouble synthesizing your ideas;)
i work in the real estate business credit division of a large bank and on my desk every day there are companies that ask for credit for renovations but also that one of the expense item that justifies the figure of the request is the cost of maintaining an empty dwelling for 1 year and the cost of evictions. the most common ploy that i know and observe is eviction for major work and keeping vacant places.
i have already read the history of a company that has foreclosed more than 800 homes, mostly 5 1/2 to make loft and 3 1/2 luxury. his real estate debt was astronomical but also 15% was in opportunity cost.
it is frankly sad that we allow the market and the greed to waste so many human lives.
if i win the lottery i go to a real estate investment company that aims to acquire plexes and turn them into a cooperative. homeowners, as it should be!
we must distinguish between agreements in which the tenant receives several thousand dollars to leave, vs landlords who break leases without compensation on the basis of lies.
when you accept $ xxxx from the landlord to leave, the deal is for the tenant to voluntarily terminate the lease. so the owner can do whatever he wants with the apartment.
> these figures come from an investigation by the housing committee of la petite-patrie ... an organization for the defense of tenants' rights
meanwhile in fl, you can start an eviction process if the rent is more than 5 days late. lol.
[removed]
[deleted]
it is obvious that the rules of the régie are a disaster, and do not work for the owners, nor the tenants, except a small minority. rent control is a disaster, as in every jurisdiction where it has been implemented.
when in 2019 a landlord is stuck with a rent of $ 445 per month for an apartment, it's ** impossible ** to keep it in good condition. the owner then re-rented it for $ 1,590 per month, which means that this owner had an opportunity cost of over $ 1,000 per month on this single unit. it is clearly unsustainable.
rent control benefits a small older minority, to the detriment of the majority and especially young families, who have to pay more for tiny apartments, because family-sized apartments are occupied at a discount, due to the control of apartments. rents, by single people whose children have been away for a long time.
do you know a politician with a realistic plan and a credible will to tackle the problem?
is there anyone who can kill me?
that tracks for me. every eviction i know of was fraudulent.
my landlord told me that he was going to take over my accommodation in 2024, to live there himself.
pretty sure it's a disguised renovation given the amount of my rent, but i can fuck all.
can’t trust a single word tva says. totally corrupt
imagine buying a house on your own while you are working for minimum wage ... not complicated staffair !!!! you just have to eat rice three times a day for 25 years living in a rat hole, if you don't get renovated, and pay a mortgage for 30 years working hard 80 hours a week under the table. once there you will benefit from your financial liberation. you might be 68 and die at 75, but at least you won't be a burden on the good business and real estate owner who pays for your damn bs social services.
oh wait, these dirty poor people don't deserve to live except to be exploited. they just had to make the right choices at 16.
really, the poor shouldn't have the right to reproduce. it is immoral.
so what? what i take away from this is that when you own property you should be able to do what you want with it. don’t like it? don’t rent someone else’s property and buy your own.
edit: fools, clearly if so many evictions are fraudulent then there needs to be a change in the rules that more easily allows people to reclaim their property. it’s happening whether people like it or not, might as well adjust the regulations so things can be done more equitably. all of western society is based on free market capitalism, but you wanna socialize housing? lol, good luck.
it's renoviction and it's already a major problem in ny
a real estate market necessarily guarantees a permanent shortage of real estate.
the market is the problem.
[how to fix the housing crisis](
"you can't buy or sell your way out of a crisis of distribution"
thank you for the information! it's sad indeed
you're a good man.
but if no one bought those luxury lofts or 3 1/2 lofts, the business would be at a loss.
the "market" does not operate in a vacuum. renovating 5 1/2 is not going to make you money for sure. it only works when there is demand for it, especially today from young professionals.
exactly.
ayoye.
except when it comes after months of harassment, is it really valid?
is an agreement after 9 months of harassment really an agreement?
so statistically it's worth nothing. people who know why they had a justified foreclosure usually won't contact local agencies to help dispute it.
wouldn’t the most precise numbers come from the régie?
> i work in the real estate business credit division of a large bank and on my desk every day there are companies that ask for credit for renovations but also that one of the expense items that justifies the figure of the demand is the cost of maintaining an empty home for 1 year and the cost of evictions. the most common ploy that i know and observe is eviction for major work and keeping vacant places.
> 
> i have already read the history of a company that has foreclosed more than 800 homes, mostly 5 1/2 to make loft and luxury 3 1/2. his real estate debt was astronomical but also 15% was in opportunity cost.
yes that's why they quote figures from alberta
it is indeed statistically biased, but it does not take a doc in math to understand that a normal landlord repossesses housing every 15/20 years (living yourself, housing children or the elderly) while a fraudster makes multiple occasions per year and that consequently a dozen owners largely crush hundreds of owners without problems
you can open a dossier at the regie du logement in montréal if the rent is 1 day late as well.
florida is a state with laws taylored for swindlers and crooks. for example, you cannot seize the main residence when one goes bankrupt, and the "residence" goes all the way to fixtures (lamps, faucets), which is why there is such a big market for solid-gold fixtures in florida.
so it's not surprising that you can kick people out after 5 days, which is only 4 times faster than our 21 days here.
story time ?
it's sad sometimes how people placed to have compassion don't show much compassion.
it is forbidden to evict people aged 70 and over, even to accommodate a member of your family or to divide / subdivide. disgusting!
new york has had rent control for years, and it's the only reason the working class has the ability to live in the city. 
montreal is vastly overpriced right now. most renovations you are seeing are aesthetics (drywall and fixtures) whereas many properties are being listed without work done to roofs, foundations, brick...it's spelling impending disaster as people currently buying have no idea of the sunk costs.
i say this not to dismiss your point, but to say that rent control isn't the problem, but greed and speculation.
the average salary in montreal is still around 50,000. the actual economics just can't keep up, especially with reasonable priced housing available within an hour drive.
> rent control benefits a small older minority, to the detriment of the majority and especially young families, who have to pay more for tiny apartments, because family-sized apartments are occupied at a discount, due to control rents, by single people whose children have been away for a long time.
so, if i understand correctly, you are saying that the high rents will guarantee access to housing for families even if they cannot afford this housing?
> when in 2019 an owner is stuck with a rent of $ 445 per month for an apartment, it is impossible to keep it in good condition.
how is it impossible? you have the right to increase the rent according to the amount invested in renovation. it is wrong to imply that the owners are not able to afford the necessary renovations to their building without making a mess.
> the owner then re-let it for $ 1,590 per month, which means that this owner had an opportunity cost of more than $ 1,000 per month on this one unit. it is clearly unsustainable.
an opportunity cost !? haha, that's a nice way to say it's below market value. but it's not a cost, let's see!
but you are right on one point. it is indeed rent control that is at the origin of the phenomenon described in the article.
the skyrocketing rents in montreal, the phenomenon of renovations and the huge profits of flip companies come from the fact that rents do not reflect the market value. notably because, according to the established rules, a change in the market value of a home is not a valid pretext to increase rent.
we have come to a point where the difference between market value and price paid is so great that real estate flip companies are literally making illegal foreclosures their business model.
as soon as it touches homes (ie a high% of a lot of people's portfolio) nobody says anything except vague comments.
qs are probably the ones who would complain the most.
kshama sawant
google can translate all the pages you want ... it's a wonder.
[
bin then see, it is not true that, you have recourse! first, your landlord's notice 4 years in advance has no impact on your lease. he must do this 6 months before the end of your lease (so usually in december). he must send you a written notice that follows the nlp model and you can answer him in writing that you dispute. after that, he will have to file an appeal with the tal to justify his eviction.
then, he will owe you 3 months of rent and the expenses of your move, and that even if you dispute. you can also claim additional damage if you can prove it.
finally, if you end up being ousted, you have every interest in checking in the following year who lives there. set yourself a kijiji search alert, walk past it every now and then, and take photos if you see any renovations. you can even get tested if you're not sure. if he rents it in the following year or that he doesn't live there when he told you he wanted to live there, you have a possible recourse to the tal to ask to have your accommodation back and to obtain damages. .
objectively unlikely with a date in 2024
have you given up your critical sense?
what a strange way to see it. 
if you're renting property, i'd go out on a limb and say you probably don't have the means to just.. "go out and buy your own".
your point of view applied to any other rental situation might make you realize how inconsiderate it is of others :
say we had an agreement for you to "rent" 12 seasons of a tv show from me, but before you could even get to the 8th season, i forced you to give me back all the dvds.
sure , you're mad that you didnt get the chance to finish the tv show, but you should have gone out and bought it yourself if you really wanted to watch it. right?
absolutely not, the right of property, as every other right including the freedom of speech, comes with limitations to make it viable in a society.
is this some “pull yourself from the bootstraps” mentality ?
you’re joking right? not everyone can afford property. also investments aren’t a guaranteed return. no investment is. why do landlords feel this specific type of investment has the right to max returns all the time without taking into account the lives of people.
are you stupid?
when you rent out a place, you have temporarily relinquished the rights to that place in exchange for money. there is a legal infrastructure to abide by.
it's a bit disconnected.  if you walk around this city and look at it, the majority of the people can't afford to own a home.  
same applies the other way too.  if you want to get into the renting game, you need to follow the rules.
[removed]
> all of western society is based on free market capitalism, but you wanna socialize housing? 
why not? after all, transportation is socialized with all those socialist free roads.
r/loveforlandlords
is this am or pm?
chemtrails
wow
[deleted]
moon better hurry the fuck up, it's almost curfew.  there's an spvm car parked behind the iss waiting to issue a ticket.
the pixels of our simulation are leaking. neat!
just took it 10 min ago
checkout
nicely done. you made them all get their socks wet with slushy snow.
why? they are quite ordinary
10minutes later ... ticket!
welcome it's called “solar radiation management” and “geoengineering”
thank you!
finally people of culture
short report from the [src on rafael payare] (
their website is really pissing off, i can't connect.
i don't know much about it, but he's very nice to me ...
does the osm have a certain notoriety in the world?
thank you! i will surely be there.
and for lovers of historical typography, check out the reproduction of the 1935 program in the program at  . apparently, we wrote "artistic director" and "conductor" with a hyphen, in time.
awesome! i'm looking forward to this.
remindme! 3 hours
i'd be curious how many people are watching the live stream.
ah! thank you so much :)
will watch, thanks!
i know! i missed the roman carnival and the entire first movement of the symphony!
it's okey for me.
in addition, their app for ios (available at the bottom of the page) “is not available for your country”: i'm in montreal !!!
it's not the berlin or vienna philharmonic, or the lso ... i would say that the osm is like in the * second-tier *, in the top 20 or 30 in the world, but not in the top 10. mainly recognized in the 80s-90s with recordings of impressionism from france (ravel / debussy) under dutoit.
😯
it will be available for several days, i'll get back to you later. :)
ah well it's nice 😆 eh lala
sponsored by labatt 50
shout out to the man who is scratching his pussy at 3:11 and honorable mention to the one proudly wearing a lace capine at 1:33!
lots of burgers
seems like a lot less people had a problem with being overweight, what happened?
unbelievable! i loved it, but i can't believe i watched it all haha. surely because of the koyaanisquatsi feeling and the spliff that i just consume legally wow life changes it's cool. long live mtl!
"i had flowers in my hair, did you have to be silly"
ahhh- the before times. look at all those crazy idiots walking around without masks on!!!
seriously, that is a really cool video. my parents passed through montreal at that time - i wouldn't have been surprised to see them ...
here, at around 2:01, we see [the chic cabaret chez dieu] (
wow the girl of the minute 1:37 ...
was that before or after lsd came in the play  ?
makes me want to go hang out on a street corner with a couple cameras for an afternoon.
la boheme, it doesn't mean anything at all.
where’s all the construction ... jokes...
[deleted]
et imperial tobacco
at the time when we could film freely without being sued
hold my expo 67...
and yet, we looked a lot less fat back then.
but they all smoked quite a bit. it almost cancels out!
they smoked more and ate at restaurants less often
high-fructose corn syrup.
we see a burger at the beginning, it is a lot smaller than those of now xd
no one had a chariot, we walked and cycled everywhere.
that's also why we had a lot more terraces.
they had time to cook at home.
a look 40 years ahead of its time haha
yeah, you should definitely start by punching yourself first!
and martini & rossi it seems.
it has changed? it seems to me that we film 10 times more now.
nobody had tanks? old montreal was a parking lot ... the champ-de-mars was a parking lot .. the park with the flag statue too ...
then why especially older people always complain about biking or construction of bike paths if they all grew up with walking and riding bicycles
[and the little life] (
with phones ... the radio-canada team must have had a very big camera at that time
back then almost all the infrastructure was new, so none of it needed construction. there were no bikes path, you were happily sharing the roads with drunk drivers, everybody got along (and deaths didn't matter).
because societies evolve and nowadays everybody has cars?
not sure what point you were trying to make. 
i know this might seem crazy, but people change over time
so now they complain because the newer generation is living more comfortably ?
as is tradition.
36% participation...is pathetic 😑
all that is in gray are boroughs demerged by the liberal government of jean charest, mainly anglo / liberal.
the demerger of the boroughs directly led to a party like projet montréal to take the lead in the face of the type of governance à la gérald tremblay and denis coderre of this world.
so for a rare time, thank you jean charest
cdn-ndg now has a project montreal mayor.
outside perez!
why does saint-laurent vote so overwhelmingly for denis coderre? like what's the appeal for this borough? i live there and do not get it but i only moved there a few years ago so maybe someone with more mtl-knowledge can explain it to me?
not badly disappointed with my hood, rdp-pat. i mean come on. since plante has been here, we have seen certain improvements in public transport and the safety of the main streets, something that would probably have been reversed with coderre. (i'm mostly talking about rdp, i don't visit pat often)
here’s a interactive map from ctv montreal if like to look at more details
wtf montreal-nord? did you really think the other was going to have the slightest thought for you?
île biz went fully coderre. this graphic is wrong.
i know someone who lives on the west island. “i don’t like plante.  she took away all the parking and now there are bikes everywhere. not safe!”
too bad your city de-merged or you could have been a part of the process to chose montréal’s mayor. ;)
i’d be curious to see this map with the % of vote that went to the candidate, like that purple map of the usa; no state was 100% red or blue.
the scale (20km) is used for what, exactly?
i see the heartland/hinterland rule is at play here.
not once have i heard someone even mention the date to vote
not at all surprised by rdp-pat and their little bubble of isolated suburbanites. they must have been the first to whine to say that "there may have been parking spaces because of all the cyclab piss osti!"
so let them stay in their damn clouds of refinery smoke ... meanwhile, the rest of the city will continue to ride in beciks to work and do errands.
edit: ah well i swallow my words. looks like projet montreal was finally elected. i am very happy.
some analysts have mentioned that the turnout is generally lower when one election comes right after another.
in this case, people are already burnt down because of the federal election.
37% 😸, 42% last time
it really didn't appeal to me, but i made an effort to help coderre get rid of again.
as someone who worked at the elections this weekend. i didnt complain about the participation as i got to do all my school work for the week + watch the whole f1 grand prix with the amount of free time we had lol. to be fair though, the process to register to vote, especially if you have recently moved or have any different circumstance is an extreme pain in the ass. i dont understand why they make you jump through so many hoops just to do your civil duty, as theyre basically convincing people that dont have unlimited free time not to come.
ben honestly a large party of the electorate is just little represented in the 3 parties which were in contention.
do you remember when ralliement pour montréal (the 4th option) merged with mouvement montreal and in the end just disappeared because instead of becoming a unifying party, mouvement montreal became a party that advocated secession with its roots? french cities. and since that moment the party has stagnated in the polls because lol montreal is not toronto.
what a big fail.
and then you have frédéric bastien who openly started to support denis coderre since he put himself before as being the only one mentioned the french fact ...
what a disaster.
the choice between the roc, the refurbished federal liberal or the municipal qs does not attract the electorate.
who remains?
gilbert thibodeau or stay at home.
lol
64% want to know nothing.
including me.. 36.1%
it was a big mistake, however, in a way because to see the management of these old cities and the rest of the boroughs it is 2 different worlds, they do not think in the same way and are not managed in the same way. still today.
by the way, you knew that gérald tremblay in fact ruled \ * \ * \ * \ * all it was zampino who did everything.
well, the richest neighborhoods pay no cost for the montreal infra that they use.
so the richest keep the money near their exclusive residences.
you will also thank him for royalmount.
cdn-ndg and ville marie are 30% francophone at best, votes liberal by dictator-level margins, and went plante. montreal nord and rdp are more than 67% francophone, in some parts is competitive for caq, and went coderre.
christ. we're not all running over cyclists in our suvs because we're reading the latest robert libman article in the gazette. a big reason plante gained in her vote is because she recognized her party wasn't very diverse and made efforts to reach out beyond her base on the plateau to sell her platform to other areas. she's going to accomplish more in the city because of this.
oh i didn't know they mattered yet i was vrm disappointed to see perez the winner
best midday news for me. amen.
mainly anglos and people who love their cars. it's my experience at least.
i live here. while i'm sure mayor desousa has skeletons in his closet, in my experiences with him he's been approachable and effective. in terms of ecology and stuff like bike lanes, he's probably closer to plante than coderre, though i'd like him to go further. i think people just voted for the well known incumbent who's been doing an ok job.
i think a lot of people in saint-laurent use cars to move around and with valérie plante being less pro-motorist, people there were afraid to have her elected
they’re all car-dependent condo and sfh dwellers.
it is not badly less popular among anglos and allos, the mentality more suburban.
it was not under plante that there was a beautiful renovated promenade in the vieux pat on st-jean-baptiste to restore the neighborhood to value?
rdp freaked out ?!
the map is inaccurate.
denis coderre grew up in montreal north and it is his stronghold.
and lasalle has its own party, not plante. she actually finished in 3rd place there.
it's just the votes for mayor, but by borough. not the district town halls.
that would make a lot more sense.
lol finally caroline bourgeois from pm was reelected. you spoke too soon to marie-josée savard!
ooohhh the jealous, how cute he is !!!
ah yes, well exhausting going to vote.
it's been a month since we had a federal election.
it's not an excuse.
same lol. first time i vote and i'm super happy she won!
> coderre again.
lol! more difficult to get rid of than zombies!
luc ferrandez mentioned last night that coderre will not realize his dream of becoming the flag jeans of the 21st century!
verification made: i did not know that drapeau had won in 1954, lost in 1957, became mayor again in 1960 and sat until 1986!
it does seem like a hassle. i recently moved, and i was scolding my local friends for their apathy until they showed me the pamphlet with the multi-step process to register.
> the choice between the roc, the refurbished federal liberal or the municipal qs does not attract the electorate.
it is indeed sad not to have a michel brûlé to represent your interests. what you listed, however, represents the vast majority of montreal, my dear.
it is more due to the fact that the issues of municipal elections are of less interest to people than those of federal and provincial governments. this has always been the case in montreal, where municipal powers are relatively limited.
i used the title of mayor, why zampino was the boss
growing up in ddo, there's no shortage of scandals there either, but i know what you mean.
this is a mistake on several levels, but probably, the 10% of the population that lives could have made the difference on several occasions
to note
i am not for defusion
i'm just saying that there is a certain irony to all of this
yes, but the rich pay like 70% of federal and provincial taxes for services they don't use either.
really cool for people with reduced mobility, the elderly or even with a young child!
details of the autonomous shuttle pilot project in [this post] (
the shuttles are usually covered and parked behind gates in the parking lot on rue saint-andré, towards jean-talon.
**edit:**  
i just found the city's official article about the project.
[montreal.ca - a pilot project of autonomous electric shuttles in plaza saint-hubert] ( saint-hubert-19054)
15km/h, roll cage de char de nascar 😃
cute!
can i crosspost on r / electricvehicles? it will make them trip (a little).
it's good as a project but i think they should have put money instead to attract businesses that are not thrift stores or the sale of wedding dresses
are you the same powertrain as the small electric shuttle in old quebec? he tore off this one on the slopes lol
[mr car?](
i didn't know that playmobil made real vehicles (as small as toys).
perfect, we can transport 5 people instead of 50 people compared to a conventional bus.
also the gang that does not skip leg day.
i agree, but i regret that she does not go to bellechasse.
> shuttles are usually covered
me, i would have well you too the female dog that it pisses in the wind worse that it decides this story lol!
it turns on a thirty sous, but it flips on a dime!
wait until it stays stalled in a pothole or a squirrel turns it upside down 🤭
the businesses are already starting to change, but rather on the beaubien metro side for the moment.
quite a few vacant premises on the jean-talon side, that should change in the coming years.
what do you have against the yellowed 48+ double kk wedding dresses?
there is no slope on this section of street. it should be fine...
oh yes! i've been in one that couldn't climb a hill but i can't remember which one. de la montague p-ê. in any case, he had to go out. but the same ... quebec is just that of the batinse of big ribs. it was all a nonsense plan to roll it over there. so it looks like they tested them empty?
it's a pilot project with different intentions than a bus ... we're talking about a loop of only 2km ...
[montreal.ca - a pilot project of autonomous electric shuttles in plaza saint-hubert] ( saint-hubert-19054)
> this pilot project makes it possible in particular to test the route of autonomous electric shuttles in residential and commercial contexts.
so you want the first autonomous vehicles in city to go 50 km/hr with 50 people aboard going all around the city? you need pilot projects to show the technology can work in this setting first.
what do you mean? are they going to pedal underneath like fred caillou?
haha! bin of videos to come!
lol for the pothole
are so autonomous that they remained caught between two fences in an autonomous way!
they will get lost on their own too!
long live autonomy!
hoping that the rents are reasonable.
you're racked stiff after a squat session if it's not leg day everyday.
yeah everything should stay like in my time. before i arrived on earth it was pocket and now everything that is new is pocket (especially if i don't want to make the effort to understand)
worse those who go slower than me on the highway are peperes worse those who go faster than me are sick ya just me worse my time which is correct!
hmmm. i just have time to have a good leg day on saturday after a spinning session and i'm not racked neither on sunday nor after. is it spinning? or the stretching routine afterwards? or because i'm old, or because for a moment the carcass gets used to the idea that that's what it is?
priority hehe
i think a lot of people here just don't understand humor and take it all face to face!
by the way, this is just a joke and i am for this type of transport but what do you want, they have some that are always going to take everything in the face and feel offended forever.
in addition, your comment is good but it should just be directed to the right people ...
in the end, i would have had to write roughly this is a joke.
ps people should stretch their legs a bit!
reddit's specialty: writing that it was a joke afterwards when we see that people find us twit.
well yes, well yes !!!
or, phrased a different way;
montreal just had its *least* muggiest august for the rest of our lives.
sounds about right. my hydro bill was way up due to running my ac like 24/7. was it also the hottest august on record, or just the muggiest?
having just moved from calgary, i suffered lol
it really was hot for august...usually it's during the dog days that you get heat like that. i like the heat but after a while i got sick of the humidity, everything being sticky, my hair fuzzing up, etc. glad it's over!
i love that every time one of these posts are about *moist* air the title uses a different synonym for moist ha ha
also ouch i felt this humidity, i felt like a little frog in a mushroom house in a swamp :')
even the weather is getting mugged
[deleted]
makes one appreciate the four seasons, especially autumn.
and it's only going to get worse from here! follow the science
now let's do a correlation between humidex and crime!
33 ain’t nothing compared to southeast america. 69 dew point on average
i like the gold medal. "we're number 1! we're number 1!"
i love how a lot of the records were years ago but now it’s global warming but when the earth was on fire back in the day it was ok.
i doubt it
it was.  i post that kind of information in /r/montrealwxrecords/
i had to empty a part of my ac that i didn't know existed yesterday, due to the humidity filling it up with water.
42 pint noma dehumidifier. my new favorite appliance.
i also cover calgary weather.  they don't know how nice they have it out there.  they complain when the summer night's stay above 10°c.  they set a record this year for the warmest night ever: 18.8°c.  that kind of night happens about a dozen times per year in montreal.
get ac. i caved this year as an edmonton transplant from a couple years back.
one morning after breakfast i got up and did as i always do ie push my chair under the table with a foot while picking up my plate etc. well, what? it was so humid the chair sticked to the floor and i sprained a pinky.
came in wondering if it was about muggings.
learning words while learning about weather history is a lot more fun than expected!
and that right there is the difference between french and québécois
almost all crime happens at comfortable temperatures.  if it's too hot or too cold, most crime drops significantly.
an average dew point of 69°f seems extremely high.  where are you talking about?  maybe singapore, but i doubt anywhere in the us has it that high.
is southeast america argentina?
i love how 6/10 were since 2000 and 4/10 in last decade.
i especially love pointing it out to people who try to pretend that since a couple statistical outliers always exist rarely throughout history, a sudden large cluster of the same aberration is of absolutely no concern at all.
number 1 and 2 and from the last 4 years, so yes, its pretty eye opening and a strong proof that we’re seeing the effects of global warming.
mugging my life force out of my body that's for sure
i translate for the french:
her kids have a paddling pool in the backyard, but it's made dirty because the kids are splashing all over the place and it's making mud.
in the last 70 years of global warming only 2 years were hotter than 1955…
and 69 augusts were muggier than 1964. what's your point?
beautiful haunted photo!
i always go there once or twice a month at night to drink alone and celebrate life's little victories lol 👀
it just lacks the first notes of beethoven's 5th.
i'm not even sure if i'm talking about the right melody.
the one that begins with ... doudoudou doudou doudou.
damn coincidence that all the miracles of brother andré and companies have stopped exactly as technology (photography, personal medical records, etc.) could have shown all miracles without ambiguity or rigging!
oh well!
[deleted]
lol with that angle it's a / r / evilbuildings
it is a crypt.
strongly more original photos. you hardly ever see the lakes or just anything other than leonard cohen.
wow, that's beautiful. where exactly is that relative to downtown montreal?
are you the one with the frustrated rich marina?
that?
always a bunch of morons fishing sturgeon out of season.
or the original photo of the kondiaronk belvedere "omg first bike ride on the mountain what a view"
its a straight bike ride from old montreal, just keep going along the canal
west (20-30min by car)
not exactly there. on the other side.
close. that marina is about to be turned into a massive park.
thanks. god willing i'll be able to do that trip this summer.
thank you
depends on traffic. i live in lachine near this and can be downtown in 15 minutes if it's not rush hour.
i very much hope it will work.
[deleted]
but the rich no longer have room for their boats.
yep, lachine/lasalle really isn't much a couple blocks from the waterfront.
i grew up there too - on 18th ave/provost area.
pretty cool stuff has been announced for this summer tho! aire commune is going to be on the site of the marina open for all with kayak/sup/canoe rentals for like 10$. i also grew up in lachine and its the first time im looking forward to spending time in the borough!
how's the women?
[oh no!](
i work in the er so i see them often and i’ve spotted more than one... and i also saw one guy with a punisher patch, which i thought was not professional or appropriate in the current climate
> montreal police said they are currently in the process of a "complete review" of the dress code for their officers. but they're staying tight-lipped on when the process started and how many officers have modified their uniforms.
knowing some people in the police (not montréal) it’s probably viewed as solidarity with police, while ignoring the actual meaning of the “thin blue line. and thats still not ok. 
you don’t need a bastardization of the flag to support law enforcement. but they don’t implicitly deserve respect either. they are supposed to exist to support their community, not be a paramilitary group.
so does the canadian thin blue line flag also look like their national flag was shot and bled to death?
edit: yes, yes it does
>the police service did not respond to other questions, including how  many officers have been wearing the symbol or if any have been  disciplined.
usual spvm shit. zero respect for them.
it pissed me off at first, but come to think of it, if the policeman has these beliefs, maybe it is better if he wears the patch so that he is easy to recognize.
of course. leave it to montreal to overanalyze a simple symbol of brotherly solidarity for a uniquely crucial and challenging profession.
funny most people slinging mud at them night and day wouldn't last a night or a day in their shoes.
pampered babies.
edit: well commies it was fun, y'all have a good night something you couldn't have were it not for that thin blue line.
i walked by 3 cops yesterday and at least one of the them was wearing the 'thin blue line'. i'd be really interested for a group other than the spvm to look into this because i totally agree that this is probably quite common and i'd love for the findings to be publicly available.
the punisher logo is disgustingly inappropriate and i genuinely think any cop caught wearing it should face consequences. with the 'thin blue line' its problematic because it represents systemic problems with policing but you have to be somewhat in the know to see that patch and not just mistake it for a weird canadian flag. a skull on the other hand is a very common symbol for death, which by no means a group who are supposed to be "protecting" the general public should be wearing. let alone at a time when police killing civilians is a major societal concern.
as a white man if i had to interact with a cop wearing a skull patch, i'd definitely be freaked out & scared. i can only imagine what someone who is black, or has less societal privileges than me, would feel like interacting with a cop sporting a death insignia.
not appropriate and also stupid because the punisher hates legal systems that don't help anyone
canadian bope
>i work in the er so i see them often 
how would say your interactions with them are on average
that says a lot about those in  charge, the mere fact that they have to review!! is it police and union issued? if not, they should be made to remove it!!!
it means they are going to wait till this blows over and do nothing
@captaincanusa ..... is there a petition out there to put these imbeciles in check? "complete review "??? .... utter bullshit! the public should get a vote on this since we pay for these 14 week trained up people....
“ignorance is no excuse”, isn’t that their thing?
why am i held at a higher standard than the person with the gun?
so you dont actually know, right? you're assuming this because you know some people but in the end, you have no clue other than guessing? just wanted to clarify the weight of your comment.
most cops wouldn’t last a day as a lawyer, a doctor, a soldier, a teacher or most other professions since that’s not their job . but you don’t see many other uniformed jobs wear offensive symbolism
lol
yes, it is just montreal making an issue of this ‘simple’ symbol.  you know it has been banned by cities across n.a. and the rcmp right?  
if brotherly solidarity was so important to them, the police could start by treating their fellow man with humanity regardless of their race.  
i won’t have any sympathy for a group that regularly show examples of racism, unchecked violence, and impunity across the ranks.  and even if this is from a minority of police, the blind support amongst the ranks shows the core is rotten
lol it’s a hate symbol. straight up. now shut the fuck up.
>  leave it to montreal to overanalyze a simple symbol
> most people slinging mud at them night and day wouldn't last a night or a day in their shoes.
found the cop. 
you know it's fine to just do a job without begging people to call you a hero, right? in fact, actual "heroes" tend to not whine so much generally.
> funny most people slinging mud at them night and day wouldn't last a night or a day in their shoes.
hahahahahahahaha, wasting 2 hours of tax payers money by chilling next to tim hortons and you say people wouldn't last ?
you have almost 70% more chances of dying working as a pizza delivery than being a cop.
the red scare has been outdated for a long time. you'll have to find something other than to call the world communists.
yeah, the 136 people who downvoted you are all commies. must be it.
that’s how i feel too. i wouldn’t be comfortable if a guy with a patch like that pulled me over.
probably terrified as the cop leads them to the all-minority cop-centration camps on the outskirts of oppressionville! it's a miracle there are any minorities left at this point!
seems pretty much exactly what these ding dongs want: no oversight for them to go on their rampages with extreme prejudice.
very cordial and professional. nothing negative to say. they accompany patients who have been victim/perpetrator of a crime or people that have been in big motor véhicule accident for a while depending on the situation.
i didn’t say it excuses them at all. in fact, i explicitly stated it is not a mitigating factor.
... i have no idea what you’re point is.
we could delve into the deeper points of gnosticism but that seems like a pointless exercise.
you largely overestimate the challenge that legal practice and teaching represent...
as for soldiers and doctors, they're not generally the ones criticizing cops, so yeah. moot point.
you mean the same rcmp whose bosses are the liberals? 
lmao, as if that was any sort of reference for anything.
that's cool buddy. you can crawl back to your safe space.
i'm not even a cop dude.
better luck next time.
you got a source on that “statistic”, chief?
on the r/montreal subreddit? yes lol
i wish you would actually interact with what i said rather than your imagined tangent version. the city did an [investigation of the police force and found that they were 4-5 times more likely to stop a racial minority than they are a white person.]( does this mean that they every interaction between police and a person of colour results in the cop assaulting or killing that person? no, but it is tangible proof that there is a racial bias in the city's police force.
now if you are someone who is far more likely to be stopped by cops just because of the colour of your skin, how can you be trusting and at ease if that officer is wearing an out-of-uniform skull patch? which again is the symbolic representation of death. it feels especially ironic in the age bill 21 where there is a debate over public servants (like police officers) being able to wear religious garb & symbols, and then having some cops thinking its okay to wear uniform defying death-related iconography. at the very least, it is an absolutely tone deaf move on the part of any cop who chooses to wear a punisher skull.
i’m agreeing with you dude
[deleted]
you have no idea? really? you must probably know what my point is in the same way you probably know why cops in montreal have started wearing this symbol.
you definitely underestimate the challenge teaching represents. and that tells us all we need to know about your opinions.
ew people are still saying this? are you not embarrassed
> i'm not even a cop dude.
i mean, it was a joke, but congrats on just licking someone's boot, rather than actually owning the boot?
delivery drivers is ranked well above police officers. the source at bls.gov is down right now.
construction workers and people in transport have a higher mortality rate than cops
and most cops die because someone hit them during a traffic stop.
did they do an investigation of how much more likely a racial minority is to commit a crime than a white person? is there a racial bias in statistical modeling?? we must deconstruct math!
gnosticism deals with knowledge, as in knowing the real truth. unfortunately any real truth that any human can claim to know is ultimately reduced down to a expression of faith; a deeply held belief that cant be ultimately prooved.
in this case you have one side saying the thin blue line represents a form of latent facism or hidden far right beliefs, another side says it represents a solidarity for people that share the experience of a dangerous and traumatic employment.
it is possible that it is one or the other or both simultaneously depending on the personal beliefs of the persons wearing the badge and the person looking at the person wearing the badge.
bet you're an undercover cop lmao.
no, i really don’t. 
i’m arguing against the cops here because i know people who are police and know what their train of thought is, and you’re just trying to argue about how i can know anything. well i could just argue back that how can you claim to know something.  like, what’s the point of that circular argument?
i can’t even tell why you would argue about “knowing” anything. you could apply that to literally anything in an attempt to shut down discussion about anything. 
so no, i have no fucking idea why you’re arguing a minute point. i’m not claiming to speak for any police, i’m saying from the people that i do know, i can see their perspective on it, but that it’s still wrong. i didn’t claim to have absolute clairvoyance on every cop and know everything, just what i do know.
i bet you think you sound clever...
nothing beats going to the biodome in the dead of winter to hang out in the tropical zone. i’ve missed going the past few years. 
doesn’t look like they changed that much during the renos from what i’ve seen though.
is that after the supposedly giant renovation that tooks years? it look very similar to how it did before...
finally going there this weekend, dates become available on a day by day basis one month ahead
i just went there yesterday. everything is amazing! the animals are super cute.
always look like the vélodrome to me...
too bad it is insanely difficult to get tickets.
the penguin dome is a real pity ....
holy adverts!
long live the biodome
i miss so much the biodône
fucking penguin shit smell... ugh
still a fucking zoo...
went there with my kids 2 kids last september i was very disappointed knowing all the money we spent there with our taxes ....it's very small and there's nothing much...
the south pole is not a ecosystem of the americas.
that's what i heard also. nothing much changed, visually. i gather lots of back-end stuff though. infrastructure etc.
haven’t been there in forever, so for me it will feel like new!
it was the "behind the scene" that was in bad shape.
looks like 90% or more of the video is pre covid, so before the renovations
i went last week and honestly looks like they just cleaned up the place and removed some extra animals / plants.
yeah looks the same lol
yup, it's nuts. had a week worth of slots fill up as i added one day to my cart. slot was available one minute, then no slots a minute later!
finally got a spot but man it's popular right now!
if you sign up for the yearly pass, you have a separate ticket booth with more availability, otherwise it's made available on a day-per-day basis one month ahead at midnight.
so tonight, you'll be able to get tickets for may 23rd for example.
all i could see was imprisoned animals... how is this still legal?
you being downvotes but you are right, there really isn't much there anymore. all the money and years of closure for what exactly lol.
who cares lmao i still want to see the penguins
they aren’t antarctic penguins— you can find all of the penguins at the biodome at the southernmost tip of south america and in the antarctic circle islands, but largely not antarctica itself.
preach 🙌
its honestly disappointing, a lot of animals missing and all they added really was some stairs in some areas and that bland af huge entry.
honestly not worth going.
the ice tunnel is new so it’s post renovations i think.
this is post renos, you can tell by the gigantic artsy white walls.
oh it's a shame to hear that, i was expecting something brand new ...
there are more availibility if someone signs up for the yearly pass btw, amis du biodome?
it’s not imprisonment, but a conservation effort. species at the biodôme are given what they need for the environment to feel like their natural habitat, and a lot of those species are part of international conservation efforts, where we have no choice but to breed animals in captivity, because their numbers are too low. the golden lion tamarin of the tropical habitat, for example, is a species that has become endangered because of the destruction of its habitat in brazil, and there is so few individuals that’s it’s unlikely that the  remaining ones would be able to meet and reproduce enough for the species to survive. ideally, we would eventually be able to reintroduce the species in the wild.
people see it as a conservation and educational tool to ensure the long term survival of these animals and their ecosystems. most people working there love animals and have spent a large part of their lives caring for them, they often seem to care more about the animals than the people, which is a good thing :)
lmao you probably would have said the same about the whale enclosure they were trying to add.
they have lots of penguins in africa also.  cute little ones.
they say sub antarctic zone...
i think its mixed
how come no one has masks?
why are you so convinced that biodiversity conservation is the reason why these animals are there in the first place? rather than simple entertainment? they don't even mention it on their website. all places with animals in captivity claim that they do that for biodiversity/ raising awareness while making money on their backs for beings cute. they don't even provide information on which animals are there and how endangered their species are.
>they don't even mention it on their website
this literally took me three clicks to find on their website:
*within the framework of a policy of compliance with international plant and animal health standards, the biodôme’s conservation activities involve its living collections as well as safeguarding natural environments. the biodôme participates in a number of national and international conservation programs to prevent extinction and promote reintroduction of endangered species into their natural habitat. it also conducts many research projects on endangered species or collaborates with partner institutions on their research.*
(source: [
beavers are not endangered
no, but they once were because of over hunting for their fur. they have since been reintroduced into the wild, which has been going pretty well. and beavers are what we call a “keystone species”. which means they have a lot of impact on the ecosystem around them, and their disappearance would most likely mean very drastic consequences for that ecosystem, consequences that could also impact us humans. so it’s a good thing they have been reintroduced. however, that reintroduction also came with problems in certain areas, so there is research being done at the biodôme with the goal of finding a way to limit their population in those problematic areas without interfering with their mating behaviour.
misinformation about covid is prohibited.
if you are an account that comes to / r / montreal almost never except to talk about covid, i don't know it comes from where this brigade is, but i will kick you out permanently.
there have been ~~ two ~~ three banned so far in the thread.
lost my job last december right before the holidays. convinced i won’t be able to find anything now. there’s nothing to look forward to these days.. 
not saying the lockdown is not necessary, i just wish people took it more seriously and stopped gathering, travelling to mexico, and just respected the rules. your selfishness affects others
this is an interesting exercise where the government is trying to mandate individual behaviour through recommendations, guidelines and restrictions and they are discovering that they are powerless in the face of fucking morons that refuse to follow their recommendations, guidelines and restrictions.
there is no social contract.  not enough people care what this virus does to less vulnerable people to change their behaviours.
so here we are, losing our freedoms to spread viruses and make people sick and we are furious about it.
this is a test run.  humanity has zero chance against a more deadly virus.
we hear so much about the death rate, i wish we heard more about the lasting health effects for people that are catchibg covid. i am not in an age group that i would likely die if it caught this, but i am going to do everything i can to avoid catching something that could cause me health problems for the rest of my life.
not dying is important to me for sure, but so is being able to climb the stairs without being out of breath, or keeping all of my limbs...
honestly, this next lockdown just confirms that i need to stock up on some lindt sea salt chocolate bars, plunk my ass on my couch for the 9th month in a row and watch repeats of shitty movies until i die.
[removed]
just go all out. close fucking schools, have some measures in to compensate parents who gotta stay home with their kids, just all out full lockdown till there's some control. i hate this half assed measures for a few weeks till it dips, reopen, numbers rise ,rinse repeat.
ciborium that i'm sick of this osti affair. in addition with lego who talks to us as if we were 5 years old, sacrament man be clear and assume what you say, that would solve half of the problems
as far as i know, we have been in confinement since october, and there was already total confinement from december 25 to january 11. now they talk like we've only been chilling as a gang for the past 3 months. i haven't seen my friends for 3 months to be told i'm one of the only assholes who took this seriously.
awaye everyone at home but we will keep the primary schools open just to cancel the rest of the measures taken
i don't know why, but the idea of "curfew" just feels different. like it's more upsetting than the other measures.
and when this doesn't work (like everything else done until now, other than when the weather got warmer and people were actually scared) what will they do? there's literally nothing left to close, and people care less than at any other time to date.
like i said in the other post that got deleted,
well ... faque i'm going to finish my tele-work at 6 p.m. (like probably a lot of people) and i'll have maybe just 2 hours to cook, eat and try to get some fresh air before locking myself in. new inside ... not stressful at all! that's if i don't have to run to the grocery store to fuck with the bundle of other people who are going to have the same schedule as mine and who are going to rush all to the same place at the same time .
i hope that is one of the exceptions that legault foresees, because concentrating everyone in the grocery store at the same time is not ideal.
well then, looks like he has completely lost control now. 
seems every single facet of the population hates him for how he has handled the pandemic.
people quickly criticize the government for too severe / lax measures when it is not the government that walks, goes to see the families, the friends of thousands of people every day to infect them. it's not the government that goes to dozens of people a day and tells them, it's over for you my / my claude / claudette. it's the people. regardless of the rules and fines, if people don't realize they're acting like damn mallets, it's never going to end. it is our responsibility to control ourselves and finish it all ...
there are some places where the government plays a bigger role (eg, chsld). on the other hand, the virus does not teleport into the chsld, it does not target healthcare workers. people are negligent, contaminate others and that goes into health institutions. could more be done to protect our seniors? definitively. is this a problem that will be solved in a snap? no chance. in the meantime, if everyone took responsibility for the virus would have less chance of returning ...
a curfew is absolutely unecessary and stupid.
just a reminder that we were at 100 cases per day for the entire province last summer
100 a day. not 2500. with bars, gyms, stores all opened.
close the schools, compensate the parents and leave everything else open
to the people who still think this is a result of a few bad apples or "idiots", you need to stop. we've be in a more and more fierce lockdown since october, and the numbers have only ramped up. looking at quebec's stats, 30% of current cases are from the schools, and 60% are from work environments. there was a very small percentage from stores, gyms, restaurants, etc. so why are these things closed? we should be questioning a better way, rather than keep doubling down on something that isn't working. the rigid lockdown will cause people to lie and cheat, and meet inside a non-ventilated home with no windows open because it's winter. i know you don't like it, and would rather blame, but we need to produce solutions that account for these. lockdowns and mass fines/curfews are just not realistic, and horrible for our long term. when everything opens up and 90% of businesses are closed due to 0 income for months, or taxes hike up to make up for all the money our government has sent out, it will be a new type of hell. not a virus, but a new problem that won't be as fun. 
lockdown's aren't working, we need to come up with a better solution and stop blaming people. it doesn't help anyone.
anyone else noticed that as the quebec cases were rising like crazy, the only thing in the news for a few days was about "you get paid 1000$ for coming back from vacation" , it was a great distraction
bruh i thought that's what they were trying to do already lol
is it worth opening schools for all the consequences we are suffering today? or do we want to continue to be in denial and say that schools were not a vector ... just like at the start of the pandemic when the government advised us not to wear a mask.
[deleted]
as someone who has tuned out of virus news in montreal (i just stay home, wear a mask and don’t bother anyone so i’m doing my part), can anyone tell me if we know the reason why cases keep climbing even with all the measures in place ?
-why did the lockdown work the first time and not this time?
-which age group is most affected ?
-in which scenarios are people getting infected the most ? who’s responsible ?
thanks !
many financial institutions and insurance companies are currently hiring customer service agents to work from home. the starting salary is 20$/hr and up. a friend was recently hired by industrial alliance and they are flexible in terms of schedule with her classes. all you need is bilingualism and an internet connection. hope that helps for some of you students and single parents out there!
do you people think this includes internet installation?
i moved apartments on the first of this month, and my internet won't be installed until the 13th.right now, i drive 30 minutes to work remote at my old apartment. my old roommates understand my situation, thankfully.
anyways, if internet installation isn't considered essential i'll probably go tent up in a park or something
does the provincial government plan to offer people financial help during this new lockdown and curfew? my partner works at an essential store but mostly at night, meaning her hours will be severely cut due to the curfew...  is there a benefit she can claim for the lost income?
i don't understand the purpose of a curfew. the virus doesn't spread any more easily at night.
well, i mean ,i guess we will be out of this by spring ,right?!? anyhow the sole option i can think of is to move to another province and start a new life at this point if that is in your best interest in terms of certain job sectors, more housing options, and more space.
i have a stupid, selfish question - if i want to get a tims at 10pm, i can't go, right? 
otherwise, this changes literally nothing about my life over the past 9 months.
what i really hate is that there were tons of parents that didn't want their kids to go back to school and wanted distance learning,  but were told that they didn't qualify and had to send their kids to school.   if the schools were at 50% occupation or whatever with 50% staying home \*voluntarily\* then maybe we wouldn't be in this mess.   some families had a parent willing and able to help with schoolwork.   now if they keep all children home,  there are a lot of families who aren't able to help with schoolwork for whatever reason,  so it's all just a mess.   you forced us to send our kids into these schools when we didn't want to,  and now it's our fault?
so if i read this correctly, 1300 people in a province of 8 million are currently in the hospital because of covid, and somehow the health care system is out of control? they’ve had 8 months to prepare for this wave and can’t handle hospitalizations in the low thousands? i want to be clear that i am not trying to discredit or belittle those who are suffering (nor the hc workers), but i don’t see how the system can’t handle it? a breaking point in the low thousands seems ... low. many flaws in our hc system. but politicians prefer that we blame each other and pretend that everyone is gathering and having parties and orgies
if i can trust his first attempt, he will last 2 weeks before coming back to us with a 2nd ~~ economic ~~ epidemic stimulus. the time to clear enough jobs in the economy and lower labor standards a second time in a market now flooded with new unemployed. it's going to be fine 🌈
curfews? people acting like children? 
is this 1942?
so we've finally arrived at the point we should have been at since september. would this have been seen as more an overreaction back then compared to now?
this is the fault of the anti-masks and the covid deniers. just a gang of criminals.
after the lockdown one house will make the other + 20% like this summer, so 500k (400k in 2019) will go to 600k. we will have to further increase our mortgage limit and reduce the retirement years even more. = (
whatever happens, i think i keep working. the company (manufacture) for which i work obtained an exemption during the last confinement and i believe that it will obtain it for this one too
toilet paper panic buying has already begun... this kind of crap makes me genuinely embarrassed for society.
uh oh.
since the start of the pandemic, me and my family have been following health measures, anything that can reduce transmission. spring has been tough. locked up, with 3 children who screw the shit out, trying to work at the same time. we hang on, because it makes sense to reduce contact, to put on masks, to avoid walking for nothing. meanwhile, the other half of the couple play the guardian angel, risking being infected, going through the decotamination airlock of the house after returning from their home visits to vulnerable people. we're ready to do it again, get up at 6 a.m., come home from telecommuting from 6 a.m. to 7 a.m., before dealing with the children all day, work from 3 p.m. to 8 p.m. to finish my working hours during the chaos of supper.
worse at 8 p.m., i go outside to get some fresh air.
it's the only thing that keeps you going.
faque fuck your legault curfew.
to everyone frustrated and saying "but my liberty", suck it up. our hospitals are overwhelmed and reaching capacity, and frankly that's all that matters as death will explode once we reach that critical point.
it screeches shit but need what it takes i guess.
[deleted]
[removed]
govt: heres a $1000 cuz you just same back from mexico
a 1000 for you, a 1000 for you
august: a little confinement that lasts 2 little weeks
(just kidding !!!!!! but we closed the restaurants lol)
are schools hot spots? whatever bro we closed the restaurants
november: yes we will see a lot more boxes but let's keep the department stores like bestbuy open - on est des hommes daffaires - they make too much money before christmas we cant close antyhing! let the people have christmas! well lockdown after !!!!!
jan: shit....almost 3k cases a day how did this happen?!?!?!?!?!!?!? we might need a lockdown :()
seriously? this level of incompetency is just embarrassing
/rant
i really hope you find something, there's always something to look forward to. 
me and my good friend lost our jobs back in march (bartending) and after a couple of months we found better jobs for which we went to school for. the first few months are the hardest but luckily we have a pretty great social net at the moment (crb & bonified-unemployment).
best of luck
im hiring for warehouse if you’re interested
hospitals are always hiring assistants! i know it might not be in you field of interest but some hospital jobs don't require patient proximity and pay well!
don't loose faith man, i graduated in june and found something last month, it's a temporary contract but it will tide me over until summer. it can be done! keep in mind delays for job applications affect businesses too - to give you an idea, i heard back today from a job i applied to in october..
if we did 3 weeks of total lockdown back in march we would have gone back to normal a long time ago, but no people had to do unnecessary things outside because they were ''bored''
the premier choix fruit store unfortunately no longer exists. the business moved to the corner of beaubien and papineau a few years ago (following a rent increase) and is now closed (probably following the death of the patriarch (it was a family business).
[deleted]
fuck thats pretty good esti.
do you sell these?
really has a miyuki tanobe feel to it. great work.
twres jwoli
i recognized the place before reading the title, good job!
wow i love it!
i'll go see your instagram to buy!
hello all, you can message me on messenger.
debbie underwood and i can answer your questions regards prints and giclee's.
thank you all!
❤️🎨🎨🎨
love the art, it looks like a cover to the montreal mirror's old magazine "hour".
it is really similar, we feel in the neighborhood! beautiful work!
masson / 6th avenue. nice !
i would buy stuff like this
i thought this was a mural and the pedestrian was real.
looks better than real life.
great skill. i like the brownstone you painted. reminded me of the one i live in on ste-famille
as do i, even only being 2 hours away by car
you should do one of the main restaurant across from schwartzs
the main
???
yes, i am selling prints.
i was going to write the exact same thing!
please email me at
underwood.deb22@gmail.com
for more info.  i can answer all your questions,  but my french is not so good.  i will try to help you.
thank you!
deb underwood
thank you!  yes i remember that magazine, and i looked forward to reading it. it had wonderful art and articles.
thank you!  had so much fun painting this one!  my old neighbourhood!
tks!
thank you so very much! i miss montreal!
which one??? i did st viateur bagel shop.
don't know that one but i will look it up.
[deleted]
i'm going to buy all of them
could you send a link please?
link please!
just as good smoked meat as schwarz and you can sit together at a table
oh! ok i see now. i was actually wondering the correct spelling of rosemont.  tks for the clarification, much appreciated!
👍👍🎨🎨🎨
finally
link please!
@underwood.deb22
instagram
plz
@underwood.deb22
instagram
@underwood.deb22.      
instagram
just watched a video about housing in vienna and how they managed to remain so affordable. this seems to be inspired from that and could potentially be an actual solution for affordable housing assuming they do it right.
are you having erections coming?
(did you read * election *, hen? mouhaha!)
here is how it will go:
1-the construction sector is already 100% occupied, we just move the workers who will build these homes from the project. in the end, there will be no more housing built in 5 years than if the city does nothing.
2-the occupants of these dwellings become a privileged class. those who are not part of this class (especially future generations) will have to fight for a reduced number of housing, compared to if this privilege did not exist. they will pay more as a result because for them the shortage will be worse
3-the privileged occupants will do everything to keep this privilege, even if it means staying alone in accommodation that has become too large once the children have left, or staying in accommodation very far from their new place of work, which does not free the accommodation. for a family to which it would be more suited. this is called reducing the mobility of the population.
in the end, the city is spending billions to make the situation worse by creating a privileged class at the expense of the majority. price control always makes things worse.
edit: i forgot, 4: the billions spent by the city will contribute to the overheating of land prices.
if this article is anything to go by affordable housing has been abused in the past - 
i just heard from ferrandez on this at src and he says sanders has created a million homes in vermont.
eh?
there are not even 700,000 inhabitants in the state.
this is so much political bullshit. 800 million over 40 years to buy land is nothing. $ 20m per year for land and more land is needed for sale.
endless political promises with no credible framework or platform. municipal elections are shit.
how do we get on the list to get some? not like the other time, it's just the developer's chummy that we had access to ....
relax the fucking zoning already. there is not much that 60,000 can do.
since this is the government, it will have cost overrun and it will be delayed for a few years.
what does "affordable" mean?
so, another promise she has no intention of fulfilling.
lol, there is a long way from the cut to the lips: /
ah well, precisely at the start of the municipal election. what a hazard!
only $ 1000 per month for a 3 and a half instead of 1250 !!!
i don't understand why they don't give the land to housing co-ops ...
my question for her would be "but why not have done this before?"
it is not yesterday that the problem of rents is known.
heard it all before a dozen times. never really seems to get done. dislike her for her bicycle mania and coderre for his skyscraper fetish.
it smells of a lie… had! i mean the typical election promise ...
maaaan, coderre needs to just shut the fuck up already. what a prick.
austria has very low population growth which has sometimes even fallen into the negative. so much so that they had plenty of vacant and abandoned apartments.
[
edit: you can pout, it'll still be true!
could you link the video please? it interests me.
pre fab?
ah man when i'm sad i watch steven harper's montage talking about "elections". the same humor is not invented!
municipal election signs are already being put up in the streets!
i'm not 100% against what you're saying but there are still some important details:
- you assume that 100% of construction is currently going to new housing, which is wrong
- i dare to assume that affordable housing will also be denser than average construction. taking a contractor who is working on transforming a duplex into a single-family home and putting him on this project is a profit.
you have forgotten how the housing will be allocated to the families of the contractors in order to receive the annuity properly.
regarding the point that people stay on their own in a small accommodation this can very easily be resolved by introducing a regulation. they are already doing it for low-cost housing so why not affordable housing?
[deleted]
construction costs must be reduced by bringing in a large number of mexican workers. we are shooting ourselves in the feet as a company by making real estate so expensive.
well no, let's see.
valérie is the man for the job. his projects are always so well thought out.
not the sharpest pencil in the box unfortunately.
right, at that point she should've just promised 100,000 her aura made no difference
my father was on the hlm list for over 15 years ... he died when there were about ten people left in front of him.
for years the gvt fooled him, dropping him from 50th on the list to 500th ... at the whim of politicians.
hey hey, the kids too!
that the boyfriends of the contractor, doctors, lawyers etc will buy them cheap to rent them or resell them at a crazy price. like the last time.
it's not a promise, she just announced that it's being done.
lucky for everyone to read the articles.
the country is irrelevant. in the last 10 years the population of vienna has increased around [1.18% per year]( compared to [0.80% per year]( of montreal. both have slowed down during the pandemic.
bruh this is a braindead argument. why are you looking up data for austria and not vienna? that's borderline just dishonesty.
and? that means there is less money to be made and still managed to have decent public housing.
we also have negative demographic growth, technically. we are having a lot less children and our grandparents' generation are all dying.
the country relies on immigration to try to maintain growth.
here is [the video] ( in question. however, i think there are better sources on the subject that would explain the vienna solution in more detail.
i like repeating erections too, but sometimes a little break is good
link?
> take a contractor who is working on transforming a duplex into a single-family house and put him on this project, it is a profit.
in fact, building in height is longer in man / hour and more expensive per unit. there's nothing cheaper and faster than a bungalow field.
the more regulations you introduce, the more you open the door to fraud and abuse. and what do we do with condo housing. do we force the person to sell?
ahhh that reminds me. giving "affordable" condo homes to people who supposedly don't have a lot of money for upkeep, and who are prevented from making a profit on resale, is the perfect recipe for these apartments. turn into slums within 10 years.
wood is approx 50% more expensive. the prices have come down.
> everyone in the market agrees, these prices will never go down.
[wood may have reached its lowest price for several months - radio-canada, september 13, 2021] ( hardware stores)
if only it was just her. unfortunately, as we saw during the federal election, almost all parties proposed "solutions" that will ultimately make the situation worse.
there is no magic solution within the limits of municipal power. there's no point blaming valérie crashes. it is a systemic problem: the cost of construction is too high, nimbyism prevents densification, etc.
a friend's mom has been waiting around 20 years for a 1 bedroom unit. she's been in a 3 bedroom unit since the 80s. the running joke is that the only way she will leave is when she dies
it would be fun if these homes belonged to the city, so no possibility of buying them to make dollars on people's backs.
i don't know if it's done.
i was at game 4. i took the exit we were directed to. we exited onto a street blocked by riot police at both ends, and we were tear gassed basically seconds later. ducked into a doorway and put on our sunglasses and threw our game towels over our faces. then a crowd started moving through a narrow exit left by the cops. we followed and were tear gassed again.
i didn’t see anyone throwing bottles or rioting, but then i didn’t have time before being tear gassed twice with no warning.
for what it’s worth my friend and i are women in our 50s and basically would have been actively trying to get away from anything that looked violent or even overly enthusiastic - i have no desire to be around fireworks on a crowded city street and we’re a bit old to be flipping police cars. we had no chance at all to even see what was going on before being gassed. i guess the message is that if you go to a hockey game you should expect to be gassed walking out the door?
if i got gassed for nothing, it would motivate me to smash something 
spvm are racist idiots.  fuck them
fuck the spvm, too lazy to do their job in any way, shape or form. if you need them, they do nothing. if there’s no reason for them to be there, they’ll steamroll you. defund the whole lot of em.
[deleted]
fuck the spvm, seriously.
it was ridiculous... cops let, what, 20,000 people stand around shoulder to shoulder for two hours with no masks, and literally the minute the game is over, shoot tear gas into the crowd while people are starting to walk away...
anyone see the little bursts of them making a wall with their riot gear and running down the street? apparently people weren't walking fast enough...
dicks.
montreal police are some of the worst people i have ever met. horrible human beings. napoleon complex to the max. they need to be disbanded.
i personally think that all hockey fans should be tear gassed at all times. hanging out with the buds? tear gassed. out at a restaurant? tear gassed. it’s the only way to be sure.
welp, i'm not going to/near a game any time soon. fuck spending money to get my ass kicked by a zealot. i'm not into that shit. i'll spend my money elsewhere.
>“the use of chemical irritants was judged necessary to disperse some recalcitrant groups.” - anik de repentigny
"we also really really wanted to"
fuck them, they were just itching to shoot into a crowd
cops being cops as allways.
i honestly feel like they were frustrated they haven't been able to flex their muscles for a while with everyone locked inside. 
i saw how they behaved when they started policing the parks, it was an insane overreach. rude, violent, destructive. it's like they wanted to remind a city full of people who haven't left their homes in a year who's in charge.
acab
the issue of police brutality needs to be reframed to reflect what it actually is: cowardice. are police officers so terrified of a small subset of rowdy fans that they need to indiscriminately gas an entire crowd? if that's your mindset, you're not brave enough, tough enough, or mentally fit enough to police this city.
how can we complain effectively about this?
i get it, they’ve got a reputation to uphold
that’s some minority report plot right there. gaz them before they do the crime.
[tear gas suddenly coming out of the club ceiling] "3h, we're closing!"
spvm the embodiment of failure 
maybe they need to only hire cops above 6' like they used to...
i was there every game. they end up saying people throw bottles and fight police. people are just there to watch the game. police decides to act though and tear gas for no reason is what turns a hockey game into a riot. they act like people watching a hockey game are there to riot and break everything.
i saw no one throw a single bottle or projectile at the cops. i was in the middle of the crowd to see the action and the police were the ones creating trouble. surprisingly, game 6 they did not tear gas or act though.. what happened?? people just calmly walked away.
they got annoying with their bikes and didn't let people walk in alleys around the bell center (i guess you lose your right to walk freely in downtown after a hockey game??) but other than that it was super peaceful.
i am sure there are still good people in the spvm but it's sad some of them act so violently and disrespectfully to the public since covid. these guys go home and tell their wives "today at work i tear gassed a crowd full of families and hockey fans " 
the situation is unreal..
zero video footage?!
"we wanted tampa to win."
i love how theres not even a video and people are already throwing around words like "facist". jesus christ how do you expect cops to respond to a riot? i really wanna hear one of you "woke" dumb fucks tell me how to disperse a crowd of people who are causing mayham. 
yes of course there are bystanders but these games get fucking insane like this all the time! stop going ape shit over sports and maybe cops wont show up idiots.
[deleted]
warning shots 🤣
montreal will riot whether the canadians win or lose. it's rare that i find myself on the cop's side, but i'm for gassing them all as soon as the game is over. ok, that's maybe a bit harsh. give the families 20 minutes to disperse, then gas the assholes that are causing chaos. 
tbh, i'm also in favor of gassing people that drive around honking their horn after "their" team wins.
good for them, if the fans can't celebrate in a reasonable fashion without breaking shit, assaulting, arson etc. the police has every right. it's what they're paid to do
> we’re a bit old to be flipping police cars. 
don't sell yourself short, you're never to old to resist police brutality.
same thing happened to us game 6 against vegas. left the building as directed by staff and i guess police as we were held inside the building well a "police action" was ongoing outside. 
immediately tear gassed, people were rushed by baton waving police, i was cross checked and hit, people with young children and families were being corralled as well. 
of course all the police hide their badge numbers or any identifiers. 
crazy that if this was done in a war zone against soldiers, deploying tear gas would be a war crime. but against montrealer's just trying to get home after a hockey game its completely legal.
your story needs to be told to a larger audience so politicians take notice.
unfortunately, until the population starts to really speak out forcefully, the politicians are also powerless to make changes in this heavy and well protected institution.
[deleted]
seriously, if the response is the same, why not destroy some police property.
they really are a special bunch, i've hated them ever since i got stopped for jaywalking at 10pm and got accused of assaulting my girlfriend. like what the fuck lmao.
people were throwing fireworks, jumping on police cars etc, what did you want them to do, ask them to go home nicely ? it was already out of control.
walked by the crowd for game 5 and they're all suiting up with plated gloves and full body armor. this is how they prepare for a hockey crowd, literally a gang funded by tax payers.
as much as i don't like the rhetoric around defund movements, my house got robbed and they literally did fuck all. fucking reform, defund and reallocate that money to something that works.
this is police anywhere in canada.
is there anything us citizens can do to push for reform? call a delegate or something? the police here drive me mad. i see them constantly doing stupid shit like tear gassing citizens, harassing people in parks, and generally being assholes. they need a restructuring, badly.
> we train them to be
there is the root of the issue.
the training programs for our municipal police forces are not only antiquated they are of very low quality.
if the training doesn't change, it'll be nearly impossible to get a better police force even if you address all the other issues.
i know you need very good grade/r-score (went to cegep ahunstic and john abott open house) to get into a program police techniques in quebec college. lmk if i'm wrong. 
idk if i should relate because, smart college students are good cops? old police generation are bad? or is just cops being cops? new cops being brainwashed? or is the media portrays police as the good or bad? 
i used to want to become a cop, but not anymore. i feared being killed and being targeted if i become one. i've seen some when i worked as a security guard in downtown. i hated being there. although is in small scale, but it gives me a general idea to be a cop (have to intervene, follow procedure). i'm glad i didn't get into police technique.
idk man, i'm still puzzled to this.
it's the whole pre-crime thing, without any precogs.
i feel like large city police forces are a mistake, the larger the force the more layers of dehumanization between them and the populace. we need small community forces, manned by local people to each district. somebody who may very well be policing their neighbor. that way there would be social accountability like an oldschool small town cop.
there could be protocols where neighboring districts provide support if there's a large disruption that requires more than the small local force can handle, but day to day, it's neighbor policing neighbor.
drive too slow? believe it or not, tear gas.
also, hockey fans who haven't done anything wrong now will surely do something wrong in 2023 or 2030 (they're hockey fans, right). so you're 'early bird' punishing them innocent now in advance and in bulk, potentially saving tax payers' money in the future.
good idea. i stopped supporting these millionaires years ago. same with all sports. i stopped spending any money whatsoever.
yeah the habs organization should of said something if they actually cared about their fans. no fucking way i will ever go to the bell centre. your fucking police officers are fucking mental.
you can always file a complaint to the police about the police. hey, wait a minute! that sounds wrong! 
seriously though, i'd use the political route, try to talk to a local representative. apparently mr. marvin rotrand is the man to talk to.
maybe you should be spending a little less time on the internet and more time outside in the real world.
so… you complain about how there should be video before people react, then assume there’s “mayhem” without evidence.
seems like you’re just cheering for your team.
there wasn’t anyone causing mayhem that i saw. the only people i saw being violent were the riot police who trapped us and then shot us with tear gas immediately after the game without even letting people leave, let alone asking us to.
almost the entire rue pie-ix has been under construction for about two years. one reason why the map doesn't reflect it?
arrived?
did they leave? i didn't notice
i took the map from the site [info-travaux] ( of the city of montreal.
til that we have a neighborhood called sault-au-récollet east of ahuntsic. sometimes i feel like google maps is making up business.
and the guys in town are like magicians. i pass by a street on sunday evening and there is no sign of construction then the next morning the street is completely closed with the orange cones and all the machinery that goes with it.
public works foreman here: no work, no repairs = deterioration of infrastructure. captain obvious, i know.
bye
it's good.
they have to do this work, and it's not in the middle of winter that it's going to be done.
on the plateau, they're supposed to redo bits of sidewalks on st-laurent, i'll believe it when i go see it.
if i'm not mistaken, in villeray it's just redoing the markings to redo the double cycle path last summer.
if i walk around, i see more work currently in progress than what is on the map (or the info-travaux site), so it is sadly incomplete, outdated, or the work done by the boroughs is not shown here.
they really outta start making roads out of concrete. doesn't disintegrate as fast and easier to repair.
at the moment it's not that bad but i imagine it won't be long before i see more.
the pont de la concorde has been working on it for two years. the asphalt is already covered, the cycle path filled with holes. they would leave it as well as it would be less damaged i have the impression.
oh wow! they're finally gonna fix that bombed-out stretch of st joseph?! no waaaay
yen is missing
conevid-21
wow it's so beautiful. it's hot, sunny, so we need more work in mass (thiccc) 🥵
c made permanent, c easier to mark when it is not under construction
sometimes it is due to the fact that the works are carried out by the borough and for lack of information sharing it is missing on the site of info-works.
besides, when is this construction finished?
i've been sharing the info for weeks and weeks on several sites like this, and it's still marked as open ... it sickens me a bit.
i work for * one * of the companies involved on the pie-ix bridge.
it really is a * pita * crossed the bridge. and i can feel my brother-in-law who stays not far from the
you're right. 
i recently learned that there is a part of valleyfield called *** nitro ***
thanks google maps.
yes! she was so good this track!
calll me a cynic.... but the reason they don't is because it's many times more expensive... 
for the same price as a kilometer of rigid pavement, you can probably build 10 kilometers of flexible pavement.
it looks better as a politician to say "i paved 1000km of roads with our budget!" than "i paved 100km of roads with our budget!"
"but the long term cost of repairing flexible pavement is much much more than the long term cost of repairing rigid pavement!!"
most politicians are only in office for 4-8 years ;)
as far as i can tell, they are made of concrete under the asphalt. the asphalt is an ablative layer, it's meant to break so everything underneath doesn't.
>easier to repair.
part of the reason asphalt is used instead of concrete is because it's easier to repair. 
there's a reason virtually every country on earth uses asphalt. it's way more cost effective.
i think this is the most plausible explanation.
hahahah
they are announcing something like 2022 but i would rather say 2026 because it is montreal.
the construction / reconstruction of infrastructure will never end. mainly sewers and aqueducts. for years and years these infrastructures have been neglected (because rebuilding them does not give politicians a good pr and the public does not see what is buried)
well let's see c **** !! i live not far from the stadium and it's a mess at rush hour (and beyond). one lane in each direction, streets that cross east / west blocked, officers who must make the traffic. the worst part is that it looks like they do the same waterworks every time! i don't see any development that suggests building the rapid bus service per se anytime soon.
is this where the young people do drag races with their modified honda?
>but the long term cost of repairing flexible pavement is much much more than the long term cost of repairing rigid pavement
do you actually have a source for this? and not one that comes from a company that is affiliated with concrete paving?
i have trouble believing that asphalt isn't superior over concrete considering virtually every country primarily uses asphalt. i really doubt some random redditors are smarter than the civil engineers and government agencies around the world who's literal job is to allocate billions of dollars to this problem.
so 3 inch deep holes are there by design?
mainly just main arteries are rigid (concrete + asphalt) ... and depending on the borough, most residential are flexible (asphalt)
so how come in toronto or vancouver they don't get giant holes everywhere in the city every spring?
i love optimism! my vote was either after the blue line or 2030.
i have a friend who lives not far from pius ix. we chilled 3-4 times a month before the plague. the easiest way if you come from the west is to continue much further to the east and come back by viau or something. it saves a 10-15 minutes stuck in traffic on a hill.
i just told you a reason why it might be that most pavements are asphalt. there’s many, many other factors. 
feel free to do your own research. 
be careful of how much credit you give to civil engineers employed by political parties.
think of it like a pillowcase. it gets dirty by design. if it stays dirty, it's from a lack of maintenance.
well the basis of your question is wrong.. they do. i've lived in various canadian cities (including vancouver) and they all get pot holes. more mild weather in some cities will help reduce the wear and tear on roads, but potholes are a problem everywhere...
the large majority of roads in toronto and vancouver (and most places around the world) are asphalt-based by the way. so not sure what you're implying.
yeah, you told me a reason it "might" be that way based on pure speculation. speculation that didn't make a ton of sense considering the people working on the transportation departments are there much longer than you said. the politicians don't do the research on what road material to use. they allocate the money to a department that has done a ton of research - and they choose asphalt almost every time - so maybe it's you that needs to "do your own research". 
you're the one making a fairly radical claim, the burden of proof would fall on you - but i think it's clear you don't have sources to back up what you're saying.
i know roads need to be maintained, it's just there are places that don't get giant holes in streets after every winter.
as a civil engineer, my opinion is just a tad bit more than pure speculation, but you didn’t want to hear that.
very good digital drawing for a first try! which tutorial and program did you use? i tried with krita but no luck.
a word of advice: the "ー" in "モ ン ト リ オ ー ル" is oriented vertically when you write it like that :)
montorearuuuuuu
what i would do for a montreal based shonen
wow! i want to read this… let us know if you ever develop the idea. great graphics!
beautiful ! much better than what i can do. ideally, trying to avoid "pillow shadows" would make the scene even more dramatic!
we are going to need a really big wok
i need a moescape version of this.
wow this is awesome i love your art style
do you sell any prints would love to see some and buy one
really nice and it feels good an original post like that
d1¹
cool! i hope i won't be downtown that day!
nice
i used affinity designer on my ipad + pencil. i followed this tutorial [ (where do the tentacles come from!).
thanks for the info for ー vertically!
meanwhile in korea, there's a drama happening in part in quebec city! (goblin)
except that if i define in terms of manga, it would be more of a shôjo.
it's not a comic book concept, but rather an artistic essay, but thank you!
oh yes! i can see that now! thank you 🤩
this is my first ever! i could arrange to get it printed if you want!
yesterday, i have a colleague who told me that she would like to embark on digital drawing. i will pass this information on to her :) i can't wait to see your next drawings!
would it scale to 24x36 nicely? really love this style
opinion may not be popular, but krita and other “open-source” free software are nowhere near as easy to use as, affinity photo / design (bonus, ipad and mac), procreate (ipad, very, very famous ), or the japanese heavy-peas clip studio (pc, mac, ipad) and its lightweight cousin painttool sai (pc only).
i am not an illustrator, but i inform myself enough on the subject and for my simple personal use, i stay away from gimp and krita, which go against the usual functioning of these tools.
i intentionally picked a 40x60 in canvas 😊 i’ll tweak it a little and reach out in private!
i chose affinity designer because i am already very familiar with vector art. i haven't heard of clipstudio, i'm going to check it out!
wow, i completely missed out on clip studio paint. it really seems like the perfect solution i was looking for!
used to work in the left pub, finish my shift, then go drink in the right pub
\> ** not even for 5 minutes. **
it's not the first time i've heard this one, and i'm a little bored. let's put ourselves in the policeman's shoes: how does he know we're only there for 5 minutes? would we like him to stopwatch us? that he reads our minds?
because it is for a short time, too often people stop anywhere and think they are in their right: bike path, pedestrian crossing, bus stop, disabled parking, etc. but it is not only unpleasant, it is even sometimes dangerous.
a bus is really boring to park in the city. there are some places reserved for them, it is a minimum of respect not to go to park in these places there.
i experienced it in esti as a guide when you are tight in the schedule and there are people who leave their vehicles in these places
with good reason, people must be prevented from parking there, it slows down public transport ...
it's not even a no-parking zone. it's a no-***stopping*** zone. so you're not even allowed to stop there for 10 seconds to let a passenger out/in.
well-deserved! i am a school bus driver and when you arrive you want your seat. otherwise you block the traffic and you fuck everyone
man i worked across the street from there for almost fifteen years, and now i haven't seen those buildings in person since this time last year.  oof.
as a bus driver: could they follow me for a day? they would make their month for sure!
are you going to get a post for every parking ban that is enforced in the city?
*data
thank you for the information. very kind
having a car in montreal is just trouble. there's nothing positive if you're close to a metro. it is a can heavy carried potatoes at least 25 but by that, i do not even want it.
congratulations now i'm hungry for a shawarmaz poutine
gtr goes brrrr
i mean, that was always the case
i am currently stationed there
why dont we have an app telliing us parking restrictions on a map?
wow what assholes! those spots are reserved for tour buses (i know the area very well). have you seen any tours lately? i mean downtown is dead they couldn’t just leave a warning and ticket them next time? good old mourrial!
downvotes start in 3-2-1
did you high-five the gang from the right pub on their way to cinq-a-sept at the left pub?
i worked at sun life's for a couple of years, ended up at mclean's nearly every day, i loved their burgers. so long ago now oof!
the mclean's is superior on everything
i'm so ancient that i remember when the pub on the right was also part of the chain of pub on the left (back then it was at its original location)
mcleans was a favourite way back in the 2000s when i worked over at indigo. finish the shift at 11 and head over for a pitcher
haha same what years did you worked there?
the world and their ostis of lights magical chance which thinks that it excuses them from respecting the rules. if you don't have the right to park, you don't have the right period. on girouard corner monkland there are two parking lots reserved for the disabled which are permanently occupied by people who go to buy croissants and bread. i have seen several get caught by the police and i applaud each time.
i live across from a daycare. parents are constantly blocking my driveway. every time i talk to them (staying calm and respectful, at least until they don't deserve it anymore) it's always “oh i have two minutes! yeah, you are two, the next is two more, etc etc etc. i'm sure those same people would be the first to complain about someone blocking their entrance for 15 seconds. the world doesn't care.
right?
"but i was only there five minutes!!" is still being parked for five minutes.
legally speaking, the only time you're not "parked" is when you're directly operating or attending the vehicle ("stopped" or "standing" respectively).
but i just killed * one * person !!
except that it is not the stm buses that park there.
are spots for tourist buses; there are no tourists in mourrial.
i worked in the sun life building until december 2019, also for 15 years.  i went downtown right before christmas 2020 and was shocked by how much had changed.  belle pro and subway are closed now.  shout out to all the steamies i downed on quick cheap lunch breaks!
it is so frustrating. i see him every day on saint-laurent. people parked in a bus stop area to get some ice cream or something. it slows down so many more people when you block a bus.
but there is no parking on saint laurent ...
walk one block ...
we can!
also, «un».
grammar nazi
come to the suburbs. you are welcome here with your car.
gtr? it's an infiniti ...
there are no-stopping signs posted on that section of sidewalk. what need is there for an app?
there was one a few years ago (parkng). you hit a section of the street and it gave you parking bans, with a warning if they were in effect.
on the other hand the app disappeared for an unknown reason (and if you still had it it simply could not work)
if downtown is dead then why not park in actual parking spots instead of blocking the bus stops??? park properly and you won't get a ticket.
i can confirm, that would never happen.
slf alum too
omg i miss going there. like so much. 😔
i have been to the peel pub once in my life and i fought in a bar once in my life.  it happened the same night.
i was told by many a regular that those were good times.
remember the wendy’s there?
started 2017. worked there for a little over a year and a half before moving on to another bar.
in english i often hear / read "park anywhere lights" but it's a joke ....
the people who drop their children off at daycare centers and elementary schools are specialists in all-out parking: private entrances, bus stops, cycle paths, etc.
and five minutes is a long-ass time. my bedroom is next to the driveway for a parking garage, and all day long people block the entrance for "five minutes," so i'm trying to do my work from home and there's nonstop honking from people trying to get in or out of their paid parking spot. half the time the person who blocked it gets belligerent like the person being blocked is in the wrong.
i called the spvm about it but they won't do anything because "we'll just tell them to move along, so there's no point."
anyone who does this: next time you're stopped in traffic with people honking like crazy, i want you to set a timer for 300 seconds (5 minutes) and then tell me it's not that long.
one of my favorite things about living in montreal is knowing that places like this are right here in the center of the city
we will have to re-learn many beautiful names of places.
on the other hand, what is deplorable is the world that comes to have rave parties and mess things up. since the deconfinement there is no way to spend a quiet evening at this spot, it has become a gathering of 100 people (the last time the dj was on acid and the music horrible ... yet i know how to appreciate it usually). the police chase everyone away at 11 p.m.
last year we had sleepless nights there with my friends, quiet chill and bbq. today it is no longer possible because people do not respect the spot and organize parties for 100 people and are on drugs
is it mont-royal? what is this park?
it is in mohawk, the name chosen by three mowhawk communities in the region: kahnawake, kanesatake and akwesasne. it is pronounced "djodjâgué otchira'guéné". in french it translates to: "around the fire, on the island where the group is separating".
i was curious to know about this place. by dint of having listened to serge bouchard i was sold to the idea of giving back to lakes, rivers and mountains the names that were given to them before the colonists or at least that they were broadcast. names have a story and that is really precious. like for example pointe-aux-anglais (port cartier) which owes its name to an important maritime tragedy. how the names dec memphremagog, abenaki word which means: the lake whose water is high and very extensive. you know that at a certain point in history people existed and named things to find each other like the colonists did. i dunno, for me just that, it throws me the hair of the arm lol.
[source] (
since some people don't seem to think that is the real name of the park...
looks like mont royal…
what command?
for fucks sake
edit: damn you are likely the redditors woke sacrament, i was obviously referring to the photo
indeed, i do not know why but the indigenous names particularly appeal to me
on mount royal, northwest 
ah it's famous mohawk who have absolutely no ancestral lands in canada.
it's historical revisionism your business. we must stop paying attention to his falsehoods
yes, there were indigenous peoples before the arrival of the french, but not in montreal and even less the mohawks.
?
ok it's just mount royal, it's strange that he gave it another name
very close to poly and i have never noticed this park despite having spent 5 years of my life there!
> yes, there were indigenous peoples before the arrival of the french
but it is not a question of whether or not there were indigenous peoples. it’s stupid as a reason. it is a matter of giving a place in society to indigenous peoples who have been isolated.
also, i understand why it would absolutely be necessary to prove that the mohawk lived on the island to make a park there. they occupied the region long before us and it's okay to allow them to name a park to share with us their vision of the territory, at least that of their ancestors.
oh wow the downvotes oh god ahhhhhhhrgggghhhhh
i admit that my comment is quite vague :)
did you see the width of the path? in tapped crushed stone? you can pass a 5 ton truck over it. they did the same on the other side to get to the top of the ski mountain. they literally scrapped the forest in the name of accessibility and water drainage (people shouldn't have a little mud on their shoes, oh no!). before he had forest cover over the path, they razed everything. heavy machinery in the forest.
i'm still angry at the job they did on the outremont side to climb to the top of sacrament skiing, and it's been \ * years \ *
edit: is that a $ 75,000 stone bench i see on the left side?
if we want precise and exact, it is not "just the mont-royal". what is commonly called the "mount royal" being in reality only the most easterly hill of the 3 hills which make up "the mount royal".
this park is located on the outremont / murray hill and is not within the confines of the mont-royal park.
it is in order to recognize the aboriginal territory. it's a small gesture that says a lot about history and helps enormously in indigenous recognition, in recognizing their and our past, our tensions [mainly related to the appropriation of unceded (stolen) land], and to help bring some focus to this. in short, it is at least a small gesture to recognize these issues and tensions there which really cost us less than what we should really do, in other words: * the least of things to do *.
this is why, and this more and more, you will see people refer to montreal by calling it "tiohtiá: ke" [djo'-djah'-gué] as op did in the title.
you can have an example with the territorial recognition that concordia has made:
and have more details on the why with the press release written by wahéhshon shiann whitebean, phd candidate in indigenous research:
the same! fortunately i started a master's degree otherwise i would have left poly without having known him. i think it is known to regulars at the pub.
no. this is precisely wrong. they did not occupy the region before us. we can date their presence from the 18th century. almost 250 years after the arrival of the french colonists
it is absolutely for nothing in the concrete. would be a lot better to hold the current government accountable for keeping its promises and to provide drinking water to the native reserves which need it. it’s just intellectual masturbation to give oneself a good conscience and piss off the world who we call mont-royal, mont-royal all their lives.
“*europeans came over here and killed everybody. but that’s okay, they’re naming parks in our language.*”
-said no indigeneous person ever
you think french people were here in the 1400s? where the fuck are you getting this information?
[deleted]
no one thinks that is enough either to right the wrongs of the present and the past.
except that
to name a place is to leave a trace that crosses time. every time someone reads the sign, they're going to ask themselves what language it is. if you're curious enough, you'll wonder how to pronounce it. if he does his research there will find out who speaks that language and so on. i think that if a tourist comes to visit montreal and learns about the mohawks, it will have served to do something positive for the mohawks.
i thought rephrasing the phrase "this is the less thing to do" 6 times would clarify that point.
kill everyone?
they didn't do a good job.
/ s obviously
but we must respond to a stupid comment with a stupid comment, it is the law.
... québec was discovered in 1534. the mohawks came here at the end of the 18th century 
that's roughly 250 years
you're welcome. it is surprising. usually i get pissed off because of my positions and my vision of the world. it's fun to know that i'm not alone in finding it insignificant.
seems like you'd rather just ignore the story than learn from it, the point is recognition of the story. that's all. don't blame it on inaction in other issues, blame it on your inability to hold two concepts in your head at one time. it's not easy to think of several cases at the same time, i think you're capable. it annoys you to constantly hear that this territory has been stolen or not ceded, well get mad at canadian history and not the people who make the territorial recognition.
good comment. obviously we cannot erase history, but giving an aboriginal name is at least a small gesture that is not without importance. we tend to think that it's the things that last and the names are fleeting, but oddly enough it is often the reverse: the words and the names remain while the buildings and the traces of men disappear.
discovered? there were already people here, you racist! jacques cartier was a tourist and left. he didn't move in.
rotinonshionni people have lived in this region for thousands of years. what, you think nobody knew about that giant river until the late 1700s? kahnawake was founded in the 1660s. you're just an idiot spewing misinformation.
except that here, it is a political and memorial program and not history in the strict sense.
duty of memory, as long as we want. but the affair of unceded territories is historically debatable in
several cases.
you know the name that park had before as well as the street east of the city center no longer exists, in short you contradict yourself.
[removed]
the mount royal which was named in 1535?
let's keep it civil please.
amherst street.
[deleted]
very cool !
for those interested, the name of the boulevard changed in 1987 upon the death of rené-lévesque, although a small portion of the boulevard that passes through westmount (between clarke and atwater) still bears the name “boulevard dorchester ”
it's so strange to imagine that english signage was once so prominent in montreal.
[with a little color] (
taken from the glorious, yet much lamented architects building, no doubt.
a beautiful fresh street, no patch of asphalt… the dream.
looking at this photo, i'm listening to this song in my head:
they need to paint the lines again, i’ve always thought this.
op's pictures shows 4 lanes and cars were much bigger then, were did all this space go?
it's also dorchester in montreal east.
yes. bad times if you were french speaking.
not a single tree in sight, the good old days.
a bit too slick. this shot evokes more of a waitsian vibe for me.
why haven’t they repainted the lanes?  it’s just weird that people drive the whole length of it oddly weaving down that ultra wide single lane.
yes nice painted lane would definetly help, but common fucken sense still applies when theres no line. most people seems to lack of it sadly.
it went to drivers who don't know renee is 3 lanes lol
i would think op means 3 driving lanes + 1 parking / reserved lane
“imperial life” becomes very literal in this case
maybe minimum lane width requirements that must have changed over time making 4 lanes too narrow but 3 too wide. if that's the case they should just extend the sidewalks an extra half meter to fix the middle lane because people clearly get confused rn
yes, but the only thing keeping people in line (parson the pun) are traffic signals, even then people get it wrong. it’s the only street where people don’t drive over the speed limit, it’s 50 and i’m always stuck behind someone doing 40 and you are guaranteed to miss the lights doing 40.
maybe my comment wasn't super clear, but the actual layout is 3 lanes total
i have very different experience driving there in the evening, sometimes nearing triple digit speed once out of the downtown core
actually it's two lanes of traffic while parking is permitted, three when it isn't. one of the deeper mysteries of living in montreal.
"jae-anthony dougan’s saint-henri restaurant tropikàl, which will occupy the stand until july 27. its menu includes grilled corn with scotch bonnet pepper butter and a dusting of pecorino romano, shrimp skewers with mango chutney and rice, and a jerk chicken gyro, among other dishes.
up next will be another notre-dame street restaurant, afro-québécois maquis yasolo; two-time masterchef canada contestant and creator of elle jay’s private dining service marissa leon-john; and evy mendes, the creator of cantine toca toca, an online catering operation serving vegan west african fare."
sounds delicious. it's true that i have not explored this cuisine much. looking forward to it!
why is their skin color relevant? as a person of color myself i’m sick and tired of this stuff… enough is enough
too bad this white vermont woman still can’t visit montreal!
nice
papaya salad somtam (papaya salad) thailand popular street food | bangkok 
papaya salad somtam (papaya salad) thailand popular street food | bangkok 
some people are always triggered whenever black folks are talked about in a possitive way.  
go figure...
>jae-anthony dougan
guy is a decent chef, his old place in montreal was pretty good, tried his place in ottawa that wasn't bad, and tropikal is decent... but man does he ever charge crazy prices for some of the stuff. 
11$ for two doubles.... that is insane. they are literally two pieces of fried dough, with a curried chickpea mixture and some pepper sauce. ate them almost every day for a year in t&t and they cost you 3tt, which is about 35c each there. the best west indian spots in toronto even you aren't paying more than 1-1.50$ for a double.
i personally prefer talking about culture rather than colour. it’s west-african or caribbean or north indian. that makes sense. 
saying that it’s black and brown food makes no sense. is louisiana soul food the same as antillean, pakistani and camerounaise now? is mexican brown enough? what about afghani or egyptian? 
i live this personally with “middle eastern”, bitch it’s lebanese, not israeli, syrian, or turkish. worse are those who through moroccan in because “it tastes similar”.
because it is an idea of the organization desta (black youth network) and that it is the concept that they proposed and which was accepted by the mjt. what exactly is the problem?
indeed, we are all disgusted.
when uber eats offers me a “black owned restaurants” category… wtf !!
as long as we continue to categorize people by their skin color, racism will continue, it's not complicated!
[if you talk about it, it exists…](
all i wanna know is: how good is the food? 
dafuk does the chef's ethnicity have to do with it, like no other continent but north america would this be a thing.
it should be about cuisine and culture, if there is one thing that is universal and can bridge what ever divides someone feels in society, its that every single person enjoys good food and in every culture, its food that brings people together. 
but unfortunately this hyper-focus around what race, or ethnicity someone is, has crept into even food now.
some of these people are out there trying to shut down restaurants because they are owned by "white" people, yet are cooking mexican cuisine.... or what ever else they take offence at. 
i've had amazing french food cooked by a indian born chef, some of the best japanese food by a white australian chef.... good italian from a mexican... ect. good food speaks for itself, and we should embrace everyone embracing other cultures and cuisines, rather than making the focus on what colour the skin of the person cooking it is. crazy its come full circle from fighting against segregating things based on skin colour, to fighting for segregating things on skin colour.
welcome to the new woke order
> why is their skin color relevant?
broadly? because these are marginalized communities with fewer opportunities than white people, so spaces where they can work are important in closing that gap. 
for this particular story? because it was set up by a charity focused on offering opportunities to black youths. 
the better question is why does it bother you? what exactly are you "sick and tired" of?
american concerns are imported without regard to the reality of quebec.
[deleted]
[deleted]
i need you (and many people) to sit down and examine why the idea of a $5 sandwich with a channa masala (which is skill and time-demanding as is any curry) filling is outrageous, but a $10 blt is not.
hey there,
wanted to add my two cents to bounce off of your comment.
pricing things is a personal thing, as is taste preference.
i agree wholeheartedly that 11$ for doubles is expensive - but that's how he wants to run his business and the people he wants to cater to.
i spent quite a lot of time thinking about why certain foods should be pricey (.e.g. french) and others cheap (all less developed nations). i don't have an answer but at the end of the day, if the food is good, people will pay.
i also know that the profit margin in the restaurant industry is very slim. all this to say i have no idea why he prices things this way, but that i'd keep my mind open as to why.
have a good day,
cheers.
> what is the problem exactly?
the problem is that this miringue is too sensitive.
> what is the problem exactly?
it was believed that basing criteria on a person's skin color was a thing of the past.
[deleted]
health,
i would like to add something based on my understanding of your comment. tell me if i misinterpreted something - it happens.
i think it's important to know that it's not because we categorize people that racism exists.
and the human will always categorize. this is what our brain does. we categorized everything - danger, not danger, round, square, dark, pale ... it's a human trait. it is not by not perceiving the "colors" that racism disappears. our brain categorizes everything we see in order to survive and it's completely natural.
i never said "i am x (ethnicity)" during my childhood and yet i experienced a lot of racist acts and words.
there is nothing wrong with categorizing and perceiving cultures and skin colors. many people from the majority are embarrassed to say that someone is black / african / asian. clearly, to identify someone visually, you have to categorize. but this discomfort does not come from the fact that we categorize, but that some people when they say "black" or "asian" or "caucasian" in their head, they associate traits with this category.
what is a plague is to associate traits and characters, especially negative ones, with a culture or a skin color.
i heard from a colleague who was looking to visit kaisons to buy but who said she was not going to buy from an asian because: "we all know asians are all a little dishonest."
is it the fact that the lady said "asian" that what she is saying is racist? or rather because she assumes that asians are all dishonest?
just my two cents.
good day to you.
where the hell do you think the food comes from? countries with majority black people or white people. and the thing is some of these white people don't specify ethnicities or cultures. if it was someone of a culture not in canada, they wouldn have used the proper ethnic term.
like west indian food. created by countries that are populated mostly by black people so saying "black chefs" is redundant
a charity focused on black youths invests in a project that provides opportunities to black youths. 
you: "new woke order!"
it's a food stall dude, don't eat there if it bothers you that it's run by a black focused charity.
i miss y’all!
come on men. no need to be a dick to people
what /u/frenchaffair said, and also doubles are generally pretty small, and a blt would be bigger and often comes with a side of fries or salad or something.
if the doubles are as filling as the sandwich and / come come with a similar side, i see no reason why they can't cost similarly, assuming the cost of ingredients isn't that much more.
[deleted]
you're not wrong, end of the day its a business and if people are willing to pay it, then charge it. 
i like to think price should be reflective of the process, skill and ingredients required. a lot of french cuisine is very labour intensive, with long and very precise processes that require a decent amount of training and technical application to get right. then in addition, often specialized ingredients that are only produced or made in one area with equally high degree of technical process required. 
but then again tons of bad or simple french food is over priced as well.
the problem for some is the different treatment due to the color of the skin of the people. as a visible minority, this is very embarrassing even for "positive" reasons.
according  to this university law professor: [
whose recent paper titled "the whiteness of french food. law, race, and eating culture in france".
she writes in the abstract of the paper:
*food is fundamental to french identity. so too is the denial ofstructural racism and racial identity. both tenets are central to thenation’s self-definition, making them all the more important to thinkabout together. this article purports to identify and critique a form offrench food whiteness (blanchité alimentaire), that is, the use of foodand eating practices to reify and reinforce whiteness as the dominantracial identity.*
so, not only are they insensitive, they are expressing structural whiteness, which is inherently racist. an anti-bias, re-education training session is in order.
> where the hell do you think the food comes from? countries with majority black people or white people
til japan has no food
the west indies are from from "mostly black" to begin with, and on top of that they are probably the quintessential example of a broad cuisine that is rooted entirely in a melting pot of so many cultures and influences. 
there isn't a single root or origin in any of it, it all draws from multiple sources.
i'm sure that what just a small effort, you can find a way to twist even more my meaning... unless you don,t understand the meaning of the comments here.
10$ for a restaurant blt is very standard price, even cheap
exactly
you know in an ideal world i would agree that's fair. i do see the value in it when the scales are as badly balanced as they are now.
because if you're living in a society where you have say 60% racially aware and 40% who do discriminate in some form or the other, that still translates to a heavy burden minorities need to overcome. simply saying you have to wait until that 40% changes the way they treat people, means that generation just has to suffer through that time
and when i'm taking about an example of 40% i don't mean just compensating for outright swastika wearing white supremecists, (which is much more rare (though not as rare as i'd like)), but for the more pervasive racism where we have stereotypes we define people of other races with, and the blindspots people with regards to how their perceptions of those races or cultures have been formed either by society around them or in movies and other media, and how those can translate into treating people in destructive ways which we don't notice. 
ways which are so pervasive that even minorities themselves have a hard time expressing more than a general feeling of malease. it isn't until we dig deeper that we realise how the scales are imbalanced.
so for now, i'm ok with people spotlighting minorities, even if it feels a bit awkward because it's a small effort to provide different advantages for them, because we have not come close enough to provide equal opportunities.
that said, it's important for everyone to be on the same page knowing that this is a stopgap which is in place while we are working on setting up an environment which provides equal opportunities rather than a substitute for one.
can you define structural whiteness and how it is inherently racist
>so, not only are they insensitive
oh, i was going with overly sensitive. a play on their name, you know?
interesting abstract, though i don't enough about food culture per se to have an opinion on it. how does one get access to the paper?
i can see that food snobbery can lead to a sense of superiority, and even nationalism, and i can see nationalism has attracted supremecists. i don't see how  to take one conclusion as a direct causation of the other. it feels like a stretch, but i'm willing to read about it. 
>so, not only are they insensitive, they are expressing structural whiteness, which is inherently racist. an anti-bias, re-education training session is in order
this kind of language always makes me feel uncomfortable. re-education is a loaded term. evokes imagery of the whole re-education camps for uighurs and other cases of ethnic cleansing. 
like i get what you're saying. a lot of biases we all are bombarded with are really ingrained. for example, growing up, just seeing a character like apu on tv felt like "hey people in movies and shows are finally being inclusive of those with a sub continental background. woohoo! i'm being represented!". years later i see how he was portrayed as "the indian" and how a lot of the jokes around him (not all) were just mocking his stereotype. after a while you wonder why there are certain races in movies who can never be a hero or a love interest without also being either a token/stereotype or more recently just an educational tool for learning about that race/culture.
but that means i spent years before reaching that conclusion, thinking it's just fine for others to see me with some stereotype colored glasses because i normalized and internalized those stereotypes about myself. and only when it got to the point where i was old and independent enough to see how those stereotypes affected the opportunities around me did i even start to recognize it as something which is not good rather than something that just makes me feel uneasy, but was probably just overreacting. 
so i really can see how there can be the need for harsher language to help jarr people into noticing something is really ***systemically*** wrong. 
but i can also see how it can push people away if you don't have solid, heavy examples which help you support that language. otherwise you lose the people who you want to reach out to the most.
jerk chicken, rice and peas? those are broad examples?
beef patties and calalloo?
oil down and ginuep.
these are not common to other parts of the world.
> you can find a way to twist even more my meaning
what did i twist exactly? 
a food blog wrote a post about a new restaurant opening up, and mentioned that the theme of that restaurant is black and indigenous chefs. you said it's because of the "new woke order". what's the meaning i'm missing?
he's not arguing in good faith. he mentioned further down to me that he's being sarcastic. 
in the process taking an actual problem like structural racism muddying the water.
sure, here's dr donald moss' explanation from his paper titled, "on having whiteness":
[
*whiteness is a condition one first acquires and then one has—amalignant, parasitic-like condition to which “white” people have aparticular susceptibility. the condition is foundational, generatingcharacteristic ways of being in one’s body, in one’s mind, and in one’sworld. parasitic whiteness renders its hosts’ appetites voracious,insatiable, and perverse. these deformed appetites particularly targetnonwhite peoples. once established, these appetites are nearlyimpossible to eliminate...*
[don't worry though, an increasing amount of predominantly american multinational corporations are pushing critical race theory and anti-whiteness, anti-bias training for their employees as part of esg.](
edit: if you downvote me because i hurt your sensibilities, please explain yourself.
dude, i was being sarcastic. the fact that you tried to justify any of this moral-grandstanding, self-flagellating nonsense is alarming, although thankfully you expressed hesitation at the re-education camps -- but perhaps it's only a stones throw away considering the onslaught of anti-bias c.r.t training sweeping corporate america? following historical precedents one could reasonably infer this. (see chinese cultural revolution or the bolshevik revolution)
i appreciate your response but you're a little bit behind on the cultural zeitgeist it seems. 
empathy is good generally speaking. it can also be taken advantage of. be careful.
jerk was a process of preserving food by indigenous peoples in jamaica. it got combined with marinating process of the spanish & the cooking process (smoking) brought over by african slaves as well as heavily influenced by spices brought by south indian labours. 
so yea, like most west indian foods, its a result of a fairly diverse and multicultural mixture. 
beef patties.... based on a british cornish pasty, with indian & local spices.... and you find versions of that all over the world.
calalloo originally comes from south india. 
oildown..... commonly with bread fruit that was again, most common and brought over by south indian workers... coconut milk.... 
its not about being common in other parts, its about being unique to the caribbean because it was pretty much a blank pallet of cusine that was brought together from many sources.
it's the obsession of basing critierias on poeple's skni colour. how about concentrating on the invidiuals as humans and what they share?
ah, i see, trolling. carry on, you almost got me. the fact that it's harder and harder to distinguish between a troll and someone's actual beliefs is quite telling.
i'm glad you clarified that you were being sarcastic because the other shit you were saying further down about parasitic whiteness really pissed me off, but i was already late for work by that time and didn't reply... 
> the fact that you tried to justify any of this moral-grandstanding, self-flagellating nonsense is alarming
i didn't want to dismiss it outright without reading it. i have been wrong about other things on this topic which i have dismissed as grandstanding nonsense in the past, and like i've described in my last post there have been things which i now see as racism which i'd just assumed as being normal before. 
for example, i didn't understand things like cultural appropriation for a very long time. and while i'm still not personally offended if i see that happening for my culture, i now understand it as something which certain other cultures have every right to feel offended about seeing as what was done to them and what the implications are. 
for all i know there might be a huge element of food snobbery in certain circles which is steeped in racism. alternatively it could have been that the abstract was written to be eye catching and the content itself would be more reasonable. either way the topic was interesting to me personally.
forty years ago my grandmother was just not being served at a restaurant in france because she mentioned she was muslim and wouldn't drink alcohol. she learned later that it might be because they just figured she wouldn't tip well because they figured the resulting bill would be lower. so there's definitely place for a discussion about if that was racism/bigotry, or if it was just a case of people caring only about money, or if it is that infamous french service stereotype **or** that immediately assuming *that* stereotype is itself racist. add more context to the story than what i've shared and it becomes even harder to make the call. 
that said, when people go down the route of dismissing or mocking what they call pc culture, what people forget is how all these small discriminations affect the people being targeted by it. systemic prejudice is a bigger issue than people realize, and it's only until one spends a lot of time seeing how pervasive it is, that a fair number of things which seem like 'over-reactions' seem a lot less so. 
the only for people to understand that *is* to get people to learn about it, and for each individual to ask themselves "what are the prejudices which i have?" and to teach ones self how to either compensate for them or to work on removing them all together. that's just called people trying to be better versions of themselves. but on a sub where english isn't everyone's first language i can totally see someone calling it re-educating themselves.
> empathy is good generally speaking. it can also be taken advantage of. be careful.
i appreciate the advice. cheers.
for real i'm thinking of buying a bodycam, not only for the masks but for all the crazy fuckers in public places. 
there are some clip on cams that record in loop and are small enough that you don't look like homer simpson with a huge cowboy hat!
[removed]
holly shit i went to high school with this guy. this is so fucked up
hope they catch the coward
to mr. mailloux lafrance: (maybe you will see my message.)
this is terrible. i hope some kind of surveillance footage can be found. the person who hit you is ignorant and a coward.
all the best from another montreal healthcare worker.
i'm saddened by the comments i saw on facebook, people were saying he deserved this for meddling in other people's affaires... is this what our society has come to? resorting to violence when you're in the wrong and normalizing it?
i hope the anti-masker gets infected with any life-threatening disease and die. 
fuckers like him don’t have the right to live anymore.
there should be camps for these people.. ffs
[deleted]
[deleted]
ah it's a shame to have a birthmark there she is brave.
i think maybe this article is confusing the anti maskers and the motherfuckers. obviously they are superimposed but it is rather just a con who would behave like that?
[deleted]
no matter how right you are and how wrong they are, if you’re gonna beak off at some random stranger on transit and tell them to obey a rule, you’ve got to be ready for them to possibly punch in the face. considering personal safety from covid and otherwise is the concern, i probably would’ve just moved to another spot. anti-maskers aren’t gonna be swayed by being told. that’s like, their whole thing
i started driving with a gopro precisely because of this. the majority of assholes shut up all that much more quickly when i point at the camera and smile.
sir i think there's a bee in your hat
how's the legal situation, on that?
let's assume some people don't want to be filmed, how does that work?
i kinda prefer the homer look myself now that you mentioned it. i'd only be able to wear it for 10 mins before suffering permanent neck damage but that should be more than enough time to get some share worthy footage...
tried a new approach at the post-office last week. 
made a surprised face at the guy and said *oh, i know you...yeah...you're the guy who doesn't give a shit about anyone around him, right?*
the guy thought it was funny. it brought attention to him and staff told him to put his mask on or leave.
the problem is that it won't be these clowns who die. it'll be their friends, family members and loved ones who contract it from folks who don't give a shit.
i would totally agree if it meant that they wouldn't spread it to non antimaskers, unfortunately, they spread it everywhere and are most likely the reason that virus is still hitting all-time-highs.
i hope they don't catch it, because that means they'll be spreading that shit to everyone else
i have the same opinions.
small world!
the metro system is full of camera, for sure they have images of the idiot that just hit a random passenger.
the issue now is for the police to find who that person is.
i read the article and the guy was minding his own business. someone told [angry person] and angry person when on a shrek rage and punched the first thing he saw.
or we don't know anything about the assailant?
the fashion to call your children "liam"? yeah, that was ridiculous, you had elementary classes with 25% of the guys called liam, and its not getting better.
what i like most about haitians in quebec is that they give real names to their children, not just whatever is popular in the media this year.
qwhat?
like "do the dishes"?
not all idiots are anti-masks, but all anti-masks are idiots.
or maybe even someone with a mental health disorder, schizophrenic type paranoid type (since the victim had not even spoken with the attacker).
they pretend that no one is showing off the face of the unknown in montreal for nothing before the covid ...
why are you giving balanced comments? it is not accepted here you should know.
r/iamverybadass
loser of a knife fight dies in the ~~street~~ metro, winner dies in the hospital
probably you didn't read the article. someone had talked to the antimasker. the punched person wasn't even aware of it. all he did was go sit at another seat without even talking to the antimasker. the antimasker sucker punched the guy.
that's precisely what he did. he didn't say shit and went to sit somewhere else. it's an old lady who told the asshole he should wear one. when the poor guy sat down somewhere else, the asshole came after him. read the article.
silence is not a solution, it's an accomplice
edit: also, read the article before commenting.
didn't you read the article the champion
please read the article before spouting bullshit advice
if i'm biking i have my gopro on for sure. 
i also bought a dashcam for the car with dual camera (front and back) so it starts automatically, easier to manage than gopro in the car.
we russia now boys
legally speaking, if you're in a public space, nobody needs your consent or your permission to film you.
the only thing you can do is leave, and then if they're following you, it becomes harassment.
everything visible from a public place is fair game (except defence installations - so, in theory, you're not allowed to take a picture of the black watch building). they can bitch, but you are under no legal obligation to stop filming or taking photos.
however, in a private place, you must stop once told by the owner, the renter or an agent of either (employee).
in the métro specifically, taking photos/filming is not prohibited from any place accessible to the public, except for commercial projects; so tourists can film/take photos for their own use (this means that if you sell a picture you took in the métro, you may be not 100% legal), and if someone who is not a stm employee tells you to stop, you are in no legal obligation to comply.
it is also absolutely legal to film police officers in a public place; this was firmly established during the 2012 student protests.
lastly, no one has the legal power to force you to delete photos or films from your camera. no, not even the police.
in all cases, photographing/filming is under civil law, not criminal (except for defence installations).
#however
in all cases, **in québec only**, if you take someone's picture in public and you publish it (in a book, a magazine, a newspaper, a web site), you can be liable for damages, except if it is in a public event, such as santa's parade or a stanley cup ~~riot~~ parade.
it can't be worse than all the stupid tik tok and other crap people are filming. in québec as long as you don't use it for profit you can film and photograph pretty much anyone.
in quebec, you are not allowed to publish any image without permission. 
[aubry v. editions vice-versa](
if you're in a public place, fuck'em.
i mean, if some guy in the background knows he was recorded when i was filming something else and politely asks for his privacy, i'll blur out his face, but if a karen has a public freakout, then it's going straight to youtube.
i find that it's rare that a message gets across with an insult (it worked for you though!). even if what you are saying is kind of true, it comes off as an insult. also, better be certain that the person was not wearing their mask on purpose if you take that approach. people sometimes simply forget to put it on. i have and i'm quite mindful about those sorts of things.
that being said, people who are negligent with their mask should step up their game and people who are anti-masks can go f themselves.
personally i wish them cancer. and to have to be denied treatment because covid filled the hospitals because of them. yes, that's asshole of me. still doin' it.
plaster his face everywhere and make an example out of this coward. this is getting out of control how anti-mask and q-anon idiots can get away with being the most garbage human.
> "pedestrianization projects are good for restaurants and bars with terraces, but for services, such as hairdressing or beauty salons, or restaurants that do take-out, it can be disastrous, because customers cannot stop in front of their business
motorists are seriously spoiled babies. what's the matter with walking 5 or 10 minutes to the fucking hairdresser?
the city received 14 requests. funding is planned for 10 projects.
mont-royal, wellington certain sections of sainte-catherine will return to pedestrian traffic as last year. sainte-catherine ouest will be pedestrianized on weekends. the rest, we are lining up for the hybrid especially, more places for pedestrians without closing traffic.
for rue ontario, a presentation of the project will take place tomorrow.
i can't believe wanting to make our neighbourhoods more pleasant is a hot take but man i am here for this *popcorn*
having a car sucks going downtown, so knowing that find another way to go there? public transport. biking. walking. or even uber! a taxi. like any other city.
edit: i love the new french insults i learned thanks to this thread lolllll
the only downside of more pedestrian malls is having to see all the whiny, passive aggressive tweets from certain politicians who can't seem to wrap their heads around any quality of life improvement that doesn't include "driving and parking more". 
i can't wait for mont royal to shut down again.
yessir is great! i really like to eat on a terrace without a car and see people walking. bcp less noisy and more pleasant. also i feel more in community.
people are lazy. just walk the extra 5-10 minutes. usually you find free parking too and the exercise is good for you. if you’re with someone elderly just drop them off as close as possible.
most of the whining commentators don't even live in montreal. coderre remains a bully. pm has many faults and valérie plante too, but i cannot believe that we are going back to the old sherrif in town.
[deleted]
the entire city center should be pedestrian, like many european cities. summer, like winter !
do any of you have kids family live outside the island? unless you live in the heart of montreal, public transit just plain sucks and you require a car. you can't not have a car in longueuil or laval or saint jerome. the car then has to be dropped off somewhere but we don't have enough parkings at metro montmorency for example... so yeah we'll drive and park in the city but then battle with finding spots..
that's the reality, it's not because we are whiny but because we love montreal and want to spend money into your city ya hipster doofuses. from the north shore i leave my tank as much as possible at the metro or train, but it's not always possible ... and it depends who is in the car with me (children for example). i love taking the metro, but it's a real problem for many of us. yes it pisses but i understand 100% the advantage of pedestrian streets.
unfortunately, i work in montreal, as soon as i retire i leave this place which does not accept those who live in the suburbs. unfortunately i have a degenerative disease that has affected my legs and i cannot walk very far or for long. the plante administration and its followers want a city without cars. the rev is a disaster on st-denis it takes almost double the time to circulate and all the streets become without unique to accommodate the bumps in the bike. montreal that i would like has become a place that does not attract much the outside world, it will lose millions in the north and south crowns.
when all the businesses return their keys, we'll see who was right. you just have to go and see the rue st denis and the result is not even beautiful to see.
i hope that the city will consult a little more traders rather than dictate their choice of facilities. it would also be good if they had options for deliveries, for example, mont royal becomes pedestrianized from noon to midnight, this would allow garbage collection and merchandise deliveries. but we know very well what will happen and i am preparing for the shit that will be circulating this summer in montreal.
also ... remember that in the last survey, projet montreal had 24% ... héhéhé
[removed]
lol as if we needed more reason not to go to montreal
like when you go to the mall you park in the parking lot and walk to the store. you don't park your tank in front of the store. people are so bitchy
for wellington, even this category of businesses had mostly benefited from pedestrianization. just a majority less overwhelming than the others. i think the gentleman said that especially to have a reflection to limit certain inconveniences for certain customers, in certain businesses. it's not difficult to do: you just have to reserve areas of stops and parking lots on perpendicular streets and promote them for those who need them. anyway what are the chances of parking directly in front of your store in normal times? there is not even a place per door in general.
it is worse to put colorful wheelbarrows to transport large purchases like on mont-royal, even if mario girard will complain in la presse because it is "not beautiful".
you can adapt and please almost anyone, except the most whining ones who have an almost sexual attraction in the free parking lot of malls (and strangely often have to walk longer to get to a store). but we lost this clientele a long time ago anyway.
besides, you are an idiot if you drive on mont royal (etc.). i have a car and i live a few hundred meters from mont royal. i always avoid it; lots of traffic lights, chaos with pedestrians, chaos with people trying to do a parallel park with their surburban for 2 minutes, chaos with delivery people etc. it makes a lot more sense to drive on st-joseph or rachel regardless of whether mont royal is pedestrianized. and yet ...
it's easy to tell when you are a resident of a neighborhood and know the streets, permit areas and restrictions. but when you specifically remove short-stay parking spaces to send motorists circling residential streets, it's far from ideal.
probably because they are a 25-30 minute or more walk away and are going to have their hair cut on the periphery instead.
this is a quote from a trader and not from a motorist. but hey, it takes us an anti-auto roundabout. dae hates big hummers (even if we haven't been doing more for 10 years)?
> what's the matter with walking 5 or 10 minutes to the fucking hairdresser?
no joke, people are fucking lazy as shit.
one of my coworkers was a personal trainer and now does it on the side. he moved from west island to be closer to work. his new home is a *fifteen minute walk from work*, and on the corner of fleury and st laurent. this is most people's dream. 15 minute walk to work and all conveniences close by. he still fucking drives. 300$+ a month on gas and insurance for no reason. it will literally take you less time to just walk to work than it would take to clear a snow dump off your car and warm it up.
my mother (in laval) will also drive to go to her mom's house which ia literally around the corner, a 3 min walk. she will spend 10 minutes circling looking for the parking spot closest to a store instead of just parking further away and walking 2 minutes. one good thing though, she is happy to park somewhere further and walk around montreal to get where she needs to go. she won't complain about that the way these idiots do.
i walk 20 minutes to work every day, which is *nothing*, and my neighbour, who also has no car, was shocked and said "wow thats impressive".
bruh it takes most people a 15 minute walk to get to the bus station or metro. people are lazy.
i have my concierge who has to move from one building to another for weekly work ... the lack of parking space in residential areas is a big problem for him especially since they have removed without consultations spaces reserved for non residents. temporary vignettes are for one day but there is nothing for 30 minutes ... moreover, many residents of the area do not care about parking areas because they have a sticker .. consequence, this year, a good increase in rent to compensate the concierge's tickets and my tenants accepted the increase without flinching. so you want to know what the consequence of your pissing off? well, 15% less in your wallet because don't worry ... businesses and owners will not increase their prices.
[deleted]
i hope it will be better than last year, i can't believe it cost $ 350,000 for mainly paint and 2-3 cheap landscaping in ontario. the fogger which has been functional for 2 weeks max.
thanks for the information!
pedestrian ontario it was fucking cool. i loved it.
people who live out of city on this sub being mad they cant act like the suburb in downtown 👀
btw just a tip, nobody says "fil" for a reddit thread lol. we say maybe "fil de discussion" or mainly "section commentaire" or just *thread* lol
> public transport. 
not to be condensending but buses are already not great in normal times and reroute will not do them great (especially if people keep using their cars, they're gonna be stuck in traffic jams).
well 10 minutes each way is 20 minutes wasted. not everyone has 20 minutes to spare for good fun.
edit: my internet points :(
to see the comments and down-votes i conclude that they do not want strange people in their city ... hahah
[deleted]
super good point, but it sounds quite like a problem on the model of the suburbs: full sprawl, therefore difficulty of having a viable public transport system (because the population density is just not there).
your argument would therefore be to say: "since the suburbs are caught with a bad system, no one has the right to have a better one"? ok, i'm exaggerating a bit, but hopefully i make a little sense ...!
the discussion here is not to eliminate the car for those who need it (like you!) but rather to avoid encouraging the use of the car for those who may very well do without ... !
every time you widen a road, or add more parking lots, you only increase the number of motorists in an already saturated system. when the population who can do without it, i can guarantee that your travels will be much more pleasant.
it is an excellent argument to debate i find: universal accessibility. this is a point to be integrated into all arrangements. for example, last year mont-royal had rules for the accessibility of terraces, as well as new reserved parking spaces. from experience, was that not enough? it is necessary to talk about it. it is important.
however, i find it unfortunate to then see the argument move away from the noble universality of space and degenerate into a less inclusive i-myself-me. cyclist “sores” are humans who deserve safety and access as much as anyone else. driving at a slower speed on saint-denis, you surely saw the white bike in the viaduct, and well it's dead by a lane change. more than 60% of adults and almost all young people ride a bicycle. many people with disabilities use the cycle paths to get around and cannot drive. i find it very unfortunate to despise these people, just to put a little more pressure on the gas pedal. i agree 100% that we must adapt an arrangement for universal access. it also means that the automobile must accept to give way to others.
for a city "without cars", it still occupies all the public space. all streets are accessible, all streets are lined with parking lots. access is there for the car, universal throughout the territory. you complain that you don't have all the space and you share it, in a city where 50% of people don't use the car in the morning to go to work.
driving a car in montreal is much easier than it is easy to walk or take the tec in the suburbs. if universal accessibility is your hobbyhorse, you should be much more critical of your own environment. tons of people can't or don't want to drive. our planet and our environment cannot take it either.
the majority of traders must approve pedestrianization arrangements. they won't lose money, because you are not the only one with space requirements and others will benefit. we must never forget that. but i hope you can communicate specific problems for the development of pedestrian streets. it shouldn't be more difficult for you than going to the center of carrefour laval, which offers no extreme proximity of the parking lot to the shops.
strangely, the pedestrian section of st denis is doing better than the rest 🤷‍♂️
greetings castledi - this is an argument that comes up really often, that the pedestrianization of the arteries will kill the commercial streets, but the opposite is happening all over the world.
i encourage you to watch [ danemark( \ - that just addresses the point you are making .
these requests come from the sdcs, it is the traders who request them. the decisions of the sdcs are voted on by members elected by the traders of each commercial street.
last year on mount royal, deliveries were allowed before noon (and tolerated until mid-pm ...), there were large parking areas 15mins on each local street corner, for restaurant delivery people, or for "just a quick commission" i imagine that will be back this year too.
otherwise we remember that there is a network of alleys made expressly for delivery! (yes, made for small trucks, but we had not planned the road train in 1910!)
plus, this summer the city won't have any vas (the active temporary lanes that appeared out of nowhere super quickly), so at least we can know what to expect.
coderre will come back very strong in the next elections!
[removed]
i don't understand .... why do you come to read the montreal reddit if you don't like the city at all? it's like going to the tank tuning reddit just to say i find it cave. it would be a waste of time for me, but especially for amateurs who don't give a shit about my comments.
exact. go shop in the anjou galleries and count the number of steps that separate you from the store.
but if you go to a shopping centre like place viau, premium outlets, or dix30, you could park in front of the store you want.
i avoid wellington in the summer. it's a fucking annoyance. lived in the area for a while and i don't have all day to go pick up waffles on sunday mornings. but that's just me and in fine with it. kids and families enjoying it is nice to see
but who are these people who go from one district to another, even from one city to another, to go to the hairdresser ?! and especially who have to take their car to go there!
last year i went to the lps to buy vinyl ... drive around 30 minutes before finding a parking space. i picked up a mag in a hen crater and left there with a parking ticket because it looked like the parking space was not legal on odd days during a full moon week ....
i remembered why i was going to montreal more ... it's going to snow in hell before i go back!
> it can be disastrous, because customers cannot stop in front of their business
"it can be disastrous, because customers can't ** stop ** in front of their business"
we really wonder who he is talking about.
not only "it will always remain that way" is a baseless claim, but the rest of you post is contradicted by the studies that have been done on pedestrian street and their economical impact.
good on him, it must have been so stressful. every time i take my first aid course, i just hope i'll never have to use it.
damn i am pleasantly surprised.
the guy was outside the station, and the employee was helping! knowing the usual general indifference of stm employees is refreshing.
give this man a promotion someone!
hat!
reminds me of this tom scott video 
hat! very glad he took action and someone was doing cpr on the patient. the minutes and seconds before we (the pr firefighters) and our fellow paramedics arrive are the most important for the survival of a patient in cardio respiratory arrest.
the most important thing is to act. even if you have no training in cpr, the dispatchers of urgence santé will "coach" you. if you find a defibrillator: it will talk to you and you just have to follow its instructions. if you forgot: compressions only, 2 fingers above the sternum, depth 5-6cm, to the rhythm of "staying alive" by the beegees.
if you're afraid of making a mistake, tell yourself that a person in acr is dead ... you can't make a dead person's condition worse. in addition a defib. pubic cannot give a shock to a patient who does not need it.
he... used all of them?
everyone needs to be trained for aed use and cpr. there should be aeds in as many public places as possible, especially public transit stations. good man.
that's what these defibrillators are there for. well done to the employee!
it feels good to read about acts like this happening in our area. i appreciate people like this guy!
👍👍👍🙏
just took one yesterday. nice to know there are actually defibrillators around
same thing as a security guy, i just hope nothing... nothing happens
or at least an increase!
wow that's actually a brilliant idea.
> to the rhythm of "staying alive" by the beegees.
i have this beautiful scene in my head every time i hear this. i knew the tempo by "timing" but before this scene i had never thought about the beegees. very good tip for everyone to remember
edit: my french is shit
must have been one tough case of vfib.
that made me giggle
they're pretty easy to use. all the ones i've seen tell you exactly what to do verbally. even without training you should be able to use it.
there are a lot of places with aed's now.  almost every governmental building (fed, provincial and municipal), arenas and sports facilities, shopping centers and even big chain stores like provigo, walmart and canadian tire usually have them (though not always).  
i've had more than one patient saved thanks to quick action from civilians and an available aed in places like golf clubs arenas and shopping centers.
[deleted]
yeah! talk about thinking... inside the box?!
lol! shouldn't this scene come to mind during an operation ... i don't think a patient's family would find it funny that i start to chuckle while i pump grandma. :)
and most of them also have big friendly easy to interpret graphics on them in case you don't understand the verbal instructions.
he will be told to take it easy
an operations manager is a first-level manager ...
ouch 
"it won't be long, madame tremblay, i'm still in the pre-chorus, we'll soon go to the chorus"
it's not tickets. they are cams!
metro bus card!
32% increase between 89 and 92...brutal
i also remember the small banknotes a square wrinkle a little wider than a stamp.
my my my! the cams from the 90s ... do you see the noise of the transfer machine in the metro? those who gave the white ticket for the bus? i loved playing with ...
oh, my...
and the beige bus transfers, and the gray metro transfers!
nice... saint-cum.
i just understood the acronym twenty years late !!
you're right:)
those? 
yes that what you're talking about is even older
the large correspondence papers on the ground, everywhere in the metro ....
yes with the magnetic tape that unloaded the turnstiles in the metro
the 25c one was my first bus ticket that i handed over myself when i was 3 years old! 🥲
no older, it was more the option to buy individually.
yeah! the call for air made them fly at metro rosemont ... and the bus drivers who ostinous us when we tried to pass the paper from the same station.
old times
i also have other cams in my collection, especially those from 2005-2007
these were the default tickets before cams were used.
the early pandemic response of this hospital was very very effective. consequently they were able to keep this horrible disease outside of their facilities.
i thought the chinese hospital was closed?
we have a chinese hospital? i wasn't aware.
neat!
if only china itself could have kept it away..
it has become a housing center for the elderly - however, the institution has decided to keep the same name of the 'hospital' for historical reasons.
second sentence of the article:
> a resident at the montreal chinese hospital, a long-term care home located near chinatown 
hell it's even in the sub-heading. not a hospital, just a very divisively named long-term care home that caters exclusively to asians and is near chinatown.
they did. they're the ones who implemented an actual full lockdown early on and are basically back to normal now.
agreed
> just a very divisively named long-term care home that caters exclusively to asians and is near chinatown.
the idea is that you have chsld services in cantonese and mandarin. there are similar places with services in greek, italian, hungarian, yiddish, etc.
>just a very divisively named long-term care home that caters exclusively to asians and is near chinatown.
it appears that way to people ignorant to its history. might also be due to one's own racism.
after arresting journalists and healthcare workers trying to spread the word. this was in november 2019 btw. if they had let the word out and closed their international flights at the time, it could have been prevented.
full lockdowns only after letting it leak worldwide sure.
by barricading people in their homes, would you have preferred that?
oof, that's one way to look at it.  another is that they tried to cover it up initially, let it plant seeds across the world, then went full lockdown and refused to accurately and transparantly report on covid cases or the source of the disease to save face.
except, they aren't.
edit: don't know why i'm getting downvotes, but china is far from being back to normal as they want to achieve 0 covid cases before easing their measures.
but hey get downvoted for telling the truth.. it’s clear where the virus originated.
no objection to that, but if you call your chsld montreal chinese hospital when we have things like montreal children's hospital and montreal jewish hospital, it is because you are clearly trying to muddy the waters and mislead people. and that's without saying it's not a hospital.
i like your username and the truths you speak.
why are you being downvoted this sub is crazy.
initially, it was a real hospital and then it became a chsld: 
inform yourself before you complain.
i don't know why your comment was so negociated, but i'm with you haha. our healthcare system can be quite confusing - i still don't know which ciuss or ciss i belong to, for example!
he was the victim of the basvote because he seemed to insinuate that it was a kind of chinese scheming while the establishment simply kept its name for historical and heritage conservation reasons (according to this that i understood), after being transformed into a chsld.
tone deaf as fuck
> you're clearly trying to muddy the waters and mislead people.
he doesnt even insinuate it, he outright says it. although he could be given some leeway on the ethnic aspect.
please explain?
this dude has the hottest takes on the sub, it's like a goal
absolutely, perhaps i was a bit quick on the ethnic card, it was pretty much extrapolation on my side in retrospect
they're mad that i'm saying montreal chinese hospital is an inappropriate name for a chsld because it used to be a hospital and even if it's no longer a hospital it should still be called a hospital because it once was and they like to remember that it was.
mais that's it, it's a completely reasonable observation. judging by the responses one would think you were committing a hate crime.
i'm chinese and looking to work there one day - it doesn't take a genius to point out that having a chsld called the montreal chinese hospital might be confusing for people when the jewish general hospital and the children's hospital actually are hospitals. it doesn't take a lot of imagination too to see how pointing this funny little tidbit out isn't necessarily a condemnation of the decision to keep it named a hospital for historical reasons. y'all need to quit getting your tightie whities in a twist!
pick your battles my friend
rip best sign ever
i want that to be the name of the condo that takes it's place.
when my daughter was 5, she thought it was a barbie store and wanted to go in.
going to have to go to the ordinaire sex club now.
i gonna bet this was arson by one of our lovely montreal mafia members.
someone wanted to claim insurance?
was leaving scotia bank cinema while it was happening, the quantity of smoke was insane, was hard to breath even outside and down the street.  was surprised to see it was just 2 three story buildings.  and agree, was the best neon sign in the city even if i am not a fan of strip clubs, should be replaced!
my first strip club experience was there when i was 18. it was magical. rip.
how horny were the men in there, exactly?
honest question but what was the super sexe when it was opened? was it a strip club, a sex shop or something like cinema l'amour?
there is a surprise.
no f*ckin way!!!!
hope that the employees find decent work out there
aw man. club super sexe. the only time i went there, i only had 10 minutes, and i think i made a mistake; i picked the soup!
montreal should commission a larger replacement more garish than the original.  they could put it anywhere.  they could move it around.
rip to a montréal landmark
saw my first lesbian show there.
with two other dudes.
3:2 is an uncomfortable ratio.
😔
meeeeerde!
rip the roast beef buffet lunch 🤣
how does a building like that stay empty ?
i guess they never invested any of the profit from $10 bottles of beer into a fire suppression system…
i'm guessing they have good insurance in place.
ah, lots of good memories here
does that mean, they just relocated on the street? or some unknown location. i guess we may never known
ahhhhh, i was around but there was so much construction that i never got to see what was going on.
i once watched a very pretty girl make a long piece of cured meat disappear there one time.
if the cleopatra got quebec heritage status so should club super sexe! there doesn't actually need to be a strip club there but the sign should be replaced.
one of my first memories of being downtown as a kid were asking my dad why there were naked ladies on that sign.
super sexe condom ^inium
hahahahaha you gotta love kids
i mean, technically she's not wrong... there's plenty of plastic in there.
silly. don’t you know that’s down the street in cours mont-royal ?
carriage sex still exists?
note on my stupidity i passed 2 years while i went to uqam before understanding the puns.
[deleted]
always.  things don't just spontaneously burn down.
it's flammable in baby powder
i live in ndg and could smell smoke when i went outside last night
they didn't think they could make it through no nut november with the super sexe sign teasing them like that
pretty sure it was abandonned
they were literally burning up
they were smoking hot inside so...a lot
strip club
it was already closed. it was also one of the worst in the city to work at anyway.
would be great for a comic book store!
i thought it was an erotic cinema
sure the sign is old, so remove it and stick it in a museum somewhere. other than that, good riddance, the place was a dump.
i used to got to a arcade right in front. this sigb hypnotize me. i just want to see inside
same!
don't feel too bad: there's at least one guy in montreal who just figured out there was a play on words reading your post.
noo noo... it's all the angles
ohhs so hd! i love zooming in to see the pools on the rooftops
1 upvote for whoever finds my watermark first :p
great job! i love seeing the street art at the end.
i would call anything other than a view from mt royal a different angle
at long last, a great photo of montreal on this sub! bravo!
was this taken with your phone?
great picture! the white is burned top left, is it because of a jpeg compression?
is this taken from mcgill corner st maurice?
looks great! now do nyc! ;)
there's so much to see...
in the water next to farine five roses
it was not, but thank you for asking
that or the sun being there or the fixing cause of photo merge.
corner of ottawa and robert-bourassa
upvoted
so, drone shots i'm guessing?
yup
are you on a boat on tbis picture ?
yes! aml dinner cruise
a lot of speed and alcohol
a real gta player know’s why.
i didn’t see it in the first picture. i thought it was just part of the holand leasing ad.
this is montreal, we don’t ask how, we ask how many. 
/s
skill shot
without too much damage. the art of getting off the road.
dedication
cross post to r/idiotsincars ? though i guess the driver is no longer actually _in_ the car.
imagine being the tow truck driver tasked with getting that down, hooked up, and over to the police lot.
that is precision driving 👍💪
what the hell is that cable made of? some allow of adamantium and mithril?
the metal box, isn't it air quality detectors?
that is not how you take down an at-at walker.
when you have a problem, you have no choice but to hurry.
someone lost a bet
update: driver fell asleep and boom 🤯 
hydro-quebec had to shutdown the power so towing could pull the car down 😂
minotaur!  ride the bull!
you kidding? you see how people fucking drive around here!?
what the 😂😂😂😂😂😂
after moving here 6 years ago i'm not even surprised anymore
oh my god you beat me to it
they’re outnumbered 15 to one, and the battle's begun
wire rope is incredibly strong. those are like an inch in diameter. the breaking strength is probably around 35,000 kgf
selling those dodge chargers they got and laying off the useless stm security would probably help with that.
transit systems all around the world suffered temporary shortfalls during covid, and governments are helping to plug those gaps, to varying degrees. the province needs to take action to address the gap until revenue returns to normal. that's simply what you do when there's a problem with an essential public service. 
(as for why it needs to be the province and not the city, it's a simple matter of revenue. if the city collected the bulk of income taxes then it would be a different story.)
for this particular issue i'd sure feel better with a plq, qs, or pq government than the one we have. it's been a hard sell in quebec to support montreal when almost every mna from the island is in the opposition. but i'll at least give them a chance to get this right before i judge them too harshly.
stop paying your executive so much. i’ve always felt the metro service to be inadequate in this city. buses are always late and the metro always had shutdowns on a weekly basis. not only that but they spend so much money on stm cops to avoid fare skipping, but i don’t think it compensates for the salary that these guards make.
[deleted]
[deleted]
i have lived all over the world and the stm is by far the worst public transit in a city i have lived in..seoul and vancouver had the best. the buses here show up when they feel like it and the metro stops working in peak rush hour regularly. it’s so bad that at age 32 i signed up for driving school, did that whole process and now drive everywhere even though i live the plateau. also, there was an incident with a drunk homeless man yelling on the metro and that was the last straw for me….the stm sucks at their job. took public transit my whole life but never again (in montreal anyway).
fml. it is time for our governments to realize the importance of public transit for the well-being of people and the economy.
every dollar invested in public transport yields better economic returns (roi) than a dollar invested in automobile infrastructure, in the long term.
drivers complain about the stm without realizing the billions spent on automobile infrastructure and all the subsidies for parking (not to mention that each user must buy and maintain their own vehicle!) the automobile as a means of transport by default is not not sustainable, it's a question of space!
with better public transportation, you can keep about the same tax rate and everyone who doesn't have a car saves thousands of dollars a year in costs and insurance. it is downright cheaper! economy 101.
cut your costs on "security": no wannabe cop cars, rent-a-cops, plus the recent development of wanting to arm these clowns
go see the source. don't trust journalists.
good, stop charging people 250$ if they forget to renew their opus card.
and the artm, or another way to drown the fish. skip to page 94 of the pdf.
can they move to a more on-demand model for lesser-used routes and off-peak hours?
perhaps they should have done cuts when they were locking the province trying to get us to social distance and closing down every other business.  i mean public transportation is a lot more concerning in terms of social distancing than say a book store.  instead they kept the system running at full scale at near empty capacity for months on end.
hell they probably could have used the buses as ubers and saved money during those months the system was so empty.
mouhahah !!! cr \ * sse, can not cut * more *! ......... there will stay 2 metro and 3 buses for the whole network !!!!! 😂😂😂
how real is the problem and how much of it is corporate accounting?
90 bucks for buses to be 10 minutes late and the orange line to fully stop afterwards. throw the whole thing out and redo your service, stm
maybe it's time to cut the stm useless cops/security already?
keep your car gassed up.
i'm not saying it's an easy job ... but drivers get paid crazy amounts for what they do. the dude's in the booth doing nothing also get paid way too much...
most drivers with a few years under their belt can pull off $100k annually with some ot.
bah theyll get it and they know it. the union just wants to stir the pot
let it all collapse. all the rude fat fucks making 40$ an hour can go flip burgers.
[deleted]
[deleted]
on the one hand, the artm, whose management voted for a big pay rise as the very first act after its creation. \ *
on the other hand, the stm, which has made the metro network unsanitary and where no one feels safe, and which sends users who complain about urine and harassment to graze.
let them cut. let them start by cutting management salaries, and then maybe they will cut the drivers of totally useless subways in a metro that drives itself, and maybe one day they will even listen to the users who want a metro for users, not beggars and drug addicts.
\ *  //www.tvanouvelles.ca/2017/09/08/les-augmentations-de-salaire-approuvees-a-lartm
every time i hear stories about stm security, it’s not good. at all.
and make their employees work, tse when during your training you are constantly told to work slower otherwise they will increase your road, or that the night guys wash a bus or two and spend the rest of the night playing cards, that is not normal.
edith: i'm talking about housekeeping
if i recall correctly, we've come full circle with this one.
1) corrupt and abusive stm security guard 
2) get replaced by actual mtl police, to at least have some kind of standards & hopefully accountability (well, we at least hope that real cops won't hold kids unnecessarily & run pimping rings)
3) back to stm security, let's see how it goes
everybody is arguing about the cost of these guys vs what they bring in, but also one thing to consider is that the metro is freaking dangerous and these guys help a little bit with that. 
there is on average a violent crime a day in the metro according to stm data. personnally, i've encountered crazies often enough that i bought my car as soon as i was able to afford it. not looking to get into fights with coked up hobboes when i'm coming back from work if i can avoid it.
fix the reliability issues, capacity, security issues and cleanliness issues and maybe people will ditch their cars.
actually customers paying their fares would help alot, high percentage if non paying riders. the security helps alot by giving out tickets to non paying customers.
supporting montreal doesn’t win elections.
legault does not really care to applaud montreal as the major economic hub from which most taxes are collected. now if it was quebec city‘s shortfall, there would be no hesitation.
it's an election year, no way they will let that one drop if the news takes traction. it would be the same no matter which party is in power.
why would transit ever go back to its pre-covid levels, considering the permanent uptake in remote work across many industries?
> they spend so much money on stm cops to avoid fare skipping, but i don’t think it compensates for the salary that these guards make.
if they pay stm "cops" 2$ for every 1$ in tickets they collect, it can still make sense. if there were no stm cops, we'd save 2$, but stm might lose 10$, because there'd be so many more cheaters.
your point reminds me of bad executives who think their high salary it department is a waste of money because they don't have any it problems. so they lay off half their it staff and a year later there's a massively expensive long term crisis.
>stop paying your executive so much.
maybe they need better executives, not cheaper ones? unless you want something similar to an it crisis.
good to note: i have no idea what their executives are paid and whether it's competitive for the skills required. do you?
seriously about the buses being crap. i got on the 144 yesterday (which is for some reason usually 10 minutes early or 10 minutes late, never on time) and it went a completely different direction & route than what the stm site says. like what the hell? no signage up at the stop to indicate a change.
they give enough tickets to be profitable, are all of those tickets paid in the end? that i do not know.
the main reason was to keep physical distancing between clients. even during the peak of the pandemic, the busses on several busy lines were very crowded. 
they did cut on some of less busy lines, but most of them kept their normal schedule, as this it was a recommendation of public healthcare.
bringing asian-level or european-level public transit to north america would be amazing but it's a tough sell. people are obsessed with their cars here, unfortunately.
many cities are in the same category as guangzhou - much better public transit.
is there a social point system in guangzhou?
communism.
i found public transport in vancouver to be much better, too.
ehh i think ttc is worse lol
but for the caq which is elected by the rednecks of the countryside with their pickups, it will be difficult to swallow.
[  
there is the free 2020 report.
about 50% of the new drivers quit within a year. if you have kids just forget about it. they make the newbies change garage every week. you know your schedule the day before at 5pm.
sooooo... you're going to apply?
ok but to make 100k the driver does 55h / week. genre 5x11h
it's not a private business?
because covid won't last forever, and if they do that they will hobble themselves for the future?
i dream in color perhaps. we just need the nfc.
tse, the international standard ?!
tabarnak guys welcome in 2021!
i bought an opus reader a few years ago. it was really worth it.
when will there be a mobile application that will serve as an opus card, too?
thank you ! it works for me, i have an iphone xs on ios 14 and i live in montreal. i wonder what criteria they use to select people.
in 2015 everyone laughed when they released with great fanfare their usb drive that we had to buy. it took them just 6 and a half to develop a mobile transactional application. sorry to be this guy, slow clap as much as me.
welcome to 2010 tlm !!
it's time to relaunch #innovercommelastm 
welcome to 2012!
you can already with transit. we need the nfc sioupla !!!!!
more than a virtual opus card is missing and we can say that we have caught up with the other cities.
i got accepted, but i wish this meant we can actually just carry our phones, and not a card
it has been possible for a long time outside canada
someone will have to explain to me one day how communauto is able to top up my opus card every month simply with the number on the back, but that individuals have to fool around with nfc and “totally secure” proprietary software.
just signed up!
it's so delayed. in london i could take the tube and the bus with just my credit card, not even need a phone, 3 years ago.
about time!! 
we already have the app for parking, it was time they released one for the stm!
i still use their usb junk to reload my card. it’s complicated for nothing there.
good news!
was about time
nice. that only puts us 6 or 7 years behind the times.
for train users like me, does that save me from having to validate my ticket each time i pass?
and i imagine that covers the shuttles for the trains too?!?
great!!  
now, change the opus card design!
[deleted]
2076
even in new york, the world swipes magnetic cards so you don't have to go crazy either
i don't want to defend their outdated system, but according to wikipedia, the card already supports nfc.
it's not marked that it uses nfc, but i imagine you're right. thanks to the newspapers for informing us ....
you mean welcome to 2009. it's old technology
me too. at first i was laughing about it but i finally gave up and it turned out to be super practical! i usually buy ticket packs so it saves the queues and the waits.
when the opus reader came out, we were already buying things online with our phones. i don't know why we invested the money in this technology.
i just put in an order for one 2 days ago lol and it won't even ship until october... i guess i should cancel my order?
just so as not to hit the endless lines on the first of the month, it was worth it!
i got accepted
my guess: they want telecommuters. it is not trivial all these questions about the habits before and after covid concerning the number of times that you take a certain means of transport. they will want to validate if you take more transport with access to this technology
in 2015, apple did not allow application developers to use nfc features.
if we compare the development of the player to our construction industry, it is very fast.
comment?
it seems to me more available in transit ...
exactly! especially in asia it is well implemented
if you are talking about your monthly stm pass under the auto + bus program, it is neither communauto nor the stm that recharges your card. the opus card you have contains an "infinite" travel ticket. as long as you pay, they leave your card on. if you stop paying, they will end up deactivating your opus card.
every phone i chose disqualified me so they might have criteria on the demographic and/or location.
phew, you shouldn't compare yourself to the usa for payment methods, checks are still very common. the chip on the cards is new to them.
yes but there is a [system] ( which has been available since 2019 in nfc and they will have it fully implemented in 2023.
there are places that have or have confirmed that there will be nfc or contactless payments in [the following cities] (
* london
* frankfurt
* tokyo
* sofia
* moscow
* paris
* dubai
* stockholm
* dehli
* boston
* beijing
* shanghai
* milan
* helsinki
* barcelona
* \[...\]
yes, i read my titles in nfc.
it wasn't really a big public expenditure, it's card readers that already existed on the market and we sell them, we don't give them away. it was a quick fix that did the job while waiting for the system to be changed.
not quite true.
developers can put their virtual card in wallet.
in addition for public transport, there is the express card mode which is useful ... no need to unlock the phone to use it. several transport companies use this. several other companies also use it for everything that can be activated normally with an nfc card.
it was an artm pilot project that ended in july, one of the measures of the pandemic. you could buy single tickets valid throughout the region for the bus only, and it was purchased from the transit or chrono app.
and even ottawa!
so the phone could be used at the terminals?
thanks for sharing, that's an awesome app!
just like the pink line, this is never going to happen. would be really nice, though.
i just realized that the section north of côte ste-catherine is also covered in this image. so the image shows the entire highway covered except for the part he claimed (and which was reported in local media). ouch!
i am very happy that this project is coming back to the fore, the last time it was proposed by richard bergeron, then at the head of projet montreal.
but the reality is that it is not montreal that has to pay for that, but the department of transport. to fix such a mistake, no matter the cost, is only doing justice to the residents of this area.
(i think) montreal needs more powers at this level. we are the largest city in quebec with universities, people, companies, tech, income and population, but we have to begging to build public transport projects that would benefit the provincials island. makes no sense to me. this is not to say that montreal is better or better than other big and small cities, but come on, our budget is so small for all the common sense projects that will help the people who inhabit the island.
i know that what i say does not please a lot of people but i will vote for the person who will ask for this kind of special status for the city of montreal. its alright if you hate what i say, i'm okay with that!
coudonc, how many projects is there, coderre? 569? 872? i lost count ....
yeah, right, denis. been there, done that, not buying anything this bs artist is selling anymore.
it's going to be so appealing to go relax and walk three blocks surrounded by four-lane urban boulevards.
it's bordering on r / aboringdystopia as a project: a little drizzle of greenery in an ocean of concrete and tanks.
well yes, imagine the mess of closing décarie to make it "more beautiful". if they only close on the weekends to do the work, it will take 10 years. beautiful electoral promises that are easily forgotten once elected.
are there no cycle paths?
/s
i'm sure it will not cost a lot more !!
so there are a lot of great comments here but, just to be clear, i posted this not because i wanted a debate about whether it's possible, but rather because what the image shows is the opposite of what coderre has proposed.
coderre said he wants to cover the section between queen mary and cote st-catherine; this is on the ensemble website and it's what's been reported
but look closely at the image above: that covered section is from cote st-luc to queen mary. the queen mary to cote ste-catherine section has actually been left uncovered in the above image. the covered section then seems to begin again at cote ste-catherine
it's funny because, obviously the person who did the rendering misunderstood coderre's team's instructions, but they're running the image anyways because they know most people won't notice
related fact: paris has 2 million people and not a single highway. not an elevated one, not an open sewer like decarie. 
we could save money on a life without urban highways, or we can spend money hopelessly trying to make urban highways socially acceptable.
the maximum length for a tunnel is 125, without security, ventilation, etc. this is why coderre did 125m next to the chum. it can't be done, and he probably knows it.
wasn't this already in project montreal's plans?
wasn't it already something that was started as a project?
[deleted]
geez without any road work that highway is a shit fest, imagine if this happens
cover with what !?
apple pie
coderre takes some really good but he should slack a bit.
bullshit lol
never gonna haooen under coderre.
yes, a nice covered tunnel to go chill before going shopping in the dreadful capitalistland 15/40 ... forget me for coderre at the town hall, i'm staying with valérie. makes people move their asses and no longer see cycling as a hobby ...
denis coderre: “i’m going to cover decarie”
mayor coderre: “no money to cover decarie, sorry!”
more cycle path !!!!
this is a must do project, please let me know how i may support and contribute to that vision
it's pocket a park between super busy roads, it will end up like the one on the edge of the old port where there are just the homeless who were standing there.
this will cause much more traffic in the area than royal mount project.
i like it. it’s been long overdue, will it happen? doubt it, but hey weirder shit happened before.
update: so i’m getting downvoted? wow
let's worry about getting a bilingual island/equal language rights for anglophones in montreal before we waste money on this nonsense.
omg just fucking pave the roads and cut taxes wtf is wrong with these idiotsss
why is everything coderre proposes terrible just because coderre is proposing it? i don’t think this is so bad i think people in my class suggested this in the past
yeah, i'm still pissed off with projet for proposing a metro extension they knew the quebec gov't would never allow montreal to do on its own
they should have argued instead that montreal needs the authority to plan its own mass transit, something the gov't of quebec currently prevents
as to this project, don't get me wrong - i am 100% in favour of covering over all the exposed highways and putting parks or new buildings on top. this has worked really well with the ville-marie expressway so far
the problem is the cost, and the only way to offset the cost is to rezone some (or perhaps most) of the lots along the expressway to allow high-density and much taller buildings. so now we're building condo towers along the highway, facing the new park, and charging high property taxes to offset the cost of covering over the expressways.
that said, covering the expressways - and installing some kind of air filtering system for the tunnel - is probably the best thing to do in terms of our environment. the decarie has left all of ndg/cdn covered in grime for 50+ years, it's time things change
this is nothing like the pink line: plante *believes* in that project. maybe it's overly ambitious and a bit naive even, i don't know. it was her pet project and she has never given up on it. on the other hand, that idea from coderre reeks of electoral desperation. it's not sincere, and as the image shows he didn't give it much thought, he just bet that enough voters would just think "coderre is green as well, i'll give him my vote".
and the green pedestrian bridge on the turcot :) don't forget that selling point!
are they going to pay for the 40 as well? instead of doing it again exactly the same: facepalm:
i agree with you, montreal should have special status similar to toronto.
there are lots of friends with lots of projects to finance.
the number of projects grows as ... his waist size.
edit: the
he'll be the new mayor taking over for the flake currently in office.
it is reminiscent of [parc bonaventure] (
it's still a clear improvement on the highway that was there before, but let's say it's not at the top of my list of parks to have a picnic ...
baby bonaventure. 2-3 routes instead of 4. very relaxing. / s
why? this sector has no good north-south cycle path, it would be a good time to correct that!
yes, in the tunnel! cars are not allowed.
paris has a much better public transportation system than montreal. paris is located in a country smaller than quebec where there is more intercity transport (trains) and the highway around paris is a parking lot (they use this highway a lot!) quebecers are not near to do without their cars, there is not really a suitable alternative solution except when you live in a central district close to a metro, unless you want to spend hours in the bus / metro. and given that everyone lives on one side of the river or the other, there is no choice to have major roads as long as the bridges pass through montreal.
the periph looks a lot like a highway
look closely at the image
coderre said that he wants to cover the trench from queen mary to cote ste-catherine
in the image, that section was left uncovered
it's still on his website - he doesn't realize the image he's showing shows the opposite of what he's saying
that's not really the point - look closely at the image
coderre stated his plan is to cover the trench from queen mary to cote ste-catherine
the image shows the trench covered from cote st-luc to queen mary, then \*uncovered\* from queen mary to cote ste-catherine, then covered over again
in other words, coderre said he wants to cover a section of the trench, but the image he's using shows that specific area as being uncovered
and he hasn't yet noticed...
ask the caq for $1 billion from the transport ministry's budget
it's a neat idea, but it's also funny that coderre is running an image of a proposal that's the opposite of what he's said to the papers and is on his own website.
well someone missed the point
complain to the city to install portable toilets somewhere in the old port for them. they did that in the plateau and the homeless people poop there.
vote for politicians that will put more money into social services.
install a sign with a poop emoji with a red circle crossed on it.
 💩+ 🚫
and that should do the trick.
very bright motion activated security lights.
you lower your panties, you pop a squat next to the guy and you look him in the brown eyes.
i'd install a motion sensor strobe light or something equally as attention grabbing, that should do the trick
donate your money to [mission old brewery]( they're next to your place.
call public works incessantly
i say shit before the homeless, show them that this is your territory🤣🤣🤣🤣
unfortunately there is not much to do but you can go to your neighborhood police station. if you and several neighbors file a complaint, the police will make more rounds in the area.
install a camera. unfortunately for homeless people, they will most likely not care, but the video can be provided to the police and such if you need to escalate the situation.
harass your borough councillor for safe injection sites   
when i lived on the plateau it was always the people shooting up losing control of their bowels
someone in this thread hasn’t figured out nuance yet…
it’s okay to think that homeless people should get the help they need, vote for politicians who cares about the situation, and not want people *literally* shitting in your driveway.
you can do all three, you don’t need to be this knight in shining armour for social issues and tell then basically tell someone to get fucked when they want help preventing the mentally ill and the homeless from using their property as a god damn toilet. grow up. you think your favourite politician is gonna come down in the middle of the night and hiss at some dude with his pants down to scare him away?
people are naive.
so, as some people have already said: motion activated lights, cameras, perhaps an alarm of some kind? sorry you have to deal with this.
that is a major health hazard. harass the city to do something. take photos, call the media.
if you have a serious homeless problem, contact the city and ask them to put a mrjiggs in the area... i too am in ville marie and had the same issue.. for a quick fix, get really bright  movement sensitive spotlights  .. not the winky dink light bulb kind ...get  one or two 2 spotlight light fixture and install them in a way that the moment they set foot on your property they go off.
install a portta potty near your place? support social programs that can help curb the issues that lead to people being homeless? hire a cleaning service for a cyclical cleaning?
living downtown in any city has its drawbacks. you are just being confronted to the fact that even the people abandoned by society have basic needs.
install a porta potty. do your part yo help the homeless. mind you, one of them might move into it though!
get raccoons for your alley
get a motion detector spotlight/strobe light perhaps? or an audio alarm might work.
311 or  also live in the same neighborhood, with the same issues. sorry it's causing you and your family problems. if it's happening multiple times, it's probably the same person/ people... strong lights or an alarm ...?
[removed]
my parents have a bright spotlight in the driveway that is motion activated and it would scare away most people trying to take a piss or poop. my dad did that after some drunk guy leaving a nearby bar, that no longer exist, smashed their car window back in the late 80s or early 90s.
one time, one guy was stubborn and still decided to proceed and get ready to do is business. my dad yelled at him to leave and he was still getting ready to do his business. my dad filled a bucket of water and poured it on the man from 2 floors above.
rottweiler
lived in the old port. used to catch people shitting outside my apartment all the time. it's part of the reason i moved out. its not really a livable spot long term imho.
elect better politicians
it comes with the territory.
get a camera, create a youtube channel, tag your local politicians incessantly. also, motion lights do wonders (6 pack of solar ones in amazon for $40).
human waste has no place in civil society. it's the absolute bare minimum for a working society. when people get to this point they shouldn't be allowed in public.
motion activated water sprinkler
put a water sprinkler out there…when the poopers show up, hit them with your best shot
camera, 311, and neighborhood station.
install cameras to prove the facts.
contact 311 to request action
transmit the videos of people making this gesture to the office of the mayor of the borough, the city and the police and on the networks.
one of the things i hated about  living downtown/ old port. shit every fucking step.
pellet gun to the butt cheek.
the old pig.
put mothballs in your garden
motion controlled sprinkler system . it keeps the racoons out of my garden at night.
go
out and watch them, bring them a magazine and toilet paper, maybe pull up a chair and start talking to them
politely ask them to go poop in a park, or in a mcdonalds
the simple is to talk to them, permission them to access your bathroom. put up a sign stating that if they're in a bind to knock or ring a doorbell. (involve nearby neighbors toilets) this shouldn't really become a nuisance, any more than having to clean up the alternative mess.
1. they're human, neighbors, on hard times/hard choices.(i've been there)
2. get to know them better & dissipate unfounded fears in the process.
3. familiarity creates an opportunity to help each other, us & them.
the fact is, you & they live together, collaborating will involve some compromises. i do not know details of your neighborhood(to determine what a homeless persons actual options are in this case), but this is a true issue in much of the city, the lack of public toilets. our local park has open doors on a central building much of the time, but i know that downtown, when the stores are closed, there isn't much to choose from for places to defecate.
 it's funny a population this size does so little to influence the cities need for such places.
although if you do not wish to become involved, you could handle it like people with dogs and put some grocery bags and toilet paper and a sign out there and hope they poo in the bags. :)
''how do i stop them from pooping''  suggest a habitual thing and i'm not buying it. the homeless i understand are not the cleanest but 'how do i stop them from \*\*itting in my driveway' is stretching it. i call exaggeration. (homelessness)what country did you move from for this to appear as new phenomenon? sincerely it is unfortunate if your family has been made uncomfortable but some neighborhoods are better than others. talk to the police & hope you guys stay safe.
this is sad on many level. short answer:camera (real or fake shouldn’t matter)
depends?
move away from downtown
montréal never ceases to amaze me with its lack of class
motion activated water sprinkler
cone to the suburbs
funny this is you can look up public restrooms in montreal, and realize we had some everywhere and even with amazing architecture. 
but we removed them all.
look up 'montreal vespasiennes' 
it's the term used for public restrooms.
also i might ad that with modern tech, self cleaning toilets is an easy thing to do... unless your a politician.
it is not only the homeless who relieve themselves anywhere:  -philippe-wauthier-a-tout-le-monde-en-parle_a_23370762 /
let's say that the city center is not ideal if you have children: defecation, syringes in parks, prostitution, etc. for more than 100 years, extremely poor people have gone to the city center. the convent founded by emilie-gamelin to help the poor is located at the corner of berri and maisonneuve.
soon, downtown and the old, there will be the return of people coming out of bars and making noise, pissing anywhere, etc. sorry this happened to you and little suggestion for removing the droppings: sand for cat litter.
hahahha
lobby the 3 levels of canadian government for universal access to housing and housing as human right. and in the mean time, complain to the city to install portable toilets so people don't have to defecate in public and have access to toilets.
have compassion. i’m sure being homeless is not easy. it’s crappie that this happened in ur building...