i arrived in quebec without knowing french, but i learned quickly (in three weeks). now i am fluent and have integrated into society. i live and work in a predominantly french-speaking environment. on the other hand, there are francophone immigrants who are not able to integrate into quebec society and who have values that are very incompatible with canadian / quebec values. in my opinion, it is easier to learn a language, but it is more difficult for someone to change their deeply rooted values. please understand the immigrants who come here without knowledge of french, there are many of us who were ready to adapt and learn. and even more, we openly adhere to quebec values. i'm part of. i am now proud to be in quebec, i learned french, speak french, my kids go to french school and i embrace your culture wholeheartedly. love! ❤️
not even. i just want them to want to learn french and be open to joining the company they have chosen to settle in. it is not even an obligation when leaving.
if all you want is to stay in your corner of cote des neiges without wanting to know anything about the society in which you came, kessé you criss here? if you don't want to know anything about being from quebec, why did you come to pray in a sugar shack?
this is my favourite sub
j’aurais changer la 3e cases par canada is not racist, but they have too many french speaking in canada.
being an immigrant, i agree that measures must be taken to ensure the protection of french people because of their status as a minority language.
however, what makes me uncomfortable is assuming that a person does not speak french or does not speak it well simply because they come from an immigrant background. for example, i have often been asked if i can speak french or that francophones approach me outright in english.
it seems that many forget or ignore that french has established itself in several regions of the world, particularly in africa and the west indies. there, french persists (and even threatens other languages!) despite the fact that it was imposed on local populations through colonization. the fact that many perceive french as a cultural trait specific to quebec culture makes me think that some people use the language to differentiate “them” from “us”.
i have a problem with our massive immigration. we still have a rate more than twice as high as the united states. it's terrible we are changing the demographics and this will lead to a fracture of the country.
you know, you’re right, this meme is 100% accurate to what it’s like (i myself live in québec), at least when i’m talking about online, i personnally don’t really care, but the fact that i’m forced to go to a french school meanwhile i’m a mainly english speaker, sure i understand that we need to keep the french language alive since it can’t really be found anywhere else, i just wish i could go to an english school :(
quebec is known as racist because it is the only state in canada that does not recognize systemic racism.
as a french-speaking immigrant, from the caribbean, part of a minority, and involved in associations in constant contact with the world for almost 6 years (because spoiler alert: i like to contribute to quebec society and help it 🤯 ), i can confirm that racism is indeed present in quebec and is very strong. it is not that systemic by the way.
however, i never imply that the rest of canada does not have a problem with racism either.
the problem in quebec is that this racism is mixed with the idea of defending the quebec nation and is "weaponized" (instrumentalized?) for this purpose, which is extremely toxic. this is how we end up with a pm who refuses to recognize racism on his territory, a real battle of ego all that.
otherwise, i love quebec. there is racism everywhere. we have to stop hiding our faces by saying that there aren't any in certain places. and in quebec, there are no less than elsewhere.
good evening friends 💙⚜️
i am a french canadian, born here, family here for centuries and yet i have been treated way worse by french folks when i was speaking in english than by english folk while speaking french. there's awful people on both side.
on the immigration point: preventing someone from entering the province base on something as trivial as language really shows quebec's priorities in small problems instead of trying to fix real issues that could actually help the province: environmental pressure, force for better laws to protect our health system, offer an at least decent school system to our children.
you mean they only want to accept french immigrants if they aren't muslim, jewish,etc... and don't want french from france since they speak slightly differently...
maybe quebec people only want french speakers that arrived on the same boat as them when they took over the land and slaughtered the actual inhabitants, which didn't speak french by the way...
you want only french??? go back to france... although they are more respectful there than we are here when it comes to language...
here in canada we accept people of different faiths and that speak different languages...  if quebec ever seperates, montreal will join canada and the rest of quebec will become a wasteland.
it is not by saying "we are less worse" that it will be resolved my dear.
sorry but in general there are great examples of discrimination against minorities in our country.
we need to accept that even if all quebec women are not racist, there is work to be done.
the only way quebec can keep the quebec language ....... getting immigrants in and forcing them to go to french school lol it's a shame
"i'm not racist i just want them to speak french" may i suggest other sentences that are often paired to this statement in the likes of "and we shouldn't accept muslims", "we need more european immigrants" and "we shouldn't accept as many immigrants, we should focus on helping the poor "... the number of ways people say they don't want immigrants exceeds the number of immigrants we accept! i am from quebec, but really there is no pride for me. it's really a hot take, but personally, whether you speak french or english, it doesn't matter to me, people's values are what is important to me.
people are people... be better people, people. behind every action is an individual. race, religion, gender and attitudes are all ideas held by individuals. empathy and respect go the distance.
[removed]
honestly as a french canadian who’s more fluent in english i’ve been discriminated for my accent and people would yell and break my things in school for accidentally using english. i don’t agree with this at all tabernacle
i agree with the black bird no one can drive here
tabarnack 😂😂
who
we don't care that the world treats us as osti racists, we know that we are not so the world who tell us that, send them criss
yeah so they force people to speak the language like a cult. problematic tyrannical province. i love where i’m from but no wonder everybody hates us.
much love and support from ontario, the media is trying to make this a wedge issue for the election we certainly don’t all think this way.
that!!!! like like !!!!
i completely agree with what you say, we cannot change our core values on demand, or even, at all. we must respect everyone's culture, i personally have no problem with the fact that immigrants "ditch" french (in quebec especially "joual"), as much for its learning difficulty as the simple fact that they can do without the dailies. nevertheless, it is necessary all the same to consider the fact that they were accommodated in a country, probably one of the most favorable and "legally" welcoming countries that there is, and that "indirectly" it is necessary to be imbue a minimum of the local culture and respect it for its "goodness". and by goodness, i just want to say that it is unfortunately not so easy to immigrate elsewhere in the world, and this, with so many resources available to facilitate and simplify integration.
to be clear, canada as well as quebec, need skilled labor and this regardless of their nationality and religion, hence, immigration. it is only necessary that the integration, beyond the language, be done on a moral level. rare are the countries where it could immigrate and deny or even exclude itself completely from the local culture without repercussions.
i dare to hope that my text was not aggressive or defensive, it is not my intention, i just wanted to raise a point.
did you speak english or other languages? i'm curious
thank you 😍
you're right. long live the free quebec. french
i would have replaced the 4th with "quebec only speak french" 😅
usually if your parent are english speaking you are allowed into english schools and furthermore when you pick a cegep or uni there’s really good choices for english speaker like vanier or mcgill. speaking french is more about everyday life than anything else.
tbh this policy hurts francophones the most. imagine growing up and only speaking french. sure you can survive in all french environment but as soon as you want to work for a multinational or travel, its game over. no wonder french boys have such a low graduation rate. they are being sacrificed for quebec french nationalism
[deleted]
learn how to spell "soldier", maybe then people will take you more seriously... not me though lol
quebec is known as a racist province ?? but kesser you say the toer ..? there is racism, like absolutely everywhere in the
world .. unfortunately ..! it's a reality..
uhhhhh ... there is definitely less racism in quebec than in the united states! there are still some, yes, but just the number of police officers who have killed blacks in the states ... phew
say it louder for the french in the north! 
i just want to point out that languages are dynamic en esti and will toujours morph into something else, no matter who tries to stop it. french didn't come from the gods, it came from latin, as did english. 
the fact that quebec's priorities are still centered around forcing a process, that is language, into being viewed as a final state says something about their own fear of being assimilated - as those in power know assimilation quite well. 
i'm a very proud "english-speaking french canadian"
you want to be a triggered piece of shit??? go back to tumblr... stupid fuck
nah. montréal staying in québec. the only reason you wanted to keep us in the country in both referendums was because you knew you could take advantage of us
damn you really hurt some feelings with this one lol
luckily i grew up in montreal and kids in my schools never did that. the parents of my friends in the neighbourhood were the most judgemental when it came to me speaking english, i was always told to speak french and i just didn’t lol. now living in gatineau i find there is the most judgement even my girlfriend has experienced a fair amount of disrespect for not knowing any french.
yes, 4 languages
english, french, español and an asian language (and several dialects)
no no i can’t go to an english school because my mom’s english, she’s from australia, she never went to an english school here nor has my dad, therefore i can’t go to an english school (unless i had a severe learning disability); but nevertheless you are very correct, once i go to a cegep or university, i can finally go to an english school, but apparently that was made harder this year, i’m specifically looking for a school with good programming classes
that's a bold statement without sources you just put there. boys in general have higher dropout rates, not just french ones. and to think that "going to school in french" is the reason why is farfetched. also, if you only speak french, there's still many countries where you can work. but even there, most french people i know also speak english because they learned it outside school. however, most of people (i know) who went to english school  barely know how to speak french.
i can agree with that statement tbh, and it can make sense, but i don't think it hurts them as much as you think, it's great to know 2 languages, but it's not good if the students themselves drop out, i'd still hope for francophones to know the 2 languages, because the english language is in 67 different countries, french is only spoken in 27 different countries, both languages are super important, imo, but to have a countries people try and learn once can be a pain, since how they're doing things is : all classes in french except the english class; or all english and a french class; it should really be more of a 50/50; not only that, but they made it harder to get into an english cegep!! could you believe it? how are some people going to learn better english if they don't go to a cegep like that? last thing though, i don't think that they give up because they can't go to an english school, but i have no idea why there are/were so many school drop outs, i know that, historically, some francophones dropped out to help their parents with the farms and therefore hindered their education
chu not sure you understand
this is the perfect answer to illustrate his point ...
systemic racism does not take laws that claim to be racist, it just takes racist ideas engrained in society. it's the same principle with homophobia. do not come and tell me that spending your childhood hearing and / or saying "fagot" does not form a preconceived idea of homosexual people. likewise, when you grow up hearing constantly "native quebecois" as if it were an accomplishment and a mark of superiority, it leads to racist ideas. like the idea that an immigrant can never really become a true quebecer ... it is an example among so many and i am sure that there is a better example! it's easy not to notice systemic racism when you're not the target.
the right way to spell it was taken
calisse
with 25-50% of deaths during deporation. trudeau seems in no hurry to call this genocide, however.
are there people who think that there was no linguistic discrimination?
from the classic british, the largest empire in the history of mankind, constantly repeating that he treated his subjects only with respect, even while hanging them.
"there has never been slavery against the french"
well no, the expression n * gre blanc from america especially does not exist and we forget the francos who were paid in beer in boston
we have a bunch of frustrated federalists in the comments. no more quebecois than to deny his origins and shit about his people, if i could call them quebecois.
so let's see !!! this is not racism. it's just a little genocide. there is nothing to get excited about. canada loves us. that's why trudeau doesn't need to apologize like he did for all possible groups and subgroups. white privilege at work. the wokes should see this.
the english came back here with cannon fire. from there, is it necessary to add more.
being french is not a race stupid idiot.
it's xenophobia.
those french people: "fine, i'll build my own canada, with blackjack and hookers...and pirates."
anyone wanna point out the more current racism of the anglo in quebec? no? ok just checking.
i think people forget that these are just languages, it how people treat other people that counts the most. if i had one complaint about quebec its the taxes for the public school systems regarding the split with french and english. just have one tax and a bilingual school board province wide so we can learn both languages and maybe down the line people can be more understanding of one another.
the little white quebecois who think they are suffering from racism😂👌
quebec ain't racist,legault said so, let's treat this dying native like a drunk price of shit after we destroyed their way of life, yeah, quebec has nothing on them at all either... lmfao
you idiots.
hahahaha someone doesn’t know eastern history too well. name one acadian or miqmaq family that the british scalped... you wont!
now name 20 british families scalped by miqmaq and acadians.. youll find more probably. all paid for in gold by the french! thats what the british seem to get for undergoing 50 years of terrorism and slaughtering of entire families for giving acadians religious freedom and even bringing preists in who preached for children to be literally slaughtered in the name of god. ill make my decision based off of facts not emotional bullshit.
a beautiful documentary on the brutality of qc as well. the qc is morally at the same level as the roc.
two abusive states.
no, it's more of a post cave. everyone knows that there has been linguistic discrimination, you see it even in your basic history lessons with the test oath.
people say there is no more language discrimination today.
yes for having made political tiktok yen who believe it
right? people actually believe that quebecers themselves aren't part of this anti-french behavior. the acadians were the folks that were deported, not the french canadians or quebecois.
respectfully hanged!
it's cave as an argument. the concept of racism can very well be applied between ethnic groups regardless of their characteristics (language, religion, color or even nationality). northern ireland was super racist against irish catholics, yet everyone involved was white and english speaking, in this case it was catholics vs protestants. it is as cave as those who claim that we cannot be racist against muslims because islam is not a race. it is semantic silliness. call it what you want, for all intents and purposes it is quite possible to discriminate against muslims in the same way as blacks.
i will build my canada with the language esperanto and also klingon for quebec, so why should we remain a bilingual country forever.
or better yet. everyone goes to french school!
the american left who thinks that they have a monopoly on historical submission, that you have to be minimally swarthy to say that you are a victim of racism and that quebec has always been part of canada as a respected and accepted entity 🤣👌
two things :
1. perhaps we should start choosing our own struggles rather than squatting those of others and making a messed up pastiche at home.
2. for your information, during the civil rights movement in the us, the socio-economic conditions of a french-canadian were inferior to that of blacks compared to their respective dominant groups. it wasn't 150 years ago, it was in the late 60s.
if you think that it has not shaped the current dynamics of quebec, it is really bad faith.
peace.
your comment sounds racist border ...
lol we know that there is problematic behavior towards the natives, we are not cellars, but that's not the subject.
many anglophones must reflect on their lack of respect for french-speaking quebecers even if many french-speaking quebecers (like many anglophones too) must reflect on their lack of respect for aboriginals.
the acadians spoke french bud, even if they’re not quebeckers it’s still french discrimination within canada, therefore french-canadians discrimination
funny side note: the poem speak white was written by a canadian author to protest against english being the 'superior language of power' and to enrich canadian culture in order to avoid being assimilated after lord durham submitted his report to england. 
then another canadian author wrote a poem named speak what, which gently reminded people that  french speakers themselves also kind of mean to others sometimes, such as the amerindians.
like the french and the native people?
based
i don't think that would be a good idea because quebec needs to maintain the english cegep's and universities, the amount of money they make from international students is a lot.
i guess i am biased because i have seen and experienced racism in quebec even being born here to a quebec mother.
the fight against racism is not just happening in the united states tho it can also be our convictions as quebecers while not finding that the quebeckers have suffered racism.
they were manhandled sure but it was white people to white people do you call that racism black on black crimes?
what saddens me most of the same is that some quebecers will still believe themselves victims of racism and oppression when the reality in 2020 is quite different.
also i find anti-anglo hatred deplorable
all it does is indoctrinate our young people to hate the english, their language and never learn it is sad for our "multicultural culture"
i don't think i have the science i could be wrong but your answer was interesting
i'm curious what you mean here
"the socio-economic conditions of a french-canadian were inferior to that of blacks compared to their respective dominant groups"
would you have examples?
ps. i'm not trying to piss off or annoy anyone
well lead by example... tell your people what to do and get them to do it first.
personally i work in customer service at mtl pi the anglos are pretty respectful. it is useless to hate the anglos of the same srx
speak white is incredibly powerful. i haven't heard of speak what, but thanks for the info, i'll take a look!
like everyone and natives?
regarding the point that "black on black crime" would not be racist ... i mean, have you ever heard of the genocide in rwanda? or what happened in liberia between black settlers and also black natives? to limit racism to mere skin color is reductive and dangerous.
okay so if i say that italians are fat, lazy and useless, and therefore we have to exterminate them, isn't that racist?
the world who thinks that racism is necessarily a question of skin color 🤡
again, it doesn't work that way.
by the way, i repeat too, i am sure that many anglophones have racist attitudes against the natives. considering the way you write, that would just be quebecers' problem.
are you really also attached to the cause of indigenous rights?
are you trying to hide your anti-french bigotry by faking to care about the first nations? you wouldn't be the first one i witness trying to pull this...
it's really interesting except that just by comparing the stories of one with the stories of the other, in the end we just confirm our own opinions. what i'm trying to say is: there are bad people everywhere, regardless of the factors of the organization (religion, ethnicity etc.). we will all live experiences that will come at a given time to confirm what we think at the base. so we should just grab the bull by the horns instead of passing the ball around and comparing our woes.
lol wtf
racism is only one form of prejudice.
my point is that it's ironic that they cry about shit they do them selves...
i quite agree i guess that all it takes is to continue to dialogue it is just to see people who "hate" the anglos in quebec c not rare pi ct a little sad
i had understood your point.
my point is: generalisation /= proper argumentative method.
isn't it always about what humans do to humans? tu peux arrêter de te bomber le torse.
your conversation was inspiring. it took place with kindness and respect. props to both of you.
meh, have you read the rules of the internet?
this was just reported as misinformation. it isn't. if you have anything to back up your claim, feel free to reply to this comment.
for real i would have voted for a free quebec seen by rené lévesque i do not hide from saying it and i am proud of it! but seriously, the political groups that want to nationalize quebec have unfortunately changed their ideologies just as much as their supporters! i'm sorry, but if my quebec becomes free in these steps so that it becomes closed to the rest of the world, we must open up to the world. as much on immigration as on the political level. i know that you are going to tell me that there is no far-right party that would like to see quebec free. i talked about it with my history teacher and we agreed on one point (despite our age differences) there will always be pros and cons in the independence of quebec. time and as long as there are no more pros, quebec will never become a country. unfortunately the ideology that the quebec nationalists have shows us that we are on a very bad start to become a country ...
knowing how we react fuckall in front of the other cultures of canada which is losing their language, i don't think we can hit each other on the back.
long live canada!
and yet the world would be a much better place if everyone spoke the same language. that way, everyone could understand each other well and avoid several conflicts.
i like falardeau's sentence which said something like this:
no matter your language or your color, if you walk in the same direction as me, you are my brother.
> unfortunately the ideology that the quebec nationalists have shows us that we are on a very bad start to become a country ...
it depends on which nationalists.
found [ marge(
when you say other cultures, are you saying that canada has a basic culture? because, personally, i don't think copying the usa counts as a culture ...
you should find out about the story. it is not the fact of speaking or not the same language or having the same religion that makes the world a better place or even that it could avoid a simple conflict.
but indeed, if everyone spoke french in quebec, everything would be much better.
a country? lol explain it to me
logistics of that?
i think he is referring to the first nations who are losing their languages.
poor little person who wants quebec to be apart of the world.
quebec to francophones! question to continue to cross between us without having opportunities elsewhere! already our education system is not recognized in the rest of canada without a red seal, we should close even more. just because you don't have the intellectual capacity to learn other languages and cultures doesn't mean that the rest of the world should feel obligated to your small, closed-minded person.
did you put your comment in the right place.
you make beautiful scenarios, the fact that all the population of a country speaks the same language does not automatically make it a racist and xenophobic country like canada, the usa and england.
look at european countries like germany and france. no one disputes that it is not correct to speak german in germany or french in france, yet all countries are open to others and the majority of the citizens of these countries speak three languages.
whereas in the three english-speaking countries, as soon as you speak another language you are a dangerous terrorist.
it seems that you also don't know what the red seal is, no matter your province of origin, you must have it to work in another province or territory or even for some federal job and it has nothing to do with it. the education system in quebec.
in addition, as an indication, quebec students regularly rank as the best in the world in math and science, no other province has managed to rank in the top 10.
i think it's you who is closed to others now.
addition:. quebec is also in canada the place where citizens speak the most languages, where they are the most bilingual, the most trilingual ... etc.
oops no clever replica of your go i see
i've worked for anglophone companies and i have worked for francophone companies. the amount of hate towards francophones in anglophones centric companies is insane. 
i went to english school and french school. i got bullied in english school hardcore because i was "french". wow. i literally had to leave it was so bad. je suis retourné dans le système francophone.
francophones are super open to the fact that you are bilingual. a real eye opener anyway.
the only thing that upsets me and this is real talk. it is the fact that the caq representatives are predominantly french-speaking / white. so as an "outsider" it is off putting. but i understand that the majority of quebecers are french-speaking / white / european descendants.
mfw i am anglophone and i re-evaluate my place in quebec against the anglophone uniligues. what a trip!
no worse funny ygreck, we have to celebrate!
your first assignment will be to read the montreal gazette each day and the fourth reich by john parano.
interesting comment, although a little sorry i must say.
be careful not to judge the quality of a message by the messenger's skin color ... good ideas can stand on their own no matter who says them.
i do not understand what you mean.
actually, i mean reading your point of view is interesting. you bring a very different experience to my experience, so it gives me a new point of view.
especially when you say that you were seen as "french" among the english and that you got sick of it.
it's sad to learn that a person can get sickened so much just for being french ...
i would have badly seen someone get disgusted for such a difference in the semi rural village of quebec where i grew up. so i'm not very surprised that you say that the franco have been more welcoming, towards the difference.
however, i have the impression that you are making a link between the defense of the french language and the caq, which is a political party.
an ideology can be separated from a political support ...
moreover, we can not support them, but to draw links between their policies and the color of skin is a little futile. it will teach us more if we consider what type of socio-economic background they come from ... their social class in a way.
- did they grow up in a wealthy family of entrepreneurs or in a family of factory workers? large city or rural area? private or public school? etc.
thanks for enlightening me!
does rené brault buy from renaud-bray?
boston bruins fan: -1
damn beautiful hut: +1
what did he have to say?
did you tell him to join this sub? :)
where does he live?
return to your continent of mustard if you are not happy with english in mustard.
he really is a hero. i always wondered who lives there. when parizeau died he had a large 20 'long panel as a tribute.
he still listens to american films translated into french? or listen to english music ... a real tata who still lives in the past !! grandi bozo we need english in quebec !!!
big sté guy la s'tune legends
what a loser
i see him every morning on the way to school 😂😂😂
i do not understand exactly the message however ... by law 101 for all, does he want to force everyone to speak french in quebec? i personally am not a fan of the idea of free quebec, but i understand where the argument comes from and i admire his dedication, he is there every morning after all.
racists
fuck bill 101
we are in canada english first!
⬆️
best one
is rené really the name of a man who reads books?
/s
he told me about his life, the importance of education, which idiots had called the police because he was there. from andré ferretti and his wife. lots of things:)
on côte st-catherine
your mother the whore ...
bro america is literally on this continent lmao 🤣🤣🤣🇺🇸🇺🇸🇺🇸
a racist ...
describe the colonized.
no white
what are the two official languages of canada?
canada was founded in 1608 with the city of quebec as a permanent trading post. despite the conquest, the distinct character of the quebec people within canada was recognized by the government of steven harper. the official languages are french and english. we are aware that we are canada especially since we founded it.
ah, but renaud-bray is not just for books! there are all kinds of cossins. you can spend your entire pay there while being totally illiterate.
i was saying to myself. it's a house that looks very côte-des-neiges
ass hole
look at his profile this guy is like a walking tumor
lmao kessé who squeal in this sub these people there?
english you fucking frog
read history the french lost this is an english country
only whites
english only one province is bilingual
if there ain't no dice for the dice goblin that i am, it ain't worth it
it's in outremont
unlike other subs we respect people's freedom of expression, which gives us comments from people like him ...
do not
talk white
the federal government does not agree with you: 
yes good, we understood
2 corners from the pkp house which displays a large quebec flag at the entrance, 3 corners from the bourgault and parizeau house
yes i certainly didn't mean to get rid of it, but i wonder what their goal is lol
yes
it's quite surprising to see her there, in a neighborhood full of globalists
to console you i can tell you backwards, no.
outremont? it's so "globalist" that they chose to honor camille laurin earlier this week. don't stop at appearances.
buddy you’re in a english speaking country. you can’t separate, it’s simply impossible. you have no currency, very low export
if a people is determined enough, it will overcome obstacles no matter how difficult it is.
did you know that following the war, brittany, in order to keep international relations viable, offered to france to take back canada with the fur trade, or to take back the caribbean with the sugar?
they chose the caribbean.
hang in there guys! maybe one day quebec will be free !
i'm a montrealer quebecer of jamaican and quebecer descent. i can say that when i was young i found school very difficult in french. and i resented that because of my heritage i was forced to go to a french school where i was often held back because reading and writing did not come naturally to me. but now to be an adult in sales fields across canada and also a musician who plays all over quebec and canada. i can say the benifits of having two fluent languages have been my greatest pride to be canadian and québécois. i do beleive that children of immigrants should have the choices to go to a english or french school. and i say this because english schools now are much more french integrated now and can help kids learn easier now. much more then in my time where i was punished for speaking english, sometimes because i simply did not know a word or know the meaning in french. i have a great love for quebec and our people and culture. but the quebec which separates from our canadian brothers and sisters would be a very sad day for our culture, because it is a big part of our identity, and uniqueness across canada and north america to be honest.
québec is my home. ❤
canada is my home ❤
maybe one day quebecers will accept they will never be a country 🇨🇦🇨🇦🇨🇦🇨🇦🇨🇦
forget
if i speak english i'm un osti d'anglais.  when you speqk french you are a québécois mais pas français. you dipshits made laws against my mother tongue making it illegal if its the same size. you are a bunch of nazis and i love you hard headed fucks. quebec is my home too. dont try to take it away from me or we will have problems mon ami
because they had been shown that they could defend their caribbean colonies but not canada. they knew the british would attack again if they retained canada.
maybe one day canadians will accept that they have no culture, that they are only a cheap copy of the united states 😘😘😘
shit, tabarnak.
🤡🤡🤡
i have been a quebecer since i was born. i don't want quebec to be a country. here is my opinion: we already have a quebec premier who makes decisions, badly even lethal, in a closed circuit by consulting only his small private group. and who denies the problems that are mentioned to him, as the only way to solve them. and who brazenly denies that there is a conflict of interest when everyone sees that there is. and who squanders the money in the depository. if we are separated from canada, we will have one less protection against this kind of drift and against submission. so hello the potential pure dictatorship if that happens! even if supporters of the parti québécois boast that its representatives are not dictators, i think of the future elections of other people we do not yet know.
make the air bloke.
montreal anglophones are, on average, the luckiest "vulnerable" minority on the planet.
they have some of the best schools, best universities, best hospitals, highest economic power. what's more, they're a minority sample living two hours away from the majority linguistic group they belong to, which dominates the planet. aside from quebec, do you know of a single nation on earth where a good portion of new immigrants seek to integrate themselves to the local minority to ease their economic integration?
would a pakistani immigrant choose to integrate himself to the chinese community in toronto to improve his chances of social success in canada? if that happened, anglophones would be the first to take measures to protect english.
*~ boucar diouf*
the french kept the more profitable colonies. they have not let go of quebec for the difficulties related to its protection. at the time, only martinique gave them more income than all the other colonies on the continental shelf of north america.
verbalized that way, it hurts to admit the facts.
irony at its peak.
i believed that too, but apparently the defensive argument played more in louis xv's decision-making process.
hehe excellent! i'm the same except i love everyone!
i want this mug in esti!
damn she looks badass, amazing work. i'm scottish living in québec and i would follow her to hell if she asked.
what a fascinating work. the joan of arc of quebec in the grip of invaders.
cegeps
homeland or death.
the owl with the flag is excellent.
did she just kill a native american or an english speaker in this visual metaphor?
damnnn okay but this work of art is amazing
still, the amerindians we asked nothing its the french who we start to piss them off first for info
it is written fascist.
yeah i noticed right after posting .. you can't edit a title.
irony..
the allegory of the anglicization of quebec.
bruh it's clearly a big goblin wtf dude how you can see a human xd
false. when the french arrived, the algonquins offered them an alliance to fight the iroquois. champlain signed this alliance on behalf of france.
the many indigenous nations fought for access to the french, the trade was lucrative and gave them an advantage over other rival nations.
north america had a complex geopolitical reality before the europeans arrived and the french became an additional player in this game.
the iroquois took advantage of their alliance with the dutch and then the english to exterminate their huron rivals.
the iroquois bet on the wrong player in the uk / usa war and the british let them down in the peace treaties. the americans then crushed them.
each indigenous people played the game of politics and alliances.
if the indigenous nations had allied themselves against the europeans (à la vercingetorix) the colonization of the continent would have been much more difficult. the same goes for the incas, aztec, etc.
you have to stop believing that these people lived in an ecological paradise built on love and brotherhood. indigenous peoples were at war all the time, they slaughtered each other and reduced entire nations to slavery.
no better or worse than anyone else.
if we consider the fascist joan of arc.
the author was however a strong defender of the red squares and seems very left.
but hey, when you're a hammer, everything looks like a nail, eh?
you forget that they are forced to believe in their religion the french
joan of arc in 2021 would be 100% qualified as a fascist by the left.
marion maréchal is what is closest in france at the moment. she passes for a nazi.
the jesuit missionaries made attempts at conversions but without much success. it was never a brutal and large-scale operation like in south america.
we call them missionaries, there's nothing wrong with that.
unless you are talking about the indian act that your canada "woke" created, yes because they were forced to convert.
she's a racist, she kills a goblin
a goblin? the 3.50m?
an orc then?
question: are multiculturalists canadian nationalists? because the multi according to the constitution is our identity.
a couple of anglo supremacist groups on facebook, what a site of marde besides, much worse than reddit.
[
[
[( ͡° ͜ʖ ͡°)](
living a long time in the waste island has a direct impact on mental health. the constant exposure to the canadian unculture, tasteless flavor, has been shown to be a direct cause of atrophy of the brain, particularly of the frontal lobes.
damn, that burn was almost as good as your grandpa
i t7mn
8 g
u m mnu ih. mpj6 j hh
[removed]
💯 💯
oi not my fault i was born in an italian-english family:(
[deleted]
i would say yes.
it's a good thought to have, but if we remember for example the two referendums, especially that of 95, the anglo narrative and strategy aimed to use “multicultural” communities against the quebec identity.
it's sublime and wonderfully inexplicable without the context.
calis that i laughed.
considering canada is supposedly a post-nationalist, multicultural country, i would find it weird. also, federal institutions are mostly bilangual and pretend everything is ok.
i speak fluent english. i studyed in an english college, got a university degree in an english university. i have written books in english that i sell all over the world. i play games in english, watch movies in english and i have friends that speak mostly english. i speak english at work. 
your french is garbage. you haven't learned shit. just like your arguments are garbage. 
so, good sir, pretty please, with a cherry and some sugar on top, shut the fuck up. no one needs your neanderthal opinions about who we are, and about what we think and about how we act.
i literally do not give a single fuck if you speak english. but i will fucking die with a rifle in my hand and tenfold the corpses of my ennemies around me if it will mean that my children, my grand children and their grand children get to keep their identity, their culture and their language in their own fucking land instead of yours. that is what assholes like you do not understand. just leave us the fuck alone. what does it matter if we have our own identity? what is so special about you that we all have to kneel and pay respect to your culture, to your moors, to your identity and your language and abandon our own?
you don't know shit about oppression. my grandfather was the man of the house at the ripe old age of 8 because his father died in furnace, burned alive, because the english thought of him as sub human and made him work in horrible and fucking dangerous conditions so he could provide the scraps needed for his family to survive. 
don't you fucking talk shit about oppression because you live on our land and we just ask you to do us the decency of addressing us in our own fucking language you ingrate fuck.
also, not sure if you're better at math than french, but statistically speaking, quebec is the most bilingual province in the canadian federation.
so it's a fight between nationalists.
same thing for separatism, the 2 camps are because in principle canada was a british colony, the repatriation of 1981 is in itself a separatist act.
the best way to prove someone right is to file false reports against them. as someone did in this case.
[deleted]
[deleted]
it's an interesting point of view! can you elaborate more?
who did what?
how did i bring the holocaust? french canadiams where considered sub human trash and we where little more than serfs or slaves to our overlords who used us as cheap labour. my great grandfather was a slave and his life wasn't worth shit to his masters and he died for nothing.
also, you might want to review your history. unless you're an iroquois, our ancestors lived and fought together and shared this land as friends and allies. and if you are an iroquois, then you should know you have your ancestors to blame to have fought with a bunch of traitors who put them in reservations to get rid of them once they won their war. there's a fucking reason why the english call "la guerre de 7 ans" "the french-indian war". 
you might also be interested to know that the "loi sur les indiens" is a crown law, from the english, not the french. we always saw ourselves as your friends. 
you better ng a fucking amérondien has nothing to do with me saying you're ignorant. but my friend, you are. and if you truly are indian, then fucking be proud of it. celebrate your culture. learn and speak the lamguage of your ancestors. and stop simping for the english nationalists.
argument me the bag.
well finally the 2 camps want the same thing, the 2 are nationalists and separatists, the canadians want to be able to pass their laws without the agreement of the british and also to impose their value as multiculturalism not to mention the loyalist culture which is tj present as the oath of the test for all our judges, soldiers, new citizens, deputy and police.
this is version of the charter of values and their version of separatism.
someone reported your comment as "hate speech." nothing says "i don't like what he says but i can't think of a proper response" than filing fake reports like that and hoping the mods punish the user.
[deleted]
[deleted]
pretty much. 
it's quite an existential conflict between two factions whose interests compete directly.
gg, no re, as we say in french.
you seem to think that everything that happens now is unrelated to history.
you only notice the one that doesn't want to speak english and don't notice the dozens of québecois that speak english around you because they aren't making a scene about it. that one anecdote here and there about that one cranky french guy isn't the majority. i've lived my life across most cities of québec and i rarely fond people who don't know english, a lot of them just don't have time to learn it and don't need it to live, but if thy had time they would. only a small minority of us refuse to learn and speak english. and so what? how does that hinder you? if you've been on the internet for more than a few months, i would hope you know how to ignore trolls. if you can't mange to do that then i pity you my friend because you would be living a life filled with frustration and negative energy. live and let live, don't hate on the many because of the few. he is right, we are the most bilingual province. you won't see nearly as many anglophones speak french as québecois speak english. i can assure you most of the time you don't know we are québecois because we pass as just another english speaker on the internet. try to travel around the province a bit, try visiting other corners of the internet. you seem to be sticking to ecochambers that amplifies your frustrations.
[deleted]
[deleted]
i'm not. i'm not a victim.
if any province is texas that'd be alberta. québec is much more similar to a california or new york
why these far-right flags?
i am not quite connected in the field of social movements ... i do not see how i could find out about this type of event.
apart from voting, what else to do?
donate to the société st-jean baptiste?
not many people. you have to believe that we will convert to english faster than expected.
i would be curious to give them all a dictation ....
"we are the future and want it french" or
"i just understand yes no toaster if you please don't make me learn more than a language i already speak badly of mine"
far right? what are you talking about?
it's clearly ironic ... read between the lines folks.
you see that you?
you have to bang your chin at the same time to say that!
an event during a pandemic will obviously attract fewer people than in normal times, must also be said.
the young sovereignists movement participated in it so i think it was closer to the first option.
yes, well, it is however well known that the defense of french falls under the extreme right, is not it?
thank you
poe's law.
he could have been someone from metaquebec who was serious.
it's me or it's made vaguely left, the ssjb: “assembled with manon massé and gnd”, “poetry slam”, “conversation club for [immigrants.e.es] ( //immigrants.e .es) ”,“ we meet in a talking circle ”,“ the flq: a legacy in suspense ”,“ national day enslamée ”, etc.?
sad, but it's not their fault that they were raised in there and that they will be okay someday, i wish them wholeheartedly
poe's law. one / s is missing
i believe that it is all the events not only those which the ssjb organizes which are there.
except of course the most right-wing atalente genre, mqs, ect.
with what happened on june 24, it seems to me so.
who defends the french language, politically speaking, it is important?
missing more than * common prayer with urine of life *
at the risk of sounding ignorant, what happened?
no quebec flag present.
haha, yes, ok. and weird songs about diversity and the shame of being quebecois.
* cries in quebecois *
i should learn creole now i hear more than french
i like english more
oof! it hurts!
* cries in french-canadian too *
rofl! this is still a thing?!
fucking hell
don't worry boys - me and my entire class would vote no even though we weren't born yet in 1995 :p. also, just to rub salt on french nationalist, hey we speak english 95% of the time even though we go to a french public school ;)
you have a shadowban, contact the admins.
the colonized par excellence
why am i seeing him then?
because i approved it manually.
you have a gift my child!
remember, this is where the virus came from. because junior refused border measures when the time was right.
after independence
* please raise your seats and fasten your seatbelts, we will soon be landing at ti-poil airport *
* thank you for traveling with air québec *
i support this cause but i know it will get nowhere. the federal government will never bow to such a request. but i also believe that's why it's important: people must see that the federal government and the roc still believe that pet has done nothing wrong in quebec.
hey if we name it after rene can we make it a smoke friendly airport. he would have liked that.
rené-lévesque is just less worse than pet.
i agree with removing trudeau's name because it was as a result of his shenanigans that montreal lost its rank as canada's aviation capital. but not rené lévesque who set up his political project solely with the aim of serving the globalist project, which he stated quite clearly. without lévesque trudeau would not have been able to exercise such a deleterious influence. this airport should be called avro, after the fastest canadian rocket plane in the world of the 1950s, which jfk and diefenbaker set out to torpedo to reduce canada to the rank of vassal country.
it’s enough. this is an international airport. stop!!!!!
you are tiring
australia and new zealand force travelers to stay at the hotel for 2 weeks. and they hardly have any problems.
here you have to ask them if it is correct if they spend maybe 3 days in a hotel. if they are able ... if they do not come from haiti because it would be racist ... worse, we will stop it if someone gets a buttock pounded. but we give them a paper when entering explaining how to stay at home and wash their hands ... and we will not check ...
i agree, would like to get pet off of there asap though.
... to take off ...
no. it makes us a nice breaking gesture that brings us closer to independence, however.
i agree, don't really think they're going to rename it, at least for rene levesque who is probably the equivalent of the antichrist for an anglo from ottawa ...
but, the idea is to put all these names there in like face to pet junior and tell him that we would like him to do something ... except to just call us racists at 5 seconds when he is sansé talk about the pandemic.
a year too late
there have been 3 million estimated cases in canada
the virus has returned
it's nothing but trudeau's disgusting political signaling in time for his snap elections in the midst of a pandemic because he wants to get a majority before the world understands how badly he has put us in the wrong.
ps in australia and nz it's summer. do you remember the virus was gone last summer here too? well that's it
the goal is not to bring in the virus or there is none, had to do this in january 2020, not 13 months later!
now hold up. wouldn't he be the antichrist for an anglophone in quebec?
now. stay with me. we can mirabel trudeau and we call trudeau rené levesque?
i used to wreck anglophones who didn't properly speak french. like wreck them. you live in one of the most incredible pieces of land in the world, international recognition, and you can't fucking speak french? 
my mother language may be in english. but my father was french. french québécois in verdun. look up marie-laure porcheron building. that's my grandmother. we spoke both languages. period. i went to school in french (which btw kudos and having done both i spent 1 year in english school and then noted the fuck out of there quick). the amount of vitriol anglophones had towards the francophones. holy shit.
it's fucking gross.
that being said basic beige becky from ontario who took 1 year of french immersion and says: "i can speak french." and i'm like "no you can't." and i am a woman and i was deadpan and i might have scared her (i was 14 and on a mission to be like super honest because "be the change you want to be" fuck i was such a nerdy edgelord. ugh.
anyways the racism is real and it's gross. and hopefully it gets better.
that being said i do have a problem with francophones who don't speak english. come on guys, learn a second language. doesn't have to be english. listen, as a representative of the anglophone community i'm sorry.
shit was fucked up back then and then the 90s happened. and at one point every anglophone was terrible of this large blue block (seriously, some awesome plc stuff was wildly popular back then and no one gets french canadians in canada and that sucks) because you have marc labrèche and fucking rémy girard and that is so top quality shit. 
but yeah i'm sorry guys (look at this anglo-canadian rattle on). you guys deserved better and you made some pretty epic shit too. and you're like eco friendly shit would sell to so many beige becky canadians. seriously they would love that. and i am a basic beige becky-karen hybrid. so we're good fam ✌
the problem is the variety (those we have and those who will come) we can have the virus yes, but it is not necessary to bring in more. we can control what happens here, if a head has to decide to go to brazil we do not have to leave him loose on his return.
we lock him up for 2 weeks in a hotel, no virus? ok it's beautiful, go ahead. in addition you got your punishment for having done the basement by going to squeal everyone on a beach in rio.
it's like the other thick one who was on tv to say "we have no choice but to leave, we adopted a little chinese girl" ... adopted here thick there are plenty of children eating food. tuesday at the dpj. there is not really a reason to crown your camp when you are caught here so as not to pick up this filth there. you wanted to go away, pay well.
i agree, but as troud'cul jr reminds us at all these press briefings on pendemie for a year "it would have been racist"
no worse, in any case better than having a crown.
i wonder if he goes to florida during the winter ...
yep ornamented to be recognizable
beautiful. it is necessary to register it quickly before the english appropriate it.
very nice.
it's true that it's beautiful, but i might have made the snowy a specific symbol for the air force.
why not, the 5th brigade is already the rise of canada ...
oui mais the white owl? giving me mad harry potter vibes guys. lol
kinda squeaky, didn't me lie to you
no, that's the canadian army, but year round
dude .. the owl was the symbol of quebec before harry potter existed. it's not true that brat is going to steal our symbol.
[bird symbol of quebec] (
why squeaky?
right behind you. 
but people are crying out stupid.
look. ye really fucking handsome and a snowy owl is fucking badass. you'll see the fans will mention it.
totally agree. all i am saying is that the symbol will fetch harry potteux fans.
it is a famous rhetorical formula used quite skilfully by falardeau, but it remains a formula. either pierre falardeau could claim ethnic blindness, but as for him only the sovereignists were quebecers. some would say it is even more reductive or arbitrary. still, this desire for independence, this thirst for a * quebec * nation state, suffices to say that it can only generate enthusiasm among french canadians. this was true in the 1960s, in the 1980 referendum, that of 1995 and even today.
pierre falardeau was far from being an idiot and he was so passionate about independence that this observation could not escape him. however, he is in full contradiction with the third world obsession that he dragged like a bullet until his death. falardeau lived in the mental universe of the algerian war, the troubles of the ira or the cuban revolution. obviously he had a semi crunchy every time he thought of the flq. it blinded him, it confused his cards. remember falardeau blustering with a hezbollah flag in his hand. and yet that i assure you that it does not return the favor.
the idea is also that falardeau was not in a position to understand the demographic changes that threaten quebec. falardeau died in 2009 in a 90% european quebec. statistics canada predicts that by 2036, barely 15 years away, this proportion will have dropped to 73%, a scenario unimaginable in 2009. so we should rather ask ourselves what falardeau would have to say about this development. he would have to reconcile where he wanted to see quebec go and the dispossession of his people in his own country.
so a quebec populated by 80% of chinese who speak only english falls within this standard.
 "i am quebecer and we want to create a communist country for the glory of xi jinping and we also love poutine".
if this is not acceptable, what are the criteria?
as long as you want to, mix with others, take an interest in them, it's quite easy. and rather than criticize everything quebec does that is different from the roc, try to understand it, respect its choices without judging it.
for me, they must want to be quebecois ... i want to know nothing about a palestinian who immigrates to canada and settles in quebec ...
i take anyone as long as they want to be quebecois ... it does not mean to be the same as us, it means to stop shitting in quebec with all your hands on the decisions that we take for us, in quebec ...
but it also means that you are quebecois, and you don't have to hang out with us ... if you happen to be from a theocracy, that's not how it works here, just squeal me patience with your religious bullshit.
do you have sources on the 90% in 2009 that seems a lot, at the same time it's probably because i'm from montreal.
if he had lived, say, 10 years longer. i wonder how he would have reacted to the upheavals that took place afterwards. would he have been closer to a steve e fortin or a sylvain gaudreault?
quebec 90% european in 2009?!? let me laugh! it is not yesterday that quebec is more american than other things. besides the language and a bit of culture the difference it has between us and the rest of north america is quite small thank you.
is a quebecer who wants to be, but it is not enough to set foot in quebec to be a quebecer.
no. a chinese, as you described it, who comes here to impose his vision of his country in english is not a quebecer.
a chinese who comes here, adapts our culture and our language and wants to make quebec a country is a quebecer.
what you described is trudeau's vision, not falardeau's
almost any criterion that allows the accession to a family. quebecers are generally quite open compared to other peoples who are much more conservative in accepting foreigners. historically, quebecers have always known how to distinguish a foreigner by their accent, whether they are english or french. historically, quebecers do not attach importance to ethnicity, although the examples on which we can base ourselves are in fact few in number due to the relatively short history of the people.
absolutely, it is [the 2006 census] ( it is certain that visible minorities are more concentrated in montreal. between 2006 and today, their proportion has increased from around 1/4 to 1/3.
what if i told you that like quebec, the united states was founded and built by europeans? does that make you laugh? you should also understand that i use europeans only because the ethnic statistics concerning french canadians are designed to be phony. between the categories canadians, french canadians, french and quebecers it gives a nasty good leeway to pretend everything and its opposite.
still, that doesn't explain your exhausted stereotype of american quebec. it is certain that in addition to the law, the rights which take precedence in one or the other, the organization of the territory and the economy, the inverted historiography or competing religions, we are practically identical. is not it?
in his defense, i think he meant "european stock" (caucasian?), just like the usa.
> who wants to be
what does that mean concretely? if we want to move the project forward, we should start by having a nomenclature that makes sense, platitudes like that we can make it mean anything. i like falardeau, but it's very outdated in bits, he says you have to know where you're going, but all he talks about 90% of the time is his historic grudge against the english.
so farlardeau's language criterion jumps. "adapts to our culture", what does that mean? listen to games of thrones, play jrpgs and go snowmobiling?
a chinese foreigner who integrates, effectively becomes a quebecer, where trudeau will tell you that he remains chinese.
it is not completely wrong to claim that quebec is, by extension, yet another american state. however, if quebec is so then canada is more so. from a global perspective, quebec is certainly americanized. on the other hand, from a north american perspective, quebec is the least americanized.
is he so exhausted that it stereotypes him? the average quebecer consumes more american culture than ever. his lifestyle is the same: car, work, sleep. the organization of the territory, the suburbs, our sick dependence on cars, supermarkets and fast food restaurants, our economic principles, as well as similar religious habits are part of all the similarities that bind us. yes, history is different but still there for the average american history is rarely anything more than a compulsory school subject. so other than french, what makes us fundamentally so different from the rest of north america?
it means what it means. anyone can become a quebecer by adopting our culture, our laws, our society. but it is not by owning property in quebec that one becomes a quebecer.
pretty sure he means whatever your mother tongue is. for my part, if a chinese, a german or a japanese arrives here and learns french, he will be on my side.
worse, culture is vast, but not to bawl against secularism is already a good start. or simply not to impose your culture. to accept the customs of the country that welcomes you, without treating everyone as a racist, etc.
as for me, we simply don't have the same reflexes or the same political culture, and that is reflected everywhere. likewise, in the united states, freedom of expression forced the police to protect kkk demonstrations. here in quebec, the human rights tribunal puts mike ward at the almond of several tens of thousands of dollars for a joke. we have cosmetic similarities, yes, but nothing more. otherwise, if quebec is american for its mcdonalds, is it also japanese for its manga lovers?
come on, you're throwing cookie-cutter affirmations. should we understand that the fact of working is unique to american culture? what except french, nothing distinguishes quebec from the rest of north america? north america, do you realize? quebec is not canada, which itself is not the united states and above all, not mexico. to say otherwise is as silly as to say that there are no fundamental differences between japan, south korea and taiwan.
"lifestyle is the same: car, work, sleep" it is the same thing in all the countries of the west, it is not an american being ca have nothing, what one should not use cars? not working? fast food? even in the third world there are mcdo, all the examples you give can be given to quite a lot of western countries.
liberalism is already starting from there, in the states of laws like 21 or 101 would be seen as a violation of their rights, all this comes from the protestant fact unlike us catholics, same reason why quebec is probably the most socialist province of canada -united states, hydro-quebec, saq, scdq, ect all state enterprises all that would be seen as communist in states and even in canada.
he learns french out of pragmatism, but is proud canadian and believes that the independence of quebec is illegitimate.
i am french canadian, but i am not rather lukewarm about secularism.
then you say "impose culture", but i have no concrete definition of what it is. imposing religious laws is more precise for example.
there is no such thing as a french-speaking chinese catholic mother of 10 who cooks a tourtière while listening to poune and no more french-canadian for that matter. after customs, well which ones? what do young people under 20 consume as a culture? internet culture, they don't listen to michèle richard.
these are not rhetorical questions, i really wonder what we mean when we say "we must integrate into quebec culture". it is so nebulous considering today's world that i have completely abandoned this argument to justify nationalism. edit: typos
give me some examples. if we were so different, wouldn't he have mountains of irrefutable distinctions? the question i asked you could not be easier to answer. what makes modern quebec so different from the rest of canada and the united states besides the french language?
hello! you have made the mistake of writing "ect" instead of "etc."
"ect" is a common misspelling of "etc," an abbreviated form of the latin phrase "et cetera." other abbreviated forms are **etc.**, **&c.**, **&c**, and **et cet.** the latin translates as "et" to "and" + "cetera" to "the rest;" a literal translation to "and the rest" is the easiest way to remember how to use the phrase. 
[check out the wikipedia entry if you want to learn more.](
^(i am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. comments with a score less than zero will be automatically removed. if i commented on your post and you don't like it, reply with "!delete" and i will remove the post, regardless of score. message me for bug reports.)
> he learns french out of pragmatism, but is proud canadian and believes that the independence of quebec is illegitimate.
the majority of immigrants live in montreal and, as we can see in the surveys, french is dying in that city. french is clearly not a compulsory language. it is english that they learn through pragmatism. so the fact that an immigrant in montreal learns french is already a big step forward, in my opinion.
> after you say "impose culture", but i have no concrete definition of what it is. imposing religious laws is more precise for example.
i am okay. it is more religious beliefs that come up against our own (or simply our desire to crush religion). our laws must be confirmed by everyone's beliefs, otherwise we are racist and / or intolerant.
> there isn't a french-speaking chinese catholic mother of 10 who cooks a tourtière while listening to poune and no more french-canadian for that matter. after customs, well which ones? what do young people under 20 consume as a culture? internet culture, they don't listen to michèle richard.
no, but there's no such thing as a native quebecer, catholic and mother of 10 children who cooks tourtière while listening to poune.
for young people, this is another debate in my opinion. we won't hide it, quebec culture is not very popular with young people, but i believe it is a global problem: we watch hollywood films, we listen to american music, etc.
> these are not rhetorical questions, i really wonder what we mean when we say "we must integrate into quebec culture". it is so nebulous considering today's world that i have completely abandoned this argument to justify nationalism.
what i personally mean by “integrating quebec culture” is finding out about what is happening here and learning the language we speak. for example, if i move to germany, but i only watch vat, i refuse to speak german, i am not interested in the country's politics, current issues, etc. i would be considered narrow-minded, lazy, but this kind of attitude is accepted here, because otherwise we are intolerant.
anyway, i think we have bigger problems here than the few immigrants who come here because they like quebec and not because they want to study at mcgill or because they have an offer. jobs in montreal.
we will never have our country if we alienate immigrants, as many do
> integration is a term which has two meanings. in public policy it is used as a desired or claimed result. for sociologists, integration is a social process susceptible, like any process, of advances, reversals and the invention of new modalities. ** cultural integration is opposed to cultural assimilation where the person no longer recognizes himself in his old system. in cultural integration, it retains only those old references, if it so desires, which are compatible with the requirements of common life and the collective values of the host society. this abandonment occurs to varying degrees depending on the individual. **
> cultural integration is a part of structural integration. the latter also includes integration into the social structures of society (work, housing, etc.) and effective participation in collective life (associations, elections, etc.). in cultural integration, the immigrant must give up part of his culture of origin. acquiescence to this renunciation varies greatly from one individual to another. the host society plays a role in this. the process is interactive.
[wikipedia] ( a9lections% 2c% 20etc.)
i have already declined a bunch, but it seems that it is necessary to deepen.
the law: quebec civil cases are governed by the napoleon code while the united states and canada only use the common law.
rights that come first: the united states has a culture of individual freedom, particularly free speech unmatched north of the border. canada, for its part, interprets its charter in such a way as to subjugate all of its laws to unbridled religious freedom, which is clearly not the case in quebec.
the organization of the territory: the united states and canada are continental states while quebec occupies only one strategic point, the valley of the st. lawrence. the united states and canada were colonized via the cantonal system while quebec was colonized via the seigneurial system, our settlement bosses are strangers to each other.
organization of the economy: quebec is much more statist, interventionist than canada and the united states. think of the many nationalizations in our history, the size of our public service, our much more muscular taxation policy or the ambient disdain that surrounds economic success. it is also necessary to see the omnipresence of the unions in quebec when they are in decline among our neighbors.
inverted historiography: i do not believe that explanations are necessary.
competing religions: quebec has gone from an extremely catholic state to an agnostic state if not atheist. it is night and day between this situation, that of canada and especially that of the united states. when you said similar religious habits, did you just smoke a joint? when was the last time you heard a politician say "god bless quebec"?
we will also appreciate that you have abandoned the ridiculous claim that nothing distinguishes quebec from mexico. i really want valleyfield to do hard every day, but it's not nogales or ciudad juarez.
> we will never have our country if we alienate immigrants, as many do
this is the current technique of the pq we see how it works well. it's not even a question of immigration, italians here for 2-3 generations are not interested, i don't blame them. the country's dream is intrinsically french-canadian, we have to face the facts.
> for young people, this is another debate in my opinion.
we should start lighting, when the boomers die, who will be left to move the project forward? even me a y (millennials), i consume very little quebec culture, a little music from time to time that's all. so this is not another debate, it is the central point. the pq will finally die, we must make tabula rasa on pq nationalism and mount something that makes sense in 2021.
that is the definition of integration, my question is on the specificity of quebec.
i have already said that many times he wanted to know nothing, all these examples are also relevant for any other country in the west, but for him another culture is praying in the sun and dancing around a fire without any technology.
let's go in order:
first, how do the two codes differ apart from their name and language in which they are written?
2 the people of quebec are also very fond of their individual freedoms and this was evident during the last pandemic. although quebec is all trying to remain more secular than its neighbors, the differences remain very small overall speaking.
3 a fine argument, this seigneurial system, too bad it has meant nothing for at least a good hundred years.
4 unionally speaking, i doubt that we are bordering on omnipresence even if the unionization rate in quebec, canada and the united states are respectively 39%, 30% and 10%, which remains very low compared to 50% to 80% of the countries scandinavian. yes we are more to the left but from a more global perspective we are not so far from the rest of canada and the americans
[
5 similar religious habits, i don't see the problem. in all three cases the predominant religion remains a christian religion and with believers who mostly go to church on a regular basis. yes, the united states resumed in the second half of the twentieth century small more religious habits but it was above all in order to differentiate itself from the atheist ussr more than by faith.
[
as for your inverted historiography, it's more complex. quebec was to some extent colonized but nevertheless both progressed towards independence at different rates certainly but with the same result at the end with the exception of quebec which remains dependent on canada but still enjoys a sovereignty that could not be associated with a colonized country.
> this is the current technique of the pq we see how it works well. it's not even a question of immigration, italians here for 2-3 generations are not interested, i don't blame them. the country's dream is intrinsically french-canadian, we have to face the facts.
you might be right. honestly, i don't know why. in my opinion, the majority does not give a damn about quebec: for them, they immigrate to canada, not to quebec. the shared quote refers to immigrants who want to make quebec a country. of course, there are not many of them, but they are on my side all the same and i respect them as much as a white quebecer from saguenay.
> we should start lighting, when the boomers die, who will be left to move the project forward? even me a y (millennials), i consume very little quebec culture, a little music from time to time that's all. so this is not another debate, it is the central point. the pq will finally die, we must make tabula rasa on pq nationalism and mount something that makes sense in 2021.
my point was on the issue of immigration. yes, sovereignty issue, young people are central, but it was not my goal to sprawl out on that with the po quote.
personally, i have no idea why young people are so disconnected from the nationalist question. it's not just because they're federalists, it's because they don't care.
i would put the blame in large part on the crappy education we have here: the students arrive at cegep and know nothing and make mistakes every 4 words. we don't teach history in high school, let alone quebec history. and, if you teach it, it's a neutral, mundane, politically correct, and federalist story. how, too, can we worry about the precariousness of french in montreal if we prefer to speak english with our chummeys on discord, share memes, surf reddit and its 99% english-speaking content, listen to american music, movies? en anglais and putting some english sentences because we're proud to speak franglish.
but i agree with you, i don't believe what the pq is doing right now is working. we do need a tabula rasa for sovereignty in quebec
well i have just given you ** "the clues" ** to see them ** "particularities" ** there.
there is talk of social and cultural involvement in a certain set of values predefined by the host population.
to make it more basic, cultural integration begins when we talk about compatibility with the requirements of common life and the ** "collective values" ** of the host society. that is to say when we speak of ** "cultural values" **, of ** "collective values associated with the host culture" **.
it is ** "interculturalism" **. you can continue to practice certain elements of your culture as well as to share them, but everything must be compatible with the requirements of common life and the ** "collective values" ** of the host society. the degree / depth of cultural integration may vary, as long as the ** "collective values associated with the host culture" ** are respected.
if you're practically against any foreign baggage and cultural exchange, then you're probably for ** "cultural assimilation" **. if you allow me to clarify.
we just do not all have the same conception of the requirements necessary to determine what a successful cultural integration is (to the specificities of quebec, for example).
but to make it more basic, cultural integration begins when we talk about compatibility with the requirements of common life and the ** "collective values" ** of the host society. that is to say when we speak of ** "cultural values" **, of ** "collective values associated with the host culture" **. the degree / depth of cultural integration may vary, as long as the ** "collective values associated with the host culture" ** are respected.
for me it is played out in the values in our habits and on that we are very american. see you all as our neighbors, we are a very individualistic society and this is what makes us different from many other places on earth where the community advocates on the individual asia would be a good example.
it's simple, the history of quebec is taught as:
losers against the english
executioners facing the amerindians
catholic idiots
aside from the history lessons, i don't find the hatred of the english to be very convincing for the reasons mentioned above. also, the millennials are the last to have known those who were the cheap labor of the english (the grandparents). it is completely obsolete as a way of thinking.
today the fight is globalism vs sovereignty, for that you have to have a state. i think it has to start with that, you can see the movements all over europe, there is no reason why it should be impossible here.
"for me" you just give your opinion without ever explaining anything or giving facts.
again "examples" that you can give to any other country, worse you forget that the majority of americans are immigrants, there is just a minority that is descended from the loyalists.
the majority of "american" things, are made by european immigrants or immigrant children, so already to say that it is "american" is wrong, criss even the hamburger comes from germany.
quebec is less affected by individualism because of our history and our catholic culture, unfortunately with assimilation the attitude to bob gratton increases, but even to this day have continued to nationalize and to have measures that go against liberal ideas.
it is not a hatred towards the english, but an awareness of the reality: we are losing our language.
however, i believe that you are right and the debate should perhaps diverge from quebec victimization and rather move towards a more modern sovereignty. a sovereignist version that decides to look forward rather than move backwards, its eyes focused on the past
trudeau made a masterstroke 50 years ago by implementing the multiculturalist ideology that would isolate quebec in its national demands.
since then the situation has degenerated to the point where every nationalist gesture in quebec is denounced as being racist.
charest was a pillar of this doctrine at the beginning of 2000 and salted the fields of quebec nationalism from schools which means that, 20 years later, we have a generation of young people who see the national fight as a backward idea in the face of promises. wealth of the anglo-saxon world.
the double slingshot plq / qs from 2005 to 2020 was really effective among the youngest in terms of dirtying the defense of the quebec nation.
i really don't like that kind of generalization. canadians get along rather very well with quebecers, they are good neighbors despite the considerable cultural differences. canadians don't want to eradicate french from the country, stop this bad faith - have a little respect for the truth. putting a ku klux klan costume on them is downright shameful.
oh boy, saved.
french english changes what?
me it is the opposite that i notice, the relentlessness of quebecers against anglophones mainly in montreal, i am not already told to speak french because here it is quebec and i can tell you i was greatly shocked, i was even already insulted in french by thinking that i did not understand the language "so she go home this innocent if she does not speak french or she goes elsewhere, here we are at québec ”i will never forget these assaults, a type of assault that i have never suffered in other english-speaking provinces when speaking french. the government has done its job divide and conquer ... you should focus on tax evasion and other big issues that nobody talks about because too busy having fake debate and fake battles over languages for example
people should choose the language they speak plain and simple
why do mods leave osties of blokes commenting?
multiculturalism is a purely british strategy to counter the separatists in the empire
i am english speaking in montreal. i am from ontario. there is a feeling against the french in ontario. despite our learning french at school, it's not “cool” to be bilingual. but most of it is ignorance of young people and ignorance of the history of our unique nation.
i am english speaking in montreal. i am from ontario. there is a feeling against the french in ontario. despite our learning french at school, it's not "cool" to be bilingual. but most of it is ignorance of young people and ignorance of the history of our unique nation.
what do english speakers forget about their history?
the canadian kkk existed and was aimed at francophones and catholics
i believe that the good man kkk in this case is an allegory of english canada which on the one hand treats quebecers as racist but on the other to an openly racist story and discourse.
nobody puts all the anglos in the same basket.
society is not the sum of all of its individuals.
language, culture, history, the future?
thick question for a stupid photo with a thick answer we have worse things right now like a curfew at 8:00 p.m. and summer is coming
thick question, get your neurons going a bit.
because the law requires french if you want to be served look at pictures of montreal in the first half of the 20th century everything is in english francophones were treated as inferior it's not 100 years ago my grandfather knew this
well go where the language is spoken
des blokes?
i am not op but i think among other things in the 19th century under the british empire the french speakers were strongly discriminated against in canada, the hanged patriots and even riel who was an elected official.
anglophone institutions have always shown avowed contempt for francophones.
we can also talk about the orange movements and the kkk of canada which targeted the francos and the natives. the assimilation of french speakers by force through the roc.
english canada has a terrible track record and it is normal that the francophones of quebec are still a little "shell shocked" by the occupation of their territory and drag the brutal they have received.
in these circumstances, being called a racist oppressor by these same people is sometimes difficult to reconcile.
but to be honest, it's less hostility and more ignorance. growing up, people didn't really talk about it much (2000-2010).
knowledgeable people knew the history and referendums of '80s and '95s, but the average person just didn't really think about it (i think).
i also grew up in ontario and now live in quebec.    i went to a french school all the way through high school.   i didn’t experience the francophone racism you claim.   we had a english school right next to our high school and shared the school yard.   in four years of high school there was in fight between students across the i.   note this was étienne brûlé and york mills high school.   very rich anglophones next to middle class.  anglophones don’t hate francophones.,   they hate french class.   most french people hate french class.   english is a far more easier language to learn.   i live here and i have 140 employees that work for me.  i see a lot of people that could have become engineers and other types of professionals, however they struggled with french and could not get into cégep.     i know i wouldn’t be where i am if i tried to continue in the french system.      as far as unique nation goes.  i lived in many places in north america and every place has there own uniqueness.   i don’t see them trying to actively trying to preserve it.  by actively make laws to force people into compliance.   they instead focus on traditional activities to keep the culture alive.  
i personally feel that this whole language issue is a driven by the elite in quebec to control the average person.   you prevent people learning english you have assured yourself a captive populous.      while there children go to private schools and learn perfect english.
no the canadian kkk was really aimed at francophones and catholics
except that here the reproach is linguistic.
rather thick answer?
ah so for you it is a reason to be insulted by his fellow citizens if we choose to speak in english ??? we emerge from the examples of the 20th century so instead of moving forward we go back and reproduce the same mistakes of others?
1 english is spoken in quebec
2 "go somewhere they speak french "
>yes i wouldn't call it francophone racism.  it's not close to qualifying as a dominating conversational theme in ontario.  but though many don't want to take french class, there's rarely a hatred of quebec people.  generally, ontarians think of quebec as their kooky sibling, who, though sometimes demanding special treatment, is genuinely different, and, thought flamboyant, is not a threat to them.  and, as in most situations, the staid siblings don't understand the black sheep as well as the black sheep understands them (and feels oppressed by them), and so they leave it to the parents to negotiate issues that don't directly affect them.  i think those not fluent in french are intimidated by quebec, because many quebecois know english better than they know french.  and there's this cultural stereotype, true or not, of the snobbish, judgemental francophone.  
>  
>i agree that the latest focus on language is mostly stemming from the elite, perhaps the government in particular (caq), which, as suggested by conrad black in today's post, may be aiming a critical blow at the pq once in an upcoming election.  
>  
>and there is the demographic issue as well: that, after the decline in the native  quebec birthrate, and with the rise of immigration, the calculus on critical mass of quebeckers motivate to fight for separation may be trending in an unfavourable direction.  most immigrants are seeking a safe and free country, even if they speak french, and may be less inclined for the heroic separatism battles of the past (also a black idea implanted in my head).
ok
do you want us to reduce the sovereignist movement to the flq too? you can take any anecdotal example and turn it in the direction you want.
thick question thick answer? lol i'm kidding, i don't want to share my opinion.
a reason no but knowing the history of quebec would make you understand that the hatred of the english language is justified you cannot wait for the love of a people conquered and subjected by force
there is only one official language in quebec, french the language of its population since the foundation of tadoussac by the french
quebec is officially french-speaking and is older than english canada
quebec has never denied the flq
if we go back even further, it is the natives who have suffered, and as we can clearly see in the news they still suffer even here in quebec, but that's not why we are going to put everyone in the same bag, right? i have been a canadian citizen since birth if i want to speak english in quebec i should be able to do so without being insulted i am in my country and i am proud to speak both official languages, it is a richness to be multilingual and all this hate has no place here
your entire argument is "french was here first" but it wasn't
native languages go back farther
so all quebecers approved the actions of the flq?
does it work for francophones, but not for anglophones? beautiful double-standard.
the natives had an excellent relationship with the french speakers before coming under the british fold
non mon argument est: the french ask to their native allies if they can live with them in exchange of protection and tool and weirdly the native accept cause the french can fight for them
non mon argument est: the french ask to their native allies if they can live with them in exchange of protection and tool and weirdly the native accept cause the french can fight for them
quebecers are a people by nature metis the french have signed alliances and settled in all legitimacy
the separatists have never been a fan of the flq and have never defended them unlike the kkk in the english-speaking regions
the flq were communists and i think everyone knew that to become a communist was to become the dogs of the ussr
what the actual balls are you even saying ?
thats not what you wrote and if that was what you wrote it has no bearing on why people should be forced to speak french over english
glad to see that the sub-reddit is developing well and overcoming the lies that ** some users ** tell about it.
i have to say: thank you and well done to everyone participating in this sub-reddit, each in their own way! we have come a long way since the beginning, and the progress in the last few months is dazzling, certainly exceeding my expectations. let's hope that we continue on this path for a long time, despite the obstacles that can arise at any time, particularly the growing censorship on the internet and social networks!
it's okay, personally i would remove the downvote system. keep only the upvotes.
sometimes i see that this subreddit lines up to the echo-chamber like / r / quebec and i don't think that's what you want.
i see different opinions being downvoted and under 0, an opinion that differs should never be downvoted, only comments that are off topic.
i hope that this sub will remain a place for intelligent debates and discussions and that it does not deteriorate into a pit filled with the same pockets and idiotic interventions from quebecor fans.
long live quebeclibre!
the day will arrive that the moderators will turn imbecile and have a power trip.
already 100 more in two days ...
how do you say it in french ?
quebec is already free esti instead of putting a quebec as a country talking to him about free
dogs bark but the caravan moves.
you're right, i did a post about it a short while ago. above all, we do not want to be a chamber echo and indeed, the downvote should be for a comment that does not add anything to the discussion.
we have to make the group effort for that to be the case.
the weakness of the system is that only fools abuse the downvote, others respect the moral contract. so imbecilities are at an advantage.
i doubt. as a moderator, i really do everything to put my personal opinions aside when judging a situation. and stick to the basic sub rules as defined.
there are those who are happy to be just consumers, and there are those who want us to take care of world affairs in our own name.
you take it off so it stops idiots from using it. a late post will just go to the bottom of the queue with 1 vote. it doesn't change anything on that. i think it is advantageous to withdraw to offer more fair debates.
remindme! 10 years
what are you talking about is here it is question that quebec so that it is free in the sense of a country will have to that you fire everyone who is not quebecoise is that will never happen in life unless everyone become a millionaire to go to their country
people who come to quebec don't come here for the beauty of the country but for a better life because in their country no work or bad pay that's all what you find beautiful here nothing we are all there for one better future that's all
i agree that downvotes in their current mode are more of a problem than an asset, but it's reddit which is like that
if it were from me, the identity of voters would be public like facebook likes. it is also hard to justify that downvotes are secret when you have access to all user comments on all subs. as if we were trying to discourage people from commenting honestly.
there are subs like canadapolitics whose css 'hides' the downvote button but it's very easy to get around. it still helps. if downvote abuse became a problem here, that would be a solution.
i will be messaging you in 10 years on [**2031-03-22 20:58:43 utc**]( to remind you of [**this link**](
[**click this link**]( to send a pm to also be reminded and to reduce spam.
^(parent commenter can ) [^(delete this message to hide from others.)](
*****
|[^(info)]( reminders)](
|-|-|-|-|
it's ten years long ... who knows if i'll be here again!
well that's it, that's all. we can do better.
i also agree
happy st-jean! let's keep our fingers crossed and hope the canadiens take out the golden knights tonight.
small find on wiki:
the quebec flag flies on this image of the old port of [la rochelle] (
happy national day to everyone!
happy saint-jean to you too zeugme!
dude it's always been like this, why mcgill has such a big campus on the island of montreal? it was given away for free by the loyalists after the conquest.
our elites have always betrayed us, even the “separatiss”.
i am quebecer, student at mcgill. i am a proud nationalist, and i would do anything to protect our culture, our language.
when it comes to politics, a subject fueled by different theories, schools of thought, institutions must respect their values, and government must give freedom to think and speak.
although, as you have noted, it can get frustrating, mcgill stands out globally for the richness of its environment. in addition, it is an institution of very good reputation, easily accessible by quebecers, which propels them internationally.
i believe there are some compromises that need to be made. personally, while i would appreciate several upgrades, i chose not to make it a battle.
hope this enlightens you.
''btw i'm an anglo who has these opinions, i can't even imagine how frustrating it must be from a quebecois perspective.''
it's extremely frustrating, anglos have 30% of all school funding in quebec being only 8% of the population, ridiculous. it gives anglo secondary classes with a teacher for 8 students vs. franco classes in eastern mtl with 35 students per class, it's unsightly and pathetic.
first of all, thank you for your testimony. this interpretation of history is certainly a shame, but at the same time i cannot claim to be surprised and i am far from certain that it is unique to mcgill or to the english-speaking network. especially since mcgill remains the best rated and richest university in quebec. couple that with the rise of the concept of university autonomy and they are pretty much untouchable.
as for me, if we want to tackle the phenomenon at mcgill, concordia or uqam, we will have to go through an overhaul of the role of universities. definancing would certainly point the academic world and much of the media against the government. however, in quebec, it remains the taxpayers who assume the majority of the costs related to higher education and in doing so we are entitled to demand a concern for utilitarianism from our universities. the latter explode under the quantity of departments and faculties with essentially useless knowledge. it is also often within these easily accessible departments without practical application that political activism is fomented. it may be good for university administrators who can increase their numbers, but it brings absolutely nothing to quebec.
bro 9/10 french i highly respect that we can deffo see the efforts.
honestly, mcgill and its actors are two different entities. mcgill is a formidable university which will have produced, during its several decades of operations, the results of research which will have greatly advanced science.
i say that being 100% sovereignists and 100% for a french montreal and quebec, but i'm pretty sure what legault wants with his funding for the english-speaking option is to make his "quebec inc" more interesting in the world. 'international.
let me explain;
the quebec model with cegeps, which train people to work and prepare people for university, is really functional. although the federal government and the english provinces will never recognize it, the quebec model is far superior to the models found elsewhere in the federation.
if it would not be linguistic quarrels and the english would accept their place as a second language within quebec (which they never will), the english-speaking cegeps would be an excellent diplomatic element to promote quebec in the world. international. historically within large universities, it was normal to learn a second language, even to go and study in a country where one did not know the language in order to learn it and to read the works in the native language of the authors.
a bit like france does with its system of french schools across borders, i would say.
if there would be the best actors within mcgill and concordia, they would sell internationally that precisely, you come back unilingual anglo but being in the largest french-speaking city in america you will come out bilingual, i'm pretty sure that it would really hit the international anglosphere.
but no, instead the actors have clear political agendas and wish to use foreign students as political pawns. by locking them into this anti-quebec anglophone sphere, these people radicalize it to a point where for them, state secularism is comparable to nazism.
because if the debate would be honest and then the anglophones would see both sides of the argument, they would understand that the demands of the quebec people are legitimate.
but you have to understand that what would result from that would probably be the independence of quebec, which would destroy the federation. so the federal government, thanks to the media that it keeps alive with public funds, is trying to keep this english-speaking minority under supervision and is doing everything to make it grow.
exactly what happened in 1995 to tell the truth.
because otherwise the federal house of cards would collapse.
mcgill should be a bilingual university
it reminds me of a discussion i had with my first or second generation immigrant colleagues. the subject came up on bill 21 and i simply asked why they thought secularism was so important to quebecers. i don't know if there is a history lesson in the immigration process, if so, it sucks. i had to explain the quiet revolution, duplessis, how old people fought to my parents. we are not talking about a history of 500 years ago. people are still alive.
after that i have my older colleagues who remember being said "speak white" when they were teenagers and young adults. pi the woke culture comes to tell us that quebecers are all racist and do not know what to be oppressed. bitch please.
because they are afraid of being called homophobic otherwise, from the mcgill broomstick.
1- i hate that we finance mcgill
2- i am a convinced sovereignist
3- the oppression of francophones in canada is absolutely a form of systemic oppression, and the double standard of anglo-progressives on this issue is undeniably enraging.
but 4- systemic racism exists and law 21 is a blatant example. there is nothing anti-quebecois to say that, in fact, my opposition to bill 21 comes from a sincere love for all quebecers and our values of secularism. i want to maximize everyone's well-being and freedom, and that includes quebeckers who wear religious symbols (which doesn't hurt anyone). i want a rigid separation between state and religion, and that includes not allowing the state to discriminate on a religious basis.
we can bemoan together how mcgill is a deeply francophobic institution, which perpetuates the orangeism and english supremacy of the roc and which completely ignores the systemic issues that affect quebec as a whole. but "being against law 21" is absolutely not the problem.
mcgill is a university like any other. for this reason, she should be treated like everyone else, no more and no less.
why donate your money to mcgill if the university is as you describe it? why not "put your money where your mouth is?"
its fucking gross. the only way things are going to change is by cutting off funding. 
if teachers want to preach the "woke / communist" doctrine they should not be used by the government. if it has become a crime against humanity to repeat a few words like the n-word in a historical context, the same rules must apply to teachers who teach our young idiots that quebec is a fascist state.
another point: there is an argument that mcgill is indeed a "racist" institution against francophones. the university gives us the option of submitting our written works in french, but for oral presentations ... nope. it's too complicated to find a teacher who can understand french well enough and a translator won't work because .... "reasons".
good point, i didn't think about that. if i can get you the question, why did you decide to study at mcgill? did you learn english before you started to bach?
8% of the population of quebec are anglophone ???
the only programs that deserve to be funded by government are science and commerce. all subjects of the "humanities" genre are useless, the only job you can avoid with this bach is ~~ being a teacher in a university ~~ leader of the revolution of woke communists
thank you, your point of view is interesting.
in principle i completely agree. on the other hand, one of the reasons why mcgill is so popular is because of the fact that there are students around the world who come to montreal to study at mcgill who do not know any french language. depending on the month, it would be impossible for mcgill to be a completely billing environment, on the other hand it should have more resources to help french-speaking students in an english environment.
one does not prevent the other. the world (and more particularly the english) totally refuse to admit that french-speaking quebecers were the victim of discrimination and honestly it is frustrating.
but it's not because we were the victim of injustice that we are not racist / that we can do what we want. i understand where law 21 comes from, but still i find it not correct (and i am a sovereignist btw.) it is discriminatory, even if we tried to do it as egalitarian as possible and it is a fact (even if it applies to everyone, it affects above all muslim women.) seems to me that since we have been the victim of discrimination (and we always receive hatred from anglos) we should be the first to protect the rights of others and other minorities?
you say you share quebec's love for secularism, but how do you see it being respected if we allow those who, for religious reasons, refuse to remove their religious symbols to exercise positions of authority? how then to ensure that their moral decision-making is independent of the moral system of their religion if they are not even ready to remove their religious symbol?
i'm curious to know what you think about it because i see it as an obstacle to secularism that is difficult to solve by other measures.
last year the fbi found a chinese spy cell in brossard, guess how they got home? thanks to a mcgill teacher.
they even publicly said that they were against bill 21, it's funny because on their sub-reddit it was full of student comments who were pro-bill 21 or pt against but they found it pocketable to see a university interfere. in politics without even asking the students.
i chose mcgill because it is recognized worldwide, and because it is a demanding school, with one of the best education in the world. as a quebecer coming from the regions, it is also a possibility for me to discover a completely different environment.
i spoke english more or less fluently before coming, but i was definitely at ease. it was not as high a barrier as it can be for some people.
it is rather rare for anglos like you who have this opinion. thank you for recognizing our situation. i think more discussion on this might make things easier.
looking forward to seeing you!
and those who are bilingual are anglophone, or francophone, or neither, or both?
a bilingual university does not prevent students from taking courses in the language of their choice
according to the same logic, would a measure such as, for example, reducing the wages of nurses be sexist since it impacts more women than men?
if we follow your logic, the answer would be yes. for my part, i believe that we should stick to the principle that law 21 prohibits the symbols of all religions without distinction.
law 21 is in no way discriminatory, as it applies to all religions without exception. there is therefore no case of discrimination. review your definition of the word: 
the challenge is to identify the intentions of an individual, which is indeed extremely difficult.
i think indeed that the intentions of someone acting on behalf of the state should be secular. having said that, i think this criterion is important because if you don't respect it, you quite quickly end up with zealots who try to take advantage of the power of the state to impose their religious dogmas on others - that is the point. problem we want to avoid.
therefore, even if, in an ideal world, i would like the intentions of the agents of the state to be always purely secular, i can be satisfied to evaluate only their actions since the goal of this secularism is to ensure that the actions of state officials are fair and not tainted with proselytism or religious prejudices.
in other words: if a person speaks like a layman and does his job like a layman, in my eyes, that person is layman regardless of his interior psyche.
regarding their clothing: there is a difference between their actions in the name of the system and their individuality. freedom of speech and religious freedom are secular principles that have been interwoven in western philosophy since the enlightenment. a person who defends his individual right to religious freedom may very well act in a secular fashion when the time comes to exercise his role on behalf of the state.
it's sick .... if mcgill really is a representation of the intellectuals who are going to be the leaders of the future, it's game over the boys.
a chinese spy cell? never heard about that. what were they spying on?
if i have the chance to return to campus next term i will be down to talk more about the subject. good luck with your final exams!
bin honestly, it depends. why would the salary be lower? under what circumstance would this happen? what is your definition of sexism?
and then no matter if the gesture would be sexist or not, it would be necessary to conclude that it mainly affects women, which would increase the income gap between women and men (which is already present) and could harm several women.
that's right, discrimination isn't the best word. in fact what i mean is that it affects muslim women in a disproportionate way, which is therefore going to hurt them even more and could increase the inequalities between certain groups.
unfortunately there are more and more of them.
to counteract that, in the francophones your mbc worse 2-3 others but it remains very minority.
and one thing that i noticed is to see the former anglo-quebecois conservatives become "wokes" for strategic reasons, 40% of anglo-quebecers are for bill 21, or is their representation? nowhere, you have to be pro-liberal or else you are a traitor and you get kicked out.
what about an anti-woke immigrant? forget it, he is told that he has stockholm syndrome, "token white" and all that is nonsense.
i would like to talk about it too! good luck with the finals!
as i am an anglo-quebecer it is impossible for me to have my own opinions on the subject. if i can't stand justine trudeau, the leader of the woke revolution, it's obviously because i love fascism. forget the fact that my grandparents came to canada during wwii because the nazis were conquering europe.
i have also observed that, the threat of quebec nationalism creates a strange alliance between english canadian nationalist conservatives and the english-speaking woke left. in the rest of canada, these two groups oppose each other, but in quebec, they unite against quebec nationalism.
english should learn to talk french and french should learn to talk english. simple
no. if you want to live in quebec, it must be done in french. fuck every other tongue and everyone who thinks it's a good idea.
if you go to poland or elsewhere, are you going to tell them that they have to learn english?
> english should learn to talk french 
[mrw](
"fuck" is english, my little racist!
if you have to speak a single language first it is not a free quebec
they are all learning english. don't tell them a word of russian, any more than french. in my opinion they should all speak esperanto or hebrew.
the business is that if we just have two official languages, because we are surrounded by english everywhere in north america, inevitably, french will die slowly and our culture, our history. and our identity will die with it.
free for the majority population.
hebrew please
am i the only one who finds it fishy to create a lottery to get people to get vaccinated?
gone are the days of carrots! whip time for those spoiled, cryin 'babies
vaccine passport to enter public places !!!!!
thank you for going to be vaccinated to prove the bullshit / manipulation of governments ❤️
no, it's deeply suspicious. even though these new vaccines are a technological / medical revolution for human health, each new incentive deepens my refusal to fold.
like good wines, good vaccines don't need publicity.
in my opinion, everything is political but we will only find out:
1. at the start of the school year: possible general strike mandate for teachers because class below 100% vaccinated = danger zone according to the collective agreement. if all else fails, the education community is now stuck with a stifled engine to begin with and everyone will be in the know.
2. in the fall: there we will abandon the variants, ask for the 3rd dose and admit that the covid is endemic like the flu. if the government has failed to get its officials back to office before it appears, no one is going to want to come back afterwards and everyone is going to be fed up.
this is currently my theory: patch everything, restart the machine and claim victory to the pc before it officially cracks. will see if i'm right. they could also lengthen the state of emergency but it's 2-3 more doses .....
it's normal to find that suspicious. it's like rewarding a child with dessert when he finishes his vegetables; it sends the message that vegetables are bad. it is even true that vegetables are good for the health.
no but do you realize what you're saying?
i totally understand you. my refusal to be vaccinated is more of the order of refusing to embark on this psychotic delirium. it would violate my conscience.
you also forgot the magic recipe in legault.
with a big blow of the gag to impose its law ... strangely this is why there is a state of emergency ...
legault listen to me !!! 2 doses to be entitled to a dose at the bar!
hurry up !
that. the pro-vaxx are as narrow-minded as the conspirators. "trust the science!" it is as backward as “trust in little jesus!”, there is absolutely nothing scientific about the blind faith. we have to believe that medical hysteria brings more to the masses than raw data.
85% of the quebec population aged 12 and over have received at least 1 dose.
even if he had passed it to the popular vote, the overwhelming majority of the population would have voted in favor. get out of your echo chamber.
except that science has established verification processes which allow us to confirm or deny certain notions, while religion is a sacred text based on myths and which has no anchoring in modern reality. you don't question science when it allows you to connect to the internet, or fly, or provide you with the treatments you need to treat x or y health problems. the "raw data" is all on the scientific side. you don't even have factual data to defend your position.
the truth is that your stubbornness in refusing vaccination is just an ego trip, like a teenager revolting against parental authority. you do it because it makes you feel special. there is no good reason to refuse the vaccine, unless you are so imbued with yourself that you think the facebook posts you visit are more credible than 100 years of research and studies by millions of experts. worldwide.
it is exactly because of people like you that the vaccination passport will be introduced, and that's good. hope you like the parks.
natalie wood...
kessé ca ... t'au quebec icitte.
natalie bois.
the fedoras, everyone in a tie, courtesy ... belle epoque.
to share on r / quebec :-)
we left in that direction.
at the moment the rain of anglicisms and displays more unilingual american than america seems to be falling from paris. in fact it is any display of this aggressive kind that should be prohibited. rather than replacing stop by stop i would impose the symbol of the red octagon with a raised hand. law 101 rather than attacking english first should have attacked vulgarity first and especially slang and joual. it should have put french first, allow english or another language in a smaller area, but above all require any display language to be of high quality.
pk when i speak french i have no problem but immediately i speak english i am told here we are in quebec ..
contextualization via [the journal] (
i worked at dunns for 7 years. post to r / canada
no, to tell the truth it was a unique phenomenon that was exclusive to montreal.
i would like to thank the caq for benefiting my children who will be bilingual vs. young francophones. the caq sacrificed young francophones for their ideologies. good luck in finding a job in a company that has a presence outside of quebec without speaking english.
what a time to be alive
people in the comments seriously discrediting university degrees... and saying rural quebec will run the economy. lol
one of the dubois sisters.
i doubt it if we were made to the young of the cities having a tendency to make useless studies yes but those of the regions which will make the economy turn are going in the right direction
you confuse marketing and way of speaking
because quebec fought to protect its language
because quebec is a distinct francophone nation. :)
there is only the description of the restaurant
ha yes, r / canada the sub filled with "quebec basher" in herbs ....
why work for a foreign company? quebec companies are not good enough?
rural quebec is the workforce of quebec, no employees, no factories, and even less “lots of garbage in toxedo” in offices with diplomas. ;)
it means nothing to say your text. what are unnecessary studies? it's such a null generalization
yes ? i said contextualization, not socio-economic analysis of the city center. i found your photo interesting, i found another to support your post which gives a bit of context on the restaurant itself and confirms your date.
such
yet quebecs gdp per capita is well below the rest of canada. good luck with seperating with a gdp comparable to colombia.
sociology or art sorry but that's not what keeps the economy going
do ~ 6 years of cegep and university in a field, to go to work in a completely different field, because there is simply no demand for employment in your area of study, or you realize that it it pays more to work as an accounting clerk than to find a job in a museum. and at the end of the day, it leaves you years wasted and more than $ 100,000 in taxpayer spending for your "experience"
i don't see the interest of a course that leads to nothing useful to society
i thought you justified english bcp federalist has fun justifying it
if quebec were a country, we would be the \ ~ 22nd richest in the world by gdp, it's not that bad.
sources:
[
[
indeed. construction keeps the economy going. business administration (bac), mba at hec also, law, medicine, actuary, nurse, finance, psychologist, it.
the arts, philosophy and socio should be complementary optional courses at the end of a baccalaureate.
and then??
you cannot blame someone for wanting to specialize in a field of study, but it is true that for some courses they do not have much to lead. :)
> i thought you justified english bcp federalist has fun justifying it
without being a federalist (far from it) there isn't much that gets on my nerves in the photo ...
dunn's famous: that's the name of the restaurant, it doesn't get on my nerves too much ... everyone has the right to call their restaurant what they want. it could say "famous" but i don't give a damn about the name of the place.
smoked meat: it's also quebecois that "smoked meat sandwich" quite certain that there are a lot of people who call it a "smoked meat"
steakhouse: a bit like smoked meat but there isn't even a french equivalent ...
what bothers me more is the service, the waitress has "le parla tuse pas la francaise please" and what's on the menu ... the functional finally ... even if i speak english and french ca pisses me off to come across an english woman who cannot understand the word "mustard" in a smoked meat restaurant.
canada is 18th on this list. it is not very difficult to understand that quebec is behind canada for gdp.
i still find philosophy important because it helps develop critical thinking. personally, it is one of the courses which made me evolve the most as a citizen.
for the arts, it is true that not many people will become artists in life, i agree that in the school career there are too many courses dedicated to this.
for sociology, it may have a certain importance, but in my case it was a complementary course, i did not have compulsory sociology course, unless it was under another name.
are scholarships given for unnecessary courses
i chose the most recent photo i have from the decade before that of english
> canada is 18th on this list. it is not very difficult to understand that quebec is behind canada for gdp.
and then? concretely, apart from being 4 behind on a wikipedia list, that doesn't change much. one can even argue that an independent quebec would be even richer than it is today. it should be remembered that globally, everything that costs money (public health system, school, etc.) is a provincial responsibility, and everything that pays off is the responsibility of the federal government.
excellent comment. nevertheless, i have a baccalaureate in philosophy and i certify that 99% of university philosophy teachers, monolog and speak in their heads, or listen to themselves speak, it's awful.
a minority, including benoit mercier a pretty well decorated, has managed to join the mass of neophyte students for years, and transform the students, if not, most monologue and make this beautiful material useless and boring.
this is why placing the philosophy at the end of the tray for all branches is essential. i'm not going to bore an mba student at hec who is going to roll over a business that will be worth 50 million in the next few years.
and? do you think that putting money into education is bad ???
even if quebec was more rich, there would be no currency, army, money for health (25% of healthcare is paid by canada! and quebec wants it to be 50%.) also all welfare and employment insurance is paid by canada, so many people would be poor if they lost their job. un quebec libre est un quebec pauvre! ca coute beaucoup d’argent pour planifier un nouveau gouvernment entier. i
the philosophy is interesting but 3/4 of the philosophers have been "canceled" it looks like
i may have been lucky because i really liked the philosophy teacher i had and he was really good at keeping an objective side when needed.
for social yes
1. a currency can be invented or shared very easily.
2. we must not forget that a canadian army is partly financed by the province of quebec. so there is a share that would go to the province of quebec.
3. the health system, i am going to throw the figures you put forward in the trash, because you have no source and i will therefore consider them as hearsay. quebec contributes to social services, it is normal that it asks for it. if you go to the cinema and pay your ticket, you will go see the movie you paid for. (and by the way, the province of quebec sends more equalization money to ottawa than it receives.)
>so many people would be poor if they lost their job.
uhm, yes? is it the principle of losing your job, is that supposed to be an argument? someone who loses their job across canada will be poorer than if they don't, the vast majority of them.
> a free quebec is a poor quebec!
uhm? it depends on what you mean by poor, because according to the global poverty index, we are all multi-billionaires.
> it costs a lot of money to plan a whole new government.
whether we put civil servants to work or not, it costs us the same price at the end of the year. you might as well make them work hahahah.
what world do you live in? we are not a criss third world society, "quebec would be poor" quebec would be another first world country and will do better than the rest 90% of the planet.
i have nothing more to say than "you are completely stupid." ".
to add some to the army, quebec is one of canada's men's reserves and we could easily beat the 60 thousand canadian soldiers in ten years there is also the fact that many military factories including in the corner of montreal
the only way to protect the language in the long term is sovereignty and we are not left for that.
no time for that, legros and his brazilian clown are too busy scaring good 90-year-old women.
have not amended law 101? i don't have too many details in mind though
it's tuxedo caq!
[deleted]
the quarrel between french and english must stop first. we are in a country with several languages and then french and english are not the first languages of canada. la francophonie has a community in each province. as long as the language is taught in schools and then we have french schools, it won't go anywhere. if no one can agree on a universal language, we will always be divided. people who do not speak french and then who want to move to quebec should, after months, have a base in french at least. same thing for the other provinces, if you don't speak english, and then you don't want to learn it, stay in your country, or your province.
french crisse.
i am in tabarnak canada!
let our kids be bilingually educated.
honestly, we don't care about our language. personally, i think we should prioritize english. it is a much simpler language, much more useful when traveling and it is the main language used when doing research on the internet for example. i'm not saying we should give it up, but more english lessons and less french would be good
suggestion 1: stop whining and blame the roc for everything.
2: include all quebecers in the culture. it should help against americanization everywhere.
3: that french lessons be compulsory up to the age of 50. (updates at work wouldn't hurt us)
4: be more welcoming to newcomers so that the desire to learn french is… .. present. 😆
5: evolve with the times. words, definitions change. perhaps it would be time for the french to do the same.
6: maybe to decide whether we speak french .. from france or french / jouale to choose once and for all. random suggestion.
okay 👌 but, we must also move to protect our language while we are federated
allophones must refuse to spend their money in quebecois speaking establishments, and watch them close 1 by 1
concrete comment ...
/s
i don't know why but i laughed
yes, but it's cosmetic. that's good, but it ** will have no effect on the demographic decline of french ** in quebec. jean-françois lisée explained it very well in one of his podcasts in the spring. to reverse the trend, you have to play on two fronts:
* immigration policies: immigration is the source of demographic growth of the quebec population since it has been 50 years now that french-speaking quebec couples no longer have enough children to even renew / maintain their demographic weight. to maintain the weight of french in quebec, 90% of allophones would have to adopt french whereas at the moment, it is more like 50-50, which favors the anglicization of montreal, its suburbs (montérégie, laval) and the outaouais.
* funding of english-speaking institutions by governments. there is overfunding of english-speaking institutions in quebec: hospitals, schools (universities, cégep), which contributes significantly to the anglicization of allophones and even francophones in the montreal region. they find establishments there where to work, where to study which are better endowed with resources (research, care, teaching, etc.) than their french equivalents (french-speaking institutions). it ends up increasing their prestige (in addition to the attractiveness of the english language which weighs heavily in north america). two examples: post-secondary institutions in quebec monopolize 30% of the total funding of the quebec government while the anglo-quebec minority accounts for about 8% of the population of quebec. the 22% difference is funding that should normally go to francophone institutions. another example: why does the quebec government (which limits medical enrollment at the university given the cost of training) reserve 30% of enrollments for mcgill university when a student trained at mcgill has 3 times more likely to go to practice elsewhere than in quebec once your training is completed?
in short, frédéric lacroix (why bill 101 is a failure) explained the situation well using demographic data collected by statistics canada.
yes it is definitely an improvement but the covid frustrates here always prefer to say it's too little instead of being happy that something is done.
90% of the comments are two guys shouting at each other
9 of the 10 provinces have only one official language
"stop whining" coming from you? tabarnak what a hypocrite, you come here only to call us racists without any arguments or reasons, buy yourself a mirror.
some positions are more or less radical, but yes i quite agree on the whole and on the criticism.
ontario is waiting for you my big one ...
suggestion?
pretty sure quebecois speaking consumers are dominant in the province so that will not make much of a difference.
imagine reversing quebecois and allophones in your statement. that would be pretty racist wouldn't it?
now what does that make you?
that might work in mtl, also why did you say allophones instead of anglophones? because the problems regarding french here has little to do wit immigrants and everything to do with the millions of anglophones who have been in mtl for 250 years and never learned french and forced us to work in english. if they didnt exist, immigrants would learn french in addition of their mother tongue, like in france.
the problem is simply that we choose our cultural immigration to a lesser extent than economic one. very easy to have 90% french-speaking immigrants, let's look for more europeans, africans and maghrebians.
you could also, check well it's okay .... make children's tabarnaks.
sorry, i am not a covid frustration. i wear the mask without grumbling and i am vaccinated. correlation between the decline of french and covid: zero, niet, zilch. better luck next time.
i am however able to read a demo-linguistics report which demonstrates by a + b that the measures taken by the caq will have no effect on the decline of french which will continue to increase rapidly if nothing is done. made.
don't you realize the advantage your kids would have over other canadians if they were perfectly bilingual. you guys are so busy ramming french down our throats. that makes people hate it instead of love and appreciate it.
his comment is constructive. i don't see why you are fighting back this way. give the runner a chance.
edit: sacrament, this long thread of personal attacks and insults of all kinds ... take a step back, it's shameful.
naming racism isn't whining babe.
maybe you should buy yourself a mirror and try not to be it anymore instead of playing the victim when you name it. 😆😆
but if it makes you happy, you can tell me that you have an inuk friend to convince me of your legendary racism name 😆
in short, don't you want to come up with ideas to help the french language survive and shine in quebec?
bin coudonc. let's speak english then. if it's easier for you
see the other slightly lengthy answers that i gave to others here 😊
dupuis and frères, pascal are two proofs that it is possible.
if standing up to my canadian rights to be served in english is considered racism, then i'm proud to be a racist
so bill 101 is racist ?? not serving english speaking customers right now is racist? is that what you're telling us?
pcq is already the opposite. so are we racist?
thnx
it is true that for the moment, i see absolutely no link.
what do you think they should have done while being politically realistic?
how have the previous parties of the last generation done better?
hahahah poor coco! don't go read all this 😆 me it makes me laugh but my god i suggest you do something else ahahahahah
what's funny is that for this person. no matter what i said he was going to contradict me pcq i said mbc is racist 😆 once i spit on his idol he can't conceive of agreeing with me on anything .
we are literally in the same camp to protect the french language and he tries to contradict me just to contradict me 😆😆😆
it is all very well to have solutions that he does not like. but the goal is the same.
and that is too difficult for him to see it. pcq i'm the bad guy who names the racism of her darling mbc
whoops
otherwise good day to you! ☺️
blacks are criminals and that's the reason they get shot by the police, i just name the real babe, i advise blacks not to be anymore instead of whining and victimizing.
are you not aware that we are getting it? call me a racist towards non-quebecers i will call you a racist towards quebecers, it's the same as apologies for a lack of knowledge, all your comments are the same you just insult without ever broaching a subject or trying to 'have a debate.
i read your comments and i think you mentioned it in passing, but, essentially, guaranteeing the existence of quebec as a lasting nation requires an increase in the fertility of french-speaking quebecers.
except that's not what you were doing at all. you were advocating that people boycott businesses that speak french. also being served in english in a business is not a "canadian right".
i think most québécois respect and want to preserve the rights of the historical english minority but want newcomers to embrace québécois culture instead of the english-canadian culture which many are choosing. that's it.
the coloniser mentality suits you well. piece of shit.
"wowee, i am just so oppressed over here, living in a country where 70% of its people speak the same language i do, and the other 30% not doing everything we tell them!"
i'm not sure i understand your question.
yes, i consider that it would be racist not to serve a client because he is english speaking, and fortunately that is not what is happening at the moment.
the comment i was responding to said that allophones should boycott quebec businesses. imagine if we said the opposite: that quebecers should boycott the businesses of allophones (therefore immigrants), that would be racist, right? well the reverse is just as much. that was the argument i was making, nothing more.
this is not new, lise payette made a documentary called "disparaître" at the end of the 1980s. she understood very well that the decline in the fertility of couples in quebec was leading to the weakening of the french fact in quebec.
* for 50 years, successive governments have not acted energetically enough to enhance french in quebec.
* the liberal governments have accentuated the problem by increasing the immigration thresholds to around 50 to 55,000 newcomers per year without however worrying about francizing them.
* the governments of the parti québécois tried to slow down this erosion of the french fact by lowering the thresholds (between 13 and 20,000 under rené lévesque and between 23 and 33,000 under lucien bouchard and bernard landry).
now, what to do, i explained it a bit in another answer i gave here: we must completely review immigration policies by retaining the services of demographers and not by making the immigration department a lackey of canadian and quebec employers.
* decrease the number of immigrants according to our reception capacity, which demographers can help us establish
* select only immigrants who already speak french. there are more than 200 million french speakers in the world, the pool is huge. england already asks immigrants to know english before coming to england, the netherlands dutch: it promotes cultural integration and it accelerates their economic integration (finding a job)
* review the funding of quebec health and post-secondary institutions to recalibrate it according to the demographic weight of the francophone majority.
the rest is incidental. for example, put an end to systematic bilingualism in the communications of the government of quebec with individuals and businesses. that's good, but it won't have any effect on the quebec demo-linguistic trend.
well, if i may, not that i defend the constant personal attacks, but it would have been interesting to understand your accusation of racism against mbc, because i'm sure not everyone here sees it. . i can see that you are making efforts in your arguments, but this effort to prove or explain the accusation seems to me just as relevant (maybe not for now, but later on an appropriate thread).
by the way, thank you for your dissent, i have always respected the critics who know how to put reality in the face.
if you think the crimes are related to skin color. yeah you are racist 😆
do you think white people are less violent too? 😆
but if you mean to tell me that innocent people are being killed because of the powertrip policemen who are not trained enough not to be afraid of the civilians. i agree 🥰 we need less stupid police officers
i don't understand her ... shouldn't we be proud because we all lost? anyway anyway ...
seems it's not that hard to find a suitable map of new france
our empire lasted about a before noon. 80% in blue we took a look and we never went back before losing everything.
what?
it depends for whom. i think forcing yourself when you do a meme is a sensitive thing.
here is a very canadian english chronicle where we receive both the flowers and the pot. we will appreciate the reminder of the oh-so-hypocritical scoundrel mordecai richler and his subtle and non-violent ethnic cleansing. the author does not make the obvious link with the fate of french canadians outside quebec, but one should not ask too much.
he is not wrong when he throws a point against pspp. whining and calls for censorship will not bring him any gain. attaran is a crude and vulgar character with fundamentally hateful views. it's candy for us! we must put it forward, debate it in all forums and on all occasions, not playing the victim. can't wait to see him explain himself to tlmep tonight.
the conclusion unfortunately falls flat. repeat after me, [systemic racism] ( ). it becomes tiresome this blind submission to this ethereal concept which if one follows its twisted logic would operate everywhere on earth. moreover, it should be remembered that most of quebec's institutions were not the product of french canadians. this is also colonization, we are subject to british parliamentarism, to british law. it is we who assume the overfunding of institutions erected by and for english canadians who are generally hostile to us. beyond a handful of questionable anecdotes, it will really be necessary to demonstrate that we offer unequal treatment to * racialized * and amerindians, to use the author's words.
ouach
ayoye. it is nonsense
>prof. attaran is not known for his nuanced opinions and his prodigious tweets on a multitude of topics are so obviously over the top that **any reasonable person would ignore them**.
yes, let's move on.
otherwise, he is right on all lines, except the conclusion on systemic racism which i do not agree with. the author highlights the hypocrisy of the political class as well as the pq desperate to receive an ounce of attention.
bin i hope damn chalice!
as an alabamian, i'm not sure how to feel about this.
we do not cram our cousins here .. oops ..
even alabama is okay criss that are cellars
[deleted]
pspp has become in a few weeks a caricature of anti-political correctness. i can't believe that the pq is there.
is this available in english?
on what point?
it is in english.
the article or the comment?
i could help translating if google/reverso's translation isn't accurate.
i started my review with quotes, i just gave up, m3k4nism explains it better than i could have
meant to send it as a reply my b
he rather agrees with him except the conclusion.
pénélope mcquade is like a dusty wallaroo trail bottle that slowly turns sour.
without joke think about it for a second.
pénélope mcquade is paid $ 100,000 + at the very least by taxpayers to play wokerati on the public broadcaster.
i threw up in my mouth.
how many hours of radio a week does the poor thing already do? at one point the subjects lack ... depth. come to think of it, a curved penis and drooping labia majora it's okay to talk about it to prevent discrimination in gyms. people are born the same!
more like an old pabst cacanne forgotten during 2-3 months of summer in the suitcase of an old nissan sentra 93 matt black painted with the cacanne
lol, i take it down the xd one
admit your white privilege!
more or less 10 hours it seems to me. however, one madness never waits for another, it is an inexhaustible source.
ark why my mouth remembers this taste even if i don't remember the exact moment
i identify myself as transrace and omnibigenre.
motion carried unanimously. but hey, this is a boast: ottawa and its judges do not care what the national assembly thinks or adopts democratically as a motion or law. they will undo (indirectly if necessary) the ones they don't like.
i have the impression that we have just changed gears ... bill 21 no longer has any kind of importance, we have just fallen back into a constitutional dispute. the feds had a good time from 1982 to 1995, then from 1995 to today, but i think we have just entered a kind of twilight zone ... if many citizens are aware of the nature of the regime who governs them, the problem may intensify in the years to come ...
excellent motion. i don't see how any of the four main parties could oppose it.
well, finally, the constitutional shit starts again for the happiness of the sovereignists, for the misfortune of the caq which risks the implosion if the debate persists.
chalice we can really do nothing about it, no matter what the people want it will always be in the hands of the damned loyalists, 92 resolutions to bill 21.
it's true.
who exactly voted?
this is exactly what we expected.
i do not think so. judge blanchard took the female dog to go too far and contented himself with crossing out the outline of the law a little without tackling the essential. i do not believe the breach is serious enough to create a constitutional crisis.
> excellent motion. i don't see how any of the four main parties could oppose it.
qs would have found a way to say it is racist.
it is not so much the judgment itself as the probable realization by the people of the real nature of the canadian political system.
how many know that the french version of the constitution does not have the force of law?
that's almost what manon massé said yesterday.
it's quite embarrassing as a tweet.
but they didn't. let us give caesar what is caesar's.
and it comes from a left government (social democrats, which is already the old left here), while here the left would cry out for white supremacism (qs).
scandinavians are definitely one step ahead of everything. the vikings produced noble descendants.
a bit extreme these days but understandable. they clearly advocate ** interculturalism ** and just want to make sure that there is no reinforcement or rise of ** multiculturalism. **
> according to interior minister kaare dybvad bek, too many non-western foreigners in one area 'increases the risk of an emergence of religious and cultural parallel societies,' he said in a statement.
i don't hate their position on refugees that much. we just want to avoid ** cultural shock ** which could give way to an unhealthy ** multiculturalism **. that is to say an exclusive / protectionist ** multiculturalism ** (relatively protectionist foreign families).
>'we have made it clear to the syrian refugees that their residence permit is temporary. it can be withdrawn if protection is no longer needed,' he said, according to the daily telegraph. 
>'we must give people protection for as long as it is needed. but when conditions in the home country improve, a former refugee should return home and re-establish a life there,' he said.
they are clearly very on the right, but they clearly avoid conflicting societal situations in the long term. ** i imagine they are having a lot of difficulty with their integration programs. **
are you ready to post this on r / quebec lol !?
the danes are certainly the least cuckolded social democracy in the whole west. we will remember their response to the refugee crisis in the mediterranean. are you refugees looking for asylum in our beautiful kingdom? alright, [we will free you from the burden of your precious possessions] ( )! strangely, very few of these so-called refugees have chosen denmark as their host country. better for them to cross the cattegat to collect allocs and throw grenades at malmo!
> whereas here the left would cry out for white supremacism (qs).
what a horror, letting minorities mingle with whites! / s
it depends on the point of view. the progressive american would say it is on the far right, the french republican would say it is on the left.
i believe that france serves as a textbook case for the consequences of multiculturalism, even if traditionally the republic first defended intercultural principles. communitarianism pushed to the maximum, that can only generate separatist microstates. the whole world, except canada, is watching this stampede like a tidal wave in a country that was once a model of integration of citizenship, testifying to the failure of liberal globalist policies.
intersectional purity must be preserved! / uqam
after its independence, quebec should offer permanent residence to amir attaran to thank him.
when i was a nationalist, i waited impatiently for a canadian to return to "quebec bashing" in fashion. today i know it will last a few weeks before everyone takes their pill. the separatists do not understand that freedom is not asked for, it is taken by force.
on the other hand, today, i wouldn't want to found a country with people who are terrified of students / drug addicts / low-end escorts / mentally ill / bourgeois whom we call "wokes" and who are disappointingly easy to understand. call to order. instead, people take their hole because they allow themselves to be defined by people with insanity. disappointing.
not to mention the conspirators who hold the absolute truth but who would be unable to name five elements of the periodic table, vaguely explain "the doppler effect" or do basic algebra.
i think he does a jordan petterson but left.
he doubledown on trolling to make a name for himself and he'll sell books and lecture.
the guy is doing it on purpose to make a name for himself and it works.
we should burn him in effigy.
then if you don't want to live in a society built on "knowledge and education", i would ask you to put your phone on your table, leave your residence and go and build yourself a cabin in the forest closest to you. .
i don't want to see you using technology that is less than 60 years old.
i'm not going to stop you from remaining in your ignorance. however. i'll show you what ignorance costs.
> not to mention the conspirators who hold the absolute truth but who would be unable to name five elements of the periodic table, vaguely explain "the doppler effect" or do basic algebra.
what you are referring to, i don't know if there is a name, i call it elitism. the idea is to make the company controlled by the people who have the "knowledge". however, this "knowledge" is built around a system. in short. it is a system that favors those who are part of the elite and disadvantages those who are not. do you really think people are going to just take their fair share? intelligence often comes with the fact that the individual thinks himself more important than the others. in fact, we think of ourselves (in general) more important than others. this is why, no, we should not build society on criteria such as scientific "knowledge". no one has a business forcing me to live one way, because people have "found" the recipe for happiness.
> i wouldn't want to found a country with people who are terrified [...]
yes, i thought similarly before. but nothing is decided yet, there is still hope.
> the separatists do not understand that freedom is not demanded, it is taken by force.
you seem to be totally ignoring the problem with what you just said. i would like to remind you that censorship is increasingly present. i find it very curious, moreover, that after having said that, you speak of the conspirators as if they were ignorant. i too could name pro-measures that are ignorant and stupid. what would that be for me? yet this is what seems to be put forward in our society. division reigns and the government actively prevents us from creating communities.
it's very bad to know the left and jordan peterson in this case.
[burning man!](
in effigy?
did you do your sec.5?
because we learn all this before becoming a graduate. it is the basis of the foundation in science. in addition, if we are a little interested in anything, we can find this whole base on youtube. we just have to want to understand a little what surrounds us.
and yes, the conspirators are ignorant. to believe bullshit and make a link between 5g and covid19, you have to have a hard time writing your own first name. when in fact, 5g radio waves contain more nanometers than 4g.
the thinner a "wave", the more likely it is to tear electrons from the atoms that make up your body. it is the basis of particle physics which is easily accessible in libraries and on the internet.
btw. the government doesn't care about social groups you create as long as you obey the laws.
i'm talking more about the fact that petterson was a teacher and caused a scandal which propelled his popularity.
the guy from uottawa seems to be doing the same thing, i check his twitter and he's a bit of a joke, he's trolling everyone that's obvious.
exact.
petterson began by being chased by a pack on his campus.
attaran looks for trouble on twitter.
2 totally different things. it is like saying of a wolf which hunts a deer that it is 2 animals which hunt.
proof: [ marge(
like make a big straw man disguised as attaran and then light him up. it's a joke, by the way.
then if you don't want to live in a society built on "knowledge and education", i would ask you to put your phone on your table, leave your residence and go and build yourself a cabin in the forest closest to you. .
i don't want to see you using technology that works with a motor.
i'm not going to stop you from remaining in your ignorance. however. i'll show you what ignorance costs.
> btw. the government doesn't care about social groups you create as long as you obey the laws.
are you aware that the police can still enter private property for no reason? families, groups of friends, couples divide. you are quite right, the government does not give a damn about social groups.
> did you do your sec.5?
it doesn't matter. personally, i strongly oppose the education system for a variety of reasons. without going into detail, it contributes to the destruction of our family homes and it is a waste of time, we learn virtually nothing over a long period of time.
> because we learn all this before becoming a graduate. it is the basis of the foundation in science. in addition, if we are a little interested in anything, we can find this whole base on youtube. we just have to want to understand a little what surrounds us.
i thought i read advanced algebra, that's my mistake (it's very basic algebra in high school). indeed it is not much. that being said, it's quickly forgotten if you don't need them and i doubt there is any point in learning them if you don't need them. obviously, i am for people to exercise their mind, this is not a reason for discrediting what they experience straight away.
> and yes, the conspirators are ignorant. to believe bullshit and make a link between 5g and covid19, you have to have a hard time writing your own first name. when in fact, 5g radio waves contain more nanometers than 4g.
this is the kind of conspiracy that the media is promoting. obviously if you stopped at the first scandal put forward by the media, that doesn't make any sense. you have to dig a lot more than that to fully understand. and precisely, the fact that it is so scandalous to talk about 5g, i find that it shows that there is indeed a desire that we simply not talk about it so that it goes unnoticed. besides, i don't know why you base your opinions on people who do not seem the best interlocutors, see the most logical people (they have the right to their opinion, i believe that they follow their instincts and are not not leaders capable of expressing what they are going through in an easy to understand way. it's the same for people who follow measures without understanding why, they have equally valid opinions. we have each had our experience of life with society and experts which lead us to different conclusions). to come back to what i was saying before this big digression, why base opinions on people who do not seem to be good interlocutors? in fact, i believe it is quite true that both those who are for those who are against the measures spend their time looking at the most inconsistent on the other side and that is a problem. when the vaccines are distributed and a large part of the population refuses them, what will happen if so many people start to die? the people who are in favor of the measures will be convinced that it will be the fault of the anti-measures. people who are against the measures will be convinced that it will be the fault of the pro-measures. i'm going in all directions a bit, but to come back to what i was saying at the beginning, we are extremely divided and this could be our downfall. we have to stop just looking at stupidity and unite. we must stop the quarrels between the pro and anti-measures that the media propagate and become aware of what lies ahead. the crisis has most likely increased the number of illegal weapons in circulation. i don't know what the best solution is to rally, but a good way to do it would be to start agreeing that the covid is a danger and that the measures put us in danger.
i agree: statistics have shown that people with a tendency to adopt conspiracy theories are generally less educated - and less fortunate - than the average person.
i have always said it: the gangrene of society is poverty, the real one.
yeah but peterson has never been racist or xenophobic, peterson is a fighter for free speech and against the woke wave.
attaran is an idiot and i find he is being given a lot too much attention. seemed to me that twitter was recognized as a bunch of shit, just ignore it and move on.
i know ... but he's starting to give the taste to do it in real life with his threats of racial war ...
we have the right to say it, we are people "with life experiences"
there is a difference between wanting to live in a society that wants to defend the interests of individuals and a society that above all defends technological advances. i am fully aware that there is something beneficial about the education system. an example: the philippines. given the climate, it is relatively easy for a human to live (in the sense of living on almost nothing). but there isn't really a system in place, there are some people who don't even know they can get pregnant. it is overcrowded and overcrowding does not help make people aware of the issues. instead of educating the young, they collect themselves in crowded cages. the education system should be a basic structure to assist families in the education of their child. it is possibly utopian, for me the important thing is at least to keep education at home. if people find the education system meaningful, so much the better. as long as those who want to do otherwise are respected.
i don't want to see you wasting your time having a family and social connections.
i'm not going to stop you from staying in the idea world. on the other hand, i will show you what intellectuality costs.
once you've invented something, you can't uninvent it. i cannot prevent people from arming themselves intellectually, on the other hand, it must be made clear that intellectuality is not a reason to prevent freedom and dehumanize people.
the measures do not put us in any danger. they protect us. on the other hand, the cuts in education and in mental health gave this predictable result.
education has never brought something bad to humans. so i don't understand your reluctance at all. however. i know all too well how female teachers can abuse power and sexism in boys. but one should not stop at human bullshit to judge a system, because every system is horrible due to selfishness and human judgments.
for "useless knowledge", the problem is that you never explain what you can do with your knowledge. adding a little passion to the classroom clearly wouldn't hurt.
education is a flawed system and there is a lack of a good course on individual personal development in high schools to better understand our own wants and needs. it wouldn't hurt to give these kinds of tools to teens who ask 10,000 questions about them a day.
petterson his fight was for trans or neutral pronoun stuff.
he says interesting things but he has his crack pot side on the bible among other things.
> the measures do not put us in any danger. they protect us. on the other hand, the cuts in education and in mental health gave this predictable result.
... wait a little longer, you will understand. when it does not work, it is the fault of the population, when it does work, it is thanks to the government.
> for "useless knowledge", the problem is that you never explain what you can do with your knowledge. adding a little passion to the classroom clearly wouldn't hurt.
no, i'm not talking about unnecessary knowledge, i'm talking about wasting time. you don't learn much over a long period of time. i speak more to public schools, it is probably less the reality in the private sector.
> education has never brought something bad to humans
propaganda? i have a small example. i don't have a better solution than the current one in the field, on the other hand we can see that there are issues that are beyond knowledge. in agriculture, the techniques that are put forward are popularized by industry giants. there is a conflict of interest. maybe it's the best solution to do what they're doing on such a large scale, maybe we're destroying our land because industries want to keep selling pesticides and fertilizers . i did not study at the bac in agriculture. i opted instead for permaculture which is a field that is still little known. i don't have enough experience yet to say it works, so maybe i'm wrong. on the other hand, when i look at conventional techniques, it doesn't seem to make any sense, we are fighting against nature. and that's not the only area that's like this. maybe it only works on a smaller scale too. another example: veganism. the propaganda is made from the youth to consume animal products. children's books with cows happy to be in a large green space and other aberrations that have nothing to do with the industrial breeding that we know today. obviously, one could say that it is precisely because i educated myself on the subject that i understood the nonsense of all this. do we have the right to wonder who the education system really benefits from? maybe the same is being said, education is important after all, what i really object to is the system.
why silence him? he was the best independence activist we've had since a nasty butt! it is important to remind quebecers of the contempt that assimilated angloids have for us.
out of curiosity, the tweet in question said what?
the enemies of our enemies are our friends
all together against censorship!
nasty 🤣
too bad, i was starting to appreciate him for his frankness.
did you bring it back yourself? lol
unfortunately, i was banned for a long time from his page ... i wrote to him that his tweets were vomit, it was not that bad :)
silence him? it's not banned, it's an old tweet that has been forcibly removed. but it is certain to stir up the mardé.
good question, i don't remember. probably one of those where he says quebeckers are fundamentally inferior.
yeah, i've always been of the opinion that people should fall victim to the stupid rules they're promoting.
it's not racist, being from quebec is not a race !!! / s
an excellent philosophy
if quebecers knew a little about quebec's history, we would have been independent for a long time.
my grandfather actually told that dude not to go.
fuck. i meant. crisse. i meant that weird fucked up story about the guy in the trunk.
sorry. move along. this comment ain't important. lol
damn that i cringe every time i see the name we gave to the event. chalice that google would have been helpful lol.
didn't christian tell tlmep that nothing happened?
i do not remember anymore.
i have bigger ambitions. to francize canada as a whole. i'm a french supremacist.
pierre laporte?
has he spoken to pierre laporte?
yes
yes
damn ( ͡° ͜ʖ ͡°)
🏴󠁣󠁡󠁱󠁣󠁿
as you can see, the supposed "quebec flag" is not supported on your internet access.
le supposé "tag sequence combining 🏴 black flag, 󠁣 tag latin small letter c, 󠁡 tag latin small letter a, 󠁱 tag latin small letter q, 󠁣 tag latin small letter c and 󠁿 cancel tag"  ne donne pas un drapeau du québec.
and have a look in the keyboard, your choice does not include a quebec keyboard and dictionary separate from the french one in france.
"however, individual vendors do not support every available flag on their platforms (because there are 5,000+ sub-regional flags), which is why not all appear on device keyboards."
so this is another essential step to be a country, to have our flag emoji supported in our computers.
i suggest that we ban any operating system that does not include the quebec flag emoji from 2050!
[deleted]
i eat my roast pork.
if it's a joke, it's not funny.
if that's no joke, the current setup looks great on me and i couldn't give a better fuck.
we are supposed to use the french-canada configuration that exists, not miltilingual canadian which is an aberration
i'm talking about on-screen keyboards as we have in our phones, not physical keyboard. this keyboard always includes an autocorrect dictionary and this is where the quebecois distinction is important.
this configuration is totally atrocious. use french - canada instead.
where is the "ù" on the keyboard of win10? what i found best is the french keyboard (canada) but it doesn't have the "ù" ... in fact it and the cms do it with alt gr on the visual keyboard but not the real keyboard ...
i wish you a delicious meal! cheers !!
me i warmed up [leftover pot roast] ( miam!
i'm fed up with being autocorrect with a french dictionary from france and i don't see why we don't have our own flag emoji.
texas has its flag emoji 🇨🇱 🇨🇱 🇨🇱 🇨🇱 🇨🇱 🇨🇱 so why not us?
[deleted]
linux...
[deleted]
on the french (canada) keyboard the ù is in the same place as the è and the à. you do the grave accent key, followed by the letter you want to have.
it's not texas but chile
real quebec words and turn of phrase (that the french of france will not want in their autocorrect) like
achaler
within
champlure
char
foufoune
frencher
frette
kid
whistling
and many other joual words that we never write but say.
i am also on linux and this configuration is available.
thank you. i will try this.
ah well damn business
i was talking about the emoji, on linux it is possible to change the font and insert it without creating new custom configuration files, and under openmoji there is the quebec flag inserted in the unicode under open source, it is even better than on other operating systems like microsoft, apple also offers compatibility with open moji.
🏴󠁧󠁢󠁳󠁣󠁴󠁿🏴󠁧󠁢󠁷󠁬󠁳󠁿🏴󠁧󠁢󠁥󠁮󠁧󠁿 <-------- if that can reassure you scotland, wales and england have their flag and are not recognized countries. 🇬🇧 <------ the country is united kingdom.
i'm going to get stuck in the flowers on the carpet, but scotland, wales and england are countries, the uk is a sovereign state
no, they are english "countries", not official countries recognized by international organizations. they have less power than the canadian provinces.
"countries" or pays, it's the same thing. some sovereign states are made up of several countries (eg the united kingdom and the kingdom of the netherlands). whether the constituent countries of a state have more or less power than the canadian provinces is irrelevant. at that point, it's domestic politics. we could even go so far as to say that quebec is already a country, it is made up of a nation and has a government. on the other hand, it is not a sovereign state.
what is recognized by international organizations are sovereign states, not countries.
afterwards, for many people the distinction between country and sovereign state is non-existent.
a "countries" in international english and a "countries" as a political term used by the united kingdom are not the same thing. the word "countries" simply means the name of the different separations, they could have used the word "province" or "states" it would have done the same thing. it is not a country for all that (in the usual sense of the word) neither in english, nor in french. it is rather a question of toponymy and tradition. (same thing in the netherlands with the "land" in dutch). an interesting word that i have found to refer to such a subdivision is "constituent country", the word country not being sufficient to describe the situation precisely. also the un and international organizations do not distinguish between a "country" and a "sovereign state".
silent when afghanistan is reconquered by the taliban, it is again 1 month later against the * patriarchy * for another international subject.
the archetype of the western white feminist is quite a specimen.
astonishing coming from a matriarchal society
it makes me laugh at the ecologists who believe that a world without ghg emissions would look like a big open-air hippie town ... feminists will be very happy to have strong men to help them ...
see if they are unable to snag their tampon in the pacific ocean.
is the patriarchy in the room with us right now?
is it in france or quebec? because if it is in quebec, they should be reminded that quebec society is generally and predominantly matriarchal. anyway, what has that to do with the fact that the planet is warming up?
and yet the afghans' carbon footprint is exemplary. especially since being all in black discourages overconsumption, so it is nothing to understand.
the real problem is overpopulation. the poor have only to stop having children if they do not have the financial means to raise them. the same for idiots so that we stop making adhd children with memory problems. in this way, we would be able to live as in the year 2000 with only 500 million people on earth. otherwise, all 8 billion humans should live as in the middle ages, so resources will become scarce. but no, having children is a very strong animal instinct for humans to use pseudo-morals as an excuse not to admit that they are idiots. worse yet, the slightest thing that an elite dares to use their authority to force people to do smart fakes against their will like one does with children, not only does it turn into a civil war like it's about to happen. with covid-19, but the elites will be corrupted by power and become nazi. the only solution for me is that we create fallout superbunkers with lots of working humans, plant seeds and animal embryos preserved in criogenization to repopulate the earth as well as all the intellectual knowledge and worth the entertainment in underground internet servers. in this way, if we ever manage to reason with ordinary people, at least part of the population and of civilization will protect themselves and hide while the rest of the world is screwing their heads. we wait for the foolish to self-regulate in a catastrophic way then we repopulate a little. well we risk having to start again every 1000 years, but it is the price tag to survive when we do not evolve the brain. it feels so good to let go of everything i have on my heart without risking being blinded to everyone and nothing. on twitter it was impossible. thank you so much. bye.
on r / quebec, the last time i said that we should go back to pre 1950-60 consumption levels, they negotiated with me and gave me a list of green communities in quebec if i really wanted to live ecologically. well, yes, because sustainability is living in isolation with proto-marxists, in a communal hut that sinks when it rains and a community that borders on sect and is dying of venereal disease because it practices free love.
i never understood why no one thinks of [these images] ( )&d when we talk about a world without ghg emissions. the west is truly disconnected.
i realized late in life that "patriarchy" is the name feminists give to world-eating capitalism, to the english regime and to the white world of the west. i think here they are aimed at blaming "man" in its universal sense, which includes woman, who is capable of so much stupidity.
we can only criticize the world with the tools we have. the diagnosis may not be exact, but they are not the only ones to point to the same ailment.
if we classify countries from the most patriarchal to the least patriarchal and we look at the per capita ghg emissions i am willing to bet that the correlation will go in the direction that more patriarchy = less ghg emissions. it's simple, most poor countries are rather patriarchal compared to
in the west and emit less ghgs, say with the notable exception of the gulf monarchies. so, assuming the two variables are related (which they don't, but these idiots seem to believe) then it would take more patriarchy to fight global warming.
if i understand correctly, it is the annual march against global warming in quebec. it's a pretty popular walk and people take the opportunity to talk about causes unrelated or winding to do with climate change.
i don't quite understand what the purpose of this march is, the government is not just tolerating it, they are letting them organize things. what are the words? blame it all on the government and the institutions.
i am of the opinion that walks like this should be there for networking, otherwise it is completely unnecessary. gather thousands of people, why not take the opportunity to talk about a solution ... like these young ladies who have found the solution to all their problems it seems ...
it was up to the climate in montreal. wokes aren't going to reason, they don't care. they use these causes to exercise their totalitarianism which stems from an internal rage projected by hypersensitivity or personal psychic disorders. they pass the motif rationally, but the source does indeed come from an unfulfilled irrational need. according to freudian qualifiers, we can qualify them as real neurotics.
it costs less for the heating ... you squeal outside in your black tempo shelter in the sun and you could fret.
well, it's hard to give an exact year that you would have to go back to to be really sustainable, because in reality the situation is completely different. we have sustainable electricity, even in the 1950s and 1960s we consumed a lot of hydrocarbons and we would eventually have to reduce that to zero (which will inevitably happen one day given that the resource is not infinite). autarky communities are fine, but i don't think they're communities that can survive in a context of general collapse where there will be a lot of predation. in short, it's complicated.
if there is anything constant about green speech (and others too), it's this:
* if someone somewhere can live simply, then it is possible for millions of people other than me. *
it's a classic. to paraphrase the other: * ideologues are very generous with other people's money but little with theirs *.
yes, horses make dung, but it's already better than 250 cars per minute on the décarie highway. listen, with the resources we have there, either we consume everything for our little comfort until the planet becomes unlivable, or we make sacrifices. no more buying a plasma tv a year, and having goddamn cars everywhere. no more building dirty condos or dirty outlets in every little corner of the forest. in the spring, we eat radishes.
but nobody wants to do that so we're just going to hope that one of the foolish parties in ottawa, indebted to the polluting big money, have a magic solution and not think about it or repeat tatas slogans until it be 35 ° c in january.
yes they are very good at establishing newspeak.
environmentalists, through their intersectional obsession, are killing the weather in this individual cult of * i-me-me, * with labels visible all the way around.
we have always known that.
the federal government has used the dirtiest maneuvers and has never hesitated, and still never hesitates, to sabotage quebec at every opportunity that presents itself to slow down our emancipation.
ottawa is a hostile regime that sees us as a vassal or a colony. it always was and it is today.
quebecers would do well to open their eyes for good.
my biggest surprise in this news is how surprised no one is. we all know it, even the federalists barely deny it lip service.
we have always known that.
it's time to change the name of the airport.
"we see it with the employers' right, which brings out the worn-out propaganda of the labor shortage, which in fact responds to a desire for cheap labor."
hello caq 👋
the concern is that quebec does not arrange immigration for francophones. many francophones who have been working and living in quebec for several years encounter stupid delays in obtaining residency: when you add provincial and federal, you end up with more than 24 months of delays (compared to 6-8 months everywhere else in canada).
i know a lot of french people who have been discouraged by these delays because when you are waiting for your residence, you often find yourself stranded without a permit. the problem is with immigration canada but quebec is aware and the two are passing the buck.
another example: everywhere in canada you have access to an open work permit while waiting for your permanent residence, except in quebec where you only have access to a closed work permit. it means that if you ever lose your job (like during covid for example), you no longer have legal status.
it also affects francophones who have studied and have quebec diplomas. i find it sad especially when we see that the francophonie is declining in canada.
bock-côté is really the nationalist columnist who has the most balls in quebec (after acd: noel :). migratory drowning, no one dares to utter these words in 2021. thank you for doing so.
i like multiculturalism and i'm tired of being told it's a problem when you already have 300 more urgent problems, fuck your nationalism tsi
tabarnack that he is offline.
he is afraid of a demographic drowning in 2100, when at that time the greatest risk to our people will be climate change.
if he's so scared of strangers, someone should talk to him about climate refugees. :)
"migratory drowning", to avoid the reality: the low birth rate is the problem. let's move on to 0 immigrants forever, the quebec people will become smaller and smaller in number and more and more marginalized as well.
i would even go further: let's do sovereignty while constantly decreasing in population, and the two neighbors will just have to ignore us as much as possible - minus hydroelectricity and river trade - to quietly suffocate us.
but as it would be frowned upon to play the parish priest in 2021 and to tell people "make children to save your people", well instead, let's tap on the immigrants: it is useless to improve the situation in quebec, but like they can't defend themselves too much, it's fun!
you must love toronto and amir attaran.
yes! long live multiculturalism.
because y is a problem, x is not.
no, not convinced.
in 2036, not 2100. what he deplores (perhaps awkwardly?) is the loss of political power and the definitive sociological split of quebec in two.
your * non sequitur * is not very useful.
a people can have several problems at the same time. it's also dishonest to think that climate refugees will affect us as if we were in europe. people cannot cross an ocean like they do in the mediterranean sea. also, i do not see why people are led to say that the world is afraid of immigrants. it's just a simple question of demographics. if you care about your language and your culture, you have to take an adequate number of immigrants to ensure successful integration which will ensure social peace and ensure the sustainability of our collective identity. quebec is not a country, french is retreating rapidly, we have to stop making ourselves believe that we can accommodate an infinite number of people. it is necessary to accommodate a precise number of them (it should not even be a political subject as long as me). also, seeing immigration as a no machine and as a gdp is so disgusting for everyone. in short, anyway the best countries in the world are those with a small number in terms of population. personally, i look at the social situation in countries with more than 50 million people and i want to shoot myself. a small, diverse country is the best!
you're not wrong, but neither is he. it goes without saying that within 100 years, our little problems of the people that we are discussing will be trivial. there is a plethora of issues ahead which do not detract from the faculty of questioning herself about other aspects of life, and believe it or not, the aspirations of nationalists, at least i like to believe it. are also the preservation of order, that is to say maximizing wealth to better cope with climate change (poverty = decrease = low technological development = consumption of polluting raw materials). when i observe toronto, if that's what awaits us in the future, a city not polluted with garbage but with human garbage who have no respect for throwing out the leftovers of their big mac trio, each fighting for his piece of individual, and that proves that societal cohesion in quebec has added value to the ecological issue. this is a crude example, but certainly no cruder than putting an existential problem in juxtaposition with a problem of another order.
why are you booing him? he is right.
there are reasons behind these demographic shifts. moping about it will never change anything. it is necessary to determine the causes and act in consequence. moreover, global warming will exacerbate the problem even more.
caliss that cellar again hahahaha. are you a neoliberal bock-côté too?
i don't want to piss off, but speaking of disconnection, quebec and canada will be among [the only states that will benefit from climate change] ( one day will have to come back from it, it will not be exactly negative to become the breadbasket of the whole world.
starting off, i'm really not convinced that problem x exists, and if it does, you have to turn it into a force to be able to fix problem y.
ho scuse for the date mix, i have not read to the end. i have a lot of trouble with the big replacement plot.
simply forget about south america, the united states and the internal refugees from canada itself.
i completely agree that we must welcome the appropriate number of immigrants according to our capacity for integration and regionalize the so-called immigration.
ahahahaha of course not.
haven't you digested our last discussion yet?
traditionally, countries that are not military superpowers and have the resources do not tend to have a happy history.
economics currently have no method for analyzing this research object in an objective and ex-ante manner.
here is precisely the method of this sources:
1. ***estimates of how gdp growth rates respond to temperature.*** determining this response is one of the main exercises in our paper. as described in the paper, we use a half century of historical data for more than 150 countries to arrive at this estimate.  
2. ***estimates of future temperature change.*** here we rely on estimates from the ipcc cmip5, taking the median projection across all climate models that report temperature change from the [rcp8.5 emissions trajectory]( which is a high emissions scenario (the climate model data we use are [here](  
3. ***estimates of future change in population and gdp/capita absent climate change.*** here we rely on estimates from the ["shared socioeconomic pathways"]( (ssps), and utilize the two ssps (ssp3 and ssp5) that are believed consistent with the chosen emissions trajectory.
we cannot foolishly project temperature forecasts, and project the impact on gdp based on past correlations between temperature and gdp growth. it is a partial and completely top-down method, which leaves aside the bottom-up analysis to identify vulnerabilities and adaptive capacity, as well as all indirect systemic impacts. there is no geopolitical analysis, no ecosystem analysis in their method.
that's a good, constructive way to look at it.
who is talking about big replacement? the "two pieces" from quebec would each contain "de stock". it has absolutely nothing to do with ethnicity.
honestly, the mainland refugees are said to come mostly from central america. south americans are an increasingly richer continent and have a mass of land to redevelop it, the united states too. climate refugees will never be a huge problem in canada. especially since we control our borders (i hope all the same that we will not close the door to them tho, but we have the power to do so). i really believe that you are exaggerating canada's responsibility towards climate refugees, due to its geographic location. it will never be a big problem like in europe for example! especially with africa which continues to grow in population but where desertification is increasing just as much. in short, it's true that it can be a problem, but to say that it's the biggest problem is a bit of an exaggeration! climate change on the other hand is a big problem here too!
digested, are you serious? you have demonstrated to me beyond a reasonable doubt your absolute lack of critical thinking about marxist vocabulary in political discourse on the pretext that a poorly written web page awkwardly defines the neo-marxist concept in question. the welfare state is not in the order of things, and when these slightly idiotic ideas were deconstructed in the 1980s, neo-marxists passed it off as a famous ideology that no one claims to be (otherwise who?): neoliberalism. it was simply the end of ineffective welfare state policies. there is no ideology in there, only a rejection of a model that has messed up. i maintain all that: neoliberalism does not exist. this concept has no ideologues, no prescriptions (if not the rejection of certain prescriptions) or history. it is a term invented from scratch to categorize the rejection of a socialist model. it's still brilliant, come to think of it. but it still doesn't exist. ditto for "capitalism" at one time. there is no capitalism.
it's always relative, you will tell the saudis about it: p the idea is above all not to bite the hand that feeds us ie that guarantees our independence.
"fear of immigrants" is careful not to be dishonest, it is just boring.
this is a demographic question, if the immigranta were all conservative in alabama it would be the leftists who would be criticizing immigration en masse.
we live in "democracy" immigrants also vote and it has already cost us a referendum so i think we have every right to criticize this systemic drowning.
but again, can you detail the methodological inadmissibility? because if it is accepted that the study is based on the data of the last fifty years for 150 countries, on a high emission scenario and on the same demographic projections as those used by the ipcc, it is where the problem? otherwise, you are free to present these famous * bottom-up * studies which predict catastrophic consequences for quebec.
fruit salads of tasteless and indigestible expressions are fine, but you have to stay in the real world. at the last news, the hardiness of the climate is a penalty, a brake on life, period. on the contrary, a mild climate favors the development of human societies, which explains their concentration in tropical and temperate bands. so instead of poisoning the well by shitting on the ipcc among other things, we will really have to demonstrate that the northern advance of the temperate zone in quebec will be harmful to us.
there, i can already hear you chatting about your famous climate refugees, but i'll stop you right away. it is not written in the sky that the northern states must be the spillway of the third world.
"if quebec is undergoing massive immigration, is it still quebec?"
it is big modo the speech he holds in this column.
i'm not saying climate refugees are the biggest problem, i'm saying climate change is the biggest problem, and climate refugees are a component of this problem.
canada has no concrete responsibility, and seeks not to recognize the principle of climate refugee, like all other developed countries elsewhere. either way, climate refugees will undoubtedly seek to migrate north. it is already underway in central america.
the web page in question is a glossary of the department of applied political studies of the university of sherbrooke which popularizes concepts. it was a start of conversation before getting into scientific papers and doctoral theses, but your lack of good faith kept us from getting there.
whether you like it or not, neoliberalism is a concept in political science, it exists and materializes in different ways in quebec and elsewhere. obviously the term is overused, like many others, but that does not change its polysemous scientific meaning and its existence.
clearly, you bend words and events according to your own subjective understanding of reality, and dismiss scientific literature out of hand because it doesn't fit your ideological narrative. so we will come back for your criticisms on my critical sense, you simply insulted me repeatedly rather than arguing in a rational and structured way.
neoliberalism is probably one of the greatest blockages of quebec sovereignty, and you, you completely miss it and you prefer to veil your eyes, cover your pillows and cry out to marxism and propaganda. do you realize that your secular opinion goes against scientific literature, political science programs and quite a few political scientists? i'm not the only political scientist who understands that neoliberalism exists ...
the saudis have the american equipment and the promise of their armed support in the event of conflict. so much so that they even had the free field for yemen, which was nevertheless a clear humanitarian cause. this is an example that validates my point: the saudis know very well to whom they owe their peace.
i agree to congratulate myself on what benefits quebec, that's for sure. but it is absolute nonsense to think that 38 million canadians will be able to have without interference something that the whole world covets. the russian position in the far north is clear, and we all know that we have no more russian submarines in our waters thanks to the norad. the day the neighbor to the south picks up, things will go badly.
i say that, i don't expect to see an invasion of the territory in 20 years. but, a warming like that anticipated with a billion climate refugees in the world, that can cause many wars, many crises, many reversals of the situation. another trump-like in the south during a crisis like this and who knows how far things might change? once again, my point is not to go on with my life fearing what might happen, just to say that it's part of the general picture. you can't just say to yourself "hey, we have 90% of the world's drinking water" without looking at it from a geopolitical perspective.
from what i understand, he shares more or less the same point of view on immigration as mine; take ownership of immigration by focusing on national hiring programs in the regions.
this is a false debate, we are talking about the same thing in a different form.
"money gets ethnic votes!"
good luck convincing the ethnic vote to vote yes, with this defeatist speech that lacks vision.
i will rephrase my methodological criticism, then.
one cannot rely on non-causal correlations between past short-term temperatures and gdp growth to extrapolate this non-causal relationship and predict future gdp growth based on projected temperatures.
climate change is not just an increase in temperatures. it is also an increase in the intensity and frequency of extreme weather events, changes in precipitation, changes in seasonal cycles, increases in extreme heat and drought, a rise in sea level, and destructive impacts on ecosystems, which jeopardize ecosystem services.
for example, a simple temperature / gdp correlation projection does not take into account extremes, such as a cross drought at an extreme temperature that could destroy part of the agricultural crops. that does not take into account the decrease in productivity of sectors based on the exploitation of natural resources. it does not take into account the financial damage caused by damaged infrastructure and disasters such as floods, tornadoes and forest fires.
top-down analyzes must take into account a variety of climatic variables, not just temperature. then we have to triangulate with participatory bottom-up studies to identify the vulnerabilities intrinsic to our human systems, which usually depend on the geopolitical context.
(by the way, i'm paraphrasing the ipcc right now)
unfortunately, i can't quote you bottom-up studies about quebec, we don't have any ... we are at the very beginning of climate adaptation. our scientific knowledge is very limited, both in terms of forecasts and the implementation of adaptation.
i am personally convinced that quebec occupies one of the best geopolitical positions in a context of climate change, and that if we play our cards well, this could be our golden age. however, it's a lot more complex than simply correlating temperatures to gdp.
if there is massive immigration (add 60m people roughly), what does that imply politically for the french-speaking nation of america?
he makes a distinction between the container and the content. the disagreement is legitimate, but so is its questioning.
mass immigration = unreasonable integration thresholds.
the great replacement, from what i understood, is above all a theory that puts forward ethnicity and racial balance before integration even if successful (eg: the defenders of this theory exclude blacks or completely assimilated asians).
aaaah ok yes i saw it wrong! and yes it is true that the developed countries at the un object to retaining the term climate refugee in order to disempower themselves (knowing that the g20 countries contribute 80% of the greenhouse effects ...) but precisely in short it will not be a big problem for canada indeed.
first: you are not a political scientist. you may have a background in political science, but you clearly never wrote anything academic. it's an obvious diagnosis. stop these lies.
second, the existence of a concept does not mean that the said concept has a meaning and that it can be assimilated to a real trend. you never answered me: who are the ideologues of neoliberalism? friedman? hayek? they certainly never claimed to be. neoliberalism, i repeat (you sound hard to understand): means nothing other than the rejection of the welfare state. it is not an ideology, but an ideological term to qualify the rejection of an ideology. there are no "neoliberals", only people who reject the model that characterized the effervescence of previous years. these famous "neoliberals" actually come from many completely different ideologies which have in common only their lucidity in relation to the ineffectiveness of certain policies.
scientific literature is an evolutionary and divisive fact. when you write referee reports, for example, you criticize the ideas set out in an article. the fact that a few articles exist on a subject does not mean their full acceptance by peers and the end of the debate on their relevance. and when you say things like "scientific literature", rather than "academic literature", you clearly demonstrate that you know absolutely nothing about it. i didn't just insult you, i also explained my reasoning to you, but you probably over-analyzed the insults (stylistic effect) rather than trying to understand what i'm saying.
you have the mediocre student syndrome who regurgitates a bit of anything without the slightest critical sense. your authoritative argument on "the opinion of scientific literature and political science programs" is ridiculous without a name. symptom of someone who has never had to think deeply about an academic subject. afterwards, it calls itself a political scientist. a good joke.
prof. tab arnak,
department of critical sense,
free internet university.
ah, but precisely, the saudis are two of the peak of the world class in terms of armed forces. despite the 9th military budget on the planet, they are breaking their mouths against yemen! it is only the american umbrella that prevents iran from marching on riyadh.
we will have to continue playing our game, that of the americans. otherwise, it is sure that if we position ourselves as an unconventional northern cuba, we should not be surprised to benefit from a change of regime.
legault tried and trudeau said no.
before parizeau's speech 85% of immigrants voted no, after the speech 85% will always vote no.
you don't seem to understand what "ethnic votes" means. it does not mean "the vote of ethnic individuals". ethnic voting is a community phenomenon, ie, people of the same community who isolate themselves from society vote en bloc for the same option, suggested more often than not by the religious gurus of said communities. it is a misunderstanding of parizeau's statement that unfairly and awkwardly tarnishes his image. parizeau referred to the fact that the jewish congress had recommended voting no and that over 99% of voters in the jewish ghettos had voted no. likewise for other communities.
parizeau did not say "the vote of ethnic people", but "ethnic votes". it is the act of voting according to one's ethnicity for what is recommended by one's community. one of the many problems of ethnic communalism and more broadly of multiculturalism.
this is important to understand before criticizing a scarecrow.
ah, but it is that it changes completely! we went from "the greatest risk for our people will be climate change" to "quebec occupies one of the best geopolitical positions in a context of climate change" and "this could be our golden age"? plug in friend: p
it depends on who makes up this immigration. for the moment, in quebec, we are mostly talking about francophones who are more educated and more qualified than native speakers.
with a good integration system and a regionalization of immigration, i would say that it is a demographic force.
his questioning is legitimate, the problem i have with him in particular is that his columns are not questioning. he is deliberately seeking to ignite the powder and radicalize our xenophobic nationalists.
we'll talk about it again in a few years / decades;)
ahahahaha you don't know me, you don't know my academic and professional background, so beware. do you often diagnose anything based on reddit comments? i hope not, that would be fundamentally biased. whatever to see you go, i wouldn't be surprised.
you are speaking out clearly about something that you are unlikely to know, and you would much rather insult than argue or even discuss in good faith. if you're not even screwed to understand that scientific literature is an adequate term, we start screeching far. at least you are starting to understand that the concept exists in the scientific literature.
you may have explained your reasoning to me, it is only your personal reasoning and this reasoning is verbalized in an insulting manner, which demonstrates beyond any doubt the deep lack of objectivity that gnaws at you.
it's not even worth arguing with you anymore, you show me all the time that you'd rather shit than discuss, and you love hitting others too much to get you up. do you really think i'm going to board your boat with your dumb attitude and source my words while you write a 5 word insult, insulting myself and denigrating concepts and ideologies that you don't like.
stop projecting the evil that gnaw at your being on others.
anyway, here are some other nice sources to take the "discussion" to another level.
don't these authors also know what they are talking about?
irony, irony, the military weakness of the saudis is well documented: too many relatives of the crown in key positions and a tribal prioritization for officer positions. suddenly, leadership is recognized as downright incompetent and that defeats everything else. if the saudis agree to take the risk of an "independent" army one day, the picture will change.
do not forget the files such as lumber for example. with "ordinary" conservative administrations canada was being treated like a kid to watch as soon as it suited their needs. with trump, we must recognize that justin has led his boat really well compared to other "partners" of donald.
still now realism, what kindness of soul would the american neighbor have for an independent quebec? we know the answer (in 1995 clinton favored canada despite a yes victory without officially taking part before the referendum).
it didn't happen.
wow well played young people.
it reassures me to see that the next generation is here.
desmarais: the biggest happy cuckold that quebec has ever known. all his life he wanted to join the baystreet businessmen club, all his life they refused him his rightful place because he was a dirty frog, but despite that he remained faithful to them until the end. he was always there to save canada in quebec, but without this loyalty being rewarded by management positions in prestigious companies to which he aspired (the cp, argus, etc.). (suggested reading "behind the state of the marshes: power" by robin philpot.)
in short, trudeau the traitor, and desmarais the happy cuckold. the two make a pair. the worst enemies of quebec, tragically, are its own sons who devote themselves to the interests of the english.
french version of the article posted earlier.
we already knew it, but trudeau senior is a traitor to the quebec nation. and his son is not much better.
declassified by the americans.
in canada, we probably never would have known in 100 years.
what a bunch of rotten traitors.
lol nasty filthy ... not that i doubted it until now
a trash.
well, say so, this is as interesting as it is predictable! pierre eliott trudeau, the same guy who set up terrorist cells under false quebec flag wanted to deliberately sabotage our economy. who would have believed it?
with a little luck, other foreign diplomatic telegrams of the kind concerning the referendum of 1980, repatriation see 1995 will be declassified in the future.
desmarais does not care about baystreet, he is in much bigger leagues. he does the dirty work of the globalists with his trudeau puppet family.
ctrl+f
so much for the right to self-determination of peoples. it's revolting.
it is literally betrayal. can you imagine how people would react if the leader of a state got caught telling business leaders to leave the country and sabotage the economy? but when canada does it in quebec we are supposed to see it as something bad but expected. normal.
justin is terrible, but does not fit into his father's category, far from it. i think pet is tough to beat on this side.
i'm talking about the father, not the son. (neither of the holy spirit)
it remains to be seen which french. normal french or french "they go to the dancers to see balls."
a few months ago, germany and italy asked for exactly that. we can see that europe is finally waking up and inventing itself.
why not? wasn't there a time when french was the language of european monarchies?
a very good news. french is the language of the future.
this is a purely symbolic change as english will remain the spoken language of the eu behind the scenes.
because of brexit?
hahaha
it may be that this measure aims to flatter the french in the direction of the hair. there are a lot of euro-separatist movements in france, but from there to knowing if it is more important than elsewhere, i could not say.
those days are over. france lost the hegemonic war during the fall of the french empire. england has won the long battle against its long-standing enemy.
not necessarily, if the official documents are in french and an english version has no legal value, obviously people will discuss in french.
to be continued...
yes. as usual, there were about 40 people around the table but because only one of them was english speaking, everyone had to speak english.
there is also a spirit of revenge following brexit.
we are talking about dynamic systems, not something irreversible. it is quite possible that the next century will see french come back in force, who knows. what is certain is that defeatism does not lead to victory ...
no one learns a language overnight. english already occupies this function not only in the world but in europe as well. it is the first commonly accepted "universal" language. everything can still change, but to see eu officials all switch to french in a snap, it's not about to happen.
neither denial
yes, but french is widely spoken and respected in europe, it's not like this.
of course, but if 80% of european representatives already speak french, i doubt that poses a practical problem. europe is not canada after all!
not false
i have no doubt, but hearing a summit where all the leaders speak french, i do not believe that it will happen soon
there is no real chance that such an event will occur outside of europe. pity...
there's the oif.
so refreshing!
* praise the lord *, mme murielle chatelier.
it's so reductive to reduce individuals to general categories. racialism is the return to the segregationist temptation, it goes against the wishes of the greatest anti-racialist democrats, martin luther king jr. and nelson mandela.
based and pillaged quebec
it's interesting how the country is the only province in canada that bans hijabs for teachers ...
i'm caucasian, white and "blue" skin (tattoos) and that doesn't define me at all ...
i'm straight and that doesn't define me in any way ...
i am a man and that does not define me in any way ...
i am french by birth with gallic origins and that does not define me in any way ...
political and religious level, i am "ecumenical" and that does not define me in any way ...
to spare you an exhaustive list, i follow many other things like all of us and it is all of these things that hardly allow us to qualify and often like a photograph of an epiphenomenon at a moment t in our journey of life.
the reduction of being to one of our composite differences leads to an impoverishment of our vision of ourselves and of society and negatively impacts our relationships with others.
divide to rule better, the fragmentation of differences through a manipulated artificial communitarianism only serves the purposes of those who have an interest in destroying the human social fabric.
we are mosaics forming other mosaics.
do not fall into the trap of the "bar code" that we want to impose on you ...
and voila, congratulations to this professor and his balls of steel. a faculty member slamming the door spanks quite a bit more than anything that can come out of pspp's mouth!
this professor is an interesting reminder that even more than 6 months later, another flagship professor of "feminism" with rostrum has still not commented on this case which can be considered to be a young male who took the lead. skin of a woman. victim sharing his field of university education in addition.
the grandma of the npcs, there is some truth to this.
"yes but a court official said 'nigger' in an academic context without using it as an insult or denigration that it is okay to despise an entire people."
~ the thick ones
word of wise man
i love québec and it is my home. i've lived in vancouver and alberta and spent a lot of time in other provinces and i love coming home everytime. 
i'm half french and half scottish and i will always call québec home. the people are amazing and the cultures diverse. plus we have the best food i've ever eaten in all my travels. long live québec and may it prosper for ages to come.
me i find it is more paradise for the same reason.
it's not his comment that bothers me, but the 125 i like and the 43 i like that come with it.
ouache, youtube comments ...
take the comments and post on r / canada. i'm down
manitoba used to be majority french. not anymore
criss d'angloïde, which he describes in ontario if yé not happy.
is he wrong tho
this is quebec lol
quebec and scotland brother nations by virtue of being under the yoke of anglo-saxon domination.
you probably mean foreign, mostly european cuisine we have here. because québécois diet is trash
rich kids de westmount salty
i send you the facebook comments
yup. it is not a basic "hellhole", worse the majority of the problem comes from the fact that there are anglos (minority, cmm you i guess) who stubbornly never speak french, a few qebz who stubbornly also just speak english for fot in with anglos and quebz (minority) who bash on anglos who try to speak french because of their accent. i don't know which group you're part of but you're part of the problem
c'mon. remove your comment from myonc '.
quebec, and the rest of the rest of canada as have a lot of perk even if im born french learning english was a must to me since  a lot of my of my friend are english and they try has mutch  to talk to me in french while i try as much to answer in english. their shouldnt be any discrimination on what language you use. mes calice soyez plus ouvert d'esprit  une langue, une couleur de peau ou nimporte quel difference devrais pas vous permettre de juger quelqu'un. please quebecer try to open your gawdemn mind
from a french-canadian :)
yeah i'm not talking about poutine, i don't consider that food lol. the diverse population gives us diverse food choices from all over the world and of all over canada i find the food from quebec is the best overall. i'm sure the are great places to eat anywhere if you search enough but we are overwhelmed with amazing cuisine in québec.
tourtière ? cheese ?
i was born and raised in quebec my parents immigrated from portugal so my first language was portuguese then english and french i don’t judge anyone but sometimes the older generation of french quebecers are just asshole.. the newer generations are learning more english i remember working with a coworker on the road he immigrated from yemen he only spoke english but learned how to say bonjour, sa va bien, bonne journée, merci and of course tabarnak we finished with the client and he asked the client to a signature in english the guy looked at him and said your in quebec you need to speak french over here... automatically i lost it and told the guy off in french stating that what ever fucking language he spoke what does it matter the job is done and it’s done well sign my bill so i can fuck off merci.
was it youri chassin who preached the privatization of hydro-quebec?
the next nationalization must imperatively be pharmaceutical.
our greatest strength and national pride. hydro quebec.
land of beavers that we are.
i love hydro with all my heart.
pretty incredible that international capital let us do this without being invaded and bombarded by the us or assassinated our leaders.
we should also stop impoverishing hydro-quebec by wringing their hand to pay for electricity at a price not possible for companies close to power.
no need to be nationalized, just founded a crown corporation to manufacture the "who essential medicines list" at cost price to ensure strategic supply.
it takes place behind the scenes, they privatize one little piece at a time.
we had a national pharmaceutical company which even developed the triterapie against aids. it was then privatized.
and yet this is always what happens when a state pays for what it nationalizes. to have played it nag like in cuba with ak-47 and hasta the revolucion if the history would have surely been different.
why that ? we didn't steal them from the old hydroelectricity companies, we even paid them a big bonus on their values to make him happy. ;)
talk to paul desmarais.
power corporation has entered the group chat.
lol
"wow, mass killings targeting asians in the united states. better go tell quebecers to stop being racist!"
pardon?
hilarious the photo: "wok"
there was only one letter missing.
"speak white u racist frogs!11!!1!1!1!1"
"speak white u racist frogs!11!!1!1!1!1"
what's special about this is that anyone who knows how this "industry" works knows that it's mostly asians, mostly sex-trafficked, who work in these pseudo-brothels. 6 of the 8 victims were asian, and instead of discussing crime and human trafficking, the media and idiots jump on "hate crime"!
otherwise in the open where hate crimes have increased by as much as 750%.
this is what makes american cultural hegemony. because it's a problem in the empire, it automatically becomes a problem everywhere because we live on planet america.
yes, but in vancouver, the anglos are in the majority and that would contradict the narrative according to which quebecers were especially racist, hateful and backward.
yes, but in vancouver, the anglos are in the majority and that would contradict the narrative according to which quebecers were especially racist, hateful and backward.
i'm a native of edmonton and i can tell you it's a lot worse there. at least you are open to english speakers or other people who make an effort (but frankly i know my french is la marde). often times if you speak english just a little crooked they call it a jerk or something. just a mini example, but also there are fach and supremacist groups, in tent or even more than here in quebec.
just by using the word "marde" your french becomes impeccable.
hasn't this image been reposted 15 times this week?
[source] ( troublee.php)
it is pissing to see the english twisting like pretzels in an attempt to deny that it is genocide. and probably one of the most complete genocides in history, two-thirds of the population has been wiped out.
since it is difficult to read on the map, here is the deportation order pronounced in grand pré by the future major general then colonel john winslow:
> i have received from his excellency governor lawrence, the king’s commission which i have in my hand and by whose orders you are convened together to manifest to you his majesty’s final resolution to the french inhabitants of this his province of nova scotia who for almost half a century have had more indulgence granted them, than any of his subjects in any part of his dominions. what use you have made of them you yourself best know.
> the part of duty i am now upon is what though necessary is very disagreeable to my nature. make and temper, as i know it must be grevious to you who are of the same specie.
> but it is not my business to annimedvert, but to obey such orders as i receive and therefore without hesitation shall deliver you his majesty’s orders and instructions viz.
> that your lands and tenements, cattle of all kinds and livestock of all sorts are forfitted to the crown with all other your effects saving your money and household goods and you yourselves to be removed from this his province.
> thus it is peremptorily his majesty’s orders that the whole french inhabitants of these districts, be removed, and i am through his majesty’s goodness, directed to allow you liberty to carry of your money and household goods as many as you can without discommoding the vessels you go in. i shall do everything in my power that all those goods be secured to you and that you are not molested in carrying them and also that whole families shall go in the same vessel and make this remove which i am sensible must give you a great deal of trouble as easy as his majesty’s service will admit and hope that in what every part of the world you may fall, you may be faithful subjects, a peaceable and happy people.
here is [the list of all deported male acadians] ( at grand pré as recorded by this execrable gallows game. we are still waiting for the maple leaf on the peace tower to be half masted to underline this genocide, the precursor to the founding of the modern maritime provinces.
monstrous
is there a higher resolution version?
i'm just waiting for the day when i could put in its place irl a woke that would try to blame me because i'm white and it's my ancestors' fault that everything is wrong in the world 🤔
without falling into acute victimhood, the acadians are in solidarity with the destiny of the natives. after all, it is thanks to them among others that many were able to escape deportation by pushing themselves into the woods!
america will be english at all costs.
[deleted]
my point taken in the context of the time is quite correct.
have fun with your crazy extrapolations on the meaning of my point.
canada is doing well. no major reasons to separate.
canada is doing badly. no reason to stay in a sinking boat.
it's a matter of time before canada goes badly (like any other society). the important thing is to be ready at that time.
i really liked guy nantel's book - je me souviens ... de rien
it really turned me on in many aspects.
it takes someone to explain the economic, cultural and political advantages of a sovereign quebec.
canada does a lot to give the illusion that it is a story of the past and dares to tell us that in quebec we have no culture of our own (but only the canadian multiculturalism that exists)
do you have other reading to suggest on the subject?
sovereignty must be founded on the basis of improving material conditions for quebecers in order to prevail over the status quo. without this promise, the only usefulness of sovereignty is a tool for negotiation against the other provinces at the federal level.
it is heartwarming!
quebec friends! read the comments in the globe and mail. the wasps, especially in alberta, constantly complain about the "advantages" of quebec in canada. if so, things are going well in quebec. that they complain, because we are in the process of returning to the act of union of 1775, or better still.
we may have lost the war, but we are winning the peace.
the latest from denis monière, 
for me it's more a matter of honor and pride than getting richer. either way, those who claim that independence will enrich us or impoverish us have no idea what they are talking about. it's a gang of peddlers. our economic fate is influenced by a number of factors which cannot be considered in advance. independence has its share of economic risk, it is inevitable, and also brings a lot of opportunities to enrich ourselves (among other things by recovering at little cost the assets of the english canadian companies and of the english population who are going to be saved. by chauvinism). as far as i'm concerned, i neither believe in the apocalyptic predictions of english canadians who believe that an independent quebec would be a third world country nor in the jovialist predictions of the pq who try to make people believe that it is 100% certain that we would be richer the day after independence. it is quite possible that independence impoverishes us in the short term but that it enriches us in the long term, for example.
the important point is that i believe in the resilience and courage of our people and i am convinced that we will find a way out, possibly grown by adversity. so as far as i'm concerned, the economic question is of little importance, the question is more to assess whether we are able to manage ourselves and if we want to ... or if we prefer to stay at the thank you from the english.
there is little chance that a sovereign quebec will lead to the improvement of material conditions. it may have been true 60 years ago, but not today. on the other hand, what that means is a development by and for quebec. economic development in canada has been designed, structured and executed by and for wasps from the beginning. see the development (and funding) of channels, debt sharing, etc. and it lasts until today, we only have to think of the _enormous_ contracts awarded for the construction of ships - outside quebec - or the financing of muskrat falls by ottawa, which never financed the construction of the ships. dams by hydro!
for many of you it is almost impossible to understand, but the quebec of barely 50 years ago was _vastly_ different from what it is today! the conflict initiated by the conquest continues, it has simply changed.
thank you i will read this soon !!
i blinked because i had read: the last of denis codère
not the same 'author' ahahaha
without any certainty of concrete improvements following the separation, i do not believe that the sovereignty project will take off. it only makes sense in a context of national pride and i don't think many people are going to be interested in abandoning the status quo for a stranger with no clear advantage.
it is sure that if our current situation worsens a lot and that the cause would be clearly identified with the canadian union. yes, it could happen.
we could also have a situation where we become a country but from a branding point of view only. like the different nations of the european union. this could be a transitory step if we don't like the result. but that would fill the pride aspect you mentioned.
yes, it is this lack of economic advantage that stops the project for the majority of the population. and it is a good negotiating tool against the federal government because if the situation changed and sovereignty could bring concrete and sufficiently massive material benefits, we would vote for it in time to say so.
it's good for us, it forces canada to ensure our continued prosperity or lose the eastern provinces.
> without certainty of concrete improvements following the separation
as far as the economy is concerned, you will never have this certainty, especially if we limit ourselves to short or medium term effects. it depends on factors that are almost completely beyond our control. basically it depends on the reaction of the americans. if they decide that we continue business as usual, that's what's going to happen. if they decide to screw us up, we'll eat our stockings. it is reasonable to think that in the long run we will converge towards normalization and the "business as usual" scenario, but in the short run, no one can know what will happen. you can argue that if americans act rationally, they would do x or y. except countries sometimes act irrational, so that's no good prediction.
economists are unable to predict how the economy will develop on a scale of a few months under normal circumstances. meteorologists are a lot better than them. so when "learned" economists make predictions about the economic success or failure of an independent quebec, you have to take that with a big grain of salt.
even accounting debates are bullshit. you can show that we make or lose money with canada depending on how you define your business. what is counted or not, and according to the assumptions made. it is far from being an exact science. for example, coiteux said that the federal government spends more money in quebec than it earns, except that in its calculation it only takes recurring program spending into account, and ignores one-off spending. (if memory serves, it was in discussions with the guy who wrote the book "one government too many").
where there will be improvements, it is that we will be more stuck with a federal government that often governs against our interests. just for that, i think it justifies the economic risks of the adventure.
in the end, it is impossible to avoid the question: do we have enough balls to take our destiny in hand? yes or no ?
if it's more of the same, i don't think there is the will to overcome the inertia of the status quo.
perhaps if one day the federal government firmly fails or decides to attack us altogether, it will become easy to find an improvement in our material situation.
but until then, i don't see how it could happen.
health,
someone who would bash you, or anyone, just because you're anglo, badass cave stun ... and probably not a good compatriot. in addition, he rejects a potential ally ...
let us be honest, in the republic of quebec, the anglo minority in quebec must be entitled to its services in english. (schools, medical service, social services, etc.)
... if only as a nod to canada which accommodated us ... to a certain point.
if quebec were a country i would be open to the concept of dropping language laws.
i would make quebec a country where french, english and aboriginal languages are official languages.
i would like us to protect the english-speaking community as much as possible and the english-speaking towns could have 100% of their services in english
under canada we need protection but once a country i think we could be much more relaxed about the linguistic situation.
anglos are a historic community of quebec and are invited to participate in the country as long as they understand that the majority language is french and that it is the only country in america where it is is not an attack on english.
an anglo is always welcome in the sovereignist camp, no one is ever going to kick you out.
québec's will for independence was never thought to be made against you quebec anglos. join us.
we love the english speakers who support our cause, no danger of being bashed by a sovereignist :)
so from the first week, re-education camps and gulags will be erected to bring in all anglo and arab quebs and everything that is not pure wool ...;)
i am kidding of course, anglophones would not be treated less well than they are at the moment, the only official language of quebec is already only french and will remain so in a free quebec. the only difference is that fewer and fewer anglophone immigrants would be selected and montreal would probably be more francized, but the demographic effects on the metropolis would only be visible several years or even decades after a winning referendum.
business as usual? quebec would become a formally unilingual state like ontario can be. except, i dare to hope that it is not the theater of an acrimonious revenge. there would surely be a reorganization of english-speaking institutions, particularly higher education, but quebec must have as its objective the protection of academic and human capital. there is no gain in burning bridges or destroying institutions from which we benefit. canada is quebec's largest trading partner, which would remain unchanged despite the latter's independence.
besides, thank you for your contribution to the sub reddit. english, french, no problem, use other languages and you will seriously reduce your readership, but otherwise i like to believe that here we are quite open to debate and questioning.
there are many, many, many things to discuss and ways to approach this, but in the interest of brevity and contemporary issues:
in a sense, nobody gives a flying shit about the language you speak. however, there is a very manifest asymmetry between the english and french language institutions in this country to the outrageous advantage of the english population. muhc is one example. the resources devoted to the english language institutions is something like 4 times as much as the english speakers' population weight. add that to centuries of belittling and economically repressing native french speakers and you've got a recipe for some resentment.
just think about this: why do you think french speakers are a majority only in quebec? do you suppose it "just happened"? or might have there been forces at work to remove as much french influence as possible? 100 years ago ontario legislated (like all other provinces did) to ban french language instruction from grade 2 onwards. the metis were hanged. the acadians deported. french canadians forced to flee the country after seeing their lands taken. and that didn't just happen in canada.
great country, eh?
edit: realised i did not answer your question directly. what that would mean for "anglos" is probably not much change. maybe things like french language only identity cards and passport, but i very highly doubt people would want to cut funding to the english language institutions. there would probably be a rebalancing of financing to the advantage of french speaking institutions (which need the money!), but to be really honest, i doubt it would change anything substantial. what it _would_ change, is the anglophones' _perception_ more than anything. they might suddenly feel their identity threatened (while conveniently ignoring the hundreds of millions of native english speakers surrounding quebec). but that feeling of insecurity in ones' identity is and has been felt by millions of quebecois for centuries, so i'm not sure that's a very solid argument against separation. it's always going to be like this, but only one group is in real cultural danger, and it's the native french speakers.
so it's not really a language issue as much as an issue that goes to the absolute core of a person's identity. it's been internalized pretty well by quebecers.
i would like a sovereign quebec in which the anglophones remain as they are. i invite english speakers to participate in this project. i wish to preserve the english-speaking minority as it is. i do not want an anglophobic republic of quebec. we need everyone from all walks of life, we don't have the luxury of alienating allies.
by the way, thank you for your openness. i condemn any remarks aimed at bashing any sympathizer of quebec nationalism. it's all to your honor to come here to educate yourself, congratulations.
moreover, i will dare to speak for the majority, but in my opinion there is no better form of recognition and compliment than an anglophone interested in the idea of sovereignty. it warms the heart, we feel better understood and less alone.
let me warn you that you will face, despite everything, anglophobia from some radical nationalists. i hope you will not let yourself be demoralized and that other nationalists will come to your aid.
here, at least on this thread, everyone welcomes you with open arms.
in conclusion, i would add that jean-françois lisée was the darling of the anglophone world when he was the leader of the parti québécois, when he was rather perceived as cold and distant by francophones. i remember his speech in dawson city, which captivated and fascinated young anglophones to the point of having far exceeded the scheduled time (lisée had to leave because the school was closing, the students held her late, they still wanted to stay there. 'to listen).
you’re one of us tkt pas
most anglophones and immigrants are likely to leave quebec within a year of independence. the pro-independence anglophones are only a very small minority and it is obvious that their rights will be protected. on the other hand, it is likely that they become bilingual as they go along because of the francophone environment. a bit like the natives who are not unilingual in their native language.
it's nice to see a pro-quebec anglophone, i don't think you risk anything in terms of discrimination.
thanks to everyone who was kind enough to answer my question, i read through all the comments:) le movement m’inspire et m’intrigue, ma mère est quebs à 100% so it’s a part of my culture too. i admit anglos rarely hesitate to bash francophones but i think it’s important to realize that it’s not necessarily french vs english but rather you guys fighting for your culture and its survival. that’s what i call inspiring and i think it’s something i would support 
also i’m high all the damn time please bare with me if i offended y’all in anyway my bad frl
it's likely that nothing would fundamentaly change for anglos. minority rights would be retained as anglo-quebecers are a significant cultural and economic force. it wouldn't be wise for an independant quebec to roll back on minority rights without significant backlash from the anglo minority as well as canada, the united kingdom and possibly the united states and other commonwealth countries such as australia and new zealand.
i was just thinking about that following this post:
aren't anglo-quebecers the ones who best integrated the dream of bilingual canada? i do not believe that there is another population in canada that values, and has fully integrated, bilingualism than this population. for them, the contribution does not come from french or english, but from the necessary presence of both.
it's really very special as a design. if everyone in canada had applied canadian bilingualism as it is, perhaps quebecers would identify with canada first.
if you live here, love it here, and are proud of our history, if you're a patriot and you know independence is better for all citizens, then whether you speak chinese or russian or english doesn't matter. your heart speaks pride and love for our nation.
we would write a duran report to promote your peaceful assimilation :)
[check out this conversation on youtube.]( jean-martin aussant explains well some of the advantages of québec independence.
it's not that we don't like english, it's just that we are fed up with saying that our language and our culture is sub-category compared to english. :)
you're only here because of the pirate boscawen, look that up.
actual canada disappeared very long ago, at the start of the exodus.
current canada, or kkkanada, was founded by the nazis of the orange order to wipe us off the map.
in france, they fucked up real bad, the money invested in freeing the usa was never gonna be seen again in the first place, and should have been invested in the destruction of the british coastlines instead, that's why we don't especially care for them.
independance is, as far as i am concerned, far from being a segregational issue. freedom must be inclusive and fully open. donc, au contraire, mon frère / ma soeur !
from the patriots to rené lévesque, no serious sovereignist party wanted to deprive the anglos of their fundamental rights.
please tell me which church you preach at because i am living câlisse. hallelujah y'all! praise the sun!
exactly.
even lévesque wanted to dispense with linguistic laws once they were independent.
the language does not really matter, what matters is to be able to have control over all the levers of our preservation as a historical subject that is worth as much as any other.
and then i agree with you on the subject of native languages. i would like us to revamp our relationship with the natives, things have to change (come back as before?).
no to that though. make quebec a mini canada 2.0? french will remain the only official language and this is imperative if we do not want to be overwhelmed by the surrounding english-speaking states. the language question is central to our struggle for independence and it would be absolutely absurd to abandon it once victory has been achieved.
it's so well summarized that it makes you dream of a country.
this guy gets it. 
ok. so you're ideal world. tell me. what is quebec doing. real talk.
instead of yogurt can we call the concentration amps yops? 
trying to do a play on words with ughur and yogurt.
so we can say that nothing changes in practice, everyday life will remain as it is.
dawson will remain dawson, mcgill too.
i agree there has been a decline in french language and its preservation. 
anglophones don't speak french. and when they do to me i'm like : non stop.  you don't. just stop. be like "i'm learning" and ok becky we cool. i'll speak french with you so that you learn.
it depends: universities and high society have little chance of becoming french
there you have it, bad faith; canada founded by "the nazis". but yes of course...
that is why francophones no longer exist in quebec, i presume.
for your information, if france did not know how to directly use the investment in the usa wisely, you can always console yourself by telling yourself that the multiple expeditions of the continental army in quebec, led by richard montgomery during the seven years' war, were aimed at liberating french canadians from the british yoke and making them allies. many times they have failed to succeed, especially during the capture of fort saint-jean by benedict arnold, having almost captured british general guy carleton. it came close to it. it was a way for france to retry the blow for its new france without violating the treaty of paris (1763).
i agree and i would never want the anglophone minority to disappear from quebec. they are individuals just as distinguished as quebecers in the canadian landscape who do not deserve to be excluded. we need everyone.
i preach at the church of secularism and civic duty;)
i think independence will take care of a lot of things that we don't need to worry about anymore.
oufff. so see here i midly disagree. 
it's best to have in all languages. 
scientifically proven that to be bilingual is better evolutionary speaking. so non. gardes les deux langues
i am not a prophet, but in the daily life of people i do not believe that there is much change.
there hasn't been a "decline" as much as a conscious, multi-century effort to suppress it and replace it with english. you can't look at the situation in quebec through the lens of the last 30 years only. the decline is only defined in relation to the surge that followed the adoption of bill 101. it's been hacked away by the federal appointed judges ever since, with a corresponding decline in every french language indicators.
so the trend is just back to what it used to be. nothing new under the sun.
we know all that.
from 1840, what will become "canada" is all the same a state administered by a clique of dirty nazis with the explicit aim of wiping us off the map, similar in every way to the other nazis except for the methods of extermination.
the masquerade will end soon in canada.
i preach
ftfu lol
of course, maisbsi and only if we keep french as the official language with the native languages. otherwise we won't have settled anything at all.
with all due respect to the linguistics faculties, all eager to unite the peoples of the world, but it is better to speak only one language than to jabber two, or worse, to speak two at the same time because grammars and lexicons overlap. confuse.
there is no problem with personal bilingualism, institutional bilingualism poses a problem for the sustainability of french in north america on the other hand.
i sin
but aren't all languages a mix of pre existing languages anyway?
historically speaking.
acadiens  and new brunswick are french. you telling me their languages are not french. yes there is anglicismes but guys.. come on.
explain how institutional bilingualism is a problem for french.
listen. i can't stand anglophones who refuses to speak and learn french just as much as the francophones who don't learn or speak english. fair is fair in my head.
the fisherman who preaches without sins.
french has hardly changed for a few centuries, honestly. this is what makes me able to read molière and understand. of course, there are small changes, but we are not talking about changes in grammar so major that they make the language incomprehensible. for example, it took almost 800 years for the negation in oral french to change from “je ne faire” to “je ne fait point / pas” to “je faire pas”. the vocabulary has updated according to realities, the spellings have changed, especially according to the relations between dialects.
however, new brunswick's “french” is not really french. maybe you manage to understand it because you are an english speaker: the structure is * roughly * that of english, most of the words are english and "* there is anglicisms *", in your comment, is a good example of the way we talk over there. a francophone understands perhaps a third of what is being said. as i understand a third of what a haitian creole speaker says. but haitian creole, like anglo-franco-canadian creole, is not french, it is hardly a dialect. and this is correct. hooray for new languages! quebecois oral french, however, is a dialect of french, but not another language because the french of france would understand.
finally, i find your position sad, because it seems to me that it is that of a person without love. when we love, we don't want to lose the object of our feelings. that's why we want to protect it from transformations that would mutilate it, make it unrecognizable or even ugly (because most people agree that fr english is horribly repulsive: it succeeds in killing the grammars of two languages rather than one). i personally like french. french fascinates me, my cultural and literary history is also that of france, i do not want to lose it "* to be fashionable ak the young people of today *". this is not a judgment against english. i like english very much, having studied english literature, and i also speak german, my father's language, which i also love very much. i want each of these languages to continue to exist and to evolve, cautiously, without them mingling into indigestible sabirs, and so that they keep their own character. this, really, is the meaning of * diversity *.
french is infinitely less useful to master in north america than english. it is impossible to keep it in a dominant state in quebec if it is not imposed and valued through a state that uses it as the only language of interactions and public spaces. it has nothing to do with a hatred of english, it's just a question of demographics.
in an independent quebec where at least 85% of the population communicates in french, systematically adding english to it would be counterproductive, as would the burden of bilingualism in the rest of canada where everything must be thought of in bilingual while no one speak french. the situation would be roughly the same for quebec.
one thing to remember, at the primary and secondary level, french-speaking children cannot go to english-speaking schools except for a few exceptions. english speakers can go to the school of their choice. i believe immigrant children can too, but not sure.
there are few anglophones with whom we can develop our english, except in montreal. compare with the number of french speakers with whom your french can evolve.
it's not as fair as you think.
the only thing i took away from my anemic english classes in elementary school is "jonh go to school"
one thing is for sure, it is easy to stay in your bubble and be able to speak only one language. french english confused.
if utility and virtue are not necessary, humans are so lazy
whoa. your comment was amazing. contrary to popular belief i love french. faques it hurt me when you said that i was without love.
i'm asking questions and engaging in discussion. it's my purpose on reddit and in this subreddit.
i think imposing the language would come across as fascist. but i can see some of your points.
i know he has no english hatred. i think we're assed that.
what about my right not to be disturbed by drunkards and drug addicts? and my right to calm at night? what about my right to live in a society where children have a stable parent at home?
alcohol should be illegal.
the pot should be illegal.
there should be a curfew.
women should stay at home to raise the children.
less rights for others. for their own good. for mine. to be good people.
wow the comments on his facebook page
it's strange how much the narrative that "quebecers are for" no longer exists when you talk to people directly and without anonymity / false accounts.
there are just the anonymous twitter / reddit bots supporting this dystopian horror.
we live at a time when the leader of a "liberal" party asks to suspend the civil liberties of part of the population.
nice on a pu d'opposition
i am so happy that it is not the liberals who have them to manage this crisis!
she can go eat a $ #% @ chariot!
something big, very big is missing in all of this. did dominique consult his liberal * old money * like peter sergakis? the restrictions are in effect and the ** will remain, passport or not **. restaurant owners and bars will have to maintain the 50% maximum capacity and pay out of pocket to police ...
and i didn't even put the gang that received the * waiver .... *
it will really be necessary to reconcile the idea that law 21 is intolerable, but that a vaccination passport is desirable. suffice it to say that the interpretation that dominique anglade and the plq make of freedom is variable geometry!
the caq is crap, but it's still less crap than the plq.
i thought newspeak applied to wokism.
#novlangue mdr
she also goes to bilderberg conferences ... where all the corrupt come together.
0 confidence
but do you still classify your meds, you?
you are too subtle;)
you're a frustrated moron ...
[deleted]
> dystopian horror.
is the refusal to be vaccinated utopian for you?
chalice, do you really have a choice between idiocracy and demolition man? is this really our fucking choice?
seriously, you don't know the history of quebec and canada!
there was only one party in canada which imprisoned its political opponents.
the (not so much) liberal party
we never had one 🔫🧑🏻‍🚀
would you have been worse. during the crisis i read gaetan barrette and he was often on the boat for what was what to do. but it's sure it's easy when you're not in charge.
maybe a big contract with a company that will provide turnstiles style like for the metro, then you have to scan your vaccination passport and proof of identity with photo to enter the mcdonald's. we are there.
fuck peter sergakis. fuck that guy. immigrant or no. english or not. liberal or not.
you pay your restaurant employees piss poor wages.
and you're a fucking slumlord.
i had an interview with him as a restaurant manager.
i walked into the place, bullet proof glass between his receptionist and me. no joke. then i get called to the office like he's the fucking principal of the school. 
i was referred by another employee and sergakis did not give two fucks about me. so wtf was i doing there? 
if you didn't want the interview don't fucking ask me to come. 
he was high as a fucking kite. or senile. or both. 
the dude had zero clue what the fuck was happening. 
probably hated me on account of being a woman. 
omg. fuck this guy so hard.
the fools outside are screeching. we have work to do to repair the planet our homeland. cuddle.
woke & authoritarianism = same fight
hey, lucky you hurried to put in a mental block, you were about to have some unorthodox so dangerous thoughts.
apparently since there are some who seem to think i'm in favor of these things.
well done, here's a hickey.
if you're not happy with the right to the integrity of the person and quebec in general, well unclog my chalice.
tell me you're in bad faith.
okay, another one who thinks that the compulsory mass surveillance by gafam is "vaccination"
and it wasn't that one. nor much better.
we have not read the same message from big boy barrette.
at times he was against distancing, the mask worse for.
but the biggest deal would undoubtedly be the mandatory masks would be those made by the party's buddies and.
i believe antoine robitaille addressed the question and the answer was that the government has never made a public call for tenders for audit material. result: the government will not help at all and it will be up to restaurateurs to implement the "solution" at their expense.
and there, we are talking about people on the ground. even erik luksenberg, the one we are trying to pass off as a rich pro-passport restaurateur, has just finished his 2009 bankruptcy case because he could not pay the 100k that revenu-québec was asking for and the government has absolved him. . it's a living thing and it's not additional costs that will help. and then, we add to this the shortage of labor, the increase in the price of foodstuffs (which become a total loss in the event of stoppage of operations), the price of rent which starts again .....
i have the impression that we are being concealed from the preparation of serial bankruptcies. d. anglade could have demanded a bluff such as the withdrawal of all measures imposed on restaurants in exchange for the pass but seems not to have done so. it all smells bad.
sorry for your experience. which restaurants does he own so that i can avoid them?
peter sergakis is a tdc, everyone agrees.
on the other hand, his * mindset * is that of many people who gravitate in the chambers of commerce (the * old money) *. it is still the * backbone * of the plc, it is they who bring in the cash via spaghetti dinners, represent smes and others. it is a tdc but you must not believe that it controls anything.
i'm not going to fight with someone who has 2 secondary accounts
there are two dystopian horrors.
[those who want to know nothing about the vaccine] (
[worse those who want to know nothing about the vaccine, worse who make the rest of the world get stuck with a vaccine passport chalice.] (
which one do you want?
it is the plq of bourassa which asked trudeau to do it.
not forgotten the fiasco of the negotiations with the mohawks, the doctors, etc.
i followed that in the first 2 months and it was on the check ... tk more consistent than the caq.
i remember station de sports and one off place on sherbrooke east.
one of my baristas she dealt with him as a landlord when i was managing starbucks. told her to get out and fast. fuck!
excellent point. thank you for the answer!
lolwut
this is all so orwellian, an outright distortion of reality. ironic that you choose 2 films that literally denounce the dangers of the type of thought you repeat.
the passport is the prototype of their digital id program that they have been working on since the election and is in their program and it has nothing to do with public health or a virus or a vaccine, it is a pretext to impose against all the oppositions of the experts their identity scan wherever we go because this information is worth a lot for the actors behind
unless you are a conspirator who claims that legault knew 3 years ago when he started that we would have a virus and a vaccine .....
look, i'm going to come over to your house to rob you but in doing so i'm going to wear a 'no racism' sweater so if you have a problem with that you're just a dirty racist. it's exactly the same principle, they are buggering us and they add the word 'vaccine' so contrary to all logic, to be against their new surveillance system is apparently to be "against vaccines"
at this point, we can no longer pretend simple ignorance to let it go, the few who support it and their bots and fake accounts have interests in gamics. unless you got your check from mckinsey, you're doing their job for free (and it's against your interest that it goes on top of that)
war is peace hein?
this is one of the reasons why i became a sovereignist. i was a canadian nationalist, but seeing the wokism debauchery of the roc and the denial of a canadian identity other than their multiculturalism and their little facade of: we are so nice, we say sorry eh. it was a big shock, and strangely enough, several youthful friends with right-wing tendencies were strangely attached to canada for no reason, and i believe that what mbc evokes could attract a lot of young people like me to the quebec national camp.
we can't go out ...
worse, on top of that. i have to pay taxes on my fucking netflix and spotify to support the fucking saskachewan.
yeeeeeeee
yes, i have a similar experience to yours, my theory is that the droitar are often very attached to their country, and since we don't have a country, they will defend canada without thinking too much about it, it is an old tradition of the conservative camp in quebec, remember that adrien arcand the infamous ultra-rightist was federalist, according to him canada was the union between the 2 founding people all that in a time when he had the regulation 17 in a canada where the french was not not recognized as an official language and canada in general was quite british and anti-french canadian.
the conservatives do not like revolutions, they like order and keep things as they are, i believe that this attitude of denying reality comes from, in the time of british canada and nowadays with multiculturalism and the wokism.
it's the passive aggressiveness i got when i traveled and i met other canadians. 
normally two people would be so happy to meet when they learn they from the same country. 
nope. in germany, i was from quebec and a francophone. boy was i stared down hard and people would stop engaging with me.
quebec isn't canada's bavaria. in some ways yes but it other ways: no. it was like i was trailer trash.
that being said not every time i met canadians overseas was bad and it was with people who were slightly older. so i could understand the saltiness towards me. they weren't over 1995. we get it lol.
ngl qc should put a tax on it too.
adrien arcand was just a delusional high intellectual, no wonder he adored his little hitler.
i wouldn't mind paying just the qst.
toronto and regina, i don't care.
the sales tax is hyper regressive aka it affects the poor more. it is clear that it was bell who told fidel's son to start taxing them.
see, when the federal government recognizes multiculturalism, it's in its constitution. when he recognizes anything in quebec, it is through non-binding motions.
9 liberal mps from quebec abstained from voting.
a motion. but still, i would not have imagined that in 1990.
i can't wait to see the names of those who refused to vote
well yes you, they "recognize" a fundamental right and we see that as if it were a favor ?!
provincial constitutions are part of the constitution of canada (for the moment), they are not separate documents. obviously we can modify ours as much as we want! you have to be slightly retarded or have no education in the constitutional system to see this as an anomaly or a concession, tse. it is only the modifications that would impact the federal powers that we must negotiate.
i guess the bloc did well to force a token vote anyway - but no one is giving us a thumbs up here.
the fact that liberal mps voted for is in itself extremely astonishing.
that's for sure
among the members of the plc in quebec, there are: anthony housefather, anju dhillon, sherry romanado, peter schiefke, angelo iacono, emmanuella lambropoulos, francis scarpaleggia, patricia lattanzio, sameer zuberi, william amos, emmanuel dubourg, annie koutrakis and alexandra mendès . a beautiful gang of federated rugs.
source :   
in total: 55 abstentions, 2 against, 281 for.
that says a lot about the level of hostility of anglo-montrealers towards the french fact that even this very symbolic motion, which does not threaten them in any way, annoys them to the point that their deputies abstain from voting on the motion. no doubt that in their own home, they would have voted against, but they did not want to harm the chances of their colleagues elected outside montreal to win their elections.
good site to know.
thank you
we already knew it, even if deep down we wanted to be wrong. we kept in mind the doubt that the caq was perhaps not so disconnected from the real world. it was joked that a caq candidate in pointe saint-charles was probably unaware of the cost of housing. you have to believe it's true.
a government of managers of canadian tire and caisse populaire, well that's it. wait in 5-10 years when the pandemic "p'tites vites" will come out ....
it reminds me of $ 75 of groceries per week for a family, according to couillard. completely disconnected from reality.
about what i pay in laval. for a 1½.
yes it starts at 500-600 $ for a 1 1/2 next to crackhead and full bebite it is not wrong and the more you go in the renovated with more parts it goes up quickly
by dint of earning good salaries, you just forget what it is to be the majority i imagine
jesus christ. we're doomed under this type of leadership.
welp! guess i'm not moving anywhere for another year. câlisse!
22 upvotes dans r/canadianhousing. your comrade redditors over there support you!
honestly, at the price you get, you're better off buying. there was a time to be on rent made it possible to save, this is no longer the case.
that's not what he said.
it's cheap for elected officials, $ 500 for rent and $ 70 a week to feed a family.
ramen extra coquerelles lifestyle!
well that was it not so long ago.
today it seems to be 1100 to 1900 for nothing from below a 3 and a half (600-700 for a 2/1)
t'as  fucking raison. you're like my favourite redditor here.
if the government and employers believe that modest housing, say a 3½, costs only $ 500 to $ 600 per month in montreal, that explains why they believe wages are quite high. adds couillard who thought he was feeding a family with $ 75 a week and everything crystallized. these people believe that a small family can live in a $ 4½ to $ 700 per month with $ 350 per month in groceries. just over $ 1000 a month spent on rent and groceries!
meanwhile, in real life, that's what i spend just on rent for a 1½.
well i listened to the exchange in question, manon asks what is the median price of housing in montreal and he replies "it starts at $ 5-600 and it goes up quite quickly in the $ 1000". well, he didn't answer for the median price and gave a price range instead, and he didn't specify that for $ 5-600 you live in a shit, but in the strict sense it's not so much in potatoes as that. it's in the field, but not in the back of the field either.
lol
$ 75 for food. $ 500 for the budget.
show me this dreamworld you speak of.
next he will say that we are making $ 65,000 / year.
how was he disconnected? he knew the prices of food almost by heart and knew the methods.
well, for a single person that's enough, but for a family? meh, you better like rice and chicken, my boyfriend.
thank you. indeed. you're right.
i think it's a systemic problem
where? in a basement in pointes-aux-trembles?
that's what i was going to say. i have family who moved to montreal the year before legault arrived. rents at $ 5-600 monthly, it was available. not nice big 4 1/2 all renovated, but i remember some very reasonable things for 540 $ / month ...
well, it should arrive in 2021, and i do not excuse it, but i am not sure that it follows the rental market in montreal particularly closely in these times. it tells me more that his entourage is a bit ti-coune not to have briefed him in the last days on this.
me it is what i spend for the 1/2. the 1 is paid for by selling my organs on the black market.
the median net salary of a family with children in quebec is around $ 95,000.
pork is made a lot cheaper than chicken
i don't want to use the word systemic, i don't want to put the rich on trial.
look closely, it's written
that's all there is in montreal
top comment right fucking here.
yeah, well, that explains why it's made rare in criss to see families, anyway.
i think i just puked in the back of my mouth.
nope. it is not.
uhm, i'm gonna have to watch this.
what word would you use?
c'est juste la réalité, peut-être pas la tienne. you can get all this data for free from stat canada. in canada the median is 105k after tax for a family with kids, 95k for a couple with no kids, it's a little less in québec but not much.
genre 8.99 la live vs 11-12.99 la live
normal
thank you so much
happy cake day!
bon... but it shouldn't be a normal problem genre.
[deleted]
i do not know.
i was hoping google would figure it out by now. lol
ai be like: hmmm ...
[deleted]
ugh fine.
you win.
go change the world please lol.
good luck with that, we tried in france and see the result ... in the end, it is the little french who will start to speak arabic at school in order to be able to integrate
ah would have to tell françois because i saw the pm speak english in his press briefing. the caq patriots lol
in quebec, arab immigrants almost all speak french - because most of them passed through france before coming here.
this is also why many of them have enough 'points' to be received, the first criterion of our system is knowledge of french.
most arab-quebecers therefore have a french accent. the average quebecer cannot say what a "real" arabic accent looks like.
salam aleykoum! as if he had enough arab students in quebec for them to form a majority in even one class! it's a good one there!
my experience in alberta was similar. immigrant parents speak with a strong accent or their own languages, and the children speak like us, without an accent with slang etc.
as i was responding to your compatriot, it was an example specific to france to illustrate the difficulty of imposing a language.
these north african immigrants speak french but will speak arabic with their children who master have a little less french and in a few generations they will use a language of their own in addition to arabic
a 4th generation descendant speaks suburban slang that a french person will not understand if he has not been taught the codes
this is the problem of communitarian cultures
yes here it is: france, algeria, morocco, tunisia, lebanon ... in short, mainly from the former french colonies.
this is the case in some places, however not as much as in france
if you made a correct neural connection you would understand that the arabic-speaking immigration in france is due to the proximity to africa ... and if your brain had not been washed by an intensive use of twitter you would think that the example given was ... an example !!!
on the other hand, your problem is english speakers, so hello, you could adapt the problem by changing the language genius ...
france's famous communitarian separatism, i hope the french will take the necessary measures to remedy this huge problem
[194,400 people] ( in quebec according to the ministry of immigration, francization and integration. 97.4% french-speaking and 51.3% speaking french mainly at home. mostly university education for economic reasons.
well if as you say i make my neurons work i come to the conclusion that around 11% of the french population is unaware of immigration. of this number, about a third come from north africa (algeria, tunisia, morocco). so taking into account that a good proportion of the inhabitants of this country already speak french, i am afraid that there are not so many arabs who immigrate to you. in any case, far too little for your little french to speak arabic and much less than the 8 to 13% of english speakers in quebec. in addition, france is not surrounded on all sides by arab regions as quebec is surrounded by provinces or english-speaking countries. in conclusion, putting the two on an equal footing seems to me to be a big intellectual shortcut.
> if you made a correct neural connection you would understand that arabic-speaking immigration to france is due ~~ to the proximity to africa ~~ ...
to the french colonies everywhere in africa, and to the massive participation of the citizens of these colonies in liberating france during the 2nd war as well as in the massive recruitment by france to fill its lack of workers during the 70s. * "fixed it for you "*
the french by nature expect a providential personality capable of raising a great people.
something almost infeasible at a time when the media control everything. i'm quite pessimistic about the country i love
big facts! thanks for sharing
ah there you go, thanks for the statistics
astonishing the figures that you bring out when ethnic statistics are prohibited in france.
more recent studies relayed by our politicians (to see the seriousness of these) estimate that by 2050 the population of non-european origin would represent more than 50% of the population.
and finally you seem better informed than me for someone who lives on the other side of the atlantic, however you do not know that learning arabic at school is being studied by the government at the request of a large part of the population who wish to practice the language of their religion (estimate of around 30% of muslims in france)
yes but whatever, that is not the subject. the point is that if you want to control a cultural change you need strong measures and not media stunts without impact.
and in reality not since massive immigration comes from the 80s with the “socialist” governments left caviars which created measures like the family reunion to lower wages in france by importing cheap labor en masse
i am not familiar with french demographic trends, but 50% of the french population coming from elsewhere in europe by 2050 seems to me to be clearly exaggerated. you are missing at least 25 million extra european immigrants to welcome in 30 years, which means almost 1 million per year. i do not see in what the teaching of arabic is a problem one does offer the teaching of german or japanese at the cegep (approximately the equivalent of the terminal) with us then why not the arabic? otherwise we teach arable numbers since we find the romans very impractical.
quebec is not france. france either imported uneducated workers it needed or normalized harkis who had supported france against algerian independence. quebec mainly recruits academics and technicians, which it sorts after a process that lasts on average a little over a year.
this is not a massive movement like france in the 1970s, but a process over which the provincial has control and the last word.
seventies, i remember it since i was living in france at the time. groups like renault and peugeot imported massively at this time, under the right-wing governments of giscard among others ([1] ( ([2] (
incidentally, nobody wanted these lower wages in france, which is why peugeot was fighting for its survival ([3] ( back-to-the-years-1970-1980-1122144-minidiapo.html)). by importing their workforce, the two companies survived and produced cheap cars that "native" french people like me and your parents (or grandparents depending on your age) were able to afford.
i am not telling you the effect of the opening of the first mcdonald's for working families in france, you will lose your hair when you think of the criticisms of the kids of the 80s then on "the american giant" (spoiler alert, as with the arabs and their impact on "made in france" products, before the 1980s and mcdonald's working families were almost excluded from the family restaurant market that was too expensive for them).
the "wokes" are not always what you think.
you forget the children of immigrants already there. the native french rarely have more than 1 or 2 children, whereas culturally extra-european families often have more than 3 children.
then it is as much a problem for france as english for quebec. language is one of the building blocks of the nation. the sons or grandsons of immigrants already do not feel french when they speak the language ... imagine if they start to speak arabic.
and for the reason of the spoken english or german there was the fact that they are very present european languages and that there was a real economic and cultural utility (france, germany and england until recently were the three engines of europe)
i wish it for you
with employment contracts but family reunification and the right to the soil have planted the first nail in our coffin
the problem with that is that with our voting system, a party can come to power with less than 40% of the vote. suppose a pro-independence party won the election with 32% (the score of the pq in 2012), it would not have the mandate or the legitimacy to make a declaration of independence.
it is a bit premature for a constituent assembly. moreover, i have the impression that the leftists at-la-qs who militate to implement it will end up strongly disappointed with the result at the very end when they discover - oh surprise! - that this constituent will lean much more to the right than the caq, and that it is more too white and too pro-trump to "deserve redemption". let them go and make it to the church their constituent assembly, it is a perfect echo chamber, perfect for praying for intersectional purity and for atoning for one's sins by whipping oneself with a whip.
ah, that dear kosovar precedent!
on the other hand, would you have a problem with the government making a declaration of its attachment to the canadian federation with more than 40%? a law must also apply in all directions.
well, the constituent assembly is the same [smoking hit that the chavistas] ( of maduro played in venezuela. in any case, even those in solidarity are unable to rationalize the contractions inherent in their proposal:
> the constituent assembly will be elected by universal suffrage and will be composed of an equal number of women and men. the voting system will ensure the proportional representation of the trends and the different socio-economic backgrounds present in quebec society. the election of
this constituent assembly must allow candidates of all means and all origins to have fair access to the means of communication. members of the national assembly cannot be elected to the constituent assembly, since this participation requires full-time availability.
when you know in advance the composition of an assembly elected by universal suffrage, it is because it is decided in advance.
it really depends on whether in a general election the parties in question are clearly asking the people for a mandate to act in this direction. a government that hides its game, federalist or independence, and then hijack its political agenda and trap the people would be something unacceptable in my opinion.
the constituent assembly is the new delirium of the socialists who firmly believe that it will grow money in the trees. normally, this type of initiative happens when a country's democracy is deadlocked, which is exactly the case with venezuela and other neighboring regimes. it is therefore an emergency measure since it has a significant cost which is not without consequences, like a preventive drug. this is the reason why i believe it is inapplicable here. our government, which was legitimately elected, would find itself half paralyzed by this new executive power which has no other goal than to invalidate it, which would bring us back to democratic denial in the manner of venezuela, but reversed, where it would be the constituent this time that would become the ball.
* when you know in advance the composition of an assembly elected by universal suffrage, it is because it is decided in advance. *
ah yes this famous plan of the left to take control of democratic institutions by proposing to vote for a man and a woman within your socio-economic segment. / s
explain to me why a constituent assembly which reflects the composition of our society is decided in advance?
nobody trap the people in your scenario, but as luck would have it now for the opposite statement? the ballot is simple, it is not a multimodal contract coming out of an industrial relations department.
not surprisingly, for qs quebec is the cradle of capitalist, colonizing, heteronormative and patati et patata evil. in doing so, we must make a clean sweep of our institutions, which are the envy of the vast majority of the planet.
so it will be necessary to reconcile democracy and a predetermined composition of the deputation according to sex.
we are talking about a constituent assembly which is the reflection of its population.
it remains elected and is composed in such a way that it is the most representative of society.
it all seems democratic to me.
eddit: too bad this subreddit is more devoted to political reaction and antiprogressism rather than to the independence of quebec
nah no, we arbitrarily dictate that the assembly will be made up of an equal number of men and women. it is impossible to guarantee this result in a democracy. this is moreover quite contradictory considering the very particular affection that qs has for individuals who identify neither with the male nor with the female sex.
not really.
normally that is the role of government. a constituent assembly in a democratically healthy country like ours, this assembly would confer another form of government with as many political powers, which represents a contradiction for the already legitimately elected government. in fact, it is as if we were granting the government opposition the same powers, capable of systematically invalidating everything, without even reaching the number of elected votes.
in countries where democracy is threatened, that makes sense, but otherwise it's treating a disease with a drug that we don't need.
i am the 4th sex, but no gender.
who am i?
as we arbitrarily dictate the number of deputies, the constituencies, etc.
it is possible to change the rules of our democracy and remain democratic.
i believe that qs proposes a constituent assembly to draft the constitution of an independent quebec.
it is not a parallel parliament / government.
yes, and on that account the venezuelan democracy is very democratic. the idea is that only a single list could generate what qs offers, as in venezuela. either that or it will be necessary to predetermine the gender of the candidates in each of the constituencies which will systematically exclude 50% of the population from the office of deputy. let's just say that i saw the democratic side better. after that, this is only the first pitfall in the qs proposal. it will also be necessary to reconcile the representation of all the other groups identified in the selection of candidates from several parties, which is completely impossible.
and what if the constituent rejects everything? yes, this is not the first time that this proposal is controversial, as much at qs as in france (lfi). as of a referendum, the constituent has as much the power to reject it, [this had been discussed during the last elections, in particular by the pq] ( 09 / 01-5195867-debat-mordant-entre-lisee-et-zanetti-sur-la -ouverete.php), as well as the proposal for the 6th french republic under a constituent assembly by la france insoumise being able to reject a process of presidential election - what good is electing a government if it is to refute it when leaving? because the role of a constituent assembly is simply that of confirming or invalidating actions, so what is the point of revalidating everything that a government, itself validated electorally, does if it is only to be able to systematically reject this latest? you lose or you win your election, it's a concept that seems to displease a good number of political activists, but the majority triumphs. we do not need a counterweight to the government. even if we did not choose our democracy which is based on a government of constitutional monarchy, we are not an authoritarian state with a people not represented in the government, unlike venezuela which fights its own population.
which is already the case, and which is nothing more than a way for sore losers to cheat without the slightest shame.
it seems to me that the front page of the jdm was laughing at trudeau, not india. the implication is that trudeau is reluctant to cancel flights to india out of political patronage.
did they really say these words?
if it's not racism, it's still filthy at the very least.
quebec nationalism should also embrace the culture of blacklisting. after all, in quebec we have been told so "speak white" that the time has come to make this country a base of attack in order against western culture and all that it considers most sacred.
this is also what loïc tassé explained to benoit dutrisac yesterday on [qub.radio] (
justin trudeau was hesitant because 22% of newcomers to canada are indians and there are over a million canadian citizens who are of indian origin (and that counts in several toronto counties). trudeau did not want to ban them from traveling, going to see their families, etc. so close to an election.
[
rima elkouri affirms that not only the front page of jdem is xenophobic, but that in the end it is only the tree which hides the forest of the chroniclers of quebecor who also hold toxic and xenophobic speeches. then she has the nerve to add that they "are going to blame it on woke culture".
incapable of conceiving that mbc, denise bombardier, philippe léger, sophie durocher, joseph facal, and all other things can have a different and legitimate vision, she prefers to insult them, to censor them by labeling them as xenophobes.
indeed, in quebec, ms. elkouri, there is no more cancel culture and woke than you.
you did not understand? life, it happens in the first degree. the people of jdm are white supremacist crypto-nazis who even hate each other. the little intellectual analyzes of "maybe that's not what they meant", keep them to yourself and get out. here, we judge, we don't think.
it is a tribune signed rima elkouri. is le devoir racialist on the pretext that emily nicolas is published there?
for la presse, it ends roughly here:
ah, well there are also yves boisvert and patrick lagacé who also affirmed on twitter that jdem is xenophobic or feeds xenophobia for so little.
it starts to make me think that this is not unique to mrs. elkouri.
\ * i modified the message to remove false information \ *
> and patrick lagacé called doucet (the editor in cehf of jdem) on twitter, calling him "shallow fuck".
i checked, he wasn't the one he treated that way, but someone who said he wouldn't post a selfie on his vaccination nor post one on his vaccination. a prostate exam. it wasn't even someone who spoke to him directly, he just decided to go and insult him because he said he wouldn't post a selfie of his vaccination, that's all.
but it wasn't doucet that he called that.
"on twitter"
like amir attaran, however, he did not make these comments in class. on twitter, people speak on their behalf, unless the official la presse twitter posts a tweet that explicitly testifies to this position.
you're right, i got confused by confusing doucet (jdem) and melançon, the host at tva. sorry.
the carelessness of the u of ottawa when it comes to denouncing the words of amir attaran. not sure that la presse appreciates the comparison 😊
quebec could definitely be an independent country. however, there would certainly be obstacles to overcome.
1. the transition. several areas belong to the federal government. it is easy to say "quebec will take care of it" but it is another thing to do it. for example, what will happen to the prisons? more specifically, to prisoners? how will quebec citizenship work? will people have both citizenships? how will the international treaties signed by canada apply to quebec? what about the army and military equipment? and many others. all of these things are not obstacles to independence but will undoubtedly be terrible puzzles.
2. canada's hostility and bad faith. this is undoubtedly the biggest obstacle that quebec would have to overcome: a roc which does not recognize the legitimacy of the result of a winning referendum, which negotiates in bad faith, which tries to partition quebec, which spreads lies in order to to dirty it on the international scene (which it is already doing), which tries to convince the international community to impose sanctions against quebec, which sends its army to invade quebec under the pretext of war measures , etc ... canada must be treated as a rogue state from the perspective of a quebec which obtains its independence because that is how it will behave.
3. recognition at the international level. several countries will refuse to recognize quebec, for fear of encouraging separatists at home. especially if canada does not recognize this itself, which it never will, no matter how legitimate the process is.
4. defense. will quebec be ready to assume its defense against states hostile to it? we are talking about a deeply hoplophobic people who believe that their neighbor will come to the rescue if something happens.
there are probably other issues, but these are the first ones that come to mind. are they arguments against independence? not really. but they are a reminder that independence will not be easy and is not a magic solution to all of our problems.
corruption, hands down the biggest problem. ah, and the political disinterest of the population ...
state of the roads
quebec can very well become an independent country. our main problems will be the same as if we remain a province: mainly climate change and global geopolitics.
the main obstacle to independence is the people themselves, and that would be a major problem if independence came to pass. the last referendum showed that a clear majority of what were once called "french canadians" voted yes, while anglophones and allophones unanimously voted no, for all practical purposes. what relationship would that give after secession? there would most certainly be partition efforts, refusals to pay taxes, company relocations in protest, economic sabotage, etc.
quebec will have a better gdp than canada (current and independent).
in my opinion, the prospect of a quebec nation is not a solution. in fact, the more time passes, the more i realize that the obvious comes down to making it an obligation.
if we wish to opt for a sovereign nation first, we should first focus our attention on the current policies which i affectionately call: the policies of patches.
for several years, we quickly realized that the policies followed by the parties in power do not take into account national interests. we just "patch" the problem a bit like the image of our roads. what needs to be reviewed is the very structure of power, defining its prerogatives and obligations. ensure the primacy of the fundamental rights of individuals and define themselves as a nation of absolute right.
to the misfortune of making us impose globalist policies, by bombarding us with a political philosophy of a new world order (i am dealing here with philosophy and not with the conspiracy), we could develop a reverse philosophy. a philosophy which knows, by its foundation, respect not only the international interests, but also the sovereign interests of each nation. in short, the establishment of a new national order, of a democracy 2.0 ensuring to a certain extent the continuity of national interests despite the interchanging parties.
each party would thus have a priority, a different approach. by establishing an order of priorities, parties would be forced to respect the commitments of previous governments. a constitution would also ensure that the fundamental rights of citizens are maintained regardless of the following policies.
in short, it is the entire power structure that needs to be reviewed in my opinion. i let myself be lulled by the idea of a constitutional republic. i believe it. a legal society where we invite the citizen to develop his critical sense with regard to politicians while applying the principle of: function-prison within the political class. drastically limiting certain prerogatives of the function of politician by attaching him to his nation or city.
but this ! these are just ideas;)
that quebec begins to manage its pandemic of covid and worse after have will see.
a quebec country is a submitted canada.
what is this question lol !?
*** are you looking for arguments from sovereignists to be able to refute them themselves!? ***
listen, there would be nothing bad about becoming a sovereign country in quebec. the best that can happen to us is to have our own currency to become a little more competitive on exports.
▪ the real questions are: ** is quebec "autonomous" enough to afford a currency weaker than the canadian dollar? can we do without some canadian products (which could become too expensive)? do canadian products and / or free trade agreements end up harming the prosperity of quebec producers at the local level? basically ... for our local producers and the prosperity of our economy, would it be better to leave canada? **
work on these questions there. personally as a sovereignist, this is where i am ...
*** [edit: then honestly, whatever the answer to all of that doesn't matter. at the end of the day, overall it will be a matter of transition. these answers will simply answer the question of "will this transition be pleasant or not?" for several reasons, quebec's sovereignty is well worth it!] ***
yes, but it would be hard not to become a banana republic under the yoke of american and british imperialism.
ayoye come back, it wouldn't happen i loved ........
separatism is dead, just ignorant people who cross this again ..........
> canada must be treated as a rogue state from the perspective of a quebec which obtains its independence because that is how it will behave.
unfortunately, canada is already a rogue state against quebec since its founding.
in short, the potential problems you perceive are based ** on worries ** about subjects ** that you and most of us are not familiar with **, despite several articles and documents as shared in [-> this relatively recent article <-] ( for example.
your questions of administrative orders (governance) have been debated for a long time, you just have to kindly search. something that many of us lack rigor, including me, to practice.
for the rest of your questions, we unfortunately fall into personal opinion. one will believe that canada can afford ** to play like russia ** against quebec and another like me could tell you that it is badly to know international politics and the real provision that canada can afford to exercise or if it would just be consistent with the canadian identity [edit: or even with its own laws and i'm not just talking about military action here]. basically the reality would lean more on the fact that for north america the interest is to have a relatively solid and relatively unified nato (despite some dissatisfaction here and there). north america does not need economic or military conflict.
most of your opinions are concerns probably based on some ignorance, which is why last night i refused to engage in your comment more deeply. unfortunately i see that my patronizing (let's say it looks like this) has touched a few sensitive hearts.
"systemic" corruption, at least that's proven
corruption is mainly the work of federal institutions and federal politicians.
once independent, corruption, if the plq is not elected, will remain low compared to the current system.
the constitutional republic is interesting in the case where a state is in the neck up to the neck with corruption (south america).
except it's a legitimate question. you really have to be a very naive idealist to believe that all would be for the best in the best of all possible worlds once independence is obtained. i will answer him and you will quickly understand what i mean.
dude you're a drug addict shut up, your who to treat others as "ignorant", already that is not even an argument.
canada is a rogue state, period, quebec question or not: canada is essentially an international center of all mafia by its foundation and its very constitution. canada was set up to allow the american olgarchia to carry out various operations on a territory and among a people which hardly differ from its own, but which would go against the charters of rights of its constitution. . for example, there is neither first nor second amendment in canada, there is a bill of rights which defends the rights of communities as envisaged by political correctness but not the right of individuals to free expression. and the only entities that can assert this charter of rights must operate under a mafia structure to be successful. in addition, i am opposed to the concept of independence of quebec: the quebec nationalist cause presupposes the existence of a people, of a community not justified by the protection of the interests of a mafia, having had in the history an origin other than mafia: error. the bulk of people who can claim a french canadian origin known as of stock are in the usa and not in quebec, of which the still french-speaking majority has in fact become of non-french origin in the majority and which does not have their own identity. nor of their own common cause (despite the belles attempts of several to define one) and that nothing positive can gather around anything as these people are disparate and without anything in common other than to have accepted by compromise a mafia regime as being preferable for example to a socialist or religious state. canada is not a country, it is a place, said pierre elliott trudeau. and when he said place, he meant wasteland, of uncertain status, with no major ongoing project other than, for example, the burying of pcbs. however, the characteristic of vacant land in a city and which remains vacant land is to be in the hands of the people of the middle. any question of litigation with quebec apart from canada is a rogue state.
> for the rest of your questions, we unfortunately fall into personal opinion. one will believe that canada can afford
>  
> to play like russia
>  
> in front of quebec and another like me could tell you that it is badly to know international politics and the real provision that canada can afford to exercise or if simply that would be coherent with the canadian identity
i could hardly see the canadian state justifying on the international scene an armed intervention against a separation of territory made legally by a series of democratic actions.
little advice: stop looking down on others. you will have more success.
i have great confidence in our parti québécois, but the power that rises to the top should not be underestimated. and there is corruption here too.
but as the grandparent post said, quebecers' political disinterest is one thing, but even worse will be the interest of non-separatists in sabotaging the "country" where they live. they're the ones who scare me.
there are many obstacles to overcome, but on their own it is not an impossible task. but as long as we add bad faith, it's the end of the "dream" in my opinion.
yes good, i read. sorry but from what i can understand arguing with you may be a waste of energy ...
sorry and good night! ✌
*** [edit: i will stay my course] ***
another ham that is having its head washed by what you are not able to get out of quebec ......
yes, no, toaster is pretty much the only thing the separatists are capable of saying outside of quebec.
come back in rags, the days of no drawing in quebec are over, referendums are over, and little by little the last of the last will disappear ........
10 years more and the without drawing it's over, but i imagine that you will believe it until the last minute that you can arrive in a quebec country ........
good luck asleep, if you just weren't so naive ...........
but it's not your fault, you were brought up the same .........
when you know nothing else in life, go back to your christmas dinner next year with your frustrated ganges and keep telling you that it's going to happen 🤡
exactly.
especially since the right to self-determination is embedded in its federal law. the debate around this law is about determining what is meant by: a ** "clear majority" ** [-> clarity act <-] ( / loi_sur_la_clart% c3% a9_r% c3% a9f% c3% a9rendaire #: ~: text = elle% 20% c3% a9nonce% 20qu'une% 20majorit% c3% a9, de% 20la% 20province% 20de% 20qu% c3% a9bec.). obviously it is not very easy for the average person to really understand, but it remains very present in the law.
i'm not looking for success, i just see that a problem this pause pushing me to clarify the bottom of my mind because yes by rereading it to me seemed very condescending and apparently many find your opinion valid which from my perspective is worrying you. it's nothing contemptuous, it's a stand, what do you want? maybe i'm a little too ** "idealistic" **, to use your words.
** [edit: in some cases, contempt is a matter of perspective, even if the effect of contempt was not initially intended.] ***
uff your mad? did you not sleep well? lol.
still without arguments? insults are easy, my little 5 year old cousin is capable too.
i wasn't even born in canada, invent the best sophisms.
too many drugs your brain burned :(.
ok champion, you were not even born in canada and you are embarking on a separatist comment .......
😂 he in whom we have no life
i am a member of this subreddit, you are the "no life" who cares about sovereignty but come here to insult people, dude your kind 35 years old with 2 children, what is your problem? the dpj took your children? go work bs chalice.
lol 😂 poor asshole, my house is only paying in full (which i can sell for $ 550,000) and i drive a 2019 bmw x1 .......
i am very far from being a bs the big one, and i made my money by all in canada what the separatists can not do ....... its too stupid to learn english so they just quebec......
you understand you little cauldron for whatever they its time handle on separatism ......
one day con tousjour con in your case .......
yeah, it's easy to waste your money on cars to impress your "buddies" when you're not even taking care of your children.
hahaha you go to "r / parenting" to insult single mothers hahah but what a big bum.
you're the caricature of quebecois douchebag.
heille mister "moé che open on the world sti" you know how one treats the bs like you in my country?
"a poor man's excuse".
$ 350k salary per year between me and my wife .......
with more than 200k in the bank account, my house has to pay off, and two children spoil it well i have no problem managing my panties .......
pi in case you did not know it, the women who complain about the men who do not take their responsibility but refuse to give custody shares ........ deserve to be treated as imbecile ...... a child has as much the right to have a father in their life as a mother .......
so please do not come bawl me that i sent shit a lady that look for pity on the internet by complaining about a situation that she created .......
it's funny but when they put that in their face their story changes every day in their favor.
so that you know it poor idiot, i paid 53k $ to have the shared custody by what a poor idiot to decide to stop taking the pill without telling me so that she even went so far as to mark an unknown father because i didn't want to be with a girl trying to wash a guy with a great career.
you my ham, you won't even pay $ 5k and you'd just give up a poor jerk.
you can say whatever you want, but i'm not someone who is going to let a poor jerk from another country do it and think that quebec deserves to be a country.
an idiot, what is ???? quebec gives you your bs checks and you think that if we separate it would be increased ????
the separatists are against immigrants, poor idiot, he thinks that immigrants will cause the french languages to disappear ......
bravo champion of champions, so learn quebec history before coming to support the rest of the poor con
aww is it a "poor fool" fault that you didn't use a condom? nice mentality of loser, always the fault of others ...
okay according to your "logic" she didn't want to make you like the baby's father but at the same time she wanted to "wash a guy with a good career", what? it makes no sense lol.
it's normal that she didn't want to know anything about you, who wants a douchebag drug addict who boasts on reddit in anonymity about how much cash he has, you clearly have an inferiority complex, here we are not your "buddies" we don't care crazy about your little car, your a deadbeat dad, the worst mess, you think your children are "spoiled" because you send them a check? do you think that's what it is to be a father? what ignorant.
no, i don't pay, because i'm not an "idiot" who makes children with girls he hates.
did you miss your sex education class?
it's funny that you continue with the "bs" when the federasts' argument is "but with canada we have equalization".
ps: the bs rate is higher in english-canada than in quebec, and even in quebec, native french speakers have the lowest unemployment rate.
"i'm not going to let an immigrant like you do it" hahah but what are you going to do? your a little white liberal from montreal is no weaker than that, your surely the idiot who crosses the street when he sees me coming hahah.
yes, and i too am against the immigrants who come here to anglicize quebec, the difference is that i am able to observe my faults and that of the immigrants who come from my corner instead of doing the douchebag like you.
awaille keep it up kewvennn, keep putting dope in the ass, you're a real man you.
although i would have half the labrador in red and blue line ... because until after the war, it was more in quebec than in tn!
you put it on / r / canada and / r / canadapolitic / r / ongaurdfor ...
after no futur, i present to you no culture, the new fashion for people who have failed to make their own culture.
you forgot to put the inside of the labrador in red. :)
no culture is a bit of a dog, i would rather have marked "british america".
i've always thought of going back to our canadian origins, it would be a huge mindfuck for the federasts.
is not gonna happen lol
most of the people of the north shore would like to go under newfoundland administration and none of the remaining francophones in tn, however deprived they are, want to go under quebec administration.
i'm saying that as a joke. i don't have a very good sense of humor, i think it's because i don't use a lot of exaggeration.
your comment is not worth much, beautiful words out of a magic hat. when will the rabbit?
it's not a rabbit, it's a moose and i'm not the one saying it, it's évangéline landry who comes from the north shore and lived there. the original hunters are tired of quebec and most prefer english and as long as going south to go to the usa rather than montreal.
it's not over, especially for france. 😅
the majority of the french-speaking vote could very well pass for the * invader * vote. *
all the bs that are still on the pcu
integration is a failure. until we are able to properly integrate our immigrants, i will consider the immigration thresholds too high.
the nation before the economy.
which poll comes from?
who are these francos who vote liberal in 2021 ???
such a losers
?
journal de montréal, probably léger marketing.
the bob grattons of our company.
young "progressives" who come to discover "the evil" of minorities.
probably those with pku. the old-fashioned (vote-buying) tactic but personally i can't blame the voters: they got something tangible instead of a promise.
the majority of the non-francophone vote is in fact defined as the allophone vote assimilated to canadian multiculturalism.
link?
as the caq wants to buy the votes of the qc region with its 3rd link for the next provincial vote.
old-fashioned tactic common to all governments. anglo, francos, provincial, federal, red blue or oranges.
it's a good measure to see if the immigrants assimilate or not, and yeah it's not going well.
the caq have lost a lot more feathers which have gained the buzz of the 3rd link is spent with the poorly managed pandemic. not for nothing duhaime is 2nd in the quebec region.
where is the problem, since it has been the best government in quebec for 30 years? don't answer. don't give a shit about your answer.
likewise my dear;)
but not pastafarianism, no sir.
the good side of all this is that the court has just tacitly said that religions are ideologies like any other.
vegans do not normally reject this vaccine, we listen to science. we understand that this is extremely important to protect the population. the definition of veganism includes "as far as possible and practicable" and in this case eradicating the pandemic is most important.
it is normal that it is considered a religion, because it is dangerous for health.
i look forward to the debate on whether the novavax vaccine which is produced with insects is correct or not
here we have the herbal medicago but the research is slowed down thanks to the caq covidpass they are no longer able to find volunteers who have not taken the pfizer to have the right to live in the qr code dystopia in preparation for. they had to move their operations from quebec to south america. crisse that we are strong in quebec
> religion protected by the state.
will be fun to authenticate practitioners. at least the british seem able to publicize their legal holes whereas here, it is all the time in secret (fines canceled, places of worship declared essential service, american plates while the border is closed, etc.).
i don't need to introduce myself as a vegan to refuse the vaccine, i don't trust the government and even less when it does business with the private sphere for my so-called well-being. the health passport is a doorstep to modern slavery that most people are unlikely to conceive of. after how many doses will they wake up? or will it already be too late? 😎
does it have to have a plant equivalent to the egg that can be used for the vaccine culture?
is their grocery store going to be tax deductible?
nice
this vaccine cannot * eradicate * the pandemic, firstly because the mirage of zero covid is impossible and anti-science; covid is becoming endemic and will always be present like influenza. pfizer is for reducing symptoms when it is your turn to contract covid, and claims that it is reducing transmission are being dispelled. in the usa for 2 weeks, the cdc considers that there is no longer a difference in the transmission, vaccinated or not.
as a vegan, i can confirm that this comment is false. on the other hand, it's probably true that what people eat in general (including vegans) is dangerous for your health.
["it is the position of the american dietetic association that appropriately planned vegetarian diets, including total vegetarian or vegan diets, are healthful, nutritionally adequate, and may provide health benefits in the prevention and treatment of certain diseases. well-planned vegetarian diets are appropriate for individuals during all stages of the life cycle, including pregnancy, lactation, infancy, childhood, and adolescence, and for athletes."](
seriously, it's because vaccines contain animal substances? 😂
no need if you are one of those who find his vegetables in the garbage
vaccines have historically wiped out a multitude of viral diseases, if there is a worldwide vaccination.
we cannot compare covid with influenza, because influenza is a category of viruses that are very different from each other.
little questions coming from a non-vegan, isn't it true that vegans should supplement their diet, as rich and diverse as it is, with vitamin b12? if so, how to reconcile the idea of a healthy diet with the obligation to take supplements to compensate for its deficiencies?
the american dietetic association also tells people that dairy products are essential for a good diet.
i don't subscribe to the anti-abortion or anti-stem cell positions, but i would love to ask one of these vegan to explain why in his reasoning a vaccine produced from human fetal cells is correct but not one with pig cells, let's say.
>> vaccines have historically eliminated a multitude of viral diseases
disappear? false.
none have entirely disappeared "because of the vaccines"
polio is gone from north america, that's all, and it's a very different infection - one that affected everyone not just obese elderly people
to reduce is not to eradicate
zero covid is media madness that no scientist, what am i saying, a 1st year science student would believe possible
> covid cannot be compared with influenza
it is 2 very similar infections, it is polio which is the intruder in the lot; and influenza is deadlier under 50 than covid, and there has been an influenza vaccine for decades that is * safe *, tested and not at all experimental and you would never think of making it mandatory even though most people who want to have to pay out of pocket in quebec.
ps you are not talking to an antivax moron but to someone who understands the reality and knows that even if the pfizer was the magic vaccine that some like to believe, even if it lasted (it has to be redone every 6 months and the third dose begins there) even if there were no longer any mutations of resistant variants (which become dominant variants * because of * mass vaccination is bio 101) and even if we could realistically vaccinate 8 billion humans on earth, the specific virus of covid-19 would still exist in the animal reservoir and in some humans. and there are hundreds of other at least as dangerous viruses already identified in nature at this time.
the pfizer is a very good tool to reduce the impact (symptoms) in vulnerable people (the elderly and obese, perhaps some chronically ill but we do not know about them)
it is not a magical talisman that makes anything disappear.
"vaccine"
it's not a vaccine, it's a new technology
very good question, it is even one of the reasons why many people think that being vegan is not natural, because of this supplement. in fact, b12 is found naturally in just about everything we would normally eat. the problem is our hygiene measures which are much too developed (which obviously serve to solve a lot of other problems), which means that there is not really b12 naturally in food (except algae) .
what is special when we compare the modern vegan to omnivorous diet (which consumes factory-farmed products) is that we could say that in both cases, potentially b12 supplements are required. in the 1970s there was a problem with modern factory farming. the animals had nutritional deficiencies. the reason was that the breeding was too hygienic! this resulted in a reduction of b12 in the feed of farm animals. the solution? supplement the animals with b12.
so do vegans really need to consume "more" supplements than modern omnivores? we could say no, indirectly.
otherwise, it would also be possible to eat algae and that could perhaps do, i have not tried. otherwise, apparently eating dirt, drinking untreated water, not washing food and hands might do, but it's far from recommended ...
indeed it is necessary to take vitamin b12. supplementation does not mean that a diet is not healthy or not "natural". many common foods are already fortified. do you eat salt?
* essential *? source?
i would say it's a matter of consent. other species cannot give informed consent to what is done to them, while a human can.
but in any case, big pharma is not vegan, because of animal testing.
generally, vegans go where possible. personally, i am against the medical mafia, so i oppose all of their mandatory treatments and tests. how can we trust people who torture animals to force us to do anything? how can we believe that it is for our good?
because man is the real pork, we will say, especially white meat.
we could be 100% immune here, it would have to be done again the next day:
we live in a globalized economy with airports open 24/7, tourists, immigrants, emigrants and refugees, legal and illegal. no one wants to admit it and prefers to hit the locals.
that we are made to believe a magical elimination of the virus in this context is a massive dissonance. covid is going to become rampant and many will look crazy.
yep, just polio!
[
[
[
🙄
thank you for your answer, it goes back to what i had heard in the past! well, we agree that leaving what is essentially residues of excrement in your salad or broccoli is not the idea of the century so fortunately the supplements exist: p
i know, iodine is added to salt, but it's a non sequitur since vegans also consume salt. the idea is that with a truly rich and varied diet, you don't need a pill to avoid dying. if people want to go on a vegan diet, it's up to them, but i've always found the premise that this diet is equal to or better than a conventional diet is questionable. then to reiterate, people eat what they want, but the vegan diet is anything but natural. at the very least, there is not a single vegan society on the planet, at the limit some vegetarians, perhaps, but absolutely none vegan.
>one source for sound nutrition advice on cancer prevention and diet is **the american dietetic association (ada). as a reference for meal planning, the ada recommends the food guide pyramid**
the pyramid is in the article.
you're right, you might as well die of the flu like a real tough guy at 34 in the days of jacques cartier and the privateers.
and the animal reservoir
it comes from a bat
migratory birds and insects can be carriers, are we going to build a dome around quebec to prevent them from passing?
i repeat, you don't distinguish between reduce and eradicate
only one problem, polio still exists for example in sudan: natural polio is eradicated and now it is a polio derived from vaccines which is ravaging.
source: who.
why do you expect it to do the same as a vaccine when it clearly isn't?
thank you! on the other hand, the pyramid has now been [replaced by a plate] ( (which still contains dairy products on the other hand). several experts believe that this inclusion is probably due to the milk lobbies, which are unfortunately as present in the united states as in canada. but it is true that studies in nutrition are sometimes contradictory. other nutrition associations say a vegan diet is good for you, so that's fine with me.
the only person i know who died of this is my grandmother over 90 years old who was told to me that she was going to die soon. a large part of my family (including a good party over 60 years), if it is not all on this side (~ 20 people and more) had it, no complications, vaccinated (one dose) or not at all vaccinated.
good point. as an example, the subject of transmission with domesticated animals was first reported with mass slaughter in europe but the subject was subsequently hidden:
no one wanted to see the spca & co. be inundated with abandoned animals. we politically hid the information and acted as if nothing had happened. the snot animal a little? it's just the flu. "antivax" for animals.
and it went like butter.
the density here is not the same as in an area prone to hatching.
link or gtfo
i imagine you did your research ...
desktop version of /u/gallifreyan42's link: <
 --- 
 ^([)[^(opt out)]( ^(beep boop.  downvote to delete)
just like the canadian food guide that we owe to lobbyists.
nutrition studies will never stop lobbyists from taking action.
[reste poli svp]( 
i gave it to you the main source
[on apprends toujours](
seems to me that it is perfectly known, you just since the covid that everyone labels any information which is not flattering towards certain vaccines like conspiracy or anti-vaxx or even anti-science lol this one is the best
we put a piece of fabric in your face and a plexiglass between you and the next table and after that we consider adhering to science lol
is it true or is it not true that messenger rna injections are different from conventional vaccines?
your comment claims that the mrna injection should do like conventional vaccines, i imagine you did your research?
the messenger rna vaccine is one type of vaccine among many, why shouldn't this be considered a conventional vaccine? after all, what do you think is a conventional vaccine?
oh yes. it is not all the same thing, we do not inject something into the body that allows it to recognize the virus if it is confronted with it.
it's really different.
🤦
that is as much to say that each vaccine is unique.
according to the mentality of some, rna is rat poison.
why? to kill the world's population.
why? to line the pockets of pharmaceuticals.
why? because, uh ... wait a bit. if everyone dies from a machiavellian plan, where are the pharmaceuticals going to line their pockets?
"very nebulous all that, very nebulous" - alexis cossette-trudel
a vaccine contains the virus. it's certainly a pretty big difference
edit: that does not prevent that mrna technology could be revolutionary, not needing the virus.
> christianity is today a target all the easier as the attacks against it often take place, with the exception of the most extreme and the closest, behind a wall of silence and indifference. especially since on the spot, for example in pakistan or in afghanistan, the christians are minorities in the process of planned extinction.
this is your explanation. people don't care what happens in these countries. compare the collapsed building in miami (probably over 150 dead) to the beirut port explosion which killed 207 by destroying an entire part of the city. the first has been on the news for weeks and the second only managed to find a spot on the news for 2-3 days because of the vivid images of the explosion.
say no to the inclusive multicultural wokes ... we will trèter you from islamophobic racists. let us continue to suffer and die. we wanted to be privileged white supremacists ??? !!! that will teach us to be born of the wrong color.
whatever religion it wants, the "persecuted" get on my nerves ... i'm not able to see someone bawling about religion ... i know too well that behind each "i have been persecuted" there is has a "do you know jesus / allah / rael / joseph smith / i men chalice" behind what is coming to try to put me in anti-ball mormons underwear and drown me ...
it could all loosen up and we'd just be better off.
the page mentions that the website is suspended.
the original chronicle:
easy explanation: americans are like us. florida is close to quebec. the building would have been built by a guy of montreal origin and there were quebec owners in the building. beirut, it is little known, it is far away, the people do not resemble us either physically or culturally, and are very foreign to us. for the average quebecer, a lebanese is almost an extraterrestrial. vice versa: the lebanese probably don't give a damn about the miami tower. people have easier sympathy when the victims look like them.
_bot maître capelo_ 
apparently you made a mistake, the correct conjugation is
i know**
we breathe in through our nose, count three seconds, and then breathe out. do that a few times, kitten, it'll do you good.
the site is now working: [ danemark( -believers-persecuted-in-the-world-are-christians)
your yeulle. me in chalice.
good bot
once again, this is a repost from le devoir.
thank you, hrodgari, for voting on maitre-capelo.
this bot wants to find the best and worst bots on reddit. [you can view results here](
***
^(even if i don't reply to your comment, i'm still listening for votes. check the webpage to see if your vote registered!)
> anthony housefather. anju dhillon. sherry romanado. peter schiefke. angelo iacono. emmanuella lambropoulos. francis scarpaleggia. patricia lattanzio. sameer zuberi.
wow. i would not have the right to say it elsewhere, but note that there is not a single french name. and we are accused of ethnic nationalism.
beautiful mange-marde this antoine maison-du-père
it struck me as well. all foreign-sounding names. and there are more than nine in fact who abstained, but among the others there were perhaps cases of absences or i do not know too much (although the fact of being absent for a day from parliament in order not to not to vote on a specific thing is a political strategy used by some).
here they are: william amos, emmanuel dubourg, annie koutrakis and alexandra mendès.
put in, an angryphone of the worst kind. isle
going out of its hinges the other day when pro-israel protesters were attacked by pro palestinians, but never making the connection he is campaigning for in the most pro-immigrationist party.
a single french-speaking name. it doesn't make it much better. as mbc says, that says a lot about our ability to integrate.
i know william amos is out indefinitely because he can't help but piss with his camera open in the zoom of the house of commons
i was just thinking about it this morning as i passed a synagogue that employs security guards to watch outside as soon as the congregation gathers.
it is very hard to understand that they are also pro-immigration, whereas a good part of the peoples whose arrival they actively support have a religion whose anti-semitism is known and public; an anti-semitism which in the 1940s almost * de facto * allied the arab world to nazi germany.
there is something suicidal and therefore, oddly christian there. however, they have to choose: accept the apparent rise in islamophobia, or oppose the mass immigration of muslims. either. the average quebecer has no particular hatred towards jews, and we are going to blame him anyway.
lots of italians ...
ok, i went to english school, primary and secondary (not because i'm english, 100% french-speaking quebecois, my sister was able to go there before the restrictions of law 101 above)
uh ... john f kennedy high school and sir wilfrid laurier, the first is in villeray (corner of st-michel and villeray) and the second was behind the dic anns sur pie ix in north montreal ... there were a lot of italians ... students and teachers ...
all this just to say, that i don't know why ... but chalice there is no more federalist worse anti quebecois than them ... not know if it is better in french but according to what i 've seen, if you are francophone you get fucked up in tabarnac. worse if in addition you display yourself as "separatisse" you eat about three times more mard ...
do not know if it is the fact of having been in an english school or it is the fact that these schools are 95% immigrants or coming from immigrant families (maybe 70% italian around) but sacrament they are liberal 300% worse they really don't want to know anything about quebec ...
what unites the liberals is their hatred of native quebecers. liberals like housefather are ready to endure many things if that can make quebecers disappear from quebec.
what i often observe is that the original population (any country), serves as a territorial buffer between two historically opposed ethnic areas and that the whole thing cracks only when this buffer is removed. for example, there may be a neighborhood populated by x and another by y but as long as the "average citizen" z is in between and serves as a scapegoat, all is "well" for x and y who do not not rub shoulders on the sidewalk. just look at a city map to notice this phenomenon: lots of "stamps" between so-called ethnic neighborhoods.
the equivalent in strategy games is to put 3 armies: one in each corner and the third in the middle. the one in the middle tends to be "attacked" first and for a while.
exactly. they have pledged their allegiance to * lord * durham.
it is partisanship everywhere. 99% of pro-democracy leftists last week when maxime bernier was arrested at a demonstration: “hahaha maxime bernier letssss gooooooo j'adore !!! enweye in prison my dirty !!! well done! ” suddenly the police arresting demonstrators is super cool.
not many people who have real convictions in all of this. it's just tribal wars and almost sporting rivalries.
"laws must adapt to beliefs" ... we should start by seeing where these new beliefs come from. not the speech that comes with justifying them but rather who introduced them and why. and read-reread 1984.
yes to all social causes at the same time, except those that come from wicked evil demons badly embodied bad not nice
i would not persist with singaporean justice because it is your butt that it will beat for a bit of gum.
totally agree. i was used to biased opinions before but it was spread over events with semesters, even years apart. 6 months or 2 years to change my mind, it was possible and acceptable to me.
now put 2 events 48 hours apart and there are going to be people saying one thing and then the other way around based on who is involved. personally, this is unheard of.
men must adapt to the laws of the countries they live in or visit .... if you don't agree with the laws go elsewhere !!!
in my eyes, i think that nieztche or marx have more elaborate discourses when it comes to belief. isn't it the latter who said that religion is the opium of the people. although very relevant, there are many other books and authors that deal with these topics.
the media are the ones who should point out these inconsistencies and maintain their own the most, but they are the instigators of this reality show.
that's it ... if i go to saudi arabia worse than i squeal a koran on fire, since religion is not capable ...
how long will it take before i get beheaded?
religions are part of heritage, culture, ect, but must not forget that they are very conservative and attached to backward traditions. lots of exploitation behind their doors, monetary extortion, pshycological manipulation, abuse, rape, conspiracy, murders ...
it's true that it's paradoxical, let's say ... at the same time, i would be really surprised if there was an obligation for the vaccine.
by the way, you are doing a good job in psychiatry ... i am also in the field of mental health and it is big challenges for families when we talk about psychotic disorders in particular ... by leaving institutionalization ( asylums) we picked up on what sometimes seems like another extreme, but hey. keep it up \ ^ \ ^
foolish judge's calisse. this is what happens when the judges are indebted to no one, they have all the time to bask in their ivory tower and lead the plebs according to their byzantine principles without worrying for a second about the consequences that this entails in the real world. life. you should send this story to a reporter.
as a bonus, if pikachu would have been forced to have his injection by the judge, he would have had to buy it for himself and make appointments himself to have it injected!
and if he's not on the bs, it's like $ 300 a month or more.
respect for informed consent is extremely important, especially when we are old and decrepit or ill, it is the only thing that allows us to maintain control over our body.
that said, a vaccine has no impact on the person anywhere other than narcotics or anti-psychotics. the bar for a mandatory vaccine is much lower.
and there are precedents for [compulsory vaccination] ( the benefit of eliminating smallpox was well worth it. i find it far less a violation of personal autonomy than forcing pikachu to take his medication. and forcing him to take his medication is far less of a violation than sending him to jail.
so the covid vaccine is where in all of this. with all the bastards spreading lies about vaccines, how do we respect informed consent?
i hope that we can achieve collective immunity by resorting to the compulsory vaccine. but if we are taken inside for a long time, i will vaccinate the world with syringes and a tabarnak crossbow!
edit: wrong link
mental illness is arguably the worst part.
there are a lot of people losing their jobs because they don't want the vaccines and this is just the start. the censorship has increased again, we're in deep shit all the way, i can't believe people still take this experimental injection thing lightly. i am disappointed with people. i would like to remind you that in this injection campaign for young people, our poor children, they will not be immune to the virus! it is the pharmaceutical companies that are immune (against us) ...
forcing violent mental patients to follow their prescriptions, badly. forcing the whole population to curfew, fine. go and understand the state of law in this country.
this is something that is repeated over and over again across the province. this is not an isolated case.
> with all the bastards spreading lies about vaccines, how do we respect informed consent?
the state is doing everything to show that there is something wrong with this "pandemic", locked up and denigrating the world, no common sense. what does it give like confidence? none, i will fight until the end, i have no doubt it is a scam because of their actions. and i'm very brief in what i'm saying, because there isn't just a red flag. there are shoveling it, lies everywhere, it doesn't matter which side you are on and just for that, i can't believe it's still there, to denigrate people who think differently.
where does all this corrosion in your refrigerator come from?
judges respect bureaucratic entropy. in both cases, it is the solution that involves the least effort for them (explicit and implicit government status quo).
there's no one in there who'll dare take out their boxing gloves and jump into the ring. no one wants to become the next andrée ruffo and lose their job.
[self-portrait of a superior court judge, circa 2021, black and white] (
judges are exempt from curfew and quite a bit of arbitrary repressive measures. so they don't care
you got your head filled with lies
i just bought it used and hadn't seen it. it is quite disturbing and disappointing!
come on while you digging through my history, have you seen my flashlight?
my respects to judge ruffo, it would take 50 like her and we would have a lot less problems in the system.
[pareillement](
we will not get out of this without dialogue.
are you sure you didn't make a typo with the a: p key
nah, but without spying on your history, it's because these are the photographs of your refrigerator that are displayed when you click on the link that you have embed in compulsory vaccination.
the problem is that i don't have infinite time wasting on the gish gallop of covidiots who can't be convinced of anything anyway.
ok i jumped on the gun too fast;) lol
i will correct the links
for business that prevents us from living normally and which will change our way of life, in addition to taking a mega portion of our taxes, in addition to having no guarantee that it works and that it is our health that is put to risk and especially that of young people, it seems to me that it is worth going to take a look at what is really going on. you can continue to trust the government, that doesn't mean i'm wrong, because we don't want to know.
i have such a hard time understanding this man there.
i don't think he ever considered the physical limits of the average person's intellect to be a limiting factor in the complexity of the message you want to convey through a population.
man, sure if everyone was educated, curious, iq> 120, we would have a lot less stupid debates.
not ironically he shits ahead of woke corporatism before it got ubiquitous, hats off to him. on the other hand, it would be really disappointed to see that the group which falls in the trap of these machinations there are the women for whom freedom is "inherently a good thing". see the average qs electorate, precisely.
you were on the right track bodé, you were on the right track ... you just forgot that everyone spa who has 6 inches of forehead and an interest in complex questions .... or the drive to defend its identity ...
damn, the video could have been filmed in 2021 than you would have believed. everything he talks about has become almost daily news today.
"a christian missionary movement"
it is only recently that we started to associate a fringe of the left with religiosity (purity).
the parti québécois is a coalition, they have their place there, but hey when you put leftism before sovereignty your qs.
i must have watched this interview at least twenty times. i do not get tired of it so much it is overflowing with truth while being premonitory.
bruh, the left you can play politics but just in the streets you shouldn't play politics in parliament. wtf chalice, we can do it as we want.
the man was an artist. artists are the eternal misunderstoods, so that's a bit normal.
it's been a long time since the extreme left-wing just looks like another religion.
no right to ask questions "educate yourself, i'm not here to educate you dirty unclean" or "i'm just a better person" it's the same filth a mormon would tell you, read my book screeching , everything is there ... that does not mean that it is true or that it makes sense ... worse it is written by a fucké sold to your bullshit.
the pq has indeed an interest in rallying all political horizons for a common cause: independence.
qs, independence is secondary to social justice, and yes we also need this type of party to defend the weak, as mbc pointed out in a column.
notwithstanding the disclosure of the recent american telegram, that dorval airport bears the name of pierre eliott trudeau is stupid. his government gave us the king of the white elephants, the gargantuan boil practically visible from the space that is the mirabel airport. they expropriated 97,000 acres, destroyed entire villages, which also explains the anarchy of town planning and contemporary development in mirabel. while badly shit ymx in the middle of nowhere and devoid of passengers bears his name, not yul.
my propositions:
** louis riel airport **, about time a métis was honored internationally
** dominique michel airport, ** well she is not dead yet but since there is almost no named airport for a woman and that the national "dodo" note is a pioneer who has done a lot for women and for quebec nation ...
** gaspar soiaga airport ** ([kondiaronk] ( , chief wandat, architect of the great peace of montreal in 1701 and an ally of the french canadians.
** maurice richard airport, ** the rocket, why not?
** gilles vigneault airport, ** my country is winter!
rené-lévesque airport 😍
very well, but as i have already said, it comes under federal jurisdiction and we know the answer we will receive.
honestly, i can't take any more shine calling for name changes ... it feels like a fad.
so, to all parties concerned, shut your mouths, and call montreal airport "montreal airport". we won't need to rename it the day another scandal breaks out.
we get stuck
completely agree and even simpler: there is no reason to name anything to the glory of an oppressor, however local.
let's say that the news is not very rich in independence recently. if it weren't for this news either, there would be no activity. moreover, i see very few left vs. right discussions or religions ... the majority of discussions serve primarily to reiterate the founding values of quebec which are freedom of expression and secularism.
we will not pass a referendum without the left, so we must stop dividing. you can be a nationalist without being a centrist or on the right.
this sub was not originally created by the banned world of r / quebec. a kind of r / quebec but no censorship of moderators?
i don't like reading anything from mbc, but this quote holds true regardless of the source.
the concern is the generation gap. the closer people get to retirement age, the more they dislike the concept of a fundamental change in quebec. and the conservatives and liberals enjoy the idea of terrorizing quebecers with totally stupid assumptions about the risks and dangers of quebec independence.
it is true that we could speak more of a free quebec, but at the same time there is little news in this direction. we try to keep the sub as active as possible with various items. usually as far as i'm concerned, i post content that addresses a nationalist point of view.
since we lost control of the education system and the federalists have free rein to indoctrinate all young people with radical trudeauism, we will have to think of something other than the political path to ensure the survival of the nation .
> let us relax a bit on the right / left question and talk about how we are going to make quebec a country.
it is difficult at this time to imagine a realistic path to independence without involving a catastrophic event (collapse of the state, third conscription crisis, etc.). there are several realities on the ground that block the situation:
1- the economy, as long as we are going to receive equalization there is a large percentage of quebecers who will not vote yes. fortunately for us, the oil industry is struggling so it may give us a chance to get closer to the canadian average in terms of gdp.
2- demography, we are heading in the direction of japan to become one of the oldest societies in the world. it is certainly not a recipe for making people take a political risk. not to mention that among the younger generations, quebecers of stock will soon be in the minority.
3- cultural anti-nationalism. we are facing the ultra-liberal and self-flagellar wave of the "wokist" religion which contaminates a large percentage of the few young quebecers of origin in our schools. how to defend and be proud of the french heritage in quebec when a large percentage of young people embark on an ideology that advocates the devaluation of western heritage in general. it also discourages the desire to take political risks, because any improvement in our political situation becomes suspect, incompatible with the necessary collapse of western civilization to give way to the oppressed of the world.
we are a long way from independence. the fabric of our society is being torn apart by the tension of postmodernism and assimilation. montreal is terminally ill, and cancer is slowly spreading outside. independence cannot be achieved without a strong nationalist movement and without a population that is ready to take political risks.
so what should nationalists do? first reproduce, then work hard to develop the country, get involved in the community, try to influence the existing parties as much as possible. i am not one of those who believe that we must solve all our problems as a prerequisite to achieve independence, but it takes a minimum and we are far below.
i did not see free quebec in the sense of independence. the other sub was just talking about it.
[removed]
the criticism of the "left" that i constantly read here concerns first of all this very virulent new progressive post-national left aiming at the deconstruction of quebec society and the "cancellation" of its history. these people advocate federalism, often without knowing it, so nothing should be expected of them.
for the rest, it's true that the left is more often criticized here than the right, but i don't think it's such a right sub.
it's not quite that. when this sub was created, and the next few months, i was not yet banned from r / quebec. it was noted, however, that r / quebec was taking a turn hostile to those who have positions that go against the largely dominant leftist majority.
and so the idea is that r / quebeclibre is valid in both senses of the word. a place where quebec nationalists and separatists can come together, and a place where freedom of expression is favored and encouraged.
let it be, the troll. this is not where you are going to find an audience.
you just have to move to china or russia, very tolerant societies.
me too, most of the world in quebec are left centrist and me including on a lot of issues, the left woke repels me and i appreciate the posts that bash them
so can i say fuck capitalism without a problem?
dac! thank you for the clarification.
but the nationalists or independentists, you are not going to tell me who are not on the left ...
if the old definition of the left is still worth anything in 2021, so am i (social democratic republican).
from the perspective of an independent quebec, if we have to ally with the left that is qs, i would not be against either. we really need everyone from all possible specters, and not to confine independence to a question of political positioning (like climate change which must not be appropriate for political gain otherwise it is screwed up).
let's make a country, then let's talk about society.
absolutely.
there are some on the left, but also on the right. the problem with r / quebec is that it's almost just leftist in qs sauce and they don't tolerate right-wingers. we tolerate everyone.
perfect thank you very much
pis r/metaquebec c'est r/quebec x2
> another important element, the supreme court brought the human rights tribunal to order on the scope of its jurisdiction. "the action for discrimination is not, and should not become, a claim for defamation", conclude the majority judges. a defamation suit is in fact the responsibility of the superior court of quebec. moreover, jérémy gabriel could have brought such an action, recalls the supreme court.
it's rare that we have good news like this.
what a relief. my country is a better country today. we were still hot in a 5-4 decision. esti that i was afraid.
great, but the fact that the decision was so close is worrying.
surprising as a judgment in 2021 but excellent news.
i don't know how long it's been since i saw such good news, especially when jeremy started yelling psq he had lost $ 35,000.
the reason jeremy didn't sue in superior court was because his lawyers told him he wouldn't win when the human rights tribunal wins almost anyone.
my instinct tells me that the judges of quebec have made the difference.
yes and no.
it is clear that the number was completely out of place and you have to be a fool in & @ # & to believe that words like this are unlikely to end up in the wrong hands.
but from what i understand (what i'm claiming, let's say i read very little about the subject just as i didn't read this lapresse post) the supreme court had to seek to instead avoid creating a precedent that could seriously endanger the freedom of expression of those who have genuinely thought-provoking content (such as attacking a politician or a politician).
in jérémy's case, it is clear that it was very defamatory with these certain truths and these distortions of the truth.
apartment ... it's a bad game to play for jérémy. but don't be too surprised at the supreme court's decision. i think she's doing a good job here (although i think ward has gone a bit too far).
(but i'll definitely try to find out more about the decision 😅✌️)
[deleted]
do we know who voted on which side?
you know i had never wondered about the origin of the judges of the supreme court of canada.
i'm a little surprised, and not really at the same time.
i find it funny that people were there: nah, not in canada my man on a controversial post the other day.
looks like no. 4/9 confirmed. wew.
not surprised
it should always be remembered that the majority of decision-makers are old, ie 60+. they are afraid and do everything to reassure themselves by imposing unnecessary restrictions to bully the young people of their youth. no study shows that wearing a mask reduces the transmission of the virus, disinfecting the hands every two minutes does not change the transmission as well. only that by disinfecting the hands, it will cause damage to the hands in the long term. and the vaccine passport, as many others have mentioned is only a form of population control and although the government does not make the vaccine mandatory, it does so subtly by denying access to the premises. entertainment. a vaccinated and unvaccinated person can both catch and spread the chinese virus.
the passport is a constraint instituted by woke imbeciles who look to the usa and france to find ways to piss off the world. even if 100% were vaccinated, there would still be cases .... we are not ready to end it. end of 2022 at least. good luck to all .
yes but we can now say of [young people under 30 years old] ( now. 🤡
so yes, young people under 100 are congesting hospitals. 🤡
hmm, it's more convenient for the big hypochondriac clown to show the data separated between vaxx and unvaxx on the other hand.
i would like you to stop thinking for yourself, please, it's clearly your fault that we are still in a pandemic.
freedom comes through submission, obviously.
it's nice to see that there are still people who are not under the hypnosis of the government and the media! in my entourage, i have the impression that everyone finds it normal what happens. it freaks me out that they don't see the manipulation going on.
you worse your logic, go hide yourself damn it! quebec stepmothers don't like to be contradicted.
thank you for this comparison which illustrates once again how the government interprets the numbers as they see fit in order to continue their speech of fear and manipulate the masses. it's really despicable, shame on them.
broadly agree, but i have to add a caveat. for masks, there are a few observational studies that went back and forth, some saw a correlation between wearing the mask and reduced contamination, others didn't. there, a prospective study was carried out in bangladesh on a total population of more than 300,000 people which concluded to:
* a statistically significant 10% reduction in symptomatic infections with masks
* the reduction was only 5% in villages using cloth masks, and it was statistically insignificant
* the reduction was 11% in villages with surgical masks and it was statistically significant
mask fanatics hailed this study for proving an effect, but in fact, if the study has a statistically significant effect, the estimated effect is tiny, just 10% fewer infections over two months. not to mention that a study of this size is known to generate type i errors (excluding the null hypothesis by mistake, therefore concluding that there is a significant effect when there is none).
my interpretation of the study is that it seems to demonstrate some effectiveness, especially for surgical masks rather than fabric masks, but that effectiveness is minimal, at a level where one can reasonably wonder if it's really worth it, especially insofar as the virus will be endemic and therefore we can assume that in the end, everyone will go through it, which would mean that the mask only delays the moment of infection very slightly, but does not reduce not in the end the number of hospitalizations or total deaths that will be attributed to covid (unlike a treatment that would also have the effect of reducing mortality by 10%, which would be worthwhile because it would save lives in the end).
in short, even if the study seems to indicate a slight effect, the decision as to whether this effect is worth the trouble of implementing mask wearing obligations is still not necessary.
grave the old people are so afraid that they will say anything.
esti that the media have the gift of pumping us with their misinformation.
i would like to see an article on babies who die of the flu this winter, i think that would make a nice report. a blow gone, why not pump the fear thoroughly? article of children who die on the front page every day, let's cover all diseases.
then the cases of rsv are on the big increase in quebec, soon they will surely tell us about the children who are hospitalized by the rsv who are also exposed to the covid virus in hospital and test positive and they will pump fear afterwards. saying that it is the variants that hospitalize children.
he also likes to include children under 12 when separating data between vaxx and unvaxx. we see above that young people are a significant percentage of cases. it helps boost the case numbers for the unvaxx group.
squeal well said.
the unvaxxed at this point is a bogeyman
a simple question and their whole house of cards collapses; how is it that after 1 year + in a pandemic, a variant that appears in india ends up on the other side of the earth, in quebec?
your safety and that of your parents is not their priority.
very well said. if only more people understood this logic.
question like this: if a young person is hospitalized for rsv and tests positive for covid in the hospital ... is it counted as "covid hospitalization"?
it is so disgusting the current campaign to make parents believe that delta and the unvaxx are going to kill their children.
speaking of "booster" (read english), pharmaceuticals are pushing for a boost in the usa anyway (3rd dose) .... its all about money ... pharmaceuticals have so much power, they dictate to the government what to do ... they sign agreements with the various governments that they will not be held responsible for possible side effects ... the kings are the pharmaceuticals.
yep. what matters to them in the end is politically surviving the pandemic. even if it involves lengthening it psychologically and violating our rights.
the lack of transparency from the inspq about the counting of the number of covid hospitalizations makes me really not sure.
this is the case in the uk anyway.
personally, it is the speeches of justin trudeau who present the unvaccinated as threats to public health that endanger the vaccinated and their children that disgust me the most. presenting a minority as a threat to public health has been a prized tactic of hate demagoguery governments for millennia. and in addition, he is pushing for vaccine passports to ensure that this minority is easily identifiable and to increase the chances that they will be victims of harassment, insults and discrimination of all kinds.
i'm not kidding, i believe justin trudeau should be indicted for incitement to hatred under [section 319 of the criminal code] ( -46 / section-319-20030101.html), but there would have to be a lawyer with balls to do it.
i am okay. trudeau's statements are so false and demagogic. the problem is, the propaganda machine is completely delusional. this is not going to end well. politicians must let go. people will become violent.
personally, what i find interesting about justin trudeau is that he managed to call an election "in the midst of a pandemic" and that no one in the political-media caste reacts.
it is the equivalent of the real estate broker who shows a house, announces that it is full of asbestos and indicates that it is ready to be inhabited tomorrow.
and everyone takes the keys.
it's just fascinating.
> the results confirm the concern of quebecers for the future of the french language: 64% of the population believes that there is "currently a decline of the french language in quebec". this proportion climbs to 78% among francophones, but only 16% of anglophones share the same concern.
well then, i did not know that the mother tongue made one blind to statistical reality.
who is the moron of the second quebecer?
this is why the federals are inked on the ethnic question, if french-canadians become a minority the% of quebecers who are worried about the decline of french would also be in the minority but of course the media will only say "quebecers no longer fear the decline french "is the reason why i find that we went too quickly on the change of name, if we become a country ok we are all quebecers but before that not to mention the ethnic question is to be dishonest.
absolutely, we are no longer in the 1960s when french canadian nationalists demonstrated with "quebec to quebecers" signs in their hands. it is clear that québécois no longer means anything, exactly as it does for canadian. at the same time, we shopped around this national decomposition with the geniuses of the pq who believed to achieve independence thanks to the support of tunisians, haitians or cameroonians who would certainly be more receptive to our cause than the italians or the greeks. suffice it to say that this was not the case and that the pq are still hiding their heads in the sand.
what, for you, is a quebecer and what prevents us from all being quebecers while remaining in canada?
the pq had good intentions but a lack of strategic vision.
we must first emancipate this french nation of america to then make a more inclusive quebec but at least that is a country.
that's a bit what the left is doing, they go to the most extreme possible, example "we want transgender toilets, gay marriage" we reacted like what it's going too far we're just going to take what is less radical to calm them down (gay marriage ) 2 years later they come back with a new discourse "sex change for minors, transgender toilets" and we accept transgender toilets, and like that which was radical yesterday and the norm today.
worse, it's the same year after year, and today they've given free sex reassignments to murderers in prison which would be seen as madness a few years ago, that's how they got it.
the reason why it is less taboo in quebec to talk about immigration is because there is a debate, in english-canada there is no such debate, so even talking about reducing immigration is seen as racist.
a french canadian from quebec, i think the flag is pretty clear on that.
the army is canadian, the constitution is canadian, our laws are canadian, sport is canadian, our passport is canadian, ect, finally what is quebecois? the sqdc? a civil code which is under supervision because the federal government can modify it when it wants as with the law 101? we exist that in our hearts not on reality, it took 150 years for canada to recognize our existence and so on with a motion that does not want anything and in addition that included "in a united canada" lol like what if we go out we would no longer exist .
if we have no autonomy in the globalist world today and with the fact that canada is the country of the west which receives on average the most immigrants, within 1 century what will remain of quebec? the reason why several sectors have been nationalized, such as hydroelectricity, it does not come from anywhere it has to do with our history because we were tired of working for private english-speaking companies which exploited us, "master at home" it comes from that precisely.
and it is the same logic for the fact that we are against wars and that english canada is for, culture is the experience, an immigrant does not have this experience that french canadians have, so even if they will speak french, they are not going to have the same opinion of the world and we can see it in the voting intentions, it is huge the difference, 10% of french-canadians voted for the liberals vs 70% of anglo-americans and immigrants, without real autonomy we will never be able to assimilate immigrants in our thoughts to us they will never have the pride that we have, and it's not easy to be quebecois not forget, have almost no institution, our heroes be military be sporty, ect do not have carried our flag, finally our heroes are politicians from the province because they are the only ones able to represent quebec, even food like poutine nowadays it is a canadian pride, because if we are not a people in the real finally all the good let us become this nadien, are there an invisible people who according to statistics we will become a minority in 2040 in quebec even and after? we are in a "democracy" in 2040 they will be able to have a majority party in power without our support and so they will have 100% of the right to remove law 21, law 101 even denationalize hydro québec, sign the constitution of 1982, make quebec a bilingual province and that's it, the quebec identity will not be more than the ontario identity.
it is indeed quite counterintuitive to bet on foreigners to achieve national independence. rallying french canadians to the independence of their nation state goes without saying. rallying foreigners who must first have been substantially assimilated into the context of a multiculturalist federal state hostile to the cause is quite an order. an order that the pq was unable to fulfill despite the myth of gerald godin and the symbolic handful of irreducible foreigners who joined our cause, we thank them in passing.
in canada, it is quite simple, there will never be a debate on immigration volumes again. the demographic reality is such that no party can hope to win elections without the support of foreigners. even now, in the midst of the pan-canadian affordability crisis, very few identify the elephant in the room, supply and demand. 400,000 immigrants a year, that puts pressure on the real estate market just for a while. and yet liberals, conservatives and new democrats will say in unison that this objective fact is but a manifestation of racism and xenophobia.
hello! you have made the mistake of writing "ect" instead of "etc."
"ect" is a common misspelling of "etc," an abbreviated form of the latin phrase "et cetera." other abbreviated forms are **etc.**, **&c.**, **&c**, and **et cet.** the latin translates as "et" to "and" + "cetera" to "the rest;" a literal translation to "and the rest" is the easiest way to remember how to use the phrase. 
[check out the wikipedia entry if you want to learn more.](
^(i am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. comments with a score less than zero will be automatically removed. if i commented on your post and you don't like it, reply with "!delete" and i will remove the post, regardless of score. message me for bug reports.)
you or your children will have lived the same as an immigrant, because none of them will have lived through the days of the infamous speak white and the flq. none of us remember the rebellions of the patriots because they lived them or the war of the conquest. however, these are milestone events that make quebec what it is. why then cannot the immigrant consider himself to be fully quebecois? after all, he was as present as you were during charles de gaulle's famous speech on the balcony of montreal's town hall and nothing prevents him from representing our motto as much as we do: i remember. yes, i'm aware that not all immigrants will embrace our culture so much, but i don't think that's a long-term problem. indeed, if it is not them, it will be their children who will grow up in the same environment as you and me who will come to share our common ideals so well of course we are able to make them feel at home and preserve their beauty and strength. of our language and culture. we have our share of heroes and it should not be belittled by their number which may seem insufficient. whether it is for joseph-armand bombardier, maurice richard, louis-joseph papineau or the chevalier de lorimier, our many singers sometimes neglected, more effort should be made so that they are not forgotten rather than complaining that there are not many. in addition, we should not forget kim thuy or dany laferrière who also, despite being born abroad, enrich our constantly evolving culture. you seem to forget that quebecers do not need immigrants to assimilate themselves, many of them jump with both feet into american mass culture, embrace the american way of life. if quebecers come to destroy the legacy that we have left the revolution alone in 2040, i would put my hand to cut that they would be the sole culprits of this identity suicide.
not just that, but i even believe that immigrants will be more attracted to independence if we focus on the struggle of french canadians.
i explain, if we say "we are all quebecois regardless" and after we say we want a country that is culturally canadian-french they will say that we are in the process of favoring french-canadians and not the rest of quebecers then they will vote against it, it is the pretext which is important.
on the other hand, if we are sincere and we explain our history, our cause, they will be able to recognize each other because they surely have the same ambitions in their own country and on the day of the referendum we can even drop some things so that we can be more inclusive which would make the cause more acceptable.
but if we start above all that to say that it is an independence for all quebecers as if it was a territorial question and not a nation fight, a non-french-canadian see no reason to have a country in quebec, only those who have assimilated like me which is not easy to do, to identify as a foreigner with a nation that only exists in the heart not in the concrete.
shut up
bad bot, ect means esticrisstabarnak
dude thinks a bit before answering nonsense.
i don't need to have lived all this, my ancestors lived it and these experiences form the thought and the culture of the nations, this is the reason why the anglo quebecois even if they have already several generations here voted for the liberals in 70% and francophones at only 10%, the same for the minority regardless of whether they are immigrants or not, there are very few non-french canadians who identify themselves first as quebecois, it is the reality that they will never have an assimilation as long as quebec remains a province, you can not assimilate a population which does not have our life nor our culture with a province, even the catholic white italians continue after 3 generations to consider this as italians, you do not understand human nature.
first of all, i think that cultural belonging goes beyond voting intentions. quebec culture is too rich to be reduced to 4 or 5 political parties. yet my experience with several immigrants leads me to a different conclusion from yours. many of them identify as quebecois while often retaining a certain, but rarely predominant, sense of belonging to the country from which they come. myself being technically part of a minority even if i have never really identified myself as such, i feel completely quebecois and i will not vote and my presence here shows that i will certainly not vote liberal in the next election. it is probably true that many italians are not well integrated, but they remain an exception today, because unlike them our new immigrants are francized and we no longer let them anglicize as the italians did. otherwise, your condescending tone strikes me as unwarranted, as your comments suggest that you haven't really met a lot of a minority. either these selves who have only seen the stars of successful integration, or perhaps you will benefit from seeing them through other windows than the one offered by nomos tv or horizon québec actuel.
"first of all, i think that cultural belonging goes beyond voting intentions"
do you want to debate or just give opinions without any argument ?.
ok i will answer like you do: well i think you are wrong because i think i am right.
> quebec culture is too rich to be reduced to 4 or 5 political parties.
the following sentence did not constitute an argument in your eyes. otherwise, i can add that it is quite possible to like quebec culture while being federalist. sovereignists do not necessarily have a love for culture infused. after all, how could we define ourselves without doing so in opposition to the rest of canada. isn't it very quebecois not to be like the rest of canada?
no, because you're trying to mix things up.
it is not a question of whether the 5 parties represent political opinion, it is a question that the communities vote differently because of their culture. it's not even an argument it's a fact, but it pains you to accept that way you invent fallacies to try to deny that culture is linked to politics and that french non-canadian people are not assimilated otherwise they would have voted in the same way than french canadians
when 61% of francophones vote yes for a country vs. 5% of english and 10% of immigrants, there are no political parties there, it is a question of identity and the differences in the vote are more than clear.
lol, if that's the case then i can say the same thing about canadian-english with american.
he did not even have canada during the majority of our history, and quite the opposite we are true canadians, canadian culture is mostly ours that the english have only copied, from the name, to the national hinme, to the poutine , with maple syrup, even the team that won the most stanley cup is from quebec, the english are those who have kept their loyalist and british culture, we were forced to cut ties with france, that's why we have developed our own culture, this is the reason that for example there is almost no canadian-english folklore or in very small quantity compared to canadian-french.
you will not keep a minority identity without real autonomy, it will disappear as is the case everywhere in the planet
what do you think of this passport? i currently agree with the idea, but i would like to have other opinions on the subject.
getting spied on by eric duhaime would be pretty funny. china? russia? no, by eric duhaime!
[deleted]
definitely a bad idea.
the government is not even able to ensure that young people are not able to buy alcohol or cigarettes in convenience stores.
the government pissed us off for the gun registry, which was a non-functioning fiasco at the federal level, and then when we finally had a glimmer of hope that the government was going to stop losing massive amounts of money in a misappropriation of funds. liberal fundamentals evident, it took the liberal government of quebec to pick up on history to ensure that this massive embezzlement continues to operate at the provincial level.
which is also an absolute failure because, according to the latest news, we are seeing an increase in crime with firearms in montreal and everywhere in quebec, with imported guns that are obviously not registered.
eventually you see that the neoliberal governments, as much in quebec as in canada as in the usa and everywhere in the west, apply any measures by seeking the approval of the public by playing sensitive chords so that in the end their programs are ways to transfer public funds into the pockets of party friends. this was quite evident with cannabis in canada.
what will the covid passport be in the end? another osti of unnecessary bebelle to give an illusion of control while ensuring that the contract is awarded to a donor firm to the caq. it will be very expensive, it will do nothing, and then in 1-2 years the story will be dead and buried, and then a lot of people will grease their legs on public funds.
i agree if it allows merchants to resume their normal activities and quebecers to resume traveling.
i am absolutely against the vaccine passport. as duhaime says, this is a sneaky way to introduce compulsory vaccination. which is very serious and immoral.
very bad idea, it will be used for anything other than costing money and creating even more discord between quebecers.
if you're sick, you're just as likely to catch the virus, except you should be affected by me. if you are not vaccinated, the virus should be harder. apart from that you have as much chance to give the virus even if you are vaccinated / not vaccinated ...
or who mentions that the problem is that the passport contains your personal information ???
the government already has my info.
not bad on that the point of duhaime is that the passport is there to further split the company. and if you agree with a passport to go to a restaurant, i'm happy for you.
super well explained! it makes me see the other side of the coin.
i wouldn't say it's sneaky. rather, it's an avowed attempt to get people to get vaccinated and i have no problem with that as long as the vaccine is available to anyone who wants to take it.
yeah, i agree, he's definitely right about it.
it is to put conditions on asserting your rights. medicine cannot be imposed on unwilling people, especially if they are not sick.
it is also a bit of a lie instead of saying 'you have no right without being vaccinated', of saying 'you have the right only if you are vaccinated'. in the case of an absolute binary it is exactly the same thing; we see a boolean box:
    !1=0
or in text
'if it's not true, it's wrong'
> apart from that you have as much chance to donate the virus even if you are vaccinated / not vaccinated ...
a new study seems to want to show the opposite
[
no. it's signing the petition that will give you your info. duhaime or qs don't mind the petition, what they want is your email address, your name and if possible your postal code in order to accumulate this information on a server and use it to send you personalized emails by following and picking up donations.
well see that, even if they have your email address, you'll just have to block them later. they didn't ask for your full address, including your mother's maiden name and your credit card number.
just don't care about their email and who knows my address ... can't be worse than giving all my info to facebook.
when you put your name on a petition like "against gnl quebec", you don't necessarily expect to receive an email from qs two weeks later with the subject line: \ [first name, last name \] give us money for \ [petition name \]. that's all i'm saying ...
maybe in the little line of the lng petition, it was marked that he was going to share your email with collaborators. (i am not saying the opposite) but to say that i will not sign a petition which (in my opinion is worth the trouble, because i am sick of the sanitary measures) because i do not want to give my email for fear of having other emails from other entities. i don't think (still in my opinion) that's a good reason. (i respect your choice the same) 😉
so deserved, this is great news!
bin okay ... but maybe something that brings material change in people's lives could be better?
léo major scholarship?
aid fund for xyz léo major?
entk i'm a bitch
a leo major shooting range?
quebec plan for the valuation of critical and strategic minerals (mcs):
other infos:
yes yes ... try to put something in mandarin on r / news to see how long it will last. especially with your post history (like this one), it doesn't help your cause. posts in french on r / mcgill, i have already seen some. after that, if it is to go and treat them as * hosts of supremacist anglos *, even in english, it will not live long.
not surprisingly, it's been a long time since english canada had a grudge against quebec. when you have a culture and the others don't, it makes people jealous.
in any case, in the video extract, he is really solid blanchet.
they started the debate in english with a good old quebec-bashing round?
she's a cunt
it's a failed comic…. a frustrated politician unable to be a leader… what a shit!
quebec has a culture?
failed comic….
well yeah, coming from the moderator besides from that! fuck neutrality.
journalists are made propagandists.
change my mind.
ok. we vote annamie paul. it's gonna be so much better.
i do not catch her? what do you mean?
it is certain that some are in there at the bottom of the box.
however, i'm not sure it's the whole gang?
the consortium maintains that the question was perfectly correct and is not problematic;
> the question was explicitly about these laws. the question did not state that quebeckers are racists.
i don't know about you, but the way the question is asked, it very strongly implies that quebec definitely has a problem of racism, and therefore, that the laws mentioned are too (question translated by radio-can, l emphasis is on miene);
> *** you deny that quebec has a problem of racism ***, yet you defend legislation such as bills 96 \ [french official language, editor's note \] and 21 \ [secularism \], which marginalize minorities religious, anglophones and allophones. quebec is recognized as a distinct society. but for those outside the province, please explain to them why your party also supports these discriminatory laws.
if, as the consortium says, the question was explicitly about laws, then why the first part? i would completely agree with the consortium if the first part was not present. but if we take the first part into account, the question assumes 100% that quebec is racist (it was a "loaded question" as our anglo cousins would say!).
that it is not used for much except to be the talkative ...
well, tell yourself that the question has been approved and validated by the entire media consortium on which rests, among others, cbc and ctv.
this is true for most politicians.
islam is a danger to the west
i wanted to share this information because it seems pretty huge to me. i have little time to authenticate the truth of the comments, so if there is any fake news on something, let me know.
it's pretty amazing as news. the ontario government, which funds an association that promotes radical islam.
>education minister stephen lecce said $225,000 will go to the muslim association of canada to create digital resources for educators,students and parents to raise awareness about islamophobia.
[
seems true but it's not a story to change a curriculum and / or fundamentals. still, it is indeed the mac ....
another filth that i find stupid.
in quebec, by the roc we are called by all names ... racists, northern alabama, white supremacists by what we want to live in french in a secular state ... and it continues ... more is worse.
meanwhile, in paris, mohammed shoots people at a concert, abdoul rolls over people in nice with his truck, alziziababa beheads a teacher, al-adalibi bin raziz kills people who draw pictures, aziz walks around in london with his machete, mahmoud detonates him with bombs everywhere like in boston and in airports ... and abdullah him, walks with a big knife and kills people at random in the christmas market in berlin. .
in order to have 72 fresh nuns to stuff in hell. (not going to do much with your little soldier who flew up to 600 feet when you exploded but entk, details)
...
one group gets pissed off, the other is going to give training in schools for inclusion ... can you tell me which of the two is the big bad?
so the same quebecers outraged that the roc criticizes bill 21 criticize what the ontario provincial government has decided to do?
how does this relate to qc? and what is this fb source ???
continue to celebrate bill 21 and let the other provinces do what they see fit.
it is qs who must be happy, the aims of her dear eve torres are taking shape. made it, zoum zoum in ontario!
shhh, don't say it too loudly ... you're going to curl sensitive ears. islamic countries are a paradise of freedom, security and joy of living!
sliced bread is a danger to the west.
as if we weren't already self-destructing and the rest of the planet at the same time.
surprise again in lie package by / u / versat1l
beautiful facebook source
there is no intellectual rigor in hatred of the other. everything is a pretext to make the victim, no subject is really important in itself. what matters is tossing dust in the air to see what sticks with the audience, one smoke controversy at a time.
do not.
crush me out religions all over canada.
no surprise, it's a criss of thick climate denier as a bonus.
knives
the climate hysterics are the first to deny the great replacement it's curious
it would surprise me if frédéric bastien invented this story from scratch.
/ u / versat1l is literally asking for help checking this and your answer is "you are a liar!" worse you run away. not impressive. meanwhile, i go to the mac site and find this:
>as an islamic organization we understand islam as outlined in the quran, the teachings of prophet muhammad (sunnah) and mainstream ‘sunni’ islamic scholarship. mac’s understanding of islam is one of balance and moderation, constructive engagement in society, focus on personal and communal empowerment, and establishing value-based organizations, **as articulated in the writings of the renowned reformist, imam hasan al-banna.**
and i'm looking for imam hasan al-banna and i find this on wikipedia:
>sheikh hassan ahmed abdel rahman muhammed al-banna (arabic: حسن أحمد عبد الرحمن محمد البنا‎; 14 october 1906 – 12 february 1949), known as hassan al-banna (arabic: حسن البنا‎), was an egyptian schoolteacher and imam, **best known for founding the muslim brotherhood, one of the largest and most influential islamic revivalist organizations.**[4]
and if i search a bit: 
>education minister stephen lecce said $225,000 will go to the muslim association of canada to create digital resources for educators, students and parents to raise awareness about islamophobia.
make some effort next time.
which?
you jump to conclusions pretty quickly. it wasn't radcan or lp that titled this, it was a private blogger. i'm glad that
- the author can have access to the information necessary to verify his statements;
- the platform allows him to publish this information;
- the author takes the trouble to do this complementary work to what is done in the media.
the average quebec citizen is sorely lacking in political education in the broad sense and the connections of this muslim association are not trivial. if mr. bastien can help a few people get more information, that's a plus for everyone. he does not call for hatred.
i almost wrote "but i'm sure you're also a climate denier"
yep, find your internet wire and cut it
i've been bastien for years now, before his leap into politics, and i know him well enough to talk about hatred for others. he is a real intellectual unlike bock-côté, and someone who could advance sovereignty, but hatred took over the cause.
this does not prevent him from having very good contributions sometimes because he is really intelligent. i did not say that he calls for hatred, but she follows in each of his posts under the pen of his followers.
as i have already pointed out to some here, we cannot at the same time claim in the name of liberty the right to say "nigger" in universities and at the same time demand to silence a teacher like attaran. there is no strictness, only the policy of "i am a victim whatever the subject". ditto with canada on the one hand and our amerindians on the other. residential schools are a crime against humanity or else we have nothing to blame confederation on.
the relationship with bastien is his obsession with muslims and his total blindness to what goes in the direction of white supremacy. once again, we cannot make mountains of terrorism and praise caucasian killers (or the reverse, praise terrorists and cry against the attack in quebec) in the same breath by pretending to be a citizen in the noble sense. of the term: we're just junk with a camp, that's all.
let's stop making children for the climate, open our borders to the whole planet and indoctrinate our children! redneck
you fill your brain with junk and you infect others with it
garbage we smell when you open your rotten mouth
meanwhile in quebec: an article by denise bombardier on the mbc book, no one else talks about it.
thank you to the french for raising the level.
solid! he was solid, solid, solid!
since the launch of this book he has never stopped defending republican universalist values and it is very good. rokhaya diallo understood it a little too late unfortunately lol.
it is a book that will do his reputation good. it will make it possible to put the definition of republic and all that that entails in the public debate, where he or his book goes.
fans of the far right might feel betrayed lol.
ms. diallo who responds to mbc's argument at the end by victimizing herself ... again and playing on emotions instead of establishing a healthy discussion, she tries to demonize her counterpart. classic.
mbc's message is much more powerful than the average quebecer thinks. it transcends the concept of left and right and those who have been convinced that reading it is practically shameful only lose it.
mbc does not really respond to journalists when she and she ask him to clarify whether we should fight ideology while working on existing discrimination. it seems to me that would have been a very small concession, i find it hard to understand why he seemed to dodge the question to produce an interesting but tangential answer.
does anyone really believe that there is no discrimination in the west? yes to concrete solutions to concrete problems, no to this unhealthy ideological enterprise.
> mathieu bock-côté, * the racialist revolution *
drake putting on his face with rejection.
> pierre vallières, * white negroes from america *
drake pointing his finger approvingly.
as always at home, right?
at the beginning, i said to myself "ah hey, she looks rather reasonable. it will give a good debate". subsequently, i dropped out of the first fallacies 😔
apart from probably the nomos right, everyone is of the opinion to fight discrimination, whether it is even under the false cover of so-called positive discrimination. i am prepared to adhere to the theories of systemic racism at the very least when i am presented with compelling evidence.
yes, mbc dodges this question, but at the same time macron's observation is simplistic and exhausted. i transcribe it here in full:
> i note that, in our society, being a white man creates objective conditions easier to access the job that is mine, to have housing, to find a job.
if this is true for the presidency of the republic, it is also true for the condition of sfd! moreover, something tells me that no homeless has ever been elected to the presidency of the republic so it is obviously more complex than the color of skin and the sex, with all due respect to president macron.
after that, is there residual discrimination in the west due to certain malicious individuals? absolutely, it is also illusory to think that you can eliminate it completely. however, since the government, its laws and its institutions are free from discriminatory policies, what more can be done? apply so-called positive reverse discrimination to determine the winners based on their skin color or gender rather than their individual merit?
bah, white negroes of america surely had a certain semblance of relevance when it was published in 1968, but in hindsight it is the equivalent of low-level marxist fan fiction. virtually everything french canadians suffered, according to vallières, was settled over a generation's time without necessitating the violent revolution he was campaigning for. of course, independence remains to be achieved, but there are those who would say that big communist bombshells are not great for promoting it.
in the public sphere, through its fight against multiculturalism, when it comes time to explain the place of so-called "racialized" people in our western societies (interculturalists), his republican discourse is too often buried in such a way as to give it looking like a guy who just tries not to appear ** far-right and colonializes. **
to put it simply, when it comes time to talk about integration into a cardre ** of "multiculturalism against interculturalism" **, he always defends interculturalism by victimizing the targeted majority culture. as here for example from [-> 55:24 to 58:54 <-] ( approximately, it is so on the defensive end. there is no photo, it is fashionable for the extreme right. it's always going to hurt him.
with the promotion of this book, on the other hand, it allows him to attack ** multicultural ideological drifts ** while promoting ** intercultural universalism **. the white "race" is no longer a victim, but carries "once again" a ** universalist dream ** which dates from the enlightenment.
this is what we see in the frustration of ** rokhaya diallo **. he talks to her about a historical social project influenced by the age of enlightenment ... not about how to be a french or a french lol.
and that could do his reputation good because interviewers will be forced more and more - in the coming years - to ask him what he means by this ** "universalism" ** ( without forgetting the intellectuals who will talk about it).
diallo? reasonable ?
the "repair" mechanism will obviously depend on the discriminatory bias at work. it is a well-known and well-studied phenomenon, but the ideology described as "woke" is a bellicose ideology which engages in a struggle for power. i think the legault government is making the right choice by not legitimizing the supporters of this ideology while wanting to take concrete action. in the short term, it looks bad. but in the long run, we will see that it was the right thing to do.
it's amazing to see that today the same type of activist would be censored by his own camp (qs)
yes, everything was settled quickly, but at what cost? at the cost of submission to the dictates of american imperialism? at the cost of becoming white and participating in the persecution of indigenous people and minorities? at the cost of a stateless generation that has fully internalized neoliberalism? at the cost of slow assimilation?
certainly, the felquist methods can be described as adventurists, but spitting on the felquist heritage and on a real decolonizing, patriotic, popular and anti-imperialist independence is a serious mistake. the felquist heritage is part of the history of the struggle of the oppressed in quebec. it is the most oppressed layers of the population who must achieve independence, to make it a true democratic, workers', socialist and ecological republic.
we don't want to become white. we don't want to become colonizers. we want to put an end to these operating systems that have been rotting our lives for centuries.
oh yes okay.
on the other hand, i would like to come back to this passage which raised my eyebrows:
"the white 'race' is no longer a victim, but carries 'once again' a universalist dream that dates back to the enlightenment."
perhaps this is poorly worded, but it is distressing to claim universalism from the "white race". i like to see myself republican and universalist and i deplore, in the name of this dream, any racial merit to the ideas.
claiming race is playing the racialist game. the followers of the "great ethnic replacement", very popular in europe, play it to perfection by adopting the role in which the racialists place them.
personally, i find qs really soft and too liberal.
> at the cost of submission to the dictates of american imperialism?
inevitable due to our geopolitical situation. the heart of the american empire is our closest and most important foreign market. whatever the regime of an independent quebec (or within canada, that doesn't change anything), we are condemned to roughly follow the direction of the american empire, with more or less limited room for maneuver depending on the circumstances. . the only thing that could change that would be an american collapse followed by the balkanization of the country.
> at the cost of becoming white and participating in the persecution of indigenous people and minorities?
da fuck? aja that we changed breed in the 70s.
> at the cost of a stateless generation which has fully internalized neoliberalism?
part of our population has always been stateless and sold to the english, it is a constant in our history since the conquest. nothing new under the sun since the 70s above.
> at the cost of slow assimilation?
on this point i can agree with you. deconfessionalization has caused the birth rate to drop drastically.
> we don't want to become white. we don't want to become colonizers. we want to put an end to these operating systems that have been rotting our lives for centuries.
because we're not already white? colonizers, we have been in the past, after 300-400 years i think we can consider that we are home and not colonizers. unless you want to go tell the turks that istanbul is unceded greek territory? because we've been here almost as long as istanbul is turkish.
the felquists were lousy terrorists who idolized murderers and dictators. their heritage is non-existent, absolutely nobody claims to be these pseudo two-bullet guerrillas or their cowardly abuses.
one day we will also have to realize that the decolonization movement of the 1960s was a movement of losers which only generated failed states. i hear you decry our current situation, but would it have been better for us to emulate algeria? cuba? the burkina faso? all states that have eaten in moscow's hand by denouncing american imperialism and patati et patata. results? they are all poor, underdeveloped and suffer from the exodus of their most productive and educated elements, among others, to quebec.
it's cute because it's so old fashioned this * a true democratic, workers, socialist and ecological * republic. frankly: p any state that includes democratic in its name is not democratic. traditionally, it is a low-level subterfuge used by communists except for the failed state of congo kinshasa. factory girl? we must enter the 21st century, quebec is a service economy where workers form an increasingly negligible part of the workforce. in fact, this is the legacy of the felquist generation which was too cowardly to work in a factory if we are to believe the documentary of the son of the other. socialist? like [this beautiful plethora of states] ( that have absolutely nothing to envy? then environmentalist is just the last fad that they add to their delirium. it is also quite contradictory because ecologism is above all a consideration of the rich. you don't give a damn about the environment when you're hungry and cold.
it is moreover the biggest fault of the flq to have amalgamated independence of quebec with their other marxist whims. we were not even entitled to the ira or the plo, we immediately went to the inla and the pflp! this is also what one can reproach qs nowadays. only scoundrels want independence to shackle quebec into an ideological straitjacket, all the more so if it has proven to be a waste of wealth. independence is worth in itself. what's more, it has absolutely nothing to do with white people. what is this porridge for american cats? if there is one place in the world that shows that solidarity and political aspirations are based on ethnicity and not race, it is quebec!
it is obvious that i play the game of racialism to draw a parallel with what it plays at the level of wokism which does not cease asking for treatments ** "better adapted" ** to people said to be racialized such as positive segregation pointed out by fingered by mbc and defended by ** rokhaya diallo ** at [32:50] (
** the dream of universalism "inspired" by the epoch of light is intended to encourage the deconstruction of racization in order to unify the people under a free and "egalitarian" nation. **
i'm not talking about the appropriation of universalism, i'm talking ** of one universalist dream / concept among many others. **
for my part, i find them initially authoritarian, even totalitarian.
if you find them too liberal, maybe you are a marxist?
beau gros vomits chauvinist and anti-worker platitudes.
thanks for the clarification
yes.
anti worker like the felquist vermin who robbed credit unions to steal small savers?
did they lose anything substantial? no.
i don't see why you revolt against the felquists, but not against the american multinationals which have been robbing the people for decades.
how do american multinationals steal from the people?
it will go to the supreme court this case there and you can be sure that it will not pass there. henserson doesn't want to go there, but the federal government will find another stooge to do so.
contradictory their notion of "majority" at 50% +1: 50.9% that would not pass?
1% is a huge difference: this additional point alone would have been enough to win the 1995 referendum.
come on, while we're there why not 50% +2 for a majority? no, better, 50% +15 * just to be sure. *
isn't it 50% + a vote?
it's 50% +1 vote, 50% represents half of the votes, but +1 vote we fall into the majority of the people (that's democracy). your 1% really doesn't matter. if you saw that in an electoral platform it could be, but they were wrong that's all.
on several electoral platforms, it is literally written 51%. afterwards if others see it as +1 vote, so much the better.
yes i saw that in electoral platforms.
i welcome the support of our indian allies with open arms
indians are giga based.
i work in an ultra federalist firm and they really hire a lot of indians, and then these indians here try to communicate in french (at least to learn the basics) and then when i talk to them about independence they understand the issue and are favorable by making links with their historical situation that they also lived with the british empire.
the federal government is out of pocket because every time they send us educated people, they shoot themselves in the footsteps because these people end up seeing through this false reality that is projected by the federal government.
honestly, if there is a referendum in 2022, i do not believe that the minorities will be as much aligned with the federal ranks as in 1995, in 25 years they have not badly affected the dynamics of the country.
the article is behind a pay wall, does anyone have an offline readable version?
we have to start looking for allies, it's a good start.
this is the whole paradox of canadian multiculturalism exposed in international relations.
how is it possible for an openly intersectional government to maintain diplomatic ties with countries where its minorities come from, defending their cause to the point of playing the vigilante by taking a direct position on issues that have no historical reference right here?
this condescension towards people around the world cannot last long.
it is obvious that the saudis and hindus do not really know the domestic politics of canada, it has been a long time since the independence of quebec is no longer an issue.
> would an independent quebec be recognized internationally, much to the embarrassment of justin trudeau? the question was the subject of the hour, tuesday evening, on a television set… in india. following support for indian farmers, the canadian prime minister unwittingly becomes the extra in an internal debate in india, analyze specialists from this country.
>
> "is it time for india to support the quebec referendum in 2022?" »asks the moderator of a political panel to the indian network newsx, where several indian diplomats are invited to give their opinion on this hot topical question, not without taking some liberties on the facts regarding the situation of the province in the federation.
>
> “there is more than language and culture. the problem stems from the way in which canada became independent after having completely eradicated the indigenous peoples, ”replied ambassador bhaswati mukherjee, sympathetic to the idea of inviting the leader of the parti québécois to new delhi“ for three or four days ”to embarrass prime minister justin trudeau in front of the canadian media.
>
> "we must treat trudeau and this government exactly the same way it tries to treat us", proposes the diplomat, who co-signed a letter this week accusing canada of appeasement towards the sikh separatist movements in the punjab region.
>
> origin
>
> le devoir had to call on two experts from india to understand where these unusual attacks against the head of the canadian government came from. the starting point: justin trudeau's support for the major farmers' demonstrations that have shaken india in recent weeks, and that the indian government wants to pass off as infiltrated by separatist extremists.
>
> “it's huge what's going on right now. it was the biggest strike in the world that took place [on november 26] in india. we are talking about 250 million people on strike, ”explains catherine viens, whose doctorate in political science at the university of quebec in montreal is devoted to the struggle of indian farmers.
>
> these highly indebted farmers oppose the plan to liberalize their sector by the government of narendra modi which would have the particular consequence of abolishing the minimum price of cultivated products, hurting the poorest populations.
>
> "it was especially mobilized at the level of punjab and haryana, where nearly 70% of the population depends on agriculture and where there are a large number of sikh communities," continues catherine viens. it fits into a larger context where sikh communities have long advocated for a sikh state [khalistan]. "
>
> to discredit the protest, the hindu nationalist government amalgamates these farmers and the sikh separatists, according to karine bates, professor of anthropology at the university of montreal and specialist in india.
>
> “there is quite a distortion on the part of the indian government. there may be pro-khalistan demonstrators among the farmers, but it's much larger than that, ”explains the researcher at the center for international relations at the university of montreal (cerium).
>
> interference
>
> justin trudeau, in all this? after violent clashes between protesters and police forces in the indian capital, the canadian prime minister slipped a few words about the "worrying situation" in that country during an online event highlighting the sikh holiday gurpuparb on november 30.
>
> “let me remind you that canada will always be there to defend the right to demonstrate and the importance of dialogue. this is why we have joined directly with the indian authorities to underline our concerns ”, launched the prime minister, virtually accompanied by his minister of defense, harjit sajjan, of sikh faith.
>
> this "interference in the internal affairs of india", according to an open letter signed by 22 indian diplomats this week, shocked the modi government all the more because the liberal government of canada is already suspected of complacency with the independence movement of khalistan. the invitation of a former sikh extremist, for example, succeeded in derailing justin trudeau's official visit to india in 2018.
>
> "india accuses trudeau, basically, of supporting the independence movement of khalistan, summarizes karine bates. in canada, there are some among the sikh diaspora who campaign for khalistan. it is known that there are activities, fundraising, etc. and that has always caused diplomatic concerns with india. "
>
> thus, the few words of justin trudeau for the indian demonstrators "prove", for the purposes of internal political strategy in india, the link between sikh nationalists and demonstrators against agricultural reform. the hypothetical support for an independent quebec, although incidental to this whole affair, is explained by the fact that india is very sensitive to questions of independence, analyzes the specialist.
>
> “in addition to the link with justin trudeau, we must remember the violation of human rights by india, which represses in a very violent way minorities, groups in the agricultural sector. india produces for the west, let's talk about spices, rice, all that. we have to talk about these struggles, since they are the voice of the global south at the moment, ”insists catherine viens.
>
> the themes of the independence of quebec and the cultural genocide against indigenous peoples were also central to the subject of a shower of messages from saudi "trolls" during an online campaign in 2018 aimed at criticizing the canadian interference in the affairs of saudi arabia.
if you open the article in a private browser window (incognito mode on chrome), there is no pay wall.
when i clicked on the ak brave browser link it opened the article to me. try with this browser! : d
opens in a private tab
indians who follow quebec politics: [here] (
damn that the liberal government is a liar! thanks for the text!
thank you !
the black book of english canada is so concrete at the level of its sources that no english canadian or federalist critic has dared to attack it other than by accusing the author of all the evils. it is an essential reference work qualified as "hate historical literature" by don macpherson himself, a guarantee of the quality of the work.
some critics have lamented lester's killer comments throughout the work, but the text is structured so that the reader can easily separate historical facts and quotes from editorial comments. the book is made like any other black book elsewhere (black book on communism, black book on the status of women, etc.) which also contain the editorial comments of the authors without anyone seeing any problem.
another book by norman lester that i really appreciated is his investigation into the secret services. it's as interesting as a john the square as far as i'm concerned.
[
it is a book that should be compulsory reading at cegep.
each accusation that lester brings to english canada is supported by one or more historical documents. the source of many of these documents is, ironically, the national archives of canada, which affirms their validity.
some passages are so shocking that they seem improbable, although historically true.
we end the reading by saying to ourselves that it is not possible that so few quebecers know the truth about the treatment that english canada subjected to their ancestors, grandparents and even their parents.
thanks for this review. should read this someday.
oh yes, an excellent book that destroys anglos, all quebec children should read this book before the age of 10 to save them from anglo-canadian brainwashing.
thanks for the recommendation!
it's definitely meant for schools.
i thank you for your column on dune, i just read the first one and i really enjoyed it.
is the famous kindness of quebecers in fact a lack of self-assertion?
let's not be fooled, reddit is an english speaking site and is divided into communities. in addition, the majority of anglophones in quebec live in montreal. i believe that the english of / r / montreal is not a-flat-ventrism but the natural result of things. french speakers already go to / r / quebec, so users of / r / montreal are mostly english speakers.
most of the time on the internet i use english ... i have my keyboard in english because i speak with more people in english and i'm used to the "?" that is "?" and not a sharp accent (i have to copy / paste for my accents)
it's not because i don't want to speak french ... it's just squealing easier ...
as for r / montreal or any other subreddit like that ... most of the time it's just to respond to a frustrated mcgill who comes to piss everyone off with her "i am white and i am racist because i am white, i self-flag for you, my friends the poor blacks who need me "but who speaks in english ...
so to be sure to make myself understood, i send it shit in his language.
lots of reasons, from what i gather. reddit is an english speaking platform, appeal to the english language etc. all valid arguments and based on other experiences.
on the other hand, there is another: the francophone dynamic vs the anglophone one and there, we begin to realize a little why the francophone presence is reduced by itself by default even if there was no english.
in short, in english, anyone is discussing anything. in french, only one speaks on a single subject and the rest are confined to applauding in the stands, controlled by * crowd animators / commentary police *. i think someone had already, prophetically, raised this dynamic over a year ago on another forum but i remember more details.
ah well, i had rather the impression that french was more and more present on this sub reddit. a few years ago, it was exclusively in english and any contribution in french was negotiated until hell as on the other canadian sub-reddits.
speak white
without denying what you are putting forward, don't you find on the contrary that this reflects reality well enough? 15 quebecers who speak to each other in english around a table so that an allo / anglophone interlocutor feels more comfortable, this is what i see on a daily basis in everyday life. the balance of power would logically dictate to the english speaker to adapt. reverse integration, as mbc would say.
she will fully understand in french. it's enough aplaventrism!
this. 
i can just have 1 keyboard on my samsung. i have to flip between french and english. not to mention ich spreche auch deutsch.
i wish samsung would standardize the keyboards and the dictionaries recognize all languages. ugh.
me too most of the time on the internet i use english. i am able to type it with the french canada keyboard, it's like using the same alphabet.
hahahahaha!
were there more francophone users at that time?
it depends on what you want to do ...
personally, it is not so that the anglo feels at ease, it has more to do with the "default" language on the internet ... the language with which i am going to make myself understood ... want, don't want it 'is english
i'm already used to talking to americans, worse qa in brazil worse in india worse devs in england and whatever ... i can't really speak to them in french ... so by default it's english. the indian probably wants to speak his language but he has to make himself understood.
often at my job i can come face to face with a french of france and you have to talk to each other. we both speak french. but i can get out words that exist just as a translation invented on a stroke of genius by oqlf and they don't want to say anything on a technical point of view ... the technical terms are in english, since the info will be distributed un everywhere in burbank as in london and mumbai ... so by default we speak to each other in english just because it's easier than looking for the screeching words invoked by the oqlf ... "plugiciel" no fuck you c 'is a "plugin"
if we talk about reddit i can start speaking in french if we already speak french ... if it's a bit of a mix it depends on who i answer ... if he speaks in english to shit on quebecers i will answer him in english that it's a mess ... could answer him in french but if he shits on us the chances of him understanding are slim ...
or it could be a tourist or someone who has been in montreal for 3 months ... i have nothing against ... if you have just arrived but you possibly want to speak french ... i don't mind that you know not a word screech ... but learn sacrament, if you're a jerk from saskatoon who has been living in montreal for 15 years, kessé you crisse? but i try to make myself understood by the guy who has just arrived ... if that doesn't make me auntie that l'anglo understands i will speak in french if i speak to someone who speaks french ...
not really. my point is that more than half of the users of / r / montreal probably have english as their mother tongue. and looking on the first page, i see about half of the posts that are in english. the phenomenon you describe does exist, but i just don't believe / r / montreal is an example.
it depends. when everyone is bilingual, speaking the language which is less difficult for the people around is fine.
my family speaks creole and with me everyone changes to french. pcq is the easiest language for me. isn't that just called respect?
i am ready to accept bilingualism for insults!
download swiftkey, a wonder. your written languages are automatically integrated without the need to change.
edit: there you go
> i can type it with the french canada keyboard, it's like using the same alphabet.
it is usual, the keys for the symbols are not the same, as i said with the "/" udder "?" i'm just used to it being next to the "shift" on the right. for example. in french it is the "é" and ca me fuck. do like shift-6 or whatever for a "?" ... ehhh
i have a problem on my laptop keyboard with keys that do not correspond at all to the symbols
no idea, something tells me that reddit users are mostly bilingual so it's hard to determine.
except that's not the case. today, a group of quebecers will discuss in english to accommodate a single english speaker, even though he was born here. worse still, some have already switched to full english as the base language.
okay, so you get the impression that the source of the observed phenomenon is not the same in both cases. it's true that the fact that reddit is primarily english-speaking affects the comparison, where montreal is not an english-speaking territory (just unceded indigenous territory / s)
it's called submission and aplaventrism. the report dictates that the minority adopt the majority language. it's really the world upside down. i can understand doing it on occasion, but here in quebec it's a real problem.
bruh...
you should be the president of r/quebec
edit: downloading swiftkey gave me a tear in my eye.
yo versat1l can i be on your team during the zombie apocalypse?
no you probably just don't know how to live in society. are you going to burn the escalators too pcq people with reduced mobility are in the minority? accommodating a minority is not "lying down" you just have to be an obnoxious human deep down.
i'm already a zombie, but yes.
yes of course, i'm obviously an obnoxious human deep inside because i want to burn escalators.
come on kid, go play somewhere else. i don't want to redo the basics of your education by explaining the definitions of amalgamation and fallacy to you. no time to waste on a stupid conversation, ciao!
here is. so accommodating a minority is not "flattening out" it is just having respect. if you do it pcq you have no balls it is your problem. if i am more comfortable in french. in my groups of friends we all speak in the language that is comfortable for us (french, english or creole) and we understand others. so if my cousin speaks english i answer in french and my mother answers in creole. we understand all the languages we answer in our.
you'll try this one of these days. maybe it will help your self-centeredness to fade. who knows.
good idea, i've always wondered what the quebec youtuber and streamer are, it's not easy to find them!
in fact the only one i found is xqc / félix lengyel
i have a few questions about the content that will be on this sub:
can the sub only promote streamers (live content) or also videographers / youtubers?
and does the content have to be gaming or can it be something else?
thanks modos for pinning the post. i really appreciate!
a great idea! i'm in!
unbelievable.
thank you
can we also have some quebecers who talk about stocks in french? 
do you know some of them?
stream video games?
this is the idea! i would go see this felix elsewhere.
very relevant as a question! it's not exclusive to streams. so no problem for youtube or whatever. as for everything that is outside of gaming. precisely, i am currently doing a survey on the sub. to probe the interests of members in other content that would not be part of the game. for now, i would like to make it a weekly thematic day. currently we already have wednesdays for the ladies.
very happy!
can sure try to find some. but also the intent would be that it becomes self sustainable. with members providing with creators. everyone finds their ideal creators and sharing them. secondly, the objective would be to attract some sponsors ready to invest in the creators for some visibility. i try to do a proper business plan and everything.
it dominates yes. i am also trying to make room for other subjects. but if we're looking for gaming, i have a pinned list of verified streamers at the top.
xqc is a little fucked up, tandance to be banned everywhere. i know him because of nopixel (gta rp) ... i'm on the whitelist and uh, it's a bit love / hate with xqc there ... i know there is a quebecoise who plays a police on np too ... kinamazing i think?
thanks for the answer, can't wait to see what it will give :)
please yes!
i've looked on youtube and yeah some great canadian guys but it is in english. i get english is the language of business. 
but a beautiful representation of individuals from quebec. i think this would be a good idea.
good luck and if you want me to look over the business plan (i work in finance) i'll do it free of charge. 
i support fully what you are doing. you got this!
i'm not afraid of the “controversies” it takes everyone to make a world. on the internet you just have to be careful not to tackle bigger baseless ones. because the cult of drama means that it's followers are on the hook to cancel you. anyway, i don't know what i'm talking about anymore but it's good to talk!
_bot maître capelo_ 
apparently you made a mistake, the correct conjugation is
i know**
could sure use some help, thanks! i’ll hit you up to exchange e-mails!
i have nothing against x personally, i have already been kidnapped and taken hostage by xqc on nopixel ... it was fun and a little uh intimidating (i do not stream but i still had 175,000 people who looked if we count their team of 4 thieves, x has 130,000 to him alone)
i just said that it happens to him to peter his coche quite often which can put him in trouble.
farme ta yeulle.
i feel you. calvary that must be why!
the british, quebecers' better allies than the canadians. we may be getting our independence from england rather than canada at this rate.
when mom (britain) tells you (canada) to let go of your little sister's (québec) toy. hahahahahaha
> frédéric guindon
heille is the guy who exposed the elsagate cartel in lévis.
more wokeness, but in our favor for once!
good text which reaffirms the proof of the language.
i would like to come back to the conclusion of the article where the author believes that quebec can give lessons in francophilia to france. it is a confusion.
first, french is not the least threatened in france (nor elsewhere, canada is the only french-speaking country where the number of speakers is declining).
to compare the measure by taking a known example, the english is uprooting berlin in a disgusting way like nowhere else in europe because of the euro-globalist status of the capital of germany. it is probably the place where the uprooting takes place the best on all the old continent, and which says uprooting almost always says english.
and yet, berlin is not at all threatened compared to montreal. we could even hope that montreal would become berlin so much that their location seems like a luxury to us from here. and berlin hopes to become paris.
paris is not at all crumbling over any anglophile threat, short or long term. the paris invaded by english, both man and language, never arrived, not even during the english occupation of the time of joan of arc during the hundred years war. this can be explained by a lot of reasons that take us back to the founding of france and even beyond which i will avoid discussing to spare myself the writing of a novel.
the perspective on france is as follows: french is in such a strong position that it allows itself to borrow words and expressions from elsewhere.
you should know that this linguistic puritanism with regard to french is exclusively quebecois (a little in lebanon too). the québécois, in a position of linguistic weakness, is complexed by a feeling of inferiority, which has always been inherent in quebec as far back as i can remember. in reaction, but also in denial, he gives himself the role of purifier, a bit like the prisoner who becomes parish priest to atone for his sins. this is the result of a psychological defense to a perceived threat.
now, whether anglicisms really deteriorate the demographic weight of french in quebec, that remains to be demonstrated. in my opinion, it remains above all a symptom of insecurity than a cause.
a big basket of rubbish. the only way the quebec nation will survive is independence. all their theories are just sleeping pills to put us to sleep. mainly from lapresse.
companies like desjardins or other quebec torches go through english headhunters in toronto to find people who speak english in quebec.
new?
thank you! #preach screeches.
you have to be a federalist to work at lapresse according to the new ceo. it's not me saying it, it's her no later than a couple of months ago.
what is a two-bullet amalgam? lapresse walks hand in hand with a radio padlock.
"mainly from lapresse."
honestly, we have to stop the two-bullet amalgamation. the author approaches precisely in the same direction.
we can put the word we want, the message is the same
prince philippe has almost no royal status, everything comes back to the queen.
abolishing or reforming the monarchy in canada is the equivalent of a constitutional amendment ie it will never happen, thank you trudeau father! whether that will rekindle the flame, i have huge doubts. the monarchy has no political influence whatsoever in quebec or canada and it costs us peanuts. we failed to sell independence on the backs of billions in fiscal imbalance, good luck with a couple of ten million for the monarchy! to paraphrase philippe couillard, it would be better for us to look at the * real business *.
not me who is going to mourn him.
> my reaction.
an independent quebec would have an interest in remaining in the commonwealth.
oh yes!? did you find this on your own?
you are right, it will be so difficult to transform canada into a republic. it will be necessary to create the post of president and for the prime minister to agree to cede his executive powers. we'll have to change the legal tests, get rid of references to the crown. redo the decoration of the parliament of canada (there are cursed crowns everywhere).
** the easiest ** would be to continue to be a constitutional monarchy and elect a canadian sovereign, perhaps by choosing him through an election every ten years.
** for quebec, what would be best is independence. **
more or less agree. the commonwealth is primarily a social club for countries. it is not a military alliance or a trade pact.
why that?
i believe there is confusion between the [commonwealth realm] ( and the [commonwealth of nations] ( commonwealth_of_nations). the second does not engage the subjugation to the british sovereign, it is a big club like the francophonie. a forum of choice for diplomatic networking or forging special relationships.
cringe. the commonwealth should be abolished like the english colonial remnant that it is.
his son's rank is higher than his. it sparked a great deal of controversy during the 1960s.
the prime minister does not need to bequeath his powers. there can be a president and he would have no power (like the queen now). it works like that in germany where the chancellor is the equivalent of the prime minister. same thing in ireland and so on. the president can be elected by universal suffrage or elected by the parliament (this is the case in germany, the parliament chooses an elected representative who is respectable in the eyes of the people, someone wise who is unanimous)
in fact, it was queen elizabeth ii's effort to save the furniture from the collapse of the british empire.
we are already in that gives us privileged access to many countries and we already have a historic anglo community. in fact the question is why we should get out of it.
but why stay? symbolically it is degrading, but there may be a practical use that i did not understand.
i will be opposed to this until the tax avoidance and avoidance issues are resolved. the main purpose of this measure is to redistribute the money that the rich refuse to pay as wages, but if the latter do not pay their taxes then this money will come out of the pockets of the middle class, which cannot afford that.
current emergency services are costly to the system. this is the dilemma: are we talking about an addition to the current net or a lump sum for all that withdraws specific protection from certain groups?
there are few examples but it seems promising for the mental health and development of people in any case.
a guaranteed minimum income would be crap, a bad idea. we have seen the problems that this causes with pku.
already, suppose a young adult has just turned 18 and starts receiving say $ 1000 a month, while still staying with his parents. $ 1000 per month when you have almost no essential expenses to do is huge! what kind of society would it create in the long run if young people no longer saw any need to force themselves into the workforce?
and it's not just the question of young people, i know people who work for minimum wage and who have fallen into unemployment because of covid. i have heard some say: "i am in no hurry to find a job, i earn more by being unemployed!"
in any case, the supporters of the guaranteed minimum income have not yet convinced me at all, it even seems that they are deliberately neglecting the many perverse effects that such a policy would have.
there are some good and some not so good when it comes to numbers (which are just abstract data). there is no context or long-term outlook, nor on the desired social project (do we want to eliminate poverty in favor of wealth? this is a real question).
the bright side: net poverty reduction
the bad side: declining gdp
do we prefer equality to gdp? it's a choice that requires you to think about it, you have to maximize profits without going too much one way or the other.
this income seems essential to me, but nevertheless the real question is of multimodal source. $ 17,000 per year seems absolutely monstrous to me without having any considerable consequences on the economy (this amount should be that of social assistance).
personally, i would start tackling poverty at the lowest level first which is $ 400-600 per month for everyone strictly to meet basic nutritional needs. from there, we observe, we look at what is happening, and we adapt, we complicate or simplify the modalities with the simple long-term objective of eliminating homelessness.
lately, another huge problem remains: who is going to pay?
i have nothing against paying more taxes, but everyone expects services for free. necessarily, taxes will increase, and since this guaranteed income is intended to be reinjected into the economy, then i propose that it be funded from the increase in the sales tax.
the best solution is not just a ubi but rather the negative tax as proposed by milton friedman.
already, if they had given the pku to everyone, without exceptions, it would have done a lot less cheating, the world would have been more motivated to stay at home and it would not have been the administrative nightmare we know in this regard. moment with the frauds and the officials who have to ask themselves "mmmm ... is he cramming the state?" i even guarantee that it would have been cheaper in the long run for the state to give it to everyone.
there is also the cumbersome nature of the public system. if you have this system there you no longer need anyone unemployed for social assistance benefits, loans and scholarships ect you will have to cut thousands of positions at the provincial and federal level, even if it is utopian i sincerely believe that its would be a system that i would think is basically good especially when you see how you can work 40 hour weeks and be below the poverty line.
just the fact of no longer contributing to the coffers of other provinces would make the population of quebec a little less poor.
so we break the balls to the 16.8m of taxpayers who assume the majority of taxes to benefit the 6.4m who contribute practically nothing? a drop in hours worked, a contraction in gdp and bonus tax revenues? success guaranteed!
what is especially wrong with this proposal is that we are talking about marginal tax rates, deducting tax credits, but nothing about [existing transfers to individuals] ( //www.budget .gc.ca / 2019 / docs / plan / budget-2019-en.pdf). for 2020-2021, there is talk of $ 105.8b divided between old age pensions ($ 59.7b), the canada child allowance ($ 24.6b) and employment insurance ($ 21.5b). should we understand that we will add $ 85g to these transfers ?! and who is going to pay for it?
[the elements of this list continue to be confirmed] (
the problem is that those who squeeze their money in tax havens are the ones who govern us, the ones who finance the election campaigns of the big political parties and the leaders of the big companies, so we will never see an anti-evasion operation. tax and consequent large-scale investigations.
the minimum income model proposed in the study is completely stupid besides:
> under a guaranteed basic income program like the one mr. giroux evaluated, ottawa would have paid about $ 17,000 to a single person, or $ 24,000 to a couple. this guaranteed basic income is then reduced as a person's employment income increases, at the rate of $ 0.50 for every dollar earned.
1- we discourage couples from living together to save money, so we worsen the housing crisis.
2- we create a marginal tax rate of 50% on the first dollars earned by workers, which discourages low-income workers from working.
the devil is in the details when it comes to guaranteed minimum income.
for it to make sense as a policy, it should be ordinary income for which you get a t4 and that's it. no condition, no refund. the big question then is the amount of the check and what tax credits / social program that we take away to compensate, and that is a left-right debate.
or if they don't move
the only solution is to give better tax advantages to the rich. by dint of taking everything from them, they will flee elsewhere with their capital.
it's better to have them by our side.
it is a decision that we chose very badly in quebec. there are limits to condemning financial success. the owner of the jean coutu pharmacy is worth several billion, but he must return more than 55% to revenu quebec the day he sells his assets.
why the hell would i want to contribute to the economy if they take more than half of what i deserve right? the russians quickly understood this paradox shortly before the collapse of the ussr. to hell with innovation, i prefer a job without risk, good luck quebec, continue to envy others.
> by dint of ** taking everything from them **
poor them, they'll only have two private jets rather than three with their 10 mansions. / s
* praise the lord *, the voice of reason! there is really a lack of understanding of tax policies in quebec. taxpayers are not cash cows one can milk indefinitely. our tax base is based on the size of the economy and especially the wealthiest taxpayers. we would be better off looking at the laffer curve to optimize our cash inflows rather than constantly reducing the incentive to prosper.
> the only solution is to give better tax advantages to the rich. by dint of taking everything from them, they will flee elsewhere with their capital.
and what do we do next? are we privatizing everything?
the reality is that there are two classes of the rich. those who are not rich enough to cheat taxes, and those who are. tax evasion is extremely unfair to the former who bear the bulk of the cost of the state and who are overtaxed to compensate for tax evasion of the second category.
tax evasion comes initially from the overly complex tax system, and international agreements signed by the federal government with tax havens (double taxation agreements). it is absolutely necessary to plug these holes, it is not even a question of left or right as far as i am, in either case we should avoid having a tax system that can be bypassed if you can afford the services of a tax lawyer.
the vast, vast majority of what you call "rich" are light years away from being able to afford a private jet. already gone to drive in audi, you are "rich".
that they worked to be able to pay themselves in spite of everything - how many jobs did they give to the purchase of their 10 mansions and their two jets? if so, they gave me a job.
it is not for the people, less fortunate or less working, who should decide what the rich should do. it is simply resentment.
no, doctors, lawyers and the like are not the "rich."
good deal, it polishes in criss
i don't quite agree. the opportunities you have in life come a lot from where you were born. you have a legal and police system that guarantees social peace, a school system that has allowed you to develop, a pre-existing economy that has left you the place to launch yourself on the market with a legal framework. all this was built before your arrival, none of this is taken for granted.
you have grown your business, okay and well done, your luck is to be able to reap the rewards in a capitalist system that you did not put in place. the soil is the society all around you.
the fact of reinvesting in this company so that the others around also have their chance, it is not unfair.
to put it another way, female teachers do not create wealth in a financial system. but without their students, your high-level employees don't exist. it is normal that the profit that you make thanks to the product of their work also benefits them in the form of redistribution to the population.
> that they worked to be able to pay themselves despite everything
no job on earth is worth all that.
two-thirds of tax payers have an annual salary between $ 1 and $ 49,999. that's 4,349,981 people. i draw the line to an audi, it may be arbitrary, but it's a lot more realistic than "private jet". i don't think earning $ 50,000 / year qualifies you as "rich".
there are around 460,000 people who earn more than $ 100,000 / year in quebec. this is the top 7% of taxpayers.
capital moves faster than legislators and tax authorities. we can change our tax system, but it's more difficult than just "taxing the rich". i do not agree with op, but it seems to me that he is partially right.
go back and read karl marx instead of saying nonsense.
i imagine he is talking about the few who make a minimum of 1 million + per year.
anything else good to say?
among those who profess the strongest to want to preserve our culture, i am always surprised to find that they do not really know what it is. often the only vague definition we are offered is a right to chance, such as: "women are equal to men".
it is like those who call themselves “conservatives”. i want to tell them; "but what is it that you want to keep, exactly?" and i fear that very rarely i could be answered. true conservatism should come from a love of culture, its productions, its manifestations in everyday life. if we don't have that, we're just hating change.
kind of like qs:
intersectionnaliste
ecologist
sovereignist
feminist
alterglobalist
antiracist
antifascist
same same same etc.
check the boxes you want to become one! you don't even have to know what each of the boxes means, like a role-playing game in dungeons & dragons!
the guy will be able to write "how to become the most despised person in quebec in 1 minute" after retiring.
.... with a name like rousseau in addition.
worse, he said it's a good thing he doesn't need to speak french in montreal.
this is not a new situation, already in 1976 the commissioner of official languages complained about the linguistic situation at air canada.
obviously, at air canada, it is a tradition to ignore the francophonie.
they should just adjust the law to say that you don't have to be bilingual but that it's 50% of your salary if you speak just english or just french 😏
* we are going to release the news, which all journalists on 15-20 trips per year know, when the caq is going to have its worst pandemic flop. 🤡 *
* hey, we're even going to shift that to sync with ontario. will see that fire! 🤡 *
* oh well, could even stifle hydro's silliness at the same time! 🤡 *
🤡
sti, even p. lagacé does it by avoiding talking about his * bike ride boyfriend * to tweet non-stop on ac.
it was pure chance, i told you! 🤡
i don't intend to take air canada
1 point for the deductible
it is almost as if the orangemen continue to calmly orange trees while we do nothing.
i hope that air canada will move their head office to toronto.
i do not understand why we get angry, come and live in the west island, a unilingual english land, where french does not exist. we despise quebec culture while playing the victim of an oppressed minority ... but you can live without saying a word of french ... like the ceo of air canada.
ok and?
these are the worst, they deny their roots or it happened before in their lineage. his father has (had) a french name but was perhaps already assimilated, so married to an english woman and already spoke poorly french if his mother was english and he only went to english school. in other words, there is one of the rousseaus who has not kept up his job and his descendants are assimilated. a true canadian, like the trudeaus.
i'm not convinced let's say ...
and air canada has a long tradition of providing ass service in french. showing everyone that they have an unrepentant rhodesian esti as ceo is the icing on the cake.
there is zero business in french. next!
the pm jabber not capable jabber in english and we like him well.
if the ceo is against the language of 20% of the clientele of his company, it gives the example to his subordinates that it is okay to be angry too. this is what they do.
you are frozen.
you put your head in the sand like the federalist ostrich that you are.
okay
all the conquered peoples have always had traitors \ collaborators in exchange for economic favors. the liberal party which was the party of the patriots and la presse which was for the struggle of the patriots understood this well and allowed themselves to be bought off by the english.
betrayed by himself.
first, better working conditions for "essential workers" then immigration, we have no choice because we have stopped having children but we could give preference to francophones who come to quebec. the americans are putting on the streets thousands of french-speaking haitians who have been house-trained in the usa since the earthquake. yes, surely he screeches out those who are the least profitable but it is precisely the freaks of burgers and adult diaper changers that we miss. we should welcome them with open arms ... but after we drop the minimum wage to $ 15, the regular work week at 35 hours, 1.5x universal overtime on a voluntary basis, no more paid february leave and health insurance that covers teeth, eyes worse which is really obtainable ..
in the meantime, employers can lick their legs
nothing new, it always has been.
not really, the patriots were the union of the liberals and the conservatives, after the banning by the english of the patriotic party 2 new parties appeared the red party (liberals) and the blue party (conservative).
it's such a stupid situation.
this old boomer bitch who calls herself the keeper of knowledge, who has the authority to choose which books are acceptable and which are not.
people around who have never thought about burning books is something you'd expect to see in the fucking third reich, or when the great library in alexandria was burnt down. this idea that a book should be destroyed instead of talking about it is a big step towards theocracy, fascism and willful ignorance.
me, yesterday:
> it is under the impulse of a "guardian of knowledge" whom i would like to see a dna test to verify the origins that she claims and who seems to have self-proclaimed this position of "guardian of knowledge".
whether it was covid or something else, who was right? it was kchoze who was right!
addition: little extra "kchoze was still right"
me, yesterday again: "and the community follows its dictates without asking questions, because asking questions is wrong, it is re-victimizing the victim of colonialism by questioning his life experience or other bullshit of this kind."
trudeau's reaction: "asked to react on tuesday to the outcry caused by the initiative, liberal leader justin trudeau criticized the choice to burn books, but he added: < <ce n'est pas à moi, ce n'est pas aux non-autochtones de dire aux autochtones comment ils devraient se sentir ou devraient agir pour avancer la réconciliation.> > "
as a reminder, it's been [eleven years] ( that this arsonist charlatan has been working his way with his pseudo native american identity. vice president of the native americans of orillia, president of the group of native women of orillia, commissioner of native americans, chief of the georgian bay friendship society program, program developer for simcoe county, president of the native american commission from ontario, program developer and facilitator for vision quest, etc ...
see, this pathological liar wanted to burn all 5,000 volumes in a huge pile, but the covid thwarted her plans. all this on the wind, blatant lies or what the liberal party calls self-identification. this is what happens when we fetishize the native american identity, some invent one like [filmmaker michelle latimer] ( -identity-1.5845310) or [marie-josée parent] ( the first elected non-native american of the city of montreal. this dynamic leaves us at the mercy of charlatans if not the mentally ill, it must stop.
the clotaire rapaille of the turtle clan
i contemplate this story which crumbles before my eyes with ugly satisfaction ... the plc which plays the virtue, a woke which monopolizes the words of others, radio-canada which undermines the trudeau campaign, the double - dubious standards of the plc on the identity, the hypocrisy of the tolerance camp, the inquisitors of good religious conscience, the unequivocal condemnation and disavowal by all the first nations, the instrumentalization of minorities that the wokes know to be weakened by centuries of injustice ...
what a great week. i'm already looking forward to tomorrow.
typique upper-middle class suburban white woman syndrome.
not to tell the natives how to be them, for them. you don't have to discriminate them _with_ words and not _with_ feelings. we must not tell them how to do it, not to be with them for the suffering ahead. it is not up to the candians to tell them who to burn.
"... a step in the right direction ..."
- justin trudeau
trudeau's most reasonable statement yet, yet no wonder
so 11 years of cheating and going all the way to pm while matante ginette gets fact-checked in the 2nd dubious post she publishes on facebook.
this is how it works.
we work hard
\ - justin trudeau
the statement is not in itself wrong, but its use in the context (where "non-natives" burn books because a woman calling herself "natives" says she is shocked by them) is absolutely ludicrous.
ok, they can feel whatever they want, but why should i comply with all their requests without asking a question, without also having my own feelings and actions on my side?
in life, everyone is entitled to their feelings and opinions, but no one has the right to expect the rest of the world to bow to their every whim, ignoring their own feelings and opinions. .
trudeau's statement oozes hypocrisy. he says < <ce n'est pas à moi, ce n'est pas aux non-autochtones de dire aux autochtones comment ils devraient se sentir ou devraient agir pour avancer la réconciliation.> >, does that mean he's giving them a blank check? i think a reasonable person could interpret it that way. i mean, trudeau says all the time that he wants to work for reconciliation with the indians, but it would be up to them to decide the whole process? so it's a blank check.
if so, i hope he is prepared to pay billions and butcher provinces to give territories to the amerindians. but we all know he's not ready to do that at all. for trudeau, the so-called reconciliation is a big session of self-flagellation of the white man, the cultural castration of the west and in the end an evening of kumbaya dance at the mont royal tamtam.
worrisome! ...
still ironic coming from the guy who vomits on everything that advances his career.
another dung laid by rick "the dick" martineau
it is true that the radio silence on ali ngarikaye (the accused in the camara affair) is quite worrying. lots of time to talk about mr. camara's tragedy, but none to find that the perpetrator was at large with a stolen service weapon in his possession? this is what happens when you make systemic racism the issue of any hot topic, you lose sight of a maniac.
surprisingly, i can't believe it ...
shhh, don't say it !!!
stu reliable as a source?
this man ** suffered from mental illness. ** tabarnak, his mother called the police because he thought everyone wanted to kill him (the reason he was walking down the street with a knife). between you who believe that the problem is that it is a black should go and seek treatment.
another classic case where the family is worried about a member and the police come to shoot him.
now is the time for police apologia
in the immigration section
"racialist extreme left"
"the taser is not always effective"
long list of crime and implications it's a good thing
let it die (instead of being another example our system
judicial is a big joke that thinks it can solve everything
with guns and bars)
random photo of a guy who smokes pot
immigrants compared to garbage
he was probably a $ insert_generational_boogeyman_drug_here junkie
it was probably a suicide by the police
he was surely a fool
you're from the bottom of the barrel on tuesday
these black people, i call them niggers.
the negrophilia of the world of french descent will end up killing them .... in the figurative and proper sense.
> but none to find that the perpetrator was at large with a stolen service weapon in his possession?
do you really think the police wanted people to think more about their incompetence? it's like the rcmp with the massacre in nova scotia, they shut their mouths up and hope people will forget.
there are various sources throughout the article.
nah it's systemic racism that caused her mental illness bro
the site and its speech is rubbish, but it refers to reliable sources that you can validate yourself. it wasn't just a sweet little lamb who had taken one too many pill, it was a long-standing dangerous moron osti, who shouldn't have been outside of a prison or other institution.
by the way, it looks like a crack pipe. i know because i saw hunter biden's sextape.
the site as such is indeed shit, and the purpose behind the subject serving ideological purposes as well, but in itself disregarding this, it is difficult to criticize a manipulation of the facts by the author since actually did his research.
the fact that the individual is dangerous is not incompatible with criticism of police intervention. it is certain that the site does not lighten up in the criticism of the management, but given that it does not do so either we can presume that this track is not to be ruled out. ultimately there is nothing that justifies being shot. in the best of all possible worlds, that shouldn't happen.
> "the taser is not always effective"
why are you presenting a fact like it's wrong? the reality is that this man should never have been at large as he was.
my only regret is that the couple from sainte-anne-des-plaines were not armed to send junior olivier and his accomplices six feet underground in 2005.
long live self-defense.
[
find a deep hole and fall in it.
kiss my ass
beautiful thick that here
> negrophilia is a term which means "love of black" and which avant-garde artists of the 1920s used among themselves to describe their passion for black culture. this term is characterized by intense and recurring sexual behaviors, impulses or fantasies targeting black afro-descendant people in the individual.
are you serious when you write this?
> will end up killing them ... in the sense of figuring and clean
can you elaborate, just to understand the depths of your thought? at first glance, one might think this is a filthy suggestion that the black population will systematically eliminate white descendants of european descent?
[
but i'm sure that's not what you're suggesting, is it?
wow, that flies high in the comments here.
i could not have said better!
it may be "shit", but in the meantime, they are the only ones who speak of these proven facts. it does not interest the subsidized media apparently ...
it is not journalism. this article is not about communicating facts. their goal is to solicit and reinforce very specific memes in their readers.
and the police do not run away, it is a failure on the whole line.
ah yes, i remember this video, when he made a deal with bill gates in ukraine to buy him 5g vaccines which will be used for epstein's suicide.
attacking the police justifies having a hole in the skin.
it is a preemptive police apology to justify when the police kill people.
it works with any alternative
"instead of killing him you could have x"
"yes but x not always effective, faque y bursts and we don't need to try"
continue like this and maybe one day you too will have the chance to use self-defense. you will be able to see direct self-defense in the street. sometimes self-defense will ricochet in your living room, but don't worry, it's legitimate!
😘
black prison junk ... is a nigga.
🥺
whether the "grand replacement" is a conspiracy theory or not, the fact remains that there is a demographic change underway and denying it would be even more stupid than being a complotisse.
> one might think that this is a filthy suggestion that the black population will systematically eliminate white descendants of european origin?
if you understood that it's proof that the world understands what they want.
in my opinion, it sounds more like if we continue to look for bebittes instead of fixing the problem, even if the problem is not "woke", it will be bad ...
for example, squashing the police and sending a social worker to the street gangs instead ... i'm sure it'll help ... a will prosper makes a nice hostage.
they talk about these facts because otherwise it would not serve their purposes. an ideologically committed site will not make the news of subjects which do not concern them even less which do not benefit them. you still have to be manipulated at will not to see it.
show me objective journalism these days. everything is based on the ideology of the editorial line.
okay, but there are some facts anyway. their article reposts are a lot worse.
it's fake news, do you think?
[
it is so empty as an affirmation that i do not know what to answer, as if there was no context and everything stems from a purely abstract perception of facts by minimizing an extremely complex situation to this single simple principle which holds in a sentence. if only the court judge had your foresight.
> it works with any alternative
no, because it's not in all scenarios where if it doesn't work the suspect will kill someone.
what about white jail junk, a racist?
there are more people of different ethnicities and different origins today than a century or two ago. yes, this is true.
and what?
that's why i asked for some elaboration, because this sentence is vague enough to allow a lot of interpretation.
there are solutions to problems. sending the police to threaten a homeless person to tie him to a telephone pole is a bad idea. to make a strong statement against mr. mamadi by simple revenge and to take six days before checking the cameras, it is bad idea.
funds can be invested intelligently to handle specific situations. no one is proposing to send social workers to manage street gangs. but to offer to send the police over for mental health cases and end up killing the individual is a complete failure.
there is better to do.
not quite. in light of the other comments from the user in question, it was indeed a racial reproach. there are not too many questions about this.
objective journalism is probably impossible.
the content it does not make them relate, even if they are all true. the content is the reason why these particular facts are reported and what the author wants us to think about them.
they exploit the human weakness of availability bias and confirmation bias.
the goal is to strengthen the associations already present in its audience and to transform an extreme case into a case of norm exaggeration are important.
if the police kill someone, their position will automatically be "the suspect would have killed someone else" until proven guilty.
call him what you want boyfriend.
the big replacement is a reality, not a conspiracy theory. even statistics canada predicts that french canadians will be in the minority in quebec in 2042 according to demographic projections.
[
if there is a plot, it is more to deny this reality than to convince people of its existence. for example, when radio-can talks about this subject, they do not say that it is not true that french canadians are going to become a minority at home, they rather say that since we cannot define what a québécois is, then it is it is impossible for us to be replaced!
[
“it should be remembered that this is an unfounded idea, which is based on erroneous perception biases. a native people cannot be replaced by an external people, it being accepted that a people never has a fixed identity, neither established in time, nor fixed. there are no more ethnic quebecers today than there were 100 years ago. "
- benjamin ducol, researcher and expert in terrorism and radicalization
i would be curious to see if he would say the same thing about the amerindians say, it is clear that they have been "replaced" and that the same fate awaits us if we continue in the same demographic direction.
> but to offer to send the police for mental health cases and end up killing the individual is a failure on the whole line.
>  
> there is better to do.
unless the guy is dangerous and decides to run into the police with a knife. the solution to a guy who rushes into the world with a knife, mental illness or not, it's still a bullet in the head if he's dangerous ...
the guy a la katana in quebec this winter ... same affair, a fucké osti. worse, instead of thinking of the poor little fucker, could you think of stopping him? we start to think about what he has "inside" that does not solve his problem in the immediate future.
i'll stick with my interpretation first, it's a lot better ...
the problem is not the blacks or the race that it will want ... the problem is that we are afraid to solve a problem and to say the real business because this problem is found more often in a group immigrants or another ... we are not able to say that there is a problem of street gangs in the black community ...
you're not going to rimouski to settle the problem of radical islamism ...
to forcefully bend over backwards every time a black man gets arrested with 3 guns, 4 knives, and 100 rocks of crack ... and all we can think of is "well ... the police would have not to throw it on the ground like that "worse" there is nothing done "there is a screeching problem ...
i'm almost done. mixed appreciation of this book. at times i have a little difficulty following him. he writes as he speaks and that can lead to some pretty dizzying passages. it's definitely interesting. mbc read the founding texts and presents authors that i did not know. however, there are times when i would like him to concede certain things that seem fairly obvious to me.
in particular, he speaks of the "paradox" that a society can possess racist characteristics even without the individuals who make it up _intentionally_ racist. however, it seems to me that we are faced with an obvious fact. first, i don't see what intention has to do with the debate, and second, one has only to know a little physics to know that a set of subunits can have emergent properties that cannot be not share its components in their individuality.
basically, i find that it raises a lot of important points, in particular the revolutionary character of the changes which are taking place, the loss represented by the rejection of universalism, but falling somewhat into the same kind of discourse as the one that is taking place. 'he fights. what is to be fought among the supporters of "systemic racism" is precisely their determination to demand the public repentance of everyone, and other such behavior. this is what is toxic. but the _real_ discriminated against will gain nothing from 1000 repentant testimonies. the word, who cares. we have to go back to the concrete, abandon ideology. mbc does not say the opposite but i find that it is rather where its text softens. but hey, i haven't finished.
bock likes to hear himself speak; apparently he also likes to read himself.
haha. but for me mbc represents a bit of a break in the quebec media space. i was really bored with quebec media before hearing about it. since i read it, although i often disagree, i enjoy the column again. his vocabulary is certainly more precise than what a lagacé has, for example, and i find that good.
but i definitely have the same feeling as you!
this. although i enjoy his opinions holy fuck all i see is a giant man child trying to get mommy's attention. 
if he was just packaged differently i'd find it easier to swallow his points. 
criss. mbc just proved his point lol
he may have good ideas on occasion, but he reminds me a lot of ben shapiro; more focused on crushing others with an endless stream of words rather than getting to the heart of it.
that and the ego.
i don't know if i describe it as "childish". he is clearly someone who has had a solid education and he knows the basics of the subjects he is talking about. the great fault that i can give to bock-côté is that he seems to have difficulty in popularizing. obviously, there are some topics that are more difficult to simplify than others.
for example, i really liked the interventions of hubert reeves, a science popularizer who was able to take astrophysics (a rather complex subject!) and bring it to a point where even poorly educated idiots, like me, could understand what he was saying.
i agree with the form, but mbc is not a quebec shapiro. it is obvious that he himself is working on this aspect of his character. it happens to see him start a calm and collected interview and moments later the tone and flow changed haha.
> ben shapiro; more focused on crushing others with an endless stream of words rather than getting to the heart of it.
well if you go over the vocabulary of sick that he has, it easily gets to the heart of the problem.
racialist wokes bring back concepts that were racist, 100% but in the name of diversity ... segregation, colorblind, jim crow laws, giving jobs based on skin color ... in fact do this while promoting skin color as the # 1 argument in everything.
these are all concepts with which we were done and we got rid of globally in the countries where the racialists try to bring it back with their "safe space" and the separations of the groups which will then be confined in their communities based on color. of skin...
that means that we meet up with 50 different groups, who have nothing in common and who don't give a damn about the others. and they all want to be haitian who lives in quebec or palestinian who lives in quebec or israeli who lives in quebec ... instead of becoming quebecois. groups that want to know nothing about the history, the language or the quebecois people ... they just want to stay here, impose their culture on us and shout louder than the others. as white, we must not fit the opposite in their heads.
that's not to mention the fact that we're not quebecois either. we are white people. period. so we have to carry british colonialism and american slavery on our shoulders ... because of our skin color ...
worse if you say that you are against the "antiracists" you are automatically a racist, because someone who is anti racist cannot be racist himself and at the same time cannot have osties of fucked up ideas ... so since you don't want to lick an afro-native's ass and ask forgiveness for your white skin, you're automatically part of the kkk ...
no. a steven crowder hautes études collegiales my friend.
if he can improve, become a good socio-political popularizer, etc ... good for him, for you, for me and for all.
i don't hate him as a human being. i don't mean any harm to this man. i find him a little pedantic and i do not lean towards his political side, that's all.
i think having a good vocabulary is good. but being able to popularize and simplify the points in order to communicate to the greatest number of people is much better.
but apart from the speech ...
i admit that i got lost a bit in your text? i understand that you don't like "racialist wokes". i have to admit i'm not sure what a racialist woke is. i would like to understand what you mean?
i don't know this individual, sorry.
i've seen this mbc review for several times and find it really weak. he doesn't have to popularize anything. it occupies a different niche and that's fine. if its vocabulary seems too complicated to you, either you learn to understand it, or you do not listen / read it any more!
> i have to admit i'm not sure what a racialist woke is. i would like to understand what you mean?
[un video, si ca aide](
i don't actually listen to him. he pops up here and there in media i consume and i take the trouble to give him the chance, but he keeps trying to write an endless novel to express an idea.
in fact, it is quite the opposite; if he is unable to express himself in a way that the majority of people can follow him, he is the one shooting himself in the foot. him and his ideas, i don't give a damn!
it is he who puts his mouth up wherever he can; it is up to him to present himself as an accessible individual who can be followed, otherwise his little pseudo-celebrity will not last long.
no, i think you are completely wrong. it's even a very harmful mentality in my opinion. i can understand that you don't like it but personally i prefer someone who expresses himself well, with the right terms, than someone who "popularizes". it annoys me to always shoot down. we certainly do not need more "extension workers" in quebec.
hubert reeves is an astrophysicist. he is also an excellent science popularizer who makes it both accessible and interesting.
carl sagan presented and narrated the cosmos series, in which he did popular science. it was an excellent work. carl sagan was also, according to isaac asimov, one of the smartest men of his generation. he took great pleasure in popularizing and making things accessible.
neil degrasse tyson has revived the cosmos tv series and is trying to popularize, too.
stephen hawking made a point of presenting his studies so that the ordinary person could be interested in them.
there is absolutely nothing wrong with wanting to make things accessible and understandable. on the contrary, the intellectual pseudo-elitism of wanting to obfuscate absolutely everything with a pretentious and sufficient vocabulary adds nothing to the arguments. it only makes the individual cocky and smug.
there is often a good range of synonyms in the french vocabulary. if someone makes the conscious choice to make each exchange a bernard pivot dictation, it is because he prefers to sink into navel-gazing rather than make an effort not to be haughty and shitty.
we certainly don't need more people like this in quebec.
a very imperfect solution. by limiting the english-speaking network to 17% of places (double the share of the english-speaking population in quebec), the government will find itself creating an anglo network for the quebec elite.
yes, this is an improvement over the current law. without a doubt! however, applying bill 101 to the college network would have had the same effect, while limiting the undesirable consequences. because there, the consequence of this new system is to increase the attractiveness of english-speaking colleges even more, but by limiting access to them somewhat. afterwards, people will wonder why the success rate of anglo colleges is much better than that of francophone cegeps: because anglo colleges will skim the allophone and francophone student clientele by admitting only the strongest.
"an exception is made for those who have studied english in elementary and secondary school."
ridicule.
an economical solution is a single pan-quebec program for all schools with the same passing exams.
so we do as the english have said it is to save money because quebec does not have the resources to maintain two programs at the same time.
and nothing, nothing, nothing on the english signage and company names. the caq gives birth to a fairly insignificant law, the foreseeable effect of which should also be fairly insignificant, at best.
thank god
how many posts on the law 101 asti will you leave
i think the only solution is not to prevent anyone from studying in an "english" cegep, but to change the nature of the latter. impose a minimum threshold of courses in french from primary school coupled with a compulsory french exam for _tous_.
legault proposed to increase the proportion of _francophone_ establishments offering years of english immersion in grades 5 and 6 of elementary school in order to reduce the attractiveness of english-speaking cegeps. these are not jokes! quite simply, it should be the other way around. yes, study in english. no one wants to carry out a cultural genocide (as it has been done to aboriginal people and francophones across the country). only, if french is the common language, then all do _at least part_ of their education in french.
i have much less problem with thousands of french people going to dawson city if 30-40% of their classes will be in french anyway.
there is no perfect solution, but i have the impression that legault has shopped for a nice consensus that will not really change much. if at least the places in cegeps were frozen in absolute terms, and in a proportional manner. there, we will favor an elite, that's all. i saw someone talk about a lottery ... it might also help ...
misery...
get ready, we'll hear about it for a long time, it's a major subject.
i agree with frédéric bastien: the debate on cegeps is a waste of time. ideally, it is not a question of rate, it is a question of financing proportional to the demographic weight, namely 7-8% for english-speaking cegeps, enough to hit their prestige with full force. the french exam should be compulsory for everyone.
so the debate is not a waste of time. for me, funding commensurate with the demographic weight is part of the debate.
legault has just closed the biggest open door for the affirmation of quebeckers, and i would say more generally of the whole of the french-speaking world in america, for ages. he had the field wide open, he could have been bolder, but we are served a warmed chinese paté from the charest years - with a little more spice.
article original:
we are there, ordeal 😂🤦🏻‍♂️
can you have a flair for eliminating garbage woke?
storm in a glass of water. it's a bit of a sidewalk. let him be given a boulevard, cibole.
it took a scandal.
the decision was probably reviewed by the plante administration because "camille" is a woman's first name.
"what a great woman this camille laurin" could be heard at projet montreal this afternoon, between two conferences of the department of feminist studies at uqam.
this is what i hate about today's society. everything is going on with scandals. it seems like leaders and managers only do their jobs right when the spotlight is on them, and again reluctantly.
personally, i'm just going to downvote something if it's an obvious troll.
to be honest, i don't give a damn about the vote, it doesn't change my life. i've never downvoted a single thing, so i might as well not pay attention to it. i know brigades organize themselves in private to make life hard for some, but it amuses me rather than anything to tell me that life, social approval in a few people boils down to reddit votes, and that 'they are frustrated to the point of declaring vote wars even gives me a certain satisfaction that they try in vain to appropriate in their failed smear campaigns.
good intervention. i never paid attention to downvotes but indeed, what is a shame is that only one ideology is allowed on reddit and particularly on / montreal and / quebec so downvotes are a control tool to crush ideological minorities.
thanks for this discussion. i share some of your concerns. myself, i try not to abuse the function of negavote. as for how many points my own reviews get, i don't care, although being heavily negotiated isn't always a pleasant experience.
that said, i can't help but view this attempt to change habits as being futile alas, because reddit works that way, users don't always posivot or negotiate thoughtfully, and most use it instead as agree and disagree buttons.
most of the time people don't want to argue with random assholes on the internet, instead they just chatter the said comment is the end of the discussion, which is more or less a problem since the most of the time it ends with el famoso argumentatum ad personam.
you will go in secret to see a discord of a certain sub of quebecois
extreme left communists / anarchists, in the time they were brigading on the discord, to keep their sub clean and not to be banned.
quite certain that on reddit a minority of people downvote and often it is those who have more than one account to "strengthen" their ideological votes.
it's not a matter of approval, when a comment is negotiated it becomes hidden from most users, and when a user has negative 'karma' in a sub they are blocked from participating in it. first there is a delay to wait to respond then it is shadowbanned, comments are visible only to whoever writes them. this is the goal of the censors' brigades, to abuse the moderation system to censor.
it's not just a matter of social approval. as the other comment said, it can play with the algorithm.
also, new users might get discouraged from getting downvoted all the time because they don't understand how to post that "bucks".
i don't even care about karma and i don't mind being downvoted, i'm really not karma whore and i mostly post on marginal sub where there is no karma to be done.
it is more unpleasant when the war of votes is pounding in the place. since we are approaching 1000 members, i thought it was a good time to try to establish good habits in the community.
well it is worth mentioning it. i'm not holding my breath either. the world will do what they want with it.
you give them too much credit ... i assure you that in the vast majority of these censors, the gesture comes down to impulsiveness; a negavote of 5 rednecks on a forum of 800 members has such an anecdotal effect that the strategy cannot necessarily come from a carefully studied approach. so yes, this kind of brigade acts under the influence of impulsiveness, which i recall, like that of the sjw, is that of a disabling hypersensitivity. i actually find it hilarious.
if the warriors of virtue equip themselves with brigades to negotiate a list of names, it is in a way the projection of their own discomfort in the face of the judgment of others. for them, acceptance (voting) is so important that they are reduced to believing that a negavote for someone is equivalent to the effect they themselves feel when it happens to them.
you shouldn't make it an obsession either. brigades of morons arrive in droves to talk about everything they see - so what? in practice, it doesn't change anything here.
it's true, but when we talk about brigades we are talking about semi-organized things; to have undergone it i can tell you, most of those who participate in it have no understanding of the context of the discussion or the comment, they click the link given to them and downvote.
many great geniuses imagine that downvoting is like clicking on the 'angry' smiley face on facebook and clicking on it will change reality.
it's a cowdsourced moderation tool to help ward off spam, trolls, and nonsense, and since reddit has gone mainstream, the new ones are showing us why democracy and accountability aren't for everyone.
mr. kelley takes us for fools or what? if the original law 101 did not have the notwithstanding clause, it is because it was made before the trudeau charter ... moreover lesvesque had no gene in invoking the notwithstanding clause, he did so for all laws of the national assembly from 82 to 85.
i have an echo of the spaniards who say "speak american" if usa.
i'm not sure what to think about this.
it is a bit of the mustard but it was also the mustard when english was super dominant in quebec in the 70s (according to my father)
your fixation on french is a mental illness. either that or you are intolerant as the english claim. you will choose.
we will stop defending our language when the english have given up imposing theirs on us. i understand that not everyone has learned the history of quebec properly, but we should understand that the only reason that the english today deign to grant us a minimum of respect is because we stopped being pummeled on our feet with bill 101 and the separatist movement. the only reason your english colleagues in the army don't treat you like a frog considering your poor english skills is because of the respect imposed by the separatist threat. so you better be a little more grateful to the language freaks and read norman lester's english canada black book to see that the separatists didn't appear by magic or because we stood up. morning with the urge to eat roast beef.
just like the algerians' fixation on the arab, for example.
we are the largest francophone nation in all of the americas. for the rest, there are plenty of other countries and territories where complainers can go and ~~ speak ~~ impose their english as they have always done.
i know people familiar with the history of quebec for whom all this is in the past and we must "help each other, work together, not always look at old quarrels". often these people sincerely believe that ancient history does not influence their daily lives. that it's over is a thing of the past, so we can put it aside.
not completely wrong, but extremely superficial analysis.
loi 21 *cough cough*
the english in the rest of canada are the equivalent of americans who think canadians live in an igloo. they forget that quebec exists and that still has french people.
they don't give a fuck about quebec. if you tell them about quebec just like everyone else in quebec, they grew up thinking that quebec hates canada. and in quebec we grow up being told the english hate the french.
results 2 groups of ignorant people who do not talk to each other and still quarrel. and the majority of english people would tell you, split up if you're not happy, yen don't give a damn.
the english women that i frequent do it because they are afraid that i want to separate myself from canada suddenly?
you include the roc because of stupid media. quebec media represent no one and the same for anglos.
> results 2 groups of ignorant people who do not talk to each other and are still arguing.
there would be no quarrel if we did not speak and if we ignored each other. it is precisely because we talk to each other and because the english want to impose their model of society on us that we are always in dispute with them. the story of the two solitudes is a political myth created by the laurentian elite (anglo and franco) to maintain the illusion of the possibility of canada's existence if only we spoke and if we made the effort to understand each other. in an ideal world, this might be true, but in reality, the rest of canada is only ready to accept us if and only if we adopt all of their anglo-protestant ideological software. their so-called tolerance stops dead at the level of ideology, which is, moreover, far from being neutral or universal.
for them, to impose a language by the force of the market = halal, to impose it by the force of the state = haram .... but this is only valid as long as the market favors english. when the market favors mandarin, then it is perfectly acceptable to use the power of the state to strengthen english.
what a jerk this guy is. a communicator with an empty head, as required for the job. it has just lit, today, in 2021, screeching where in the last 30 years this idiot!?!?! in tombuctú? in the moukmouk islands?
most likely it's bullshit. he pretends to try to gain credibility with the separatists who deign to listen to him.
it makes you wonder if jonathan trudeau had his head hidden in the sand. did he just dip into it? because it's not new. louise beaudoin in [ss wolf] ( the caq [under the balaclava of the kkk] ( françois legault as [white supremacist] ( just open my eyes, but i guess the guy was still digesting his hysterical milk rush against acd.
without joke there. i'm not sarcastic or anything. but what is your problem when you are actively federalist ???
i can understand being separation agnostic and saying “mehh i have too much to lose fuck that.”
but to really say to yourself “wow i really love the federation, i love it.” you have to be mental.
the english wake up
so his beliefs have the strength of a soda cracker.
at the next good animator, he will change camp again?
it does not matter whether you are for or against bill 21 if the positioning of an animator shakes your convictions you will change your mind like the seasons 4 different positions per year.
it will go from vegans to anti-gluten to pro-petroleums in the next 6 months.
big nonsense.
those of us who still believed that the roc liked us, deep down ... until this bitch journalist asked his villainous question just don't exist.
my big disappointment: why didn't yfb, quite simply, leave the tv set on the spot after hearing the "question" asked?
so as not to harm his chances of filling up with votes from those who listened to the debate in english?!?
truly !?!
[deleted]
> most likely it's bullshit.
that's what i think too. the guy collects virtue points with 0 effort like most quebec columnists do (never seen one take out his wallet in the style "i match your donations for cause x).
in fact, this is not the first time he has made this kind of statement. its last dates back to la joute in 2018, following the journalist's biased question, which implied that law 21 was racist. he had told mathieu bock-côté that he was starting to consider sovereignty.
let's face it: the issue of sovereignty has changed since 1995. in the past, a linguistic confrontation, today a cultural invasion (eg: wokism). several former federalists have gone to the sovereignist clan in recent years, where the caq of françois legault has allowed the opening of a passage to move from one bank to the other in what was atrait of independence.
he's not the smartest, which is why i believe him to be sincere.
> so his convictions have the strength of a soda cracker. at the next good animator, he will change camp again?
because i don't want to hear activists on the radio?
it's also that you don't realize how yesterday's attacks on yfb were nationwide attacks. it is not at all the same impact as becoming vegan or pro-oil, which are first and foremost individual beliefs. no, here it is the whole national collective conscience which was shaken in its integrity.
it is not just the facilitator but the entire hierarchy.
yes, these people exist. comfort and indifference dear friend. not everyone in quebec 1. knows its history 2. is able to form a coherent thought and 3. understands the canadian system. a lot of people believe very strongly that we came to this country willingly, for example. few can name the year the current regime was founded.
then in fact, the majority of people in the roc probably don't give a damn about us in general. we are talking about a very specific class of people, mainly in positions of power. the mass of the ordinary world, not sure that they hate us as some imagine. but it is definitely a different people.
because there are people of different opinions, it should not be seen as a sort of identity redemption otherwise we are heading towards aneurysm.
why didn't yfb leave the set? why would he have done it? that would legitimize the point that quebecers are racist. no, he was right, not only undergoing repeated attacks, but by being the only one to calmly defend himself.
yesterday he would not have won the debate if he had quit.
maybe the good thing about mass immigration and multiculturalism is that it adds a bunch of people (like you) who are completely ignorant of the political tradition and precedents of this country (which are in the most part unwritten) and push the federal governement to do stupid shit like using the disallowance power, which would certainly cause a constitutional crisis. i mean, go for it and see what happens afterwards... but the truth is that the english canadians are not stupid enough to give you people the steering wheel of the country yet, but of course they won't say it in your face because that's how they roll.
i absolutely do not believe it. jonathan trudeau is by no means a woke, he collects no points of virtue. he is a right-wing liberal, so no moral claim.
i believe it is sincere since it has never been able, and does not have the capacity, to deceive the glances as some imply it here.
we must stop seeing evil everywhere for two seconds. yesterday evening, quebec was attacked directly. to believe for a single moment that half of the quebec family did not see anything there is a deception.
$ 100 that is cane crap.
yfb is not the nation it is a politician. it plays the same game as the state of israel when you criticize their policies / actions they immediately say that you are anti-semitic.
no, we are criticizing the israeli government and not its nation / people.
whether we are for or against the law, it is governments that we do not talk about joe blo or pierre-jean jacques in his living room.
it is a very brilliant political move from yfb with its defense of israel and the host cannot be liberal pcq she has served on a silver platter the argument that yfb can repeat excessively by the 20th. it is almost as if she were a block worker, her stupid questions are a golden gift.
there is a very important distinction between a people / nation and its government yfb is a very articulate and very intelligent man he understands the difference between the two and he knows exactly what he is doing by confusing the two in his speech.
he is returning to his advantage the stupid questions that have been asked of him as the intelligent politician that he is.
by attributing the comments of the facilitator to the roc systematically, we do the same thing towards the roc for which she is criticized in the way she describes the qc.
neither she is an ideological ambassador for the roc nor law 21 which targets around 1% of the population of a particular religion represents the qc at 100%
the two societies are not homogeneous blocks with sheep all going one way or the other.
the two are very heterogeneous societies.
i tip my hat to legault (even though i'm not a fan of the caq) because bill 21 is a pretty incredible advantage-cost chess move.
not doing much concrete, he created a political wasp nest to the advantage, but very little is said about seniors who spend a week in their excrement in chslds, or mushrooms in high schools and their useless vaccination passport. there are even elders with bandages with skin that grows over the bandage, their living conditions are so appalling.
if only our elders from chslds or the children of the dpj were followed with the same passion and fervor that we are afraid of a veiled woman who teaches in elementary school to the point of passing laws to prove a point.
as if the judicial system and the police forces of qc lacked guidelines as in the third world and did not already have mechanisms to ensure compliance. if your great-great-great-grandfather had had a bar, you couldn't sit on the liquor and gambling board
it is a law a la don quixote which hits windmills, but grows beating dragons in its head and it makes waves until the federal debate.it is a stroke of political genius for a situation that affects about 1% population.
everyone angry for or against the law has been rolled solidly in the flour by the caq.
i don't believe the law21 is racist, i just think veiled women have been used as political pawns by a guy who has an interest in not having discussion and public opinion focus too much on quality and management. of the social services of the qc nor on its management of the pandemic à la charlie chaplin.
to see r / canada, it is not at all the same tone as that of the media class with regard to quebec. there is a sort of generalized contempt, ironically systemic racism, that is normalized and viewed as legitimate by the anglo-canadian elite.
“won the debate”… in english?!? what for, exactly?!? to fill up with anglo votes, certainly.
there are some who smoke good ...
[deleted]
it is not a woke story but purely the extension of capitalism towards knowledge (not just science but opinions, chronicles, gossip, star system) as seen by guy debord. here, jonathan trudeau applies capitalism by analyzing the market:
* my clients are frank and angry.
* i don't have an english client and / or they don't care.
* the pq is already obsolete and will have to die in 2-3 elections.
conclusion: i throw a harmless flower that will force me to do nothing to join the protest crowd of my language and my clients and thus avoid the mud.
it is purely commercial. there is no conviction in that.
> the producer of the debate and responsible for editorial matters is a media group comprising, on the english side, aptn, cbc, ctv and global. its spokesperson confirmed to le devoir that an “official editorial committee for the debate in english”, made up of production managers, producers and journalists from the four media, had validated the question. he also defended its relevance.
god damn it, what the hell is this madness ??
what???
[
since you seem to explain well by a + b the reason which pushes jonathan trudeau to deceive the looks, you will surely be able to explain to us how and for what reason this tweet is expressly commercial and does not reflect his feelings.
it's angus reid. it is the right, the strong bloc hurts the liberals more than the conservatives. in fact, a strong bloc opens the door to a minority conservative government minimally depending on their performance in ontario and the maritimes.
they are not innocent people, it does not take the head of papineau to predict what the question would do.
like the caq with its law 21, everyone moves their pawns. result: not a word on the real issues (miserable chslds, deficient / poorly managed social services, etc.) while promoting the federal political formation of its choice.
by magic we no longer talk about the vaccine passport. we even have a collateral winner on the caq side.
politics as it has always been after the elections, the false outrage and the controversies will be forgotten.
we will come back to the vaccine and the canadian as topics of discussion.
the winner of the debate is yfb hands down because of the question (misplaced in my opinion). i'm not naive enough to think that the question was asked by brainless and your link is a confirmation of that.
it was premeditated and the outcome predictable.
[deleted]
saying the opposite of customers and other columnists will attract everyone's wrath and time will have to be invested to justify this position and convince customers to trust him again for future partnerships. it's a long time.
and what does the adage say? time is ......
here is.
it's aptn, cbc, ctv, and global.
"i'm not naive enough"
yes
he always stood on the sidelines of other chroniclers, both at la joute and elsewhere.
woke totalitarianism is radicalized. between that and the church fires, life in british columbia is no longer good.
is it our home? i did not believe that this delirium would extend beyond the borders of great britain.
dog eat dog.
to be honest, knowing how professional nursing colleges work, i don't believe it's wokes as much as sociopaths taking advantage of wokism to hurt others.
wokism is not bad.
ok. it is rather another transgression of the work (employer and / or union) which wants to control your private actions.
isn't it criminal what she's doing? okay, give him patience. she could have paid for an "i <3 trump" or "i <3 guevara" sign and ... then? does that make her an incompetent nurse? already there is not enough staff ?!
the complaint made to the bccnm (by whom exactly, colleagues?) targets * the opinion * of the lady, collected in a 322-page document. it is defamation and harassment made there by these people! you don't agree with her, who cares so much; if she commits professional misconduct at the hospital then this is a different conflict to settle with the hr.
isn't there an ombudsman? tse, the bccnm gives her the opportunity to respond to the allegations ... why should she do it ?! what a waste of time and ridiculous damage to reputation! file formal charges, we go to the administrative labor tribunal, or fuck off.
these professional orders are out of control.
the purpose of professional orders is to protect the public by governing the profession. in reality, there are two types of professional orders and neither is concerned with the public:
1. orders that serve to protect their members. they give an appearance of legitimacy to a profession and protect them from legal consequences for their incompetent acts under the pretension that they are better able to judge the acts of their associates than judges foreign to their profession. the only members who get punished are those who commit unorthodoxy or gain media attention. the college of physicians is a good example.
2. orders which serve to satisfy the fantasies of sociopaths. these orders are led by individuals who derive immense pleasure from hurting others. and the less this evil is deserved, the more pleasure they feel. any complaint to their order, however far-fetched and unfounded, is carefully examined in order to take advantage of any opportunity to harm the target of the complaint. when it is impossible to punish the individual, an endless investigation is set in motion to harm him in this way. and in order to harm even those who manage to hide, the order requires annual "training", offered only by the order for huge sums of money in order to be able to carry out extortion with impunity. the order of nurses is a good example.
in both cases, the orders harm the profession because they quickly become haunts of cronyism and nepotism where competence in the profession concerned becomes less important than orthodoxy and interpersonal relationships.
yes this is the reality. but don't say that to a "woke". despite everything, we have a society that is not bad. thanks to the courage and perseverance of our fathers, not to the generosity of the english. we don't owe them anything.
and we're surprised because?
my mother. anglophone from saint-lambert married my dad francophone de verdun.
yeah. i saw the major differences.
some races work others grumble… (sum races are hard workers, others not …….)
one evil does not take away or justify another. the fact that francophones were discriminated against economically and at other levels not anglophones does not erase the racism to which aboriginal communities were victims by anglos and francos equally.
it is as if being the victim of a crime gives you carte blanche to commit as many more as you want.
yeah right in the middle of that. what is astonishing is the economic reality of francophones literally worthy of african americans, when we know their tragic history.
in truth i do not blame the past. it happened, but life goes on.
my blame, i give it to the revisionists wokes who keep putting us in an oppressor's box, "oh wicked white men, instigators of systemic racism!"; french-speaking quebecers, a destitute group, while opposite, english-speaking quebecers were privileged. the same color of skin, crunches! francophones were in the same economic reality as african-americans, yes, whites in the same shit as blacks! "oh my god, this sacrilege of mixing races!" ...
the white vs black rhetoric that they are trying to force us to swallow with systemic racism does not make tabarnak common sense.
no one has denied what happened to the natives or to the blacks. on the contrary, people deny what happened to french canadians, to the point that the wokes are indignant at the comparison advanced by "white negroes of america."
once again the natives, metis and quebecois have a lot more in common than the anglos and quebecers on the oppression side, but you started with the "all white are racists a share of equal" of which there is not much going on. ..
victim of anglos and francos equally? truly?
you are so blocked in your rhetoric that you imagine words that have never been said. when you start hallucinating what you want to read, that says a lot about your position. look at yourself, you even find the opportunity to put an extra layer on "white". you're really not missing one to impose your damaged logorrhea on us.
anglo-saxon people across the world have had more trouble than any other breed.
equally?
your eyes criss of a stupid orangist
equal no
exactly! race cannot be the basis of all problems. society is much more stratified between the different classes within each group. the common denominators are often social and economic.
very good points.
they are always the same who are at the end of the food chain and who remain seated on their big asses which slows down…. racism of profiteers !!!
i think people were outraged by the use of the word as a pivot in the defense of academia (on the one hand, universities are on the left and we must stop funding them to brainwash them, on the other we support so much democracy and free expression that the most important debate of the hour is to be able to freely use this word in an academic context ... because we are pro-freedom of speech of course)
for the book itself, people who have read it know that felquist pierre vallière was sympathetic to the cause of black americans and since he was a woke ahead of his time, he would write the same sort of thing to criticize the systemic racism today. i would even say that his essay is exactly a description of systemic racism before its time, as it was applied against francophones in quebec.
moreover, the point of the wokes in question is not to deny the challenges of french-speaking quebecers as a minority in america, but to emphasize that this is also accompanied by the position of majority in quebec (like, act with your own minorities \ * in quebec as you would like the canadian majority to act with you).
* \ * i'm not talking about the english-speaking minority in quebec, which is already relatively well treated *
beautiful demonstration of the participation, racism and brutality of the government of qc towards the first nations.
white people are evil. come on, 5 lashes.
good viewing;)
you have to be completely obsessed, wondering if they themselves are not unconsciously racist so much that they make a fix of it!
what french canadians experienced is much more like colonialism, precisely because of their majority position. i was talking about this with a nigerian colleague about two weeks ago and i am convinced that the reason why decolonialism has been carried out better in quebec than elsewhere is specifically because we have remained a canadian province. the elites did try to sabotage us, but they were reluctant to go too far for fear of damaging canada collaterally.
it is deplorable indeed. but are you sure the anglo-canadian government hasn't been more brutal?
still a bunch of profiteers… the past is over and the natives should start cleaning up with my uncle who rapes the niece and the drunken husband beats his wife. apart from a few tribes like the hurons of quebec and the crees. the rest is a bunch of profiteers who poach and traffic
i have already seen it; how does this indicate that official discrimination policies were anything other than the guideline of the local power in place? (meaning the orangemen, a kind of nazis)
we are not "on an equal footing" with any sort of nazis, especially not the orangemen; if you say the opposite, it is certainly orangeism.
hmm. i don't want to be overly critical by picking up the word obsession, there, but on a sub theoretically devoted to the independence of quebec, you don't see a \ * slight \ * dissonance between the number of posts devoted to ethnic groups, to wokes and finally to denigrate other quebecers versus the much smaller quantity of posts celebrating quebec or building a path to independence?
let's go by topic with recent posts (7 days) when some people want to nitpick on the details:
* what is the qr code for? (covid)
* new quebec subreddit! (franco)
* inclusion practices put to the test in a montreal school board (ethnies, wokes)
* protesters toss statue of explorer james cook into victoria harbour; totem pole later burned (ethnies, wokes)
* this self-censorship which suffocates us more and more (debate)
* "systemic racism exists in quebec" (ethnies)
* anticatholic hatred: at least 9 churches burnt down in english canada (religion, canada)
* fortunately there is no crisis! (debate, economy)
* wokanada: let's get out of this country which has lost its mind (woke, canada, independence)
* the green party will hold a vote of confidence on annamie paul's leadership (politics)
* pascal bérubé will step down as parliamentary leader of the parti québécois (politics)
* this canada day, indigenous groups invite quebecers to stand in solidarity, join protests (ethnies, canada, racisme)
* states must take "immediate measures" against "systemic racism", warns the un (ethnies)
* the truth about "o canada!" (quebec, canada)
* canada, a permanent universal exhibition (canada, racism)
* study shows second-language learning can happen quickly (debat)
* students were voyeurized in mcgill washrooms (miscellaneous fact)
* an english-speaking youtuber apologizes for anti-quebec hate speech (various facts, racism unclear, presented as caricature)
* trudeau distributed 15,400 checks for $ 600 to the dead (covid, politics, scandal (?))
* the costs of covid-19 advertising that quebec has not disclosed (covid)
* one word too many (racism)
* ghg reduction | the sale of gasoline vehicles banned from 2035 in canada (policy)
* the damn word "province" is back (quebec, politics)
* another disgusting text on quebecers (politics, racism)
* building collapse in florida | the work of a promoter raised in montreal at the heart of the investigation (miscellaneous fact)
* 
covid-19 deaths reportedly underestimated in rest of canada (covid)
* oyé oyé, québec libre, i implore you to read and remember (i remember will never have been so crucial) (covid)
* canada to make online hate speech a crime punishable by $16,000 fine (racisme)
* for those who say that the horrors done to the first nations it is only the roc that is responsible. the invisible people (ethnia, racism)
* quebec grants another big contract to amazon (policy)
* 
the number of dropouts has exploded in the past year due to the pandemic (covid)
* the canadian museum of history cancels its canada day activities (canada, racism)
* rise of islamophobia: "it is really difficult to feel safe" (racism, ethnies)
* the war against quebec (racism, politics)
* the independence of quebec through conservatism! (independence, policy)
* lucien bouchard, honorary citizen of the city of montreal (politics)
* 
murder of felquist mario bachand | the french police report unveiled (politics, quebec)
* canada has failed (canada)
roughly speaking, it's ethnicities, covid and politics. what concerns politics roughly applies to insisting on the right (the good guys) / left (the bad wokes) cleavage, we are not exactly in the process of thinking about how to make quebec a country (there is indeed a article to debate the fact of achieving sovereignty from the right angle of identity). for ethnicities, no need to wonder how many items to celebrate the trick. let's say that when it comes to fixing, blaming others is a bit / r / selfawarewolves
note well, i apply the criticism to myself, i have to (refrain from) commenting primarily against racism in this sub, even though i read the majority of what is posted.
i would say no
and hard what do you base yourself to insinuate that, it is however the federal government which created the law on the indians. but hey, if you even hate the francis it is surely a woke truck to bring down the québécois :) admit it lol
** when quebec screeched religion out during the quiet revolution ... ** we did so without destroying the churches. proof of the moral superiority of quebecers over the english.
a church is just a building, there is no building in the history of the world that has abused or killed as a child.
but in the english mind, it seems that buildings and statues have magical powers ...
when they brought down the statue of john a. macdonald in montreal, the vast majority of the crowd seemed to speak english, as evidenced by [graffiti written in english] ( wp-content / uploads / sites / 3/2020/06 / statue-macd-mtl-words-simon-marc-charron-rc.jpg), the [banners in english] ( content / uploads / 2020/08 / img_3230.jpg) and the [english songs of the vandals] (
** finally, we prefer to act with social policy actions to solve problems, the english prefer to attack statues and buildings without solving the problems ... **
english-speaking wokes that celebrate catholic hate crimes are really disgusting.
yes, who does not say a word consents and it is clear that the various levels of government are not jostling to denounce this wave of hate crimes. and yet, we all know that if it was mosques or synagogues that would have been targeted, we would have been entitled to weeks, what am i saying months of the strictest ethnomasochist autoflagellation.
then as for the hotheads acquiring this covered word savagery, be careful what you wish for. to cram buildings in a vengeful madness is the work of the most pathetic and stupid scoundrels like the english who set the parliament of montreal on fire after compensating the patriots.
anti catholicism is an old tradition in british english canada. for them the catholic church was associated with the nefarious influence of french canadians and had to be fought by all legal and illegal means.
《in alberta, it was the saint-jean-baptiste church, built for the french-speaking faithful 114 years ago, which was devastated by the flames. 》 1 stone twice for albertans, like what the prairies never miss a chance to sweat francophone communities ...
ah, the angels who burn the churches of the catholic / french-speaking minority as in the heyday of the klan
our media are ridiculously low profile on this matter, don't you think?
i think we have to hold trudeau and his rhetoric accountable. he worked hard to put the responsibility of these residential schools on the catholic religion alone, to defend the anglo-canadian world. among other things, he affirms that the church is hiding things, while the dioceses concerned have collaborated with those who wanted to have access to their archives. it gives the impression of a conspiracy that does not exist.
it is intolerable. we must stop these many cathophobic acts.
no, no, it's conspiracy theory that all of your anti-english racist remarks. since you are told that catholic churches are burning due to global warming.
the current roman catholic church deserves only the material fire of the arsonists in prefiguration of the spiritual fire of hell where its leaders all pedophiles and kneel before klaus schwab are heading.
i am torn between my contempt for religion and my contempt for vandalism.
personally i think it makes a nice campfire, but it just relates to my idea of religion in general.
yes, it was the radicalized young wokes of concordia who debunked the statue of macdonald. this "university" is cancer.
no, quebeckers have not shown a civilized spirit but a mercantile spirit by renouncing the burning of their churches. it was to make bingos out of them. the only churches that light up at night are churches that burn. i recognize that the anglos are showing low partisanship by burning only the catholic churches and not the anglican ones, not the evangelical mega-churches and not the banks which are their most revered temples. the archetypal capitalist enterprise is the sect and the multinational corporation which serves as a gear pulley for all the others. it is the roman catholic church. a church is not the house of god but the prison of god, the cage that keeps the dove of the spirit from flying where it belongs.
> proof of the moral superiority of quebecers over the english.
yeah, we still have a group of savages who we do terrorism and kill a diplomat ... 👀
[trudeau condemned this.] (
observe the reactions carefully.
many mutes in the political-media world today who did not hesitate in the past to denounce criminal vandalism on places of non-catholic worship. a pamphlet hanging on the door was enough to justify the army. hey, by the way, does anyone remember the verbal swelling about chinese with his pair of veil-cutting scissors in ontario?
cathophobia doesn't sell or collect a lot of virtue points ....
i remember that in 2005 a young israeli immigrant set a fire in the library of a jewish school in montreal and that it was treated like our september 11th. liberal prime minister paul martin had suspended his commitments to come by emergency plane to montreal to have his picture taken in front of the fire trucks
i also remember that before we knew who was in charge, the english proto-woke were trying to get through
that on the back of quebec anti-semitism.
> and yet, we all know that if it was mosques or synagogues that would have been targeted, we would have had the right to weeks, what am i saying months of the strictest ethnomasochist autoflagellation.
it's a lot more that i find stupid. like i said i don't like religion, it makes me sick just thinking about going to waste half of my weekend there.
but it's the double standards of the kind "everything is islamophobic" when it happens to them, who we tend to kill a lot of people today ... we will not bullshit, it blows up for allah every day or some apart ... but as long as it happens to others it's ok ... no problem with that ... we won't go to war for a little vandalism, eh?
when it's not even able to have the same speech for everyone ...
but no, it was thugs paid by contractors who were pushing for the construction of ottawa. their only churches are the banks.
oh yes and halloween consisted of going to burn the houses of french canadians. what we could loot that day was fair game.
when his own father was at the head of this system as pm
not only is pet co-responsible but it makes it hard to believe that justin was not aware
if a mosque was on fire, we would talk about racism
when all that is beautiful turns to ashes, there will only remain the mediocrity of the moderns. it is not only religion that he attacks, it is civilization, it is our ancestors.
may god keep us in this time of madness.
dumbass.
when we read the evangelical message of jesus christ, we very quickly see the difference with all these "churches".
《if someone were to cause the fall of one of these little ones who believe in me, it would be better to tie one of these millstones around his neck that donkeys spin, and hurl him to the bottom of the lake."
matthew 18: 6
《and he said unto them, it is written, my house shall be called a house of prayer, but ye make it a den of robbers!》
matthew 21:13
churches of all kinds, the catholic church in particular, have rejected these messages. god is faithful, but whoever claims to represent him is often deceitful.
no diplomat is dead, a federalist who wanted to kill rene levesques killed no one in 1 hour in 1984 than the flq in 10 years.
not to mention another attack in 2012 against pauline marois.
it's interesting the terms trudeau used. if it were mosques, he would talk about racism, islamophobia, hate crimes and terrorism. there it is arson and vandalism ...
condamné... not the way to go ... thats it 😂😂😂
trudeau is a practicing catholic
amen. the cross stands while the world turns.*
yes.
i don't like religion and zézu gets on my nerves ... like the others ... and i find that it is the cause of too much bullshit ...
tsé that "i love you not the face fa that i am going to squeal you one" it is something with which one can work ... but that "zézu told me in my head that it does not you don't like the face fa que m'en va te l'arracher "it's a lot tougher ...
i admit that the assassination of pierre laporte by the flq is less barbaric than setting fire to the churches ... in any case, i'm going to ride the wave of "down vote". otherwise laying and detonating bombs was also less barbaric and more acceptable ???? 《i remember》 to believe that the province has selective memory ... :)
reminder:
[
trudeau's tweet about the fake chinese scissors. serious business.
> zézu told me in my head that he does not like the face of you that m'en va te l'arracher
ah yes, that's what you hear in churches on sundays, clearly.
clearly ... it's certainly not from a novel written by someone (or a gang) like that ...
the french presence * precarious * in america
ah good? yet to believe [the organizers] ( midsummer day is above all the celebration of exogamy with a good dose of licking of native american ass.
should it really be reserved only for your brave native french-canayans who have been present here since the 18th century that you cherish so much? it celebrates the people of quebec and it has changed since 1837. normal that it adapts.
saint-jean is the national holiday of quebec since john the baptist is the patron saint of french canadians, that sets the tone. especially for the amerindians who eat at two tables, they never throw us flowers on their national day of june 21, so it is difficult to see the reason to distort ours in their name.
if i didn't do it why should i do it? no them first! these are the solid bases of all respect and mutual aid between nations. this is obviously how healthy relationships emerge.
indeed, to cry murder with an outstretched hand while another people assumes all of their expenses with billions is not what i would describe as a healthy relationship.
phew, we can clearly see the non-profit organization la presse in the solution proposed by the author. a joint committee or the federal government holds the balance of power? what a great idea if you want to get fucked by ottawa. you really have to have a handle on your back to think that the federal government is a neutral agent in this matter. it is all the more stupid since it is quebec which holds all the cards in this game. labrador, * our labrador *, is landlocked by quebec. the existing infrastructures that have the necessary capacity to transport its energy to the major north american markets all pass through quebec. the maritime link funded by ottawa only meets [8% to 20% of the needs of tiny nova scotia] ( #: ~: text = the% 20maritime% 20link% 2c% 20an% 20overland, of% 20the% 20base% 20energy% 20block.), cannot connect to both churchill falls and muskrat falls. in doing so, newfoundland has no choice but to negotiate with us in a position of extreme weakness. only ottawa's intervention can save him money, such as loan guarantees for muskrat falls or the subsidy for his submarine line.
it is a shame because this newfoundland fiasco is a golden opportunity for quebec, an opportunity that ottawa will not fail to rob us of.
nothing new, not for nothing that the term "newfie" is often synonymous with idiot.
don't be so rude to them. i am sure that caught in the same situation, several quebecers would have similar reactions if it was a question of selling one of our dams to ontario to get out of the hole.
either way, but made newfoundland is entirely responsible for its hydroelectric tragedy. the famous knife in the back of quebec with churchill falls and well it is the idiot joey smallwood who inflicted it on himself by acquiring a company constrained by a highly favorable agreement in quebec. then after when danny williams sees bigger than his stomach with muskrat falls, a vain project which was to put quebec in its place, and well he plunges his province into bankruptcy. nevertheless, listening to newfoundlanders, at least their politicians, it is always the fault of the wicked quebec. we have to take responsibility for our decisions, we have failed with the nationalization of asbestos and we do not spend our time looking for a culprit.
what newfoundland is experiencing is entirely self-inflicted and is the result of a shameful attempt to sabotage quebec's economy.
the worst part is that for muskrat falls, hydro-quebec warned several times that it was a bad idea and offered its expertise and the response obtained could be summed up as "fuck quebec."
here again, quebec is also very good when it comes time to seek and find the culprits for all the evils that afflict it. asbestos has been seriously nationalized!?! oh boy, it has aged badly as a decision!
> quebec is also very good when it comes time to seek and find the culprits for all the evils that afflict it.
like what for example?
at a certain time, many things were nationalized, including the steel industry and shipbuilding, destroying the immense potential of the city of sorel in the process. still, we don't blame the japanese steel mills or the south korean shipyards for this self-inflicted injury either. this does not take anything away from the fact that you are 100% right that quebec still has an easy scapegoat because precisely, introspection is not wrong.
let's say that immigrants as well as anglo-canadians are our favorite scapegoats. although the second is the cause of some of our problems the importance given to it is sometimes clearly exaggerated. for example, in 1995, much more importance was given to the handful of newly arrived immigrants thanks to chrétiens than to the considerable proportion of french-speaking quebecers who voted no. otherwise, we like to put the blame on the anglos of montreal or on the immigrants for the decline of our culture while a little introspection on the grotesque amount of culture that we import voluntarily from our american neighbors would be welcome. the tendency towards excessive guilt is universal. it would be putting your head in the sand to believe that this does not apply to us.
> for example, in 1995, much more importance was given to the handful of newly arrived immigrants thanks to chrétiens than to the considerable proportion of french-speaking quebecers who voted no.
60% of francophones voted yes. 95% of non-french speakers voted no. the sovereignty project was never sold to immigrants and it cost the pq. the project is still viewed with hostility among newcomers by the way. they fear a civil war in the event of a winning referendum and they are not wrong: several separatists greatly underestimate the contempt and hostility of the roc towards quebec.
> a little introspection on the grotesque amount of culture that we import voluntarily from our american neighbors would be welcome
pierre vallières spoke about it in "nègres blancs d'amérique". independence not only from canada, but from american imperialism.
i'm fine, but there's absolutely nothing stopping us from reducing american cultural influence and promoting our own while we're still in confederation. the federal government is even taking the lead with bill c-10, if that is to say the least. as for 1995, i do not understand your point.
probably the pq's most insignificant "fight" and, by extension, ours.
symbols are important. would you be ready to wear a swastika, a purely symbolic gesture?
it's stupid as a fight, but i would not be against an emoji of the quebec flag, that said it's not really worth making a "fight" ... but i mean we can put 46,000 flags worse emojis next to our name on twitter including the lgbtq flag and a pirate flag ... don't see why we couldn't be proud to be quebecois ...
i really don't care, honestly. there are already hundreds of unicode symbols of all kinds. 10 years ago, there were very few of these standardized smileys, no one to notice.
there the pq really gives the impression of dwelling on insignificant details, but that we already suspected.
we agree that this is not a big "fight" but a motion so that an official request in due form be presented to the unicode consortium. (giving a little additional push to the current request which has been under study since 2019) it will take a couple of hours, at most, to formulate and send the said request.
ok so a flag of all international regions as well while you're there? come on, a provencal flag! the list will be so huge that we won't even dare to use it.
> ok so a flag of all the international regions as well as long as you are there? come on, a provencal flag! the list will be so huge that we won't even dare to use it.
like i said it's stupid as a "fight" i would not put money in there and i would not waste time ... but i would take it ...
in a sense a bit like having the taiwan flag with china. i imagine that it would piss off some who imagine that "quebecers are just a minority like the others" and just for that i took 10 emojis of the fleurdelisé.
not bad, head to papineau.
actually i bet he's a pretty boy for his time ahah 😅
quetaines are the ass-fuckers who rush to speak english to anyone with an accent or a visible minority. everywhere in the world speaking french is a sign of knowledge and culture except in canada.
it seems funny to me as a statement ... it seems to me that the reputation of french is to be poetic and romantic.
... even if it is true that many use anglicisms, thus demonstrating a ... partial preference
tendency to say yes
meanwhile in trudeaunie: emilie nicolas applauded
diversity is a good thing
a black, an asian, a latino, a black transgender woman with down's syndrome in a wheelchair weighing 895 lbs and ~~ a white ~~ screeching from kkk racist, doesn't want this here.
stopped us shoveling the bullshit woke from across the ostia.
madam from chicago gives me nightmares every time.
how to exclude journalists who ask questions inconvenient to politicians.
<< since the first day of my campaign, in 2018, i have been struck by the ultra-dominant proportion of white people ... >>
how can you be surprised by this when 60% of the american population is white and only 13% african or african american .. hence minority ....
i mean, there is always going to be more white than black in quite a lot of work areas.
am i right or am i a racist?
> the national association of black journalists praised ms. lightfoot's "sensitivity" to "the lack of diversity among those who cover local communities", but indicated that she could "not support this tactic", "because of our commitment to diversity in general, equality and inclusion ”.
thank you.
it is anti-white racism. we must oppose this growing movement of segregation, which has arisen more and more since the left brought the race back to the fore.
quoting statistics is racist. / s
it will be beautiful the return of segregation
it will swing the other side in ten years
the first embassy will be opened in france since it will undoubtedly be the first country to recognize our independence. the second should be canada if it respects quebec's political and democratic will, otherwise it will be the united states (once again if they recognize our independence).
> where are we going to send our first diplomatic delegation?
in canada, as a sign of peace and good faith. by being their ally, we will also be that of the usa and uk.
but we must not stop there. we need to send it to all of our potential business partners.
they must also be sent to france to confirm their recognition of our nation and to treat "as equals" with them.
> we have to open our first embassy, are we going to choose ottawa?
ottawa or toronto. the goal is to forge cordial ties with our neighbor, a former "empire" and business partner.
note that i would also send it to washington dc or new york, for commercial reasons but also for proximity
entk i have no very developed international political knowledge, but that's what seems logical to me
we send our delegation to march elon musk will certainly have already colonized by then.
no mission abroad until you have received foreign missions here!
make quebec a global city, a city of cultural diplomacy. building the "place des cultures", inviting there all the representatives of all the peoples of the world, a bit like the un, but exclusively for cultural diplomacy. each country / nation must / can build a monument there. optional: big sugar shack dinner followed by tasting of smoked meat poutine, bbq twists and lobster rolls.
give pride of place to the first nations by entrusting them with joint management of the "place des cultures" for the first 3-5 years. a slight erasure of our culture to better showcase our culture.
we send our first embassy to paris.
56% canada will never recognize independence.
a first embassy in barcelona in support of the catalans so that they too can achieve their independence!
i observe the responses of users and i am moderately disappointed. don't you realize that diplomacy precedes commercial relations? in doing so, there is only one option available to independent quebec, which is to send an embassy to nur sultan to ensure an uninterrupted supply of top-quality potassium!
none of you mention haïti ou les colonies françaises. start there. sends a huge fucking message.
broke: embassy in toronto
woke: embassy of the maritimes
why not fredericton? :)
disagree. france then the usa. you have to coax the master (usa) before coaxing the dog (canada).
i would not jump to conclusions with regard to france. macronist france has more to do with trudeau and the globalized / business people than with the demands of the french-canadian people. macron the globalized anglolâtre would be one of the first to throw us under the bus. now where we are in the delirium, the first country to recognize us would possibly be india, which has already made statements in this direction to annoy trudeau.
as for the states, i have the impression that biden would not recognize us (again, biden-trudeau, same fight), it would have to be during trump's stupid second term. he alone hates canada and its multiculturalist ideals enough to take cruel pleasure in seeing trudeau squirm.
i throw it in the air: we are at a time when the world is no longer dominated by the united states, perhaps we need to think about who we ally with knowing that they are not not necessarily the best allies in the world. so, a hello in china doesn't seem like such a bad idea!
for the purposes of the game we take only one answer to know where our first embassy will be, it is clear that in the long term we will have an embrace in each country.
should at least 66%?
not stupid, the message would be strong.
the "free francophone peoples"
we can't ... there are only embassies in ottawa, that's the rule.
once an embassy in ottawa, you can open consulates in toronto and moncton, for example ...
true, but this dog likes to pretend he is the master.
by treating him like a master, we defuse his mistrust
if china remains under a dictatorial communist regime, i don't see the point in allying with it instead of the united states. if china becomes democratic, i agree, but i believe that a war will come before we see that day.
exactly.
in the first years it doesn't work. they will be deeply insulted in their superiority complex and will try by all means either to partition the territory, or to harm us in one way or another. not to mention the anglo quebecers who are so crazy that it would not even be surprising to see them take up arms. i don't think we would have normal relations with the roc for several years after independence. it wouldn't be worth wasting our time with them, better go see the boss right away and deal with him directly.
i agree with you that the dictatorial side is problematic. however, if we go beyond the moral issues i wonder which of the two will be more helpful to our young nation.
china is investing heavily in quebec and will want to recognize us: we are more open to them than ottawa
i think i prefer ottawa. a devil you know.
china will not recognize québec, because if it does, canada will recognize taiwan. there are also the desmarais who are close to the ccp and will surely persuade them not to recognize us.
oh ... what i meant was:
quebec is more open to china than ottawa is, so china will encourage a sovereign quebec: divide and conquer.
i also prefer ottawa, in fact, i prefer almost everyone to china.
but china would like a sovereign quebec ... that's my point.
i haven't taken the time to read his other book i ordered recently, but i'll definitely add this one to my list of future purchases.
purchase assured.
u / zeugme your opinion? would you say he stirs oil on the fire?
interesting and hopeless at the same time. today's democratic societies no longer know what they are defending ** identitatively **. if they knew, they would spend less time deconstructing their majority racial identity - which is simply part of local history - and instead focus on ensuring ** state neutrality ** in all its sectors of the world. applications.
because originally, that was the dream.
guilt is useless. diversity and inclusiveness were never the dream, it is state neutrality that it was. ** diversity and inclusiveness are just the effects. **
western democracy is the product of the desire to liberate the people from tyranny ** in exchange for a more just republic for the people ... **
video here
you quebecers are done. finitos. after 50 years of racism you are going to destroy yourself. i can not wait to see it. gang of cowards.
interesting! but still, he clearly still speaks too fast 😂
i have already said everything i have to say on the subject, i do not intend to criticize every post about bock-côté as if it was my personal obsession.
if you want to save the quebec you love, you have to raise the birth rate. otherwise, the population will age too quickly and decline, as will quebec's influence. the rest is a diversion.
now, if people like bock-côté, let them buy his book. we are in a free country and i am delighted.
[deleted]
pardon ?
come on, another hypersensitive. ironic that mbc is pointing fingers at him, and all he can think of is accusing him of racism: tucker:
long live peace in the world, conservatives are bad guys, joe biden is the voice of good, blah blah
everything is cool, you can go to sleep in peace. qs for life.
edit: by the way, do not click on the following link, you will have a heart attack (unless you are vegan, divine purity to save our souls):
can you tell me about it? i'm curious.
in the case of quebec, ** the origin of its identity (its values) ** is only the historical link that binds it to its democracy. it is obvious that in a canada we have a culture to defend, but globally ** the identity of the "whites" of the west ** resides in their ** "democratic" projects ** inspired by their misadventures in the face of ** l authoritarianism and oppression ** (capitalism and corruption obviously cause a lot of contradictions, but that's a story of elitism. that's not why the left has made its revolutions).
the fighting horse of the whites is the creation of a ** fair and neutral state with all **. what i'm trying to say is that as a majority they shouldn't be ashamed of this. to be clear, multiculturalism fucks the world too much right now, people (whites in party) ** no longer know what they stand for and are looking to share with newcomers. **
if you're asking me, i'm not sure what you're asking me?
edith: thank you, it's done!
send him your comment from the other thread.
note also how they are posivotés.
[i predicted it 9 months ago] (
"do you know what would be good? if people were forced to do what i want."
at the same time the questioning is interesting. suppose the threat of climate change is real, how can we convince the people to vote against their short- and medium-term economic interests without resorting to authoritarianism? perhaps by convincing him to think long term, but that seems doubtful to me: a significant proportion of the population does not even want to reproduce, so necessarily their horizon of thought goes no further than 50-70 years (i probably too generous with this figure by the way ...).
there remains the lie, hypocrisy, and planned incompetence. i believe that this is the path that has been chosen by our governments ... except that we could consider it as a masked authoritarianism?
it is clear that the pandemic brings out our dictators with two balls. why can't you have supper earlier? why do you want to go outside? why do you want to have a social life? why aren't you a miserable junk like me?
one day it will be carried out with the finger and the eye by neurotic cowards. in canada, the rule of law dictates that an elementary school child can lug a dagger to class, but i am not allowed to walk in the street? ridiculous!
anyway, aspiring potentates are the worst. let's go folks, go sterilize africa and tell them in passing that they can never substantially increase their standard of living in the name of the precious climate. ah, no, it's true, we're just going to increase the price of gasoline to ruin the life of the working world ...
is authoritarianism desirable for the future? no.
will authoritarianism be necessary for the future? yes
unfortunately china has the most suitable model for the world of tomorrow. there, there is no ideological drift or carelessness, everyone walks straight.
it's worrying, but the cult of the individual will force society to compromise individual rights in favor of collective rights.
in the context of the pandemic, we are still far from talking about "authoritarian drift", even if a precedent has just been set to justify future authoritarian actions by our government.
i continue to believe that globalization, social media and individualism will have won out over our rights. if facebook and twitter had to have fallen a few months ago following the banning of donald trump and other "free" chat rooms, the world would be better off.
one day, we will have to legislate in social media like china has done, put borders or sovereign internet spaces there, otherwise facebook will soon be able to bend australia without the slightest difficulty.
there is also the political illiteracy of the common man
most believe that a dictatorship or an authoritarian system means death camps and a cartoon dictator with a glass eye who flatters a laughing cat and kills people for the lolz.
and they believe that the population of dictatorial countries is 100% non-consenting, if they find that correct it means that everything is fine and that it is not dictatorial / authoritarian / undemocratic.
this is all part of the great reset which is being pushed by some in order to implement their communist / wokist agenda.
"thanos is right"
philo 101 at cégep would stop them immediately: * would you agree that a person burns in hell for eternity so that the rest enter heaven? if so, do you want to be that person? *
it always ended in yes, no1 !!!!! 111111! as an answer. everytime.
in this case, the "no! 111 !!!" would be to be in the 50% eliminated. it's the same for the bosses of the bécosses since eternity: for you but not for me.
it's reddit too, so don't expect much.
thanos is right. he's not wrong. if we consider that the woke are becoming a majority and that the "it's racist to eat a tacos" udder "it's transphobe not to put your penis in a woman who has already been an" udder "man it is normal for 'a 330 lbs woman with a beard and a pumpkin-sized adam's apple fights in mma against a 75 lbs woman "are things we hear more and more ... worse it's not even in joke ...
do not know what is worse made ... thanos or les crisse de fuckées ...
indeed, the question arises, in the context of the environmental crisis.
let's say that we draw a parallel with the 1st or the 2nd world war, was conscription an authoritarian drift by the federal government, since a majority of quebecers were against it? the philosophical question would be in a way: can certain major crises legitimize decisions that go against the popular will?
in 99.9% of cases authoritarianism is fundamentally wrong, but if it's a matter of life and death ... i don't know. i still find it debatable.
and how many of these "nerds" (including those who posed up) are vegan? chances are it's zero. real brainwashed propaganda, on the one hand, the environmental one pushed by the globalists and on the other by that of the agri-food companies
there is no authoritarian drift because there is no authoritarianism. we are in a pandemic and it is everyone's duty to protect themselves and others.
it's like saying that it's a freedom to kill your neighbor because you don't like his face.
i would add the clarification that the covid is just a pretext, this authoritarianism has been well underway for several years and several political movements, crises and events have contributed to it. for example the regressive left and identity politics, the pro and anti globalists, the concentration of wealth, the social media algos, the absence of corporate projects as for the generations of yesteryear (colonization of the territory, modernization, race space, cold war and competing social ideologies, sovereignist projects ...)
there are a lot of losers who are looking for an ideology to support in order to feel powerful, important, part of something, just forgetting that they are super losers in life. the worst bastards in the history of the 20th century have not all had a life of loser before their ideology gave them powers to abuse against others.
very well written post. bravo!
i believe in aligning personal interest with common interest. you cannot reasonably create rules that punish people who act in the common interest and then complain that people are not doing what is best for society!
for example, when we tell the world to take public transport, but our urban planning rules require the construction of parking lots in front of all businesses and workplaces, we ensure that parking lots are free and available to all, and that employers provide free parking for their employees without paying a share of their transit passes if they don't have a car, how can you be surprised that people are driving rather than taking public transport? common? we do absolutely everything to encourage them to do so. instead of bawling that the world is too "selfish" we must review our ways of doing things to stop punishing or complicating the lives of those who do the right thing.
i don't think it takes an authoritarian government to do that. we have already passed a carbon tax after all.
the answer is very, very simple, do nothing. planet earth is not a pie that contains a limited number of spikes, it is a lie propagated by globalists. we have intelligence on our side, it is thanks to our intelligence that we create more and more efficient systems. unfortunately, some do not want to share space on the planet. after all, humans are themselves and other species invaders. overcrowding is a problem that should resolve itself. giving people everything they need to survive, no matter what rat population, results in an overpopulation of rats that have no respect for each other and become anti-social, according to a study on rats. . it makes you think of what is happening all over the world. what happens next? the rat population is shrinking on its own, because life is meaningless. that being said, we are not rats. unfortunately for us in quebec, we are threatened with being drowned by people who have no relation here and who will come and claim all kinds of things on our territory instead of improving theirs. not only do we not resolve anything with regard to global overpopulation, but in addition we ourselves cause the problem with people who already show no respect towards us who welcome them. to come back to climate change, quebec is rich in resources. we must defend them, because those who do not want to share planet earth will try to make us believe that we are selfish, they will ask gretta to treat us as a polluter dangerous for the planet, and they will take everything from us. we must stand up and defend ourselves. the pandemic is a pretext to control humanity, just like climate change. the goal is not quite to pollute less. the goal is to prevent the sovereign individuals that we are from becoming more powerful by suffocating us in all possible means to eliminate the competition, by making us believe that we are limited, by dictating to us what we have the right to do. and making us feel bad about reproducing and existing. it is seldom our individual behavior that poses a risk to our own population, much more often it is they who endanger us and hide the truth from us.
> a large proportion of the population does not even want to reproduce
not sure of that me.
apart from the young white bourgeois of 20 years; and they will change their mind.
birth rates in the third world are super worrying, the last migrant crisis was just a snack, what's coming is going to be 100 times worse.
while it is often the population that establishes authoritarian regimes, even downright dictatorial.
quebecers who believe that china or saudi arabia are governed against their will, you are in the field. it is a typical thought of american imperialism to justify their military interventions.
yes, iraq was healthier under saddam hussein. let these countries do what they want with their fate, just watch and trade.
absolutely, then there are a lot of us who have a bit of an authoritarian way when we are a teenager, except that as a teenager i had not reddit to join so many people.
good god 😂
authoritarianism always gives itself a reason. there is always a danger that justifies people having to keep silent and be content to obey the orders of the authorities without question, because any questioning is dangerous. salvation comes through obedience, authority must be obeyed even if one does not understand the why of the orders, or there does not seem to be any meaning behind them.
this is authoritarianism. by definition.
[removed]
> i believe in aligning personal interest with common interest.
indeed, but it's much easier said than done. you are absolutely right that our current system subsidizes motorists enormously in a hidden way. but it is not for nothing, the majority of the population are motorists. so a government that promised to put an ax in there would be greeted with a brick and a lantern by the majority of the electorate. even qs does not go in that direction and rather seems to favor the electric car, which is more easily marketable for an electorate of car drivers.
implementing the policies you are proposing would kill the used car market, which would lose a significant asset on a lot of people's bottom line (a depreciable asset that is often bought with an extra loan ...).
in the end we don't run away: how to elect a politician who would frankly say to the population "vote for me and i will impoverish you in the short and medium term, but your children will perhaps, ** just maybe ** , have a better life ** if ** the rest of the planet imitates us. " ?
> we have already adopted a carbon tax after all.
in fact, the carbon tax seems to me to be an excellent example of what i'm saying: for the carbon tax to be effective, it must be high enough, which is not currently the case. no government is going to get elected by promising a significant carbon tax without having to compensate for it with a package of measures that will reduce its effectiveness. for example, this tax would strongly disadvantage rural communities over city dwellers, and so they will demand that the government subsidize them in one way or another. currently, the carbon tax has a guilt-relieving function, like the coleslaw that comes with a poutine club sandwich.
in my opinion, for the people to vote against their short and medium-term economic interests for long-term gain, they must have a strong life drive in the population so that they think more about the future of their children than his. this drive is very weak in the western world at the moment, and i have no idea how to revive it.
the other possibility that everyone knows but no one dares to say is that if one does not believe in international cooperation on this issue, then a valid strategy is to continue to pollute as if nothing were counting on the fact. that climate change is likely to kill the rest of the planet before us. a dangerous, uncertain and immoral strategy, but rational in certain circumstances.
it depends if africa decides to switch to condoms, which seems to be happening.
the liberals had no problem justifying the law on the measure of wars in 1970 because of 8 felquists.
people have no problem with authoritarian regimes when they attack their enemies, it is only when they come for them that people will complain.
the "revolutionary" phase among young people is often a form of authoritarianism, even totalitarianism, where young people dream of changing the world by telling everyone how to live their life, because young people believe they know better than others how they are doing. should live.
unfortunately, i'm afraid that we're seeing the growth right now of an authoritarian technocratic ideology, where a lot of people seem to want power given to technocrats, to "experts", according to the idea that " experts "are better qualified and therefore would do a better job, and everyone should just shut up and obey the" experts "who are smarter than them.
as for me, the fiasco of the past year should prove beyond a reasonable doubt that this techno-authoritarian ideal is hogwash. our "experts" have messed up constantly, but really consistently, for over a year, and have shown at least as much reluctance as politicians to change their minds based on new scientific information. "experts" are even more afraid of politicians to admit to having made a mistake and therefore persist in error even more than politicians ... perhaps because in a technocratic system it is crucial to never confess error to maintain an aura of infallibility.
the experts who were the first to call for confinement continue to swear by confinements, the solution to the crisis is always a little stricter confinement, a little longer. the public health expert in sweden continues to say his no-containment approach was the right one. didier raoult continues to praise his hydroxychloroquine + azithromycin protocol that he continues to provide to the patients of his institute. experts who laughed at the idea of an existing cure continue to laugh and accuse those who want further studies of quackery.
all these "experts" cannot be right at the same time. we would say to ourselves "with the data that we have acquired along the way with the hundreds, thousands of studies on the disease, we should have a convergence of opinion!" but there is none!
nobody has moved from their positions, or almost. even on the masks, people changed their position without admitting it.
for someone to come out of this crisis with a heightened confidence in the technocratic ideal is completely beyond me, but it seems to be the case for many.
your bot is shit and annoying. stop spamming. 
 ^^^^i ^^^^am ^^^^*also* ^^^^a ^^^^bot, ^^^^and ^^^^this ^^^^was ^^^^performed ^^^^automatically
i'm not optimistic about that, except for educated people in cities.
so concretely what should we do? nobody dares to say it; forcing quebecers not to attend english-speaking cegeps? abolish english-speaking cegeps? reduce funding ...?
the first two options will not find any support.
this debate begins to take an increasingly unhealthy tangent by the ultra nationalist fringe that facal represents caricaturally.
suggestions :
* in these times of generalized closures, we must support quebec artists who make quebec culture attractive. if you have them that you like, find a way to support them financially as directly as possible. in other words, not by listening to them on spotify (a few cents per billion plays), but by going to their site to buy something.
from my point of view, you support quebec culture as soon as you post something on the internet, as mundane as a note on google maps of your favorite business / museum / association. even the french-speaking "clans" in video games give our young people a reason to speak in french rather than in english. these are gestures that create a world in french in which we can evolve without feeling obliged to go to english. ditto for this sub.
* make more québécois.es french loses its appeal depending on the possibilities of development. if your region is depopulated, it has a ripple effect on young families who go if not in town, if not quite simply elsewhere. what affects the economy, and the possibilities of finding a job. we will not make french attractive by punishing people, but by making quebec attractive. we must not quibble netflix about existing, we must encourage the creation of better works from here.
incidentally, support french in the roc or the st-jean-baptiste society for quebec, either in money or in time.
obviously in agreement.
however, on the point of "making more quebeckers", i still have the duplessist birth policies that have left their mark on generations to come. by the desire for freedom of the men and women of quebec, i would tend to prefer immigration programs in the regions, and why not review the standards (diplomas and francophonie) at the same time.
my concern about this is that the birth rate, as i understand it, is the key to everything. it would be a more important cause than that of the language of the front, of immigration, of the right vs the left (etc). with the current curve, the quebec "of yesterday" will no longer exist in thirty years.
pauline marois had a flash of genius with early childhood. the day care program was slaughtered by the liberals. by forcing the opening slowly, daycare spaces (subsidized or not) have become essential. so an entrepreneur knew that regardless of the price of space per day because of the lack of space, up to $ 60 for very ordinary daycares, were going to be packed even before the opening. there were therefore battles to buy permits and serials-entrepreneurs who became generous donors to the plq by pure chance. each year, the promise of more space, and each year of liberal reign, openings drop by drop. result for everyone, a nice mess to find a place and poor quality private daycares packed.
going up this measure, prioritizing the return of professionals to primary schools (speech therapy, for example) and all those that facilitate work-family reconciliation should be an absolute priority for any government concerned about the future of quebec. in comparison to the debates on formula 1, the breasts of uqam's tite-daughter and radio-canada broadcasts, it is the deflection of marde.
for info, [the fertility rate of declining countries] ( places canada has 1.5 children and [slightly less for the quebec] (
we return the favor to him.
when we amalgamate françois legault and quebec, when it is two opposing things ...
it would be racist. he's a racialized man.
> faced with all this, how can we not be sorry to note that montrealers will have the choice, in november, only between valérie plante and denis coderre?
today, in * rien ne change chez le p'tit québec # 232 *, the new episode entitled * there are 13 names on the list of mayors, 6 parties, 8 sub-parties but i just see coderre and plante. *
the worst part is that coderre is no better, he, the former federal member who loves his canada.
it is hardly surprising. a certificate in multi-ethnic intervention, a master's degree in museology and a very slim track record, that sets the tone. valérie plante is an extremely hollow politician who can only imagine herself relevant through the flavor of the moment. the last election was easy for his team, coderre was the architect of his own defeat. for the next one on the other hand, it is not a given, so we avoid offending the increasingly francophobic sensibilities of replaced montrealers.
it's nice to see a band of patriots conditioning themselves to vote denis coderre.
welcome to democracy. even if you do everything to be able to present yourself, you still have the main barrier, which is to regularly talk about yourself well in the media.
i voted for michel brulé but it seems that he is a sexual predator so that's what it is ..
not better or less worse?
everything was better at the time when the town hall was crumbling under corruption. coincidence?
plague or cholera, take your pick!
if you only knew how much it disgusts me myself .. at the same time for the patriotic choice plante is not so much better ..
an openly sovereignist candidate will never be mayor of montreal.
i don't know if things were going better, but seeing [denis coderre in the main sewer] ( is no place!
one of the rumors is that valérie plante was put in a closed room with the mafia and we clearly said: "you are going to do what we want or we shoot your children in the head."
rather aids against the plague here
gentlemen, when the english or the liberals are offended about the "money and ethnic votes" of parizeau or the great replacement. be aware that this is bullshit calisse. they are offended in public, but then, among "respectable" people, they pat each other on the back, happy that the majority of immigrants are happy to serve as auxiliary federalist troops in quebec. so we have to understand that for them, a good immigrant is an immigrant who repeats without thinking the propaganda of * zie gazette * and * der suburban * without asking a question. there is nothing more intolerable to them than an immigrant woman who refuses to play the role assigned to her. this explains the hateful and downright racist reactions among the english, and many allophone immigrants, which we see in the facebook thread of zie gazette in front of the news of the possible candidacy of ms. haidar for the bloc (crisse, imagine de how it will look if she is ever elected!).
so gentlemen, let's stop letting them pretend. let us not embark on their facade protests against the words of parizeau. it was the strict truth, they know it, they are proud of it. they are even more proud of themselves because they have managed to terrorize the entire independence left with their hypocritical whining.
patrick lagacé must surely believe in a plot by djemilah benhabib once again ...
i expected to read much worse on facebook, the trash can of humanity.
contrary to what we can read here or in the jdm, we read several immigrants and anglophones sympathetic to quebec nationalism, even to sovereignty itself.
pleasantly surprised by the words of the lady quoted in the article.
the disappointment in the comments concerns french-speaking quebecers who expel ms. haidar under the pretext of being an arab immigrant. continue like this, you will have your sovereignty in 2000 years, you idiots ... as if you could do without your allies.
i've already been told i have "stockholm syndrome" because i'm a nationalist immigrant lol.
they are so hypocritical, it reminds me of joe biden's comment "you are not black if you dont vote for me".
why attach such importance to facebook comments? the centerpiece should be the article.
yeah there is certainly a good gang of colonized people who treat her as a traitor, but the thread is long in the dirty, i assure you that at the beginning you had a nasty gang of anglos who wanted to deport her.
has he met any separatists?
⚜️ quebec my country ⚜️
yeah, it's been 15 years since qs gave us the tape to take what they can from the pq vote.
while the pq had to defend itself against qs the caq took everything behind its back.
now the caq is coming back for the crumbs that remain and qs has moved on.
the worst is the ex-on who believe it .. a good part just drank the kool aid woke of qs but the others .. what are you still doing here?
i even think that qs is hiding to say that they don't give a damn about independence.
it claims to be sovereignist while being anti-quebec
it claims to be a leftist while having only far-right views
ladies and gentlemen, i present to you: the regressive ones
i'm not defending qs but some things deserve to be clear: the poll in the photo is for ** voters **, while gnd is most likely talking about ** members ** of qs.
the party itself is independent, it is the supporters of qs who are not. the reason is probably because there are a lot of left federalists who vote qs because they are very leftist and there is no other left federalist political party.
"solidarity in a hurry to achieve independence"
more like
"42% of those in solidarity are moderately sovereignists"
i will vote yes when we are the best in canada.
to wonder if he's really doing his job
can you explain to me why you consider québec solidaire as being anti-québec and having far-right views?
the best in what?
race is all that matters. yes to censorship, fireworks and political violence, no to debates about ideas. segregation is back, you are not allowed to do certain things say certain things or go to certain places if you are not the right color the right kind of the right orientation. no to democratic nation-states and their borders and long live globalization and american cultural imperialism. long live the underpaid migrant workforce to replace our union members. long live the american mega corporations, the investment banks and the gafam which report virtue while paying no taxes and making a fortune with quasi-slavery.
etc ...., regressive nonsense are all positions traditionally of the extreme right. and obviously the regressors with their cancel culture attack almost only traditional leftists and destroy all progressive organizations from within.
in all, we are not good at anything and we stand still. i'm 34 ... let's say when i was 14 i started to get interested in politics here and everywhere. we have not improved our situation in well ben ben places in 20 years.
always sticks in the wheels for everything. always fling flang business. worse, the health network came to pummel us in the face in a pandemic that they say was due to happen. and the next one will be education
worse. the best of the worst.
ah ok i understand your point of view.
"we're not good at anything. always fling flang business and the health network ..."
so let's see. we are the best in terms of energy, ecology and life expectancy. otherwise, our video game industry is a national pride as well. we are the best in many areas but the balance of power between the roc and quebec is not quite the same either, there is a good chance that we will never be better than them in *** all * ** as you would like. an independent quebec, however, would be much better than the vast majority of countries on earth and roughly the equivalent of norway. i find that very good. why would a people be condemned to servitude only because it is not as competent as others in * a few * areas?
sorry but you're wrong, we literally improved everything from unemployment to poverty, suicide rates, violence, etc.
you live in a cave if you think we are better than in the 90s-2000s.
the health system is good, the problem is that, like any socialist system, you have to pay more taxes and you don't want to, then there is a shortage of doctors / nurses.
what comes first? the chicken or the egg? as long as we stay in canada there is much less pressure to force us to improve our system than if we were independent. it's like comparing a guy who's lived in woolen wool all his life versus someone who had to work hard to get by. anyone who has lived in cotton wool, with helicopter parents, will not know how to do anything with his ten fingers, he will have no autonomy. while the one who has only been able to count on himself to get out of trouble will necessarily have more internal resources. i believe that the same principle applies for the people: adversity and the challenge of independence will strengthen the people of quebec. while the federal bs check softens us. what doesn't kill us makes us stronger. independence is going to be difficult at first, and that's exactly why i think it's a good thing for us.
well, i imagine that being the world's capital in artificial intelligence does not count? right there, an area where we are among the best in the world
to play the devil's advocate, your argument is essentially hydro-quebec. the pq fling flang of the green country is just an opportunist argument. it's easy to be the best when you are predisposed to it by decades of investment and planning that doesn't involve any effort or thought on our part today. moreover, everything indicates that we are currently screwing up our cash cow with wind power ppps. we also do not often hear about plans to replace the heritage dams that ensure our returns or to compensate for the expiry of the contract with nalcor on churchill falls.
speaking of norway, we are far from it. norway sits at the top of the prosperity charts as quebec hits rock bottom. unlike us, the norwegians are not afraid of exploiting their hydrocarbons. with statoil, they have amassed a sovereign fund of $ 1 trillion. 1,000 billion dollars for a state less populated than quebec. our 10 billion generation fund is pretty tough in comparison. especially when you realize that this is the legacy of jean charest, you should be careful before imagining yourself to be norway.
chsld has been said for 30 years. do you want to add money to health? we've been doing it for 30 years.
😂😂
> it's easy to be the best when you are predisposed to it by decades of investment
it's called building on your strengths and there's nothing negative about it. becoming a real green country may be opportunism, but it is positive and proactive opportunism.
for norway, i'm talking about gdp. objectively (according to the data before the health crisis, i have no idea what the numbers look like today) our gdp was just behind that of norway ceteris paribus.
anyway, i come back to my initial point. how should we keep a people on their knees in the face of their cultural and political assimilation in an english-speaking petro-state for the sole reason that other countries are more prosperous than us and that we are not? "the best in all". haitians have a right to their independence and to their country and although they have a long way to go before they achieve prosperity, let's put it that way, no one regrets the independence of their country. in the case of quebec, we are rich and we will remain rich once independent.
it does not matter whether norway or any other country is more prosperous than us, quebec would be similar to a scandinavian country in terms of its population, its economy and its standard of living. that's what i meant.
so why did our nurses have such a low salary?
"increase" does not mean anything, there has always been a lack of money in the health system and no one wants to pay.
no, but quebec's gdp has nothing to do with that of norway. come on, norwegians are among the richest in europe while we are among the poorest in canada and the united states! we are rich, either, relative to the haitians, but the norwegians are rich relative to us. you have to stop deluding yourself.
besides, we are in no way scandinavian, even less so than finland which itself is not. scandinavia is another mirage in the pq imagination like catalonia or scotland. we project ourselves into the other, in his fight which contrasts with our inaction. it's very interesting, but in the meantime shawinigan and sorel it doesn't exactly remind me of scandinavia and we are not moving forward.
if you think that the salary heals burn outs, depression and prevents suicides sure.
and what is your alternative? to roll around in your supposed relative poverty? with the right economic policies, nothing separates us from these countries in terms of population, climate, and resources. i have faith in quebec and as i told you, i don't give a damn that other countries are richer, it's no excuse to mope and to remain squatting like a pitiful minority in a country that is fundamentally not ours.
social democrats like to compare themselves to scandinavians but they forget that they are much closer to an american citizen than to any swedish, norwegian or danish ...
the quebecker projects himself into a scandinavian like a leftist projects his class struggle into american racialism. both are illusory.
what are you talking about? worse suicides have also decreased, we have gone to have one of the worst rates in the world, 2-3 times more than anglo-canadians to be in the canadian average.
don't worry, you don't have to convince me of the absolute necessity of independence, but these arguments from scandinavia or the first green country don't convince anyone. neither does the northern cuba of qs notwithstanding the foreign character of canada which i am sure is blatant for a majority of the electorate.
my alternative is to roll up our sleeves and by all means possible to overtake the scandinavian countries or any other enviable state. however, to do this we will have to get out of our comfort zone and behave like a sovereign state. it is not normal that a relatively poor state like quebec spits on its hydrocarbons or strategic transcontinental infrastructures like lng quebec. we have had enough of ottawa putting obstacles in the way, we do not have the means as independentists to do so ourselves.
the president of the parti quebecois is an immigrant from gabon and he is much appreciated. if someone who comes from this far can be accepted as a nationalist, an ontarian who learns french can be too! there are sovereignist anglophones who are running for the quebec party, you would not be the first person born anglophone to be a nationalist
being a quebec nationalist is not something hereditary, it is a choice
according to pierre falardeau:
“for me, a quebecer is someone who decides to be one, whatever their language, their ethnic origin, the color of their skin, their sexual orientation. i don't give a damn (...) whatever his language, his ethnic origin, his sex, his skin color, his religion. a people is made of that. there is no such thing as "native" quebecers. there are quebeckers of all kinds of stumps! i don't want to know where the world is from, i want to know where it is going! ”
addition: and if you haven't seen his films, start with the "jesters time"
welcome! you don't need anything to be
you are welcome ! whether you were born in sudbury or sherbrooke or ouagadougou, it doesn't matter, if you are a quebec nationalist, you are one of us!
welcome my friend. you are one of us if you have at heart to preserve our beautiful nation
you don't even have to ask permission, if you wanna be then you're welcome to the club
of course you can! if you support us in our quest for a distinct (and independent) nation in america, we will certainly appreciate you.
if you love quebec and participate in its development, you are a nationalist.
anyone can be a nationalist, not even having to speak french.
it suffices to recognize that quebec is a distinct nation, that its inhabitants form a distinct people and to hope that quebec and the people of quebec can grow and flourish.
it's a way of thinking - a logical goal for the future when we look at our past and our present. not only can you, but we wish it! welcome.
you wouldn't say i was born you'd say i've come from: je viens de l'ontario
"i'm learning french," is perfect québécois
moreover, i would like us to hear more about the president of the pq. i am convinced that it would bring an excellent economic perspective within the framework of an independent quebec (doctoral student in economics).
yen are able to like him.
falardeau was a waste all the same. even if you liked what said. waste remains waste, zero savoir vivre
explain.
the only waste i see here is you!
a thousand times i prefer an honest but badly shouted guy than a good-looking scoundrel.
it's simple, he thinks federalists deserve respect.
😥
yup
[deleted]
of time and number, yes
it is above all a question of numbers. very multiculturalist cities like toronto have seen their crime rates increase significantly in recent years. there has also been an increase in crime in montreal in recent months.
sources :  
massive immigration coupled with communitarianism is a disaster.
a black pro blm, career criminal ... 2 days after rittenhouse is received a correct verdict of innocence goes to a parade organized by a white organization to terrorize the whites ..... a racist madman .... things are bad in the usa .... it shouldn't cross borders ..
yes, that will help the cause that ..
tabarouette.
he is in the first place a mental patient and a murderer. if he also played mario kart, are we going to ban nintendo? i don't know how important it is to mention blm in the title ...
> while everyone involved in this incident was white (rittenhouse like his attackers),
in fact rittenhouse was hispanic, as indicated on court documents
ah and * were * not was.
this site is emptying.
the situation is interesting, however.
the real crime here is having a christmas parade in november
a blm lover with a troubled soul?
[
if this is true, the situation is even worse: the media reacted by generating fake news (* the driver was fleeing another crime scene *) in an attempt to do damage control.
alexandre bissonnette was lepenniste, the voters of the fn are not terrorists so far.
blm is crap, but let's not confuse activists with criminals, because that only reinforces blm's racialist discourse, namely the dishonesty of its opponents.
we wuz...
what is the relationship with quebec?
you have to stay as homogeneous as possible. multiracial societies are multiconflict societies.
it's not, but if it was a white man who was pro-trump, it would be in every headline. try to find that this guy is pro-blm in mainstream media though ...
i believe it is important to speak out against hypocrisy.
t'es sur r / quebecfree bro
besides bad french, there seems to be a lot of inventions in there. i mean, even breitbart doesn't say anything about 3/4 of the "facts" reported on this site.
hey, the mainstream press is starting to pick up the information from the "drain site" 24 hours late ...
[
true, it also takes a parade for chanukah, kwanzaa and eid al-fitr. we have to be a little more inclusive there, this people will not replace themselves there alone.
absolutely right.
what is more culturally or politically relevant is the media coverage of this event vs. the rittenhouse trial.
as long as you import the wokism here, you might as well import the rest
you can have a peaceful, heterogeneous multiracial society if you stop cynically dividing the population with stupid conspiracy theories like "systemic racism".
but are you a racial nationalist or an ethnic nationalist?
rare times with which i agree.
reminds me of the [maga bomber] ( with its bombs without detonators.
not wrong, except this case is just as hypocritical
it's hard not to be in favor of saying that people's lives are important too.
although not agreeing with the blm activists on certain points, it is a little different as the situation.
and it is a real cloth that publishes this article. as much as this man seems a black supremacist, this dish towel is white supremacist.
worse? a nationalist sub must also be without sense of reason and logic?
not all the facts are sourced, right?
better than a smoldering pile of shit full of faults where opinions and lies are intertwined
in defense of the media, perhaps because there are so many murders in the united states that we can no longer count them?
logic !
**[october 2018 united states mail bombing attempts]( 
 >from october 22 to november 1, 2018, sixteen packages found to contain pipe bombs were mailed via the u.s. postal service to several democratic party politicians and other prominent critics of u.s. president donald trump. targets included former u.s. president barack obama, former u.s. vice president joe biden, and former secretary of state hillary clinton.
^([ )[^(f.a.q)]( | )[^(opt out)]( | )[^(opt out of subreddit)]( | )[^(github)]( ] downvote to remove | v1.5)
> it's hard not to be in favor of saying that people's lives are important too.
i don't understand the idea of taking everything literally at face value ... when we criticize the tactics of those who call themselves "anti-fascist" or "anti-racist" we often ask ourselves the question of "but how you can not be on their board? how you can scream the anti-racists!?!?!" when you stick a label yourself on the back, that doesn't mean it's true ... especially when what is "racist" changes every 10 minutes.
for blm it's the same, yes black lives matter ... but when you burn down your neighborhood convenience store to "piss off the police" worse than everything is racist 7 days a week 24/24 worse than your life is because everyone is racist ... at some point stop blaming others ... there may be other reasons. but we shouldn't talk about it.
> and it is a real cloth that publishes this article.
it is true that it is a cloth, but sacrament. what is "acceptable" is made hypocritical ... it is important not to say if he was a supporter of blm, but if he had been white and he had said that systemic racism did not exist ... eille .. . the kkk toé
are you ironic on purpose? we have already explained to you the double standard, if the guy had been white straight pro trump, we would have talked about it for at least 6 months in the media, it is only a satire of the hypocrosy crace of the authoritarian "progressivism" of the left , no need to be passive-aggressive my friend.
well you're on a very right sub which is not usually in favor of blm so jsp what you expected ...
wow. you found a spelling error in an article. this obviously proves that the said article is inaccurate and full of lies. well done columbo.
i salute your good faith but i no longer defend the media. i assume their moral and intellectual bankruptcy.
precisely, we see the editorial bias by the choice to cover one murder rather than another. sometimes what the media hush up is more meaningful than what they say.
it's important to mention blm if that's what motivates him. otherwise it is a detail that can be in the article rather than in the title.
* not in favor of blm = very to the right *
note!
all of their articles are of worse journalistic quality than a blog.
not sourced drivel and full of mistakes.
mistakes are common on sites. on the other hand, we can clearly see here the difference between a professional journalistic treatment of a fact recovered by amateurs for purposes of ideological subversion. nothing is perfect, of course, but the motivation is different. then everyone sees noon at their doorstep. nomosians will be comforted with this article while the other audience will find it better in their media of choice.
in general, the more to the right you are, the less you are for social causes, there are exceptions, but this is generally true.
the guy was driving in slow motion before hitting the crowd. in the past, he threatened to blow up a casino. but obviously, it is a simple hit and run. move along, there's nothing to see.
so the right is absolute evil and the left is the paradise promised by god
ok okay, i understand better.
i do not disagree. the criticism is not so much about the fact as the coverage of the fact.
or did i say that?
i cannot find the statistics, but immigrants do not vote as much for the liberals as anglophones. yes, they vote much more strongly for them than quebeckers, but that does not come close to the fanaticism of the english.
first, it is not so much anglos and allophones as our own migration policies. the newcomer, he has no idea how things work in quebec unless it is explained to him in a good framework (i met french friends who did not even know that quebec was francophone).
second, integration (or even assimilation) is possible and relatively easy to set up for whoever wants it. in quebec, immigration has been so instrumentalized that we ended up believing that integration into canadian multiculturalism was inevitable, while we too can use our immigration against canada, like a resource.
then, from this perspective, there is a lot to do. personally, i believe that the regionalization of immigration is the only real opportunity, it satisfies both the integration / assimilation criteria, the lack of manpower / precarious economy of the regions, and de-clutters montreal. it suffices to set up with companies in the regions a pan-national hiring program with unparalleled employment conditions and other incentives, such as, for example, rent paid in advance for 3 months or considerable discounts on the job. buying a house. everything is possible made there. by raising the criteria for acceptance, there is seriously nothing that can prevent us from doing so except force. to believe that the economic immigrant wishes to go to montreal, in a communitarized ghetto, to remain poor, is completely false. people from all over the world would be willing to die just for having a good job in the regions, so with other big incentives he can only accept. there is absolutely nothing wrong with asking the immigrant for something in return, because that is all he wants, and we ourselves will reap his contribution to the precarious economy of the regions. we need a plan "the great seduction" organized by the provincial government with the companies of the regions. it's an ultimate combo, everyone wins.
as for anglophones, it remains difficult to blame them once again with our politicians who give into patronage. the first thing to do would be to fund cegeps according to the demographic weight of anglophones (real people, not allophones) so as to redirect to francophone cegeps.
this position, which consists in placing the blame on an entire group, for causes that are not within their remit, by instrumentalizing them for exclusively political ends, is reprehensible.
this is not correct at all! as a 2 year old immigrant, i haven't voted yet but i'm trying to find out more about politics here in quebec.
i am closely related to the quebec bloc and other parties as well. but of course i would vote for parties in favor of immigration and integration.
after all, in trying to become a quebecker, i want quebec to embrace all those who adore french but who are also bilingual, because it is necessary for the economy and therefore the future of quebec.
whichever party is in favor of this, and honest with a good, trusted, strong and young leader, they will have my vote in the next election.
just see the inventory [since 1994] (
boucar diouf was honorary president of the national day and he often spoke in favor of a more sovereign quebec, not to say independent.
the president of the pq is [dieudonné ella oyono] ( immigrant from gabon.
there were dozens of bloc québécois and péquiste deputies who were from immigration, [maka kotto] ( for example ...
so i'm not sure we should put all immigrants in the same boat ...
** in fact, it's up to us to convince immigrants, people who often celebrate the independence of their country of origin, that we need their help to create an independent quebec. **
quebec is already the most bilingual province in canada, with a rate approaching 48%. i don't know what more you want, it just weakens the culture more than anything at this rate.
which proves that immigration can work if it is properly supervised
> in fact, it's up to us to convince immigrants, people who often celebrate the independence of their country of origin, that we need their help to create an independent quebec.
you will give us an account of your sovereignist pedagogy among the greeks and italians: p
it's all a matter of selection and quantity. it is a mistake to assess the potential of mass immigration from its best elements, one has to judge on the basis of the average element. however, the average element is multicultural who vote liberal and who are very sensitive to the risk of economic instability inherent in the process of independence. which is logical, when you flee a country to improve your standard of living, you will necessarily have tendencies rather to the right on the economic axis and be sensitive to what can affect this standard of living in your adopted country.
the majority of "greeks" and "italians" have been in quebec for several generations, they are not immigrants.
we must arrange for immigrants to join the francophone community and not the anglophone.
in order for them to join the french-speaking community, we must be welcoming and we must give them the desire to live among us and not among the anglos.
i often talk to people of all origins and i talk to them about independence and telling them that to be "québécois" is initially a choice they make.
unfortunately, some tell me that no matter how hard they try, some quebecers will never consider them one of their own ...
if we want independence, we have to increase the size of our gang and that means opening our arms to everyone who could help us become independent, including everyone.
if we don't do that, in 100 years we will still be wondering why we are not a country.
> the majority of ~~ "greeks" and "italians" ~~ * "english" * have been in quebec for several generations, they are not immigrants.
just more of the same. sovereignist pedagogy has not worked on anyone for 50 years. we have to face the facts and stop masturbating in front of political beasts. for twelve years we have put forward the fiasco [maria mourani] ( what's the point? the pq collapses under oyono and maka kotto has deserted him since his defeat. it no longer has a seat in montreal or laval. this is the legacy of sovereignist pedagogy.
> we must arrange for immigrants to join the francophone community and not the anglophone.
the best way would be to block immigration from more english-speaking countries like india, china, black english-speaking countries, etc.
> in order for them to join the francophone community, we must be
welcoming and we must make them want to live among us and not
among the anglos.
i would say it looks bad. we do not set an example with the quantity of colonized among native quebecers, no one wants to integrate into a community that rejects itself.
> unfortunately, some tell me that no matter how hard they try,
some quebecers will never consider them one of their own ...
the law of least effort will always favor canada: it is a lot easier to be considered "canadian" in the multiculturalist vision than to be considered "quebecois" in our more assimilationist vision for some or multiculturalist. -conditions (aka interculturalism) for others.
i also have the impression that there are a lot of misunderstandings created by the fact that the word "québécois" is used in several senses but without specifying which one. i am quite convinced that the majority who would not consider a well integrated immigrant as a "quebecer" in the ethnic sense of the term would not be in favor of a national preference policy like the fn for example. basically, we use the same word "quebecois" to speak of the french canadian ethnicity of quebec, to designate the citizens of quebec territory, or to speak of all those who are "culturally" part of the nation. a series of misunderstandings ensued that federalist political crooks had learned to exploit with all their hands.
> if we want independence, we must increase the size of our gang and
it means opening our arms to everyone who could help us
become independent, including everyone.
this is what i do personally, and i agree with the ideal. but i'm a realist (or a pessimist, depending on your point of view), so when i see the forces at play, i consider that a strategic retreat towards natalist policies would be a more productive path ... albeit politically unsaleable?
electoral prostitution.
i remind you that these two liberal candidates are openly feminists
pretty funny joly after his tirade about women's autonomy
it's easy, we just accuse them of cultural appropriation
unfortunately, it will be a lot of votes won by the liberal puppets ...
this is politics!
votes are priceless.
pretty sickening! in 30 - 50 years, quebec women will be wearing this stinking rag on their heads and men will have their heads rolled up in rags full of lice!
prostitution is illegal according to sharia!
it says a lot about feminism
hilarious
or lost. "our brothers the taliban"
the culture of rape only exists in white and christian countries. it's known.
in fact, you are not wrong, but there are degrees of importance in these actions. one of the big problems, especially in montreal, is block votes in certain areas.
remember denis coderre in 2013 with the hasidic community of montreal.
there are a lot of milesiu who vote en bloc .. it hurts to hear but the political parties, and especially the liberals, are very well aware of this ...
i don't know if you saw him on tva news yesterday it was lunar. he twisted our testicles to explain to us that he was against quebec bashing because the rest of the country is also racist anyway.
["i think the idea that there is only one province where there is systemic racism is not true because it exists across the country"] ( 2021/09/15 / jagmeet-singh-can't-keep-arms-crossed)
blanchet is far too familiar with trudeau. i find it funny blanket but not on it goes
i agree, this was arguably the most important quote in the debate because of its form and harsh virulence.
as for the article, richard martineau's catchphrase about radio-canada is mind-blowing ...
since his reference to journalism stops at lcn, he probably didn't understand how important a debate of the leaders of a g7 government is to the rest of the world, who were invited to ask questions yesterday, from congo to austria ...
i have no particular criticism to make for the debate on radio-canada. but i would have some for the friends of richard martineau at lcn, who thought it wise to return only 20 minutes to the debate without any panelists or dedicated program, while radio-canada gave not one but three different media coverage. live at the same time, simultaneously, on the 22h newscast, on rdi then on the radio. so put that in your head, martineau.
more or less agree. as long as a large percentage of quebec federal deputies are from the plc, trudeau is entitled to tell us what to do and what to think. yes, we all know that he aims to impose the anglo protestant way of thinking in quebec, but the world votes for him knowing that. so that means that a significant number of quebecers, including ethnic origin, agree. obviously, this is deplorable, but what do you expect, a large percentage of our fellow citizens are colonized.
i think it will backfire on blanchet and bring more votes to trudeau.
anglo fiefdoms that vote lpc regardless of the candidate, in my book to me, that does not justify saying "they have the right to tell us how to live".
you think ?
i think trudeau no longer seemed crazy trying to convince us that he was "quebecer" ...
but still according to him in quebec there is no distinct culture, just canadian multiculturalism.
the important thing for blanchet is that it serves him, and it has served him. he had his incisive and very violent retort.
if you read it right, i'm not talking about anglo strongholds. look at the electoral map of quebec, plc candidates were elected outside the waste island. the plc has not yet suffered the same fate as the plq.
according to the latest polls, 96% of trudeau's electoral weight in quebec is french-speaking. believing that english speakers fully feed trudeau is wrong. the only province where trudeau is ahead, and the only way he can win, is in quebec, through the francophone vote. if it were to lose its lead in quebec, it would not form a government.
diversity is our strength.
or according to machiavelli: divide the better to reign.
you, me, most of the people on this sub, it touches us. not sure that the average citizen cares that much. in my opinion for an average voter, the ardor of trudeau "i am as much quebecois as you!" will work. there are tons of people, at least to the most educated, who follow politics in a very superficial way.
it seems to me that trudeau has always recognized the quebec nation.
trudeau is quebecois, one cannot take away from him, it is besides the one and only reason why quebec votes for him. quebecers have never voted for anything other than quebecers since 1956 ~.
blanchet didn't attack him on this point, but it's quite strange that it provokes a personal reaction from trudeau. did blanchet hit on an insecurity?
the vote is for sure as superficial as a politician's crocodile tear!
it's very relative, honestly i find that someone like boucar diouf has 100x more the soul of a quebecer and the love of quebec than trudeau ...
being a quebecer is not just a place of birth, but also a state of mind.
ye ontarien
this is the argument of purity that must be avoided at all costs.
i think you would change your mind if you had a beer with trudeau, away from the cameras. where his edge is in his vision of the country. for him, the "real business", the "real government" is in ottawa. the more the federal government becomes stronger, the more the provincial becomes insignificant and does nothing but administer bébelles. what many quebecers oppose, without really stretching and separating.
there's a lot more quebecois than the madwoman who thinks herself an aboriginal is aboriginal ... that said, it's still a liberal blunder.
you can be many things, but he is indeed quebecois.
you seem to forget that 60% of francophones voted yes in the last referendum, not to mention the infiltration of the pq by the secret services and all the rest of the scandals.
like a divorce request refused to a battered woman because the legal system is favorable to the one who mistreats the other.
historically, when one country conquered another, it was to steal its resources, not to make it free.
either we remain a minority within canada and die slowly or we become the majority at home, in our country, quebec.
well yes he is a quebecker, as quebecker as these english-speaking quebecers of italian or greek ancestry who swear to leave quebec in the event of independence because they have the fleur-de-lis tattooed on their hearts. an opportunist quebecer, one might say, a quebecer in montreal, a canadian in vancouver and a citizen of the world in geneva. either that or it's a lot of shit.
i am no stranger to these facts. i'm just saying that the country doesn't exist (yet?). the choice is between moving and getting bogged down. i note that most voters seem resigned to the second option.
in addition, no mention of the koran forcing women to wear it.
the veil is political and not religious.
why not. a professional environment free from religious influence
so there i am amazed. can canada join the european union please?
the wicked quebec hand in hand with the wicked racist europe, enough to make our wokanada, the us and the holy mother of political correctness that is england cry. tears to come in the washington post.
it may be against the idea of extreme modesty / oppression of women, the fact remains that women have the right to decide how they want to leave their homes.
are we also going to ban jews who wear wigs to 'watch over their husbands'?
frankly.
bravo.
the hijab is a political symbol used by fundamentalists. it is not a simple dress or an aesthetic choice.
the article is about work, not going out ....
you are not totally wrong. only, it is up to society to assert its will, and by reconciling (not by the opposition) of minorities with the population so that they can assert theirs. here in quebec, the majority of the population prefers to keep a distance from ostentatious foreign signs, not only because it pisses them off, but also because they would like to welcome and integrate better. it is very noble to want to promote contact within the parameters by which the population requests it, there is nothing wrong with that. quebeckers don't give a damn about the hijab outside of positions of authority.
not always. if a woman can take it off at any time, like a cap, in this case it is indeed cultural / aesthetic than anything else. on the other hand, if impossible, then yes there are questions to be asked.
here is [a nuanced and complete report] ( ) on the issue, made by feminist women from home who take up your point and all the others from one extreme to the other. 50 pages of analyzes that list the worst and the best of the question and which explain from the perspective of the interests of women why it would be nice for the criss-crossed men who want to legislate how women should dress that. .. well, maybe they are not that far from the extremists that they are pretending to criticize.
good reading !
edit: always so courageous the downvoters who silence the opposition without commenting on their motives or arguing anything. cowards.
bin when you go to work it implies to leave your house, no
yes but let's say that with all the problems in quebec, it's quite low in the list of priorities
the article talks about the workplace. the person is still free to wear whatever they want, just not to the job or in front of the clients if the employer thinks it messes up operations. also, we live in a free society (and i believe that germany, which the article talks about, is too) where there is not just one employer for everyone so no one is "forced" .
i'll watch this, thank you.
abstractly, yes it is a no problem. however, the debate in fact contains an important symbolic dimension which goes beyond the few anecdotal cases of hijab concerned, the question of which is: are quebecers masters at home?
tire brands.
in my opinion, believing that math favors white people is the most racist thing a human can conceive in their head. it's based in a white supremacist fantasy that manifests in shame rather than pride, but remains the exact same fantasy.
oh yeah, math, the very definition of fucking objectivity and truth, is racist
osti that we escape it as a society. there are some very urgent social issues to deal with. but there are people who take their energy (and that of children) to say that math is subjective. ciborium.
2 + 2 = 4 in all languages. it is the only language universal to all humans. it's fucking unifying.
there are people out there who look for all possible ways to feel important.
racist math.
next step: physics.
* gravity is a conception of white supremacy. *
question like this, do they have the same problem in schools in asia?
did you know that 2 + 2 doesn't always make 4? mathematics is subjective, it gives the result that you ** feel ** and if someone tells you otherwise, it is because they are racist. / s
will have to withdraw the film on the black mathematicians of the nasa of the '60s ...
it does not go in the head….
kids who don't like math and science (too complicated for them) become apostles of wokism as they grow up.
it's pretty easy to explain this story. what is inexplicable is that people like that have found themselves in a position to do it and that we let them do it.
it reminds me of this:
[
it makes so much sense.
in short, the statistics which say that certain ethnic groups are disadvantaged are racist and we should not take this into account.
it's a shame that english text analysis isn't better taught. we are talking about the context in which grade 9 math, hence algebra, does not recognize the non-eurocentric origins of these concepts. we are not talking about pointing fingers or that the very science of math is racist.
mirror the image?
worse? show me the lie.
indeed, i still can't believe the extent to which the wokes do not realize that an important part of their demands are the greatest pleasure of the real racists. complaining about the higher rate of imprisonment of blacks draws the attention of the people to their higher crime rate. complaining about the differences in income between blacks and whites draws people's attention to differences in average iq (same for differences in academic achievement). to have a harmonious cohabitation in a diverse society, certain taboos must be respected. the wokes imagine that they can rape them with impunity without allowing the real racists to do the same, they are wrong.
it reminds me of this jewish plot that they are always behind the scenes and responsible for everything, history repeating itself.
except that the document posted here doesn't say that, so everything is correct!
they have been telling us that ai is racist for years.
"2 + 2 = 4 is an opinion!"
film which should be compulsory viewing in all schools as well as me. it shows that people care less about your skin color than what you can do for them.
> what is inexplicable is that people like that found themselves in a position to do it and that we let them do it.
from memory, absolutely nothing that came from the protests of the 2000s and earlier was happening. bush? reelected. tobin tax? at the oil changes. monsanto? we don't care. josé bové? who cares. sweat shops? yeh worse. relocations? shut up.
the whole international system was watertight. back to back. you couldn't even organize a mcdonald's without closing it the next day.
but today, we give the * chariot keys * to people who have never been proven as if it were nothing. too suspect when you know the tightness of before. it can only come from above ....
i am speechless
it's been a long time since i did my high school math but i don't remember that it was a history class or that it was focused on the attributions very well ... made in the first year of university most have no idea of the specific contributions of newton, euler and company.
hold u / akesgeroth u / jelsaispas, here's one who thinks math is racist. they are getting easier and easier to find, and more and more are saying that math is "an opinion". i wonder how far he got in algebra, probably not very far.
last year we laughed about it, we talked about it in the hypothesis of absurdity, but here we are today in the absurd.
they are the real racists
that's not bad why acd is the natural ally of wokes.
it is not badly the biggest problem of these manipulable hypersensitive who dare to speak for others.
obviously. the mecca of wokism is harvard and berkeley, gated communities for the children of the super rich.
and the cia is pushing this everywhere to destroy local leftist movements. all progressive organizations infiltrated by wokes are self-destructing or turning against their cause.
even higher than that, neoliberal politicians like trudeau and macron are using it to usurp left-wing votes.
the coup d'état in haiti not a week ago, the americans installed one of their own, who was literally a professor at a hyper-woke university in new york. moses was tortured in front of his wife and killed, his body literally hot when claudius joseph began giving orders to overturn his policies. 48 hours later the white house announced that haiti was joining the club of pfizer worshipers. and the media are talking about it as if moses' death was accidental, with no mention of a coup anywhere. on the other hand, the congress riot was apparently one ....
the internet is racist, yet they are still on it. no conviction.
i know the quotes are in english, but maybe you need to learn to read .. they don't say math is racist. so erm .. unbunch your boxers.
> acd
?
"mathematics has normalized racism"
what kind of disillusionment does it take not to see what this discourse is pouring out towards? mathematics is not and should never be mixed up with emotions.
alexandre cormier-denis
french has not recently become an optional language. french has always been an optional language in canada.
mbc's mistake is that he thinks canada is made up of 2 founding peoples. the truth is, we have been conquered by arms and then exploited and colonized. after the patriots, we were made to swallow the act of union (1840) by force and that put us in a minority position inside canada. in 1867, the act of union was reorganized, but the queb people were still getting screwed, this time it was by canada and not england. siboire it was only in 1968 that canada became officially bilingual. let's stop talking about the legend of the 2 founding peoples sacrament. canada was built by the english and for the english period.
excellent news, i'm sure it's going to wake up a couple of sleeping cuckolds.
we lost the war so we only have to speak the language of the conqueror !!! canada is more concerned with the natives than with the founders of the country….
you just have to go to montreal to see it.
a few weeks ago, i went to tim hortons at carrefour angrignon and the one on boulevard champlain (near the old guzzo) and couldn't get served in french. i speak in french and i am nonchalantly answered in english. there, it is * my * duty to understand english if i want to be served. it goes without saying that i turned on my heels
well said.
if you're kidding, find the people who celebrate it and replace the word "church" with the word "mosque" in their tirades and hit them in the face.
bock-côté is a month late, but better late than never.
we burn both. the mysoginy in islam does not justify the history of catholic pedophilia.
that's why you said earlier that you hoped that a burning church would burn down the house of one of my relatives;)
f.uck your racist and colonizing pedophile church. that they all burn
the church deserves it.
i've been saying this from the start ... personally, i don't care about churches or mosques. but i would pay to see the reaction of the world if it was mosques that were burnt.
on the other hand not the right to burn tipis ⛺️…
the churches that were burnt to which the article refers are both on reserve. probably burned by the natives who live the repercussions of abuse suffered by their ancestors in christian boarding schools.
it is not a citizen movement against religion, it is a movement of revolt against an institution which has committed neither more nor less than ethnic genocide against them. islam has nothing to do with it. so it would surprise me if there was a mosque on a reserve in canada ...
> fuck ~~ your racist and colonizing church ~~ ** your racist, imperialist, sexist and homophobic islam. ** ~~ let them ~~ ** that the mosques ** burn all
bravo.
i hope a church burns down and the fire spreads and burns down a house of someone close to you. 🙃
i have no love for religion either, and i don't cry when statues get knocked down, but vandalism is vandalism. you want these things to go away, do it legally. it's not like these things are being forced on our communities by an occupying force.
the ability to imagine a hypothetical situation in order to compare it to another and make connections is proof of the ability to think abstractly. on the contrary, the inability to do so is good proof of the absence of abstract thinking. however, the use of abstract thinking becomes difficult in people who have limited intellectual capacity.
what i am saying is that to say that you do not understand what the relation of islam in there is not to your advantage.
i say that a corrupt institution, tarnished for decades by scandals of sexual abuse of minors deserves to burn buildings. you answer that.
nothing more to say :)
there
woah wait would you have any ... principles? it sounds like white supremacism that ...
no, you're suggesting that anyone who rejoices in seeing churches burn down on reservations in the west is pro-minority wokes. there are probably some, but there are also a bunch of people who are just happy to see people emancipating themselves from an institution that has historically oppressed them.
you are not burning an institution, you are burning a building.
cool.
hmm, the concept of symbol seems to escape you quite a bit. go burn a quebec flag in the middle of the street and tell the world you're just burning a piece of cloth.
good luck it's gonna take 30 seconds before we blow your ass off right.
and that's not going to justify any of their action. if for you identity comes down to a flag or an object ... not for nothing that we are still looking for each other.
ironically, the queen herself speaks french very well.
she had even hired a quebec tutor (jean lajeunesse) to teach french to her children.
meanwhile, in kènèda .....
all the more revolting since she has spent her entire career in the media (the cbc) and diplomacy, without ever learning french. which is literally the language of diplomacy.
how many radio-padlock journalists are there who don't speak a word of english?
mary simon is from the trudeau foundation!
[
personally, i would have named>! patrick brazeau! <: we would have had a bilingual francophone native and maybe a rematch with the pm ....
otherwise,>! jody wilson-raybould! <: it would help for justice but maybe some would be reluctant ....
it's like telling me that someone at mcgill despises quebeckers.
it's not jokes, [his command of french exceeds that of justin trudeau] (
french the language of diplomacy ??? come to the 21st century, please.
we would also have had a female drummer, a pervert and a coke, that would have been perfect to portray him as a victim in canadian style.
and she is represented to francophones by someone who does not speak a word of french
the worst part is that no one is going to dare to raise him for fear of being called a 'racist'. intellectual terrorism has won.
the queen is highly educated. she even knows how to repair cars, including her old land rover.
the land rover ride with the saudi prince is probably one of the best queen shots i've heard in my life. after that, it all seems to be junk feminism on this side of the atlantic.
>“i’ve always said i think alberta should emulate quebec in the way that it has so effectively defended its interests,” the premier said in an interview friday.
and that's true. rather than having a bacon crisis, the other provinces should emulate us.
we should ally with albertans against ottawa, with all due respect to those who confuse environmental extremism with sovereignty.
duplessis already spoke against federal centralization and how the provinces of the rock are stupid not to fight against it, 70 years later your albertans who have just woken up, finally chalice.
quebec and alberta should join forces on certain points in order to promote their causes in ottawa.
i'll back you up, for example it would be fun if you could leave the pipeline through your beautiful province 🥰
edit: replica in the wrong wire!
the problem is not to cross quebec but especially the saint-laurent. almost all of our population is on the shores of the st. lawrence. it is the heart of our province. it is the source of drinking water for a large part of the population. it is a very fragile and important ecosystem.
also, since this is very cold fresh water, deep oil damage from a pipeline would not come to the surface and would be nearly impossible to clean up. it would be a historic cataclysm. this is why an accident on the surface by a boat would be much easier to manage, especially since the total volume of oil passing here would be much greater with a pipeline.
there are so many environmental problems in alberta. the oil companies are not sufficiently controlled.
quebec has also made monumental ecological efforts, so it's a bit contradictory to encourage such a polluting industry.
your project also has 0 incentives for quebec. the argument is just that you want to increase your profits, while we take all the risk.
you should adapt the project. bring it to quebec, and refine the product here (good for our economy) before crossing the river with a finished product (which floats on the surface)
moreover, there is a coking unit project at the suncor refinery in montreal which has been on hold for years. it is this unit which makes it possible to refine the bitumen of the dilbit into fuel. transcanada would have had a lot more support for their project if they had signed a long-term supply agreement with suncor and / or valero in quebec.
it is certainly possible to build the pipeline in a way that is safe for the ecosystems it passes through, however there must be a good watchdog who makes sure that best practices are followed and that the company does not cut down on them. round corners to save money. let's say that transcanada did not inspire the confidence of the population by hiring jean charest to represent them ...
i didn't expect it to be too
raised in cyprus. personal anecdote, about ten years ago, in portugal, people answered me more easily in french than in english, especially the elderly. it surprised me.
meanwhile in québec:  
[
it's the same in italy.
very disappointed with the ndp. going from a semblance of federal good faith towards quebec to that in 10 years ... wow.
i say it all the time, wokes are the worst possible pandemic, they never build anything but as soon as they infect an organism they destroy it from within. we need a health policy of zero tolerance towards woke.
ps i was voting npd before the orange wave.
no party has been able to become the government by opposing quebec. what does the ndp hope for?
as a friend of albertan once told me, "ontario decides the government, then quebec decides whether this government will be a majority or a minority."
it is as if a party is literally turning its back on ontarians in the hope of ruling the country, it is impossible.
in the case of the ndp, i dare to believe that there is a great deal of incompetence, incomprehension and ideology, because the majority (73% of the population for bill 21) are opposed to it. t is to position itself as the common enemy of a population like no other question has been able to rally quebecers as much in the past, even more than the referendum.
rip layton
maybe being told by an anglo will wake up a couple. before it was british immigration to assimilate us, today it comes from everywhere. just more of the same. the guy talks about white supremacy and shit when in 1961, french canadians were the least educated ethnic group in the developed world (more than african americans) and earned 52% of the average salary of an english speaker, while the african americans earned 54% of the average salary of a white american. in other words, french canadians lived with more economic inequalities than african americans. saying that, on the other hand, makes the white privilege theory absurd. the worst part of all this is that there are really quebecers who get on board and who self-flag when we have absolutely nothing to be ashamed of.
so he's talking about the concept of big replacement. isn't that a far-right talking point that the last i heard?
wow went to chill in the back. it's practically threats of race war.
i wonder if there are any who will continue to say that it is not racism because we are not a race when he speaks of "ethnic french canadians"
only one conclusion is obvious: if we do not act and continue as normal, he will be right! i have lived in montérégie for over 65 years and for 4 years i have heard english speaking where i had not heard it before!
my son's friends tell me that french is a language of losers.
it's up to us to take care of our own affairs.
but the great replacement is a myth, of course
"wait until you've been reduced to a minority, you'll pay for it!"
the guy has a point, but he brings it so badly into the public debate that he's causing exactly what he's warning us about.
obviously "demographics" is destiny, obviously humans will naturally maximize their genetic variety. obviously that can create tensions, and that in the long term, it will upset ethnic balances.
you do not have to treat a whole province thick to support your point osti so far!
the great replacement. probably the only thing in the world that's a "hard case" in someone's hands and a "myth and proof of racism" in someone else's.
the schrödinger argument that passes like butter. joe patate nobody would have already been socially dead if he had posted this.
if you want to laugh a bit, here is the radio-padlock article which explains that the big replacement is a far-right conspiracy theory:
[
here's how they square the circle to deny the big replacement without touching the compelling demographics:
> * it should be remembered that this is an unfounded idea, which is based on erroneous perception biases. a native people cannot be replaced by an external people, it being accepted that a people never has a fixed identity, neither established in time, nor fixed. there are no more ethnic quebecers today than there were 100 years ago. *
in short, native quebecers cannot be replaced, because native quebecers do not exist. it becomes confusing their affairs, ethnic groups exist when it comes to defending "racialized" minorities in quebec, but it no longer exists when it comes to quebecers of french origin?
does he believe in the big replacement theory?
when we are truly in the minority, we will have rights and will be able to assert them.
we are used to having wool eaten off our backs. any other group would have made this racist lose his job.
i fully agree that we have experienced systemic discrimination in the past, and still today.
i also recognize that several other minorities also experience systemic discrimination within our province. i even recognize that several phenomena of systemic discrimination are specific to certain regions, even municipalities. i would even go so far as to say that there is systemic discrimination between different families and even within families.
i'm not even kidding, i just got my ass full of our inability to understand such a simple and clearly existing concept. we are doing hard in esti, and our national division at this level makes us so weak that the national assembly is literally returned to the mercy of a troll caliss on twitter.
shhhhh!
the worst part is that the funny guy on twitter also talks about "gaslighting". asti, we have the new batche of hypocrites at the [asian columnist who finds there are too many whites here but proud to be at home among her own of her "race" in asia] ( // www .reddit.com / r / quebeclibre / comments / k1royc / face_au_racisme_jai_finalement_choisi_de_cesser /)*.*
concretely, with climatic migrations, the "great replacement" just becomes a constant geopolitical reality;)
i guess the guy is pretty much influenced by the politics of his home country, the united states, which is quite literally on the brink of an armed conflict of, among other things, racial dimensions.
amir clearly dreams of such a conflict in quebec, or he is so afraid of it that he has a public psychosis on twitter.
for the moment they are right.
how can that be a myth? just look at the demographic stats.
really looking forward to being south africa here.
he took the proverb "the bigger it is, the better it passes" to words ...
i think it's clear that there are people who deny our existence and who want to erase us.
erased in the literature for the moment, erased for real in 100 years.
there is nothing that makes the world tremble as much as the ethnic identity of european descent, go figure ...
so the first nations don't exist according to their reasoning either? 🤔😅
that's what he says.
do not think that we have a problem of "systemic racism" in quebec ... racists, yes there are ... as everywhere ... but if all your fucking crisis of oppressed iranian is based on "there is a black woman who died in the hospital "... in the middle of a pandemic ... when there are more people dying than normal and the hospitals are overwhelmed ... at a time when the nurses and doctors are at the end of it ... and you start screaming genocide ... you look crazy and screeching.
yes a black woman is dead ... yes another native woman has come across two madmen and she is also dead ... how many deaths in the past year by the way?
it is not by what they made a video on youtube before dying that the hospitals are the gas chamber of auschwitz sacrament.
the black woman received pencillin and was allergic. a medical error? yes ... but not the kkk ordeal ... if he wanted to kill her they would give him bleach. they tried to fix his problem and it didn't work because of a mistake. according to him it is enough to cry out for white supremacism.
you can't deny the power of social media.
bin, it's just the same as what she's been through. it's just disgusting. it's a false analogy to compare that to covid. yes there is racism and shit (we can debate whether it is systemic or not, i don't mind), but anyway we are the only province to have a minister for that. yes it might not be the right person, but caliss i like actions better than saying it exists and doing nothing. hypocrisy is at its height. the guy says that the pq was born because of a supremacist ethnic exceptionalism ... the pq was born when we got fucked in the ass by anglos in their ivory tower. at some point, historical two-bullet revisionism will have to stop. the guy knows absolutely nothing of our history and even quebecers do not know it ... not long ago i saw the concept of horrible quebecsplainning
> bin it's just the same as what she experienced. it's just disgusting. it's a false analogy to compare that to the covid
i agree, i'm just saying that it happened in full covid, or errors happen with everything that happens ... and there were some before too it's not because of his skin color .. for joyce she came across a couple of crazy people and yes there are some who are racist ... to say that it is genocide and lynching is to be a sick host.
to be * fair * is not * everything * qs is his crazy base
fontecilla denounced the shabby. (anglade also)
can you tell me why we get pissed off by an iranian who treats us like shit and shouts "racism" like a hypocrite? (not racist at all this iranian)
** qs has been attracting extremists for quite a while. **
what is an extremist?
simply a person who:
* refuses or is unable to compromise, inflexible, bossy.
* is so blinded by her own propaganda that she is ready to destroy everything or kill (figuratively or actually) in the name of her ideology.
* refuses or is unable to see the obvious errors, problems and contradictions of his ideology and refuses any evidence that contradicts his ideology.
edit: * "to kill" in the figurative sense is "to destroy a person's reputation, make him lose his job, etc.". *
who is silent consents. qs does not bother with a recalcitrant collective, we must remember how they [erased the one endorsing secularism] ( in the name of islamic fragility.
and yet there is nothing surprising in this development. qs is a far left partitionist party. what were you expecting?
with marissal among the elected officials, i clearly have reservations about qs at the level of separatism.
😞
ha ha ha
link ? source?
because we are not the current anglo-american "woke".
because we refuse to make the incantations of the adeptus ministorum woke by recognizing the systemic racism and the indigenous supremacy on our lands. so we are unrepentant heretics who must be punished by the inquisitor amir attaran.
i would replace your question "by an iranian?" in favor of "for an iranian?".
one guy among others who does not have quebec in his heart, that does not matter.
that sums up the leadership of the party in general.
calisse, marissal. its face is in the dictionary next to the definition of the expression "left caviard".
it's pure and simple hypocrisy, we get called all the names out of our hands for nothing worse for things they don't understand. by him, by the other bearded man in the ndp and by other cellars in ottawa ... but it's not racism ... it's ok, it's just quebec bashing ...
don't know but ... does it make you want to stay in this beautiful country? eh? the beautiful rockies!
>incantations of l'adept ministo woke
luckily they don't have to wonder if montreal is unceded necron territory .... for now!
politicians in general leave me indifferent, but i am unable not to see him as a little puppet to desmarais to ensure that qs never leaves the opposition
the insult of "racist!" is the last "acceptable" insult to a nation according to the left.
is it still possible? everything collapses. poor kenneth clark would eat it out of his tweed jacket [
the west is the greatest adventure ever on earth. and no one knows any more. not a word on the greatness of the middle ages. if the european peoples of the 14th century had had our technical means, their cathedrals would have touched the skies, and really one could have said of their cities what mark twain said of montreal: that one can throw a stone in any direction and touch of stained glass. versailles, chambord, neuschwanstein, but also oxford and the sorbonne, are abominations that remind us of the bygone days of wicked white men who accepted neither diversity nor equality.
it's not that they did all that, the westerners. rather, they thought about it. they had the creative genius to make chartres and albi, siena, florence and venice. they were the only ones to attempt the adventure of written music, based on this gregorian chant which still resonates in certain churches. and u.s? more art, if not a few [installations without design at the mac] ( no more music, if not the hum and indolent rhythm of the rappemusic. a purely technical architecture, without soul: we live in white cubes. nothing.
people don't care about the west at best. at worst, they want to destroy everything, as if the last true romans rejoicing to see their world overthrown by that of the barbarians, had, like them, taken shovels and pickaxes to go and dismantle their own ancient temples and tear up the statues of their ancestors. in the united states, teachers of classical studies want to put an end to classical studies. [too white] (
am i really the only one who is sorry? excuse the rush of milk.
my mq teacher at cegep!
but education about the west can be presented by the generation higher than them. we're living the modern west of technology.
so we're not supposed to teach more about aboriginals? i'm not trying to karen here. but i don't see this as completely a bad thing.
> but education about the west can be presented by the generation higher than them
* may. * boomers have already abandoned the sacred task of transmitting knowledge. they said to their children: manage, we don't owe you anything, we are free from the past. it gives what it gives.
>so we're not supposed to teach more about aboriginals?
i think the amount of material about the first nations is quite sufficient in quebec high school education. i taught briefly in hs and students often complain of the amount of times they went over the same material about the natives. it's quite a niche subject and when you've taught about the wampum, some carefully chosen cultural practices and the differences between tribes, you're really all the way there... unless of course you wander in the actual historical meat of native history: perpetual war between tribes and ethnic groups, enslavement  and genocide of war prisonners, the horrors of paganism (cannibalism, ritual torture, etc.). for obvious ideological reasons, we can't delve too deeply into native history. 
>we're living l'occident moderne de la technology.
the modern west of technology, just the name is not very tempting. what is that thing? everyone alone in front of their computer? in front of netflix? we threw the baby out a bit with the bathwater. the infinite possibilities of technology are relativized by what they also allow to exacerbate our worst inclinations; twitter and social media are a huge trough, which infuriates good people, which politicizes everyone, makes them “militants” in spite of themselves. have you ever watched the comments on facebook or youtube? i have long been addicted to the computer, i spent 16 hours a day in my room to gamer. it really hurt me in every way it could.
we have every right to want to get rid of the past in order to develop an allegedly bright future (with the reservation, however, that it was exactly the project of all totalitarianisms), but i am still waiting for someone to tell me why it is better, this future. why?
i have cowhide in my living room and i reject the concept of systemic racism.
and you, do you eat the skin of your chicken?
i agree with the same thing. we don't need to divide to improve the human condition of pocs.
always
majority block
wonderful, but the plc is still too high for my liking.
lol the npd. that will teach them to abandon the economic left to team up with the identitarians of the left.
the ndp has never been so unpopular .. take power with zero seats in quebec good luck.
majority block
wow quebecois supporting a quebecois party here's tom with the weather
no that here please
i would be curious to see their score among francophones. starting the plc cannot go below 20%. at 32%, that implies that the block risks collecting a lot of counts outside the waste island.
the new left will continue to lose in the next decade by continuing this kind of nonsense. similar situation to other european countries.
it seems to me that their percentage has not changed so much
it's really sad that i fanboy on jagmeet so much. pcq the guy, i find him sick.
the head of the block is really good too but i have trouble with the idea of the block when leaving. or rather, it would be really good for the other provinces to do so at the federal level. but it is not.
the ndp is my hash. wokism is too much, but not a real threat. i would really like to have this more clearly dedicated to their foundation because jagmeet in pm in front of the other world leaders would be nice to see.
even with all the woke, the conservatives who have more intention to vote ... it's hard.
maybe, but they still stay too close to each other, especially considering the uncertainty of the polls. i would like to see the bloc closer to 40% and the plc down to 30%.
your point of view seems strange to me. historically, the ndp is not badly the party of the english canadian unions (a bit of the ftq too i think), except that jagmeet is not at all in this tradition. it replaced the traditional trade union left for neoliberal wokism as tasteless as that of the plc. note, the same change has taken place in the major labor centers, particularly the csn in quebec, so it is perhaps not even that far from the positions of the roc unions.
can you explain to us what you find good about jagmeet? every time i have heard him in an interview, i see that his only political achievement is to have succeeded in being even more empty than trudeau ... must be done. the only business he talked about in his radio interviews is his damn cycle paths (i have nothing against that, but it's bad, we have more urgent than that to settle ...).
and that's not to mention the anti-quebec positions that the party has taken historically.
i can't wait to see the counter-arguments: "it's your white privilege that speaks"
> [hmm...](
[
classic shot of * if it wasn't from the rest of us, it never existed * from the media.
in this case, they are behind on a * non-existent * 3 years. very likely he is not the only one to have denounced this deception while being ignored from a to z. at the time, the aut'journal also had its share of scoops.
at first i thought it was a joke when i saw the meme. well no, not even.
little game, even offer your own cute title. i offer "fredy villanueva and jean-loup lapointe, a thwarted intercultural love story".
that moment when a frustrated anglo killed as many people on his own as the flq
st simeon
nah, but they were precursors, you have to give them that. remember the washington post austere religious scholar!
not sure that "alexandre bissonnette, a lover of secularism with a troubled soul" would have appeared in la presse
> "fredy villanueva and jean-loup lapointe, a thwarted intercultural love story".
it's perfect
carl girard: a deep amateur of sabers who did not know his limits well.
half-life is like the referendum: we risk waiting a long time for the 3rd!
i'm the freeman, he's dr. green.
go get your crowbar asteur !!
requiem for a beautiful heartless 👌
haha sick
more sabrina boudot please.
i don't know what i am seeing.
mr. marcel martel!
yenk once at the chalet ...
i listened to it no later than last night! this movie is epic!
what the fuck is kevin spacey doing there? lol
[this] ( gws-wiz-hp)
it's gildor roy it seems to me
je sais. i troll this sub on the regular :-)
i have the impression that the bloc is more relevant today than the pq. the first has found a new raison d'être at the federal level in the defense of quebec's interests within canadian unity - from nation to nation - while the pq has not managed to get out of it. objective of independence purely at the provincial level.
still, montreal won trudeau ... it is not mcgill university that will defend us from the filth of canadian woke ... it is not outremont that will defend bill 21 or the protection of french ... .
when parizeau spoke of the allophones and the anglos which made us lose the referendum, the world turned upside down ... but the proof is, if they stopped taking themselves for a jew or an arab first and then wanted to become quebecois. the bloc would be much stronger ...
they don't want to know anything about letting us have our country, but they want to move theirs to quebec ... being a muslim arab refugee from syria who lives in canada ... quebec for them does not even figure in the case.
just want to wear their turban and be a teacher, quebec can eat shit.
the jdm remains a large echo chamber disconnected from the field. reading them, the bloc was going to hit 40+ seats, which is totally out of proportion.
in their place, i would begin to question the representativeness of the audience. one could even wonder, in some minds, on the fact that the jdm would be a tool of political propaganda. at this point, the thesis of not knowing its readers well is not defended.
yet euthanasia is permitted in qc….
and let's be honest, the pq has gone very woke. politically he must be quite aligned with the bloc, but it is a question of perception. the bloc looks * tough * and therefore gives the impression of defending national interests. the pq has chosen a leader who doesn't look much more mature than gnd and is making sarcastic little stories about social justice. the only reason the caq won is because it is pseudonationalist. or at least, she pretends to be nationalist in the speech.
the modern pq seems incapable of playing on federalist ground. let go of the economics christ, stop saying that an armed people is a bad thing, and stop trying to apologize for the accusations of racism that come from the durhamists. talk about freedom. talk about independence. talk about republicanism. talk about justice. talk about survival.
it still remains to be seen how legault will try to play his game well in his autonomist policies ... if he continues to lose face, the pq will be able to capitalize on this and possibly take back an important part of the nationalist vote. but it's still too early to tell.
it is also that the interests of the caq have been transferred to the bloc. the pq without independence, it gives something similar to the caq on the purely identity component.
canada is a country whose multiculturalism is a state doctrine, so it is imposed on quebec, whether we like it or not.
all newspapers are like propaganda outlets. i think the jdm was enthusiastic about the idea that it would be a wave of bloc, a sea of bloc. i find that the third most important party is not bad, for a party that is almost just a party protesting against canada.
> in their place, i would begin to question the representativeness of the audience.
representativeness or perhaps even quantity. would we have made a pro-bloc swell based on a single event only to be listened to by only a few people? if so, does that mean that far fewer people listen during quieter times? in short, could it be that the reach of some media is worse than estimated?
convincing no one in a crowd is one thing, but if no one comes to listen ...
the pq is still part of a social democratic tradition, difficult to see wokes under the cover of their formerly progressive clothes. their progressive wing is appreciably exact to the moderate wing of qs that gnd represents well, where their conservative wing represents the nationalist fringe of the caq.
the plq has exactly the same problem, namely to distinguish itself from the separatist joust.
have no multicultural have our culture in quebec, montreal has no culture montreal has no more history, montreal is neutral.
get out of montreal and go to the regions you will see that french dominates and french culture is anchored and other cultures are not imposed on them.
the fact that an "anti-regime" party is the second opposition group says a lot about the state of the regime. however, we like to avoid this question in the mainstream media.
> all newspapers are a bit of propaganda outlets.
no, drop the cynicism. the media that wants to report the information does not do in the ideological propagation compared to certain "media" on youtube whose name i will kill. if you go with absolute relativity, everything is propaganda or nothing is, this is the best way to kill any constructive process.
as for the journal de montréal, in their place i would deepen my market research.
it's quite monolithic
> their progressive wing is appreciably exact to the moderate wing of qs which gnd represents well
is the moderate wing of a party that usually borders on the extreme really moderate? the last time i read their program, they really wanted to create kinds of collective farms in the regions. they also wanted, "by all means", to end any form of discrimination or systemic inequality.
it is hard to see gnd in the role of the moderate. in 2012, the guy was making revolutionary speeches. that he has gone gray prematurely since does not mean that he has matured, or that he got rid of his little leninist tendencies. my roommate often makes me listen to his capsules on fb and it still seems to me to be from the far left (abolition of inheritances, printing money ad infinitum, anticapitalism, etc.).
(anecdote by the way, i have already passed him, gnd, while passing through a demonstration in a park. suddenly, i had something on the level of the chest. i say to myself “what is that?” and i look, and it's gnd. he's tiny in real life. that explains a lot.)
> their conservative wing represents the nationalist fringe of the caq.
eh, precisely. and this “conservative” wing abandoned the party to vote caq overwhelmingly in the last elections, hence the arrival of the pq. the caq has been able to mobilize those that the pq no longer serves since its turn to the left after the monumental failure of pauline marois' “secularism” measures.
you are really obsessed with nomos.
look, i would love to let go of the cynicism and live in the whimsical and somewhat rosy world of those who still believe, in 2021, in journalistic impartiality. “the media that wants to report information” generally wants to report certain information that sticks with an implicit ideological line. sometimes we are surprised, and we say to ourselves "wow, i wasn't expecting the jdm to talk about it". but in general they make more or less ideological choices, which could be called editorial choices, and yes, that's a bit of propaganda.
listen, it is not the death of a man, to have to keep in mind, by reading la presse or listening to radio-can, that these are federalist media in order to be able, by a little intellectual effort , to distinguish between things, to qualify and fill in the gaps with other sources perhaps. vice versa. we have to try to find out why we are being presented with such and such information rather than another, and why we are talking about it one way rather than another. i don't see how that kills the constructive process. there is no question of pure relativism here.
it goes everywhere, especially the more the media is ideologizing. we must also keep in mind that there are some more rigorous than others. horizon québec actuel is not famous famous, vice either. it's called just consuming your information with maturity. it is much smarter than believing that certain media are pure, 100% non-political, detached from the quarrels of this world and good and perfect, and that they can be read with the same confidence as the believer who reads revealed texts.
as for the journal de montréal, in their place i would go into a lot more depth.
sorry but no, i refuse to subscribe to this intellectually dishonest perspective of absolutist cynicism.
we find exactly the same thing, that the world is not black or white. unlike, you chose pessimism, where i am rather optimistic.
absolute impartiality does not exist, you recognize it well. only, your position seems to hide a form of disappointment, as if the initial observation of objectivity was a dimension imposed by default, as going without saying, but that the discovery of inconsistencies in the purity of the perceived process had triggered the denial within you of the original belief, that is, that impartiality should at all times be unconditionally pure.
this is the whole error since objectivity is nothing more than a conscious effort of abstraction, and not a preestablished unconditional consciousness, which at the same time condemns infinite relativism on the question arising from cynicism. . the only thing absolute is that there is nothing absolute.
> we find exactly the same thing, namely that the world is not black or white. unlike, you chose pessimism, where i am rather optimistic.
yes. bah, it's all to your credit, frankly. i try hard, but i am always disappointed. pessimism is a preemptive defense against disappointment: one can only be pleasantly surprised.
> as if the initial observation of objectivity was a dimension that was imposed by default, as it goes without saying
in the discourse on journalistic integrity and journalists' perceptions of themselves, yes. this is the default dimension.
> this is the whole error since objectivity is nothing other than a conscious effort of abstraction
an effort that is rarely well attempted, both easily confusing their opinions, or the shadow of their opinions, with objective truth, or even with their effort of abstraction.
"i agree, so it must be true because i am an intellectual and have very good critical skills" -the average reader of le devoir
> your position seems to hide a form of disappointment
i may be a disappointed idealist. this is what one might call a pessimist, but one can hardly call a cynic, the cynic having no ideal.
> the only absolute thing is that there is nothing absolute
is a proposition against which the most elementary logic rebels. it can only be wrong. again, i am not an absolute relativist. when it comes to texts written by fallible and interested human beings, you have to be very, very careful. this is my position.
the ancestors of quebecers were clearly white supremacists in the pay of the kkk! >! / s! <
the klan is really human waste. they even walk around in their trash bags.
be careful, the bbw will hear us and come and yell at us ...
do we agree to condemn the critics who associate quebecers with suprematites?
not sure for the 2nd "b" but hey ...
i take the opposite view of you in just about everything you post on reddit. on this point, i am your ally until the end. fuck the klan, fuck the supremacists and the idiots who associate quebec and its people with the supremacists.
of which 1 billion comes from quebec. we take our money to sabotage our economy.
we are thick osties to endure crosses of the same. we have to love them our osties from the rockies.
as if it was the first time that ottawa has tried and sank the quebec economy to "help" an english-speaking province.
calice muskrat falls didn't teach them anything?
there's nothing more pathetic than the maritimes, a real gang of losers.
it was written in the sky. federal chaperoning is enshrined in the pact uniting newfoundland with canada. basically, it is only a balm on an abscess that one refuses to burst. newfoundland is still bankrupt, unable to maintain and operate our vast labrador and i guarantee that in our lifetime the islanders will board a similar white elephant again just to spit in our face. unfortunately for them, the submarine line connecting the island to the mainland cannot transmit all of the output from the muskrat falls power station alone. we can already hear them bellow to scandal when they recover the energy from churchill falls, the only outlet for which is logically quebec. but hey, with a little luck for them, the liberals and their checkbook will be there to pay them an unnatural new line.
"to weaken" hydroquebec? what, are they gonna siphon our water? other than that i don't see how it could weaken hydro. the goal of hydro is to provide us with all the electricity we could possibly need for the lowest price in north america.
it is not a source of income for the state, it is an electricity generator. as long as it does that i don't see the problem. so much the better if the atlantic provinces block themselves, it means more capacity for our electricity on our network.
(the real problem is to think that labrador is a province and not just a rebellious rcm of quebec.)
plus 1.2 billion (23% of 5.2 billion). we're going to have to pay 3 billion in all (for now).
it is still muskrat falls that it is.
*churchill falls?
if ottawa helps newfoundland it is who has people in need 🙃
even dominique anglade speaks of unfair competition towards hydro-quebec. she is absolutely right on this point, unlike legault who is too cuckolded to defend us against ottawa.
check out this video, you don't seem to know the story.
well no, hydro-quebec is clearly an income generating asset and at around $ 2b in dividends per year, it is not for nothing that we call it a cash cow! the problem is precisely that the federal government is funding newfoundland in order to bypass our network via the maritime link to nova scotia. because otherwise, if we were to get newfoundland out of the hole and impose a churchill falls-type agreement on them, we would have no complaints.
this bitter failure would normally have decided them not to attempt anything more. but their level of stupidity is excellent.
they built a second muskrat falls dam.
this is what happens when a province with a population the size of quebec city thinks it can build a gigantic dam without the help of hydro-quebec.
it says a lot about canadians that users of / r / canada are having a crisis because people are going to hear quebec music in quebec.
(music ??? whose lyrics are in french ** because frankly there's not just ginette as music produced in quebec), example:
–abort the child– (progressive deathcore) montreal
–about sky and earth– (metalcore) lévis
–above the grey– (metalcore) rimouski
–absence of truth– (metalcore) pintendre
–abyssed– (punk/thrash) montréal
–a cascade dream– (metalcore/thrash) montréal 
–acédia– (black) quebec
–achigan– (punkrock) québec
–act of disorder– (crust/grind) montréal
–action sedition– (punk / oï) montreal
–aenator– (electronic metal) montreal
–aeons of twilight– (melodic black metal) rouyn-noranda
–aesth– sherbrooke rip july 31, 2012
–aenygmist– (melodic black) drummondville     rip 2013
–eternal – (death) québec
–ages– (blackened death metal) montreal
–a gunshot ride– (rock/metalcore) thetford mines
–a hitman’s business– (deathcore) sherbrooke
–akitsa– (black) montréal
–alanrise– (metalcore) laval
–alcoholator– (thrash) montréal
–a life forsaken– (hardcore) granby
–all day– (hardcore) saint-george
–all humans– (hardrock) lanaudière
–all in pain– (metal) shawinigan
–all these days– (metal) pont-rouge
–along the wires– (metalcore) mascouche/montréal/terrebonne rip
–alpthtraum– (symphonic metal) montréal
–althotas– (black/death/thrash) sept-îles
–aly the band– (punk rock hardcore) labaie au saguenay
–amarah– (post-doom / metal) montreal
–amenophis– (black) québec
–blood souls– (black) montreal
–a misleading insight– (post-hardcore/ metalcore) québec
–aeva– (experimental metal) sherbrooke
–amongst heroes– (hardcore/metalcore) montréal
–anal easter– (pornogoregrind) saguenay
–ancestors revenge– (melodic death/black) québec
–ancient niggurath– (post-black) trois-rivières
–angels can kill– (metal) saguenay
–animals– (djentcore) montreal
–animals ethics inc.– (industrial metal) montréal
–anonymus– (thrash) montreal
–apocalyptic fear– (death metal) trois-rivières
–approach kingdom– (metalcore/screamo) granby/montréal
–april deadline– (alternative / punk / metal) repentigny
–apvth– (black metal) montréal
–arapacis– (hard rock / doom / progressive) montreal
–archetype– (thrash/prog) montréal
–archseraph– (christian grindcore) québec
–archons– (melodic death metal) rouyn-noranda rip march 17, 2013
–arimane– (thrash/death metal) montréal 
–arise horror– (death) montréal
–weapon in the hand– (punk / hardcore) beloeil
–arsenal of empties– (thrash/grind/hardcore) montréal/windsor, ontario
–ashtray– (hardrock/metal) montréal
–ashtray heart– (punk & roll) montréal
–as they turn from praise– (hardcore) montréal
–astral suffocation– (neoclassical electrometal) south shore of montreal
–atheretic– (death) montréal
–a thousand years– (metalcore) sherbrooke
–atma sphacelus– (black) quebec
–atomic threat– (alternative) montréal
–atonement– (black/death metal) montréal
–atrocious– (death / thrash) quebec
–attrition– (progressive death) québec
–beyond the ruins– (black metal) quebec
–augury– (progressive death) montréal
–aversion– (black metal) montréal
–awaken all men– (metalcore) québec
–away from fate– (metalcore) sherbrooke rip 2012
–away to die– (deathcore mélodique) vald ‘or
–a world of children– (metal/djent) montréal
–axellion– (symphonic power metal) montréal  rip 2013
–backseat effect– (punkrock/hardcore) montréal
–backstabber– (death) rouyn-noranda
–bamboo diet– (progressive psychedelic punk) montreal
–bane– (black/death) montréal
–banned from heaven– (melodic death) gatineau
–barbaric penetration– (brutal grind) montréal
–barf– (hardcore / thrash) montreal
–barn burner– (stoner) montreal rip april 2013
–basalte– (black metal) montreal
–beast within– (doom) québec
–beautiful sadness– (darkwave/electrometal) montréal rip 2012
–before it’s too late– (punk/oï) trois-rivières
–beheading of a king– (progressive metal) montréal
–behold the nation– (groove metal) québec  rip 2014
–behind the revolver– (metalcore) québec
–beneath a crimson sky– (progressive metalcore) montréal
–beneath the massacre– (death) montréal
–better ways– (hardcore) rimouski
–between 11– (progressive metal) montréal
–between gates of ivory– (deathcore technique) saguenay
–beyond creation– (progressive death) montréal
–beyond deviation– (deathcore) gatineau
–beyond fiction– (melodic death) jonquière
–beyond our faith– (hardcore/metalcore/screamo) québec
–bierzeit– (melodic death) québec
–biological monstrosity– (goregrind) longueuil
–bird problems– (post-hardcore) montréal
–black empire– (black) rouyn-noranda
–blackguard– (epic metal) montréal
–black khox– (southern / stoner) quebec
–black pearl– (melodic hardcore) rimouski rip
–blackscorn– (black) montréal/sherbrooke
–blackwind– (black) québec
–bleeding fury– (groove metal) st-hubert
–blessed by a broken heart– (metal) montréal
–blight– (black) montréal
–blinded by faith– (death) lévis
–blind reflexion– (metalcore/hardcore) québec
–blind suffering– (progressive metal) st-hyacynthe
–blind witness– (metalcore) granby rip august 2012
–bludgeoned– (metal/punk/stoner) montréal
–blue daven's code– (hardrock) quebec
–bombnation– (old school thrash / crossover) quebec rip 2014
–bonded by strength– (thrash metal) gatineau
–bookakee– (progressive gore melodic brutal death metal) montréal
–born as a sinner– (post hardcore) montréal
–bornbroken– (thrashcore) montréal
–boulimik foodfight– (punk / hardcore) beloeil
–braebrook– (metalcore) montreal
–branded by pain– (thrashcore) montréal 
–brazen hell– (hardcore/punk) sherbrooke
–break out– (hardcore) saguenay
–breaking the cycle– (death/thrash mélodique) beloeil
at the beginning, i thought that maybe it was a good idea: we reroute money to purchase the rights to local french-speaking music (a random selection algorithm and file settled). and then bang, the blow of mass:
> an additional sum of 1.115 million, already provided for in an envelope
of 4 million planned for promotional campaigns for the community
culture, will be granted to adisq for this project.
another cash pass for the subsidy trap.
in the end, it's just going to be like marc dupré non-stop ...
tabar @ # $ & !!!!
and after that we say that vegas is another planet
a good musical research will provide excellent results other than these superficial examples often cited by non-connoisseurs.
why do i feel like the rise of totalitarianism is here to stay? our culture has been altered, we no longer conceive of things other than through orders, prohibitions and imposed constraints.
it seems to me that there is a way that the government * asks * its building managers to * favor * quebec music without it being a ** obligation ** or that we ** forbid ** the others
to satisfy them, we should ban music from classrooms.
it depends, we all know that by quebecois music it's going to be ginette, celine and lara and if you're lucky you'll hear 10 seconds of "rue principale" des colocs before someone changes it to the crispest for diane dufresne psq the colocs is too "heavy"
nothing more motivating for a dentist to pull out a wisdom tooth on archetype
it would be fucking based to have this at the saaq!
if 90% of this amount is collected in the hands of quebec artists, well i am 100% for.
adisq, i suspect them in a row, they are better to demonstrate results. i preferred much more to have direct payments to small artistic collective with pinion on the street and respectable portfolio.
well no, it takes safia nolin too.
yeah, there is a lot of quality quebec music. thus, i hope that what will be played in the establishments of the state will not be only the popular successes of the hour.
it wouldn't be something deep or controversial even if it wasn't quebecois. see if the authorities will tolerate anything other than lukewarm and harmless.
is it really worse than celine dion?
usually 90% of the amounts granted to artists are collected in the pockets of the 1% of zartisses already multi-millionaires and over-exposed for the talent they have.
the 99% who would need it share the remaining 10%.
already seen from the administrative gratin of adisq with houses listed in the million dollars or more. personally, i no longer trust these things.
for safia nolin specifically, i am ready to convert to canadian for the cause.
don't know but surely more motivating!
worse for the one who has a tooth pulled out too ...
remove the chalice! yeah! \\ m /
it is a dangerous game that trudeau is playing. if he wants to link london's quadruple murder to bill 21, so be it. but it should come as no surprise if, on the other side, we begin to associate the rampant crime of montreal or toronto with multiculturalism and mass immigration.
an original way of treating him like a fool.
problem of legitimacy. trudeau is believed when he associates quebec laws with hateful acts like this.
whoever associates the rampant (and escalating, since 2014) crime of montreal and toronto with mass immigration will for a long time be seen as a far-right conspirator or an alexandre bissonnette in training. the very term “mass immigration” is contested. the violence of exogenous crime will have to become much more intense before it clicks in most people.
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
post this on r / canada.
i am banned from / r / canada.
as if those who have fun confusing a terrorist attack with bill 21 would be able to read french ...
edit: i did not manage to read the article but from the comments we can imagine what the famous line is ...
[
did you angry the * ~~ fachos ~~ * anglos?
i was accused of being anti-vaccine because i said that the vaccine was developed too quickly for the long-term effects to be known, that several health workers refused it and that some people were discussing forcing people to take it. oh, and for saying the tb vaccine is a good thing. apparently anti-vaxx people believe that vaccines are good.
they also talked about my "history" to justify permaban. ban history on / r / canada:
1. banned for racism for saying that chinese criminals are using our real estate market for money laundering.
2. transphobia for saying "what" (and literally nothing else) about an article that said a woman was assigned a gender "female" at birth (which is a sex, even by the silly definition of those who try to separate the two concepts) while her gender was unambiguous at birth, she was born female and transitioned.
3. to have told users of / r / canada who were downright advocating the genocide of quebecers to eat shit (too rude!).
and so on. when i put their face in their gaslighting, the only answer they gave me was that the government had approved the vaccine. tse, as he had approved of the residential school system, or of war measures in 1970, or of the false banner attacks of the rcmp against the separatists, or of the conspiracies against the public like the snc-lavalin affair, or of arming the saudis so they can kill the yemenis. as if the endorsement of a government was moral proof. the mods of this sub are frankly disturbed.
in the end, it's a very good thing that you were banned.
wrecked
you're late.
your sanity could be preserved!
like the impression that it will be a wet firecracker. legault has a historic window (which will probably close forever) to change the linguistic dynamic in canada.
the only reason that pushes the federal government to act is that legault is in power. if it was the plq, the file would already be put away. suppose we are federalist and nationalist. this implies, it seems to me, at the very least a maintenance or an increase of "québécois power", and more generally of "francophone power" in the country. is the federal system compatible with the demographic growth of francophones in the country? to find out, certain measures must be taken in quebec, the political capital for francophones in america, to ensure that the language is strengthened. for example, forcing anglophones to study a certain percentage in french, regardless of their origin. it also implies that _all_ the descendants of immigrants who were educated in english must henceforth be educated in french, like all other immigrants. this implies funding on a pro rata basis for the anglophone institutional environment or maintaining in exchange for francization of the same institutions. it involves abandoning the myth of the "english-speaking minority". to go beyond linguistic symmetry to establish a real, asymmetrical balance of power, which would make it possible to change from a mentality of defense to a mentality of "conquest" and affirmation, of pride. this implies imposing on all provinces courses given in french at the elementary and secondary levels, or qualifying examinations in french. it means bringing in exclusively french-speaking immigrants for 20 years (at the federal level, not just in quebec).
in short, it takes a major turnaround from the current apathy. we are continually on the defensive, in relative decline for hundreds of years. pet was not completely wrong in saying that this was partly our fault. but the federalists of the past 30 years, at least, have never defended such a claiming conception. why would it be impossible to put our foot on the ground in history, to stop this retreat, this state of constant survival? what do the feds have against french? isn't canada a bilingual country where all citizens take pride in it?
obviously, the measures i am proposing are not all ideal and are given only as an example. i am simply afraid that messrs legault and jolin-barrette are lacking in daring. because it is indeed daring that it takes.
at last! can't wait to see the details. french first!
they have raised expectations so much that it can only disappoint.
"this reform must include the creation of a french language commissioner reporting to the national assembly, new obligations for companies with 25 to 49 employees and a limit on the number of admissions to english-speaking cegeps."
what? that's all?
there are cases in there that don't make sense ... like making english illegal for hiring ... i know it should be done in french, but it's not in all sectors that it is feasible ...
i work in the video games sector, everything is done in english for a good reason ... we work with 5-10-15 studios around the world. you do not speak english? you do not understand anything? bennnnn scuse, but you are not even able to write a bug ... you are not able to answer an email, you are not able to understand what is said in the meetings with the studio and production in burbank ... you're completely useless.
scuse but it's true ... it's fine to work at tim horton or at walmart but there are a lot of jobs that you won't have psq you're not able to speak, write and understand english ... don't want to, it's unrealistic (like qs in general) to think that all jobs can be done in french.
one of their buddies is going to have a job as a commissioner, that's the important thing.
> how to make english illegal for hiring
for places where it is not required. no need to know english to be a laborer in a factory or a cook in a mcbouette.
not sure that they can introduce this measure which seems to me completely useless and even counterproductive.
it's mind-blowing disconnection.
i agree, but i still think that everyone at school in french with english lessons that are not too bad, it might help.
i did my primary and secondary at the english school (i was able to go there psq my sister went there before the law 101) except my secondary 5 ... worse calvary, secondary 5 at the french school, english lessons = 3rd primary in the english school ... and french was also good (french mother tongue in english school these the same thing as in french school)
if we want to do more than give baskets at the entrance to walmart, we should already have better.
it's boring but it's true. the job i do ... the entire industry ... which is quite big in quebec and montreal even more, you don't speak english it's zero and you can't do much ... everything is in english ... and it's not because of what quebec wants to do in french that the studios in the states, in england and the qa in india and in brezil will learn french.
i am in favor that those who work here are obliged to speak french, that they arrive here and that it is obligatory that they can speak french without the screeching of "bonsjaourzzz hi" but there are jobs where you have to know better speaking english ... that's not bad. period.
instead of cutting both legs economically worse looking cave. we could start by giving english lessons at the french school which are more than being able to say "suzy and tim can eat shit" and also have allure. the school in french for all but with english lessons that gives more than being almost able to read your box of frosted fucks in the morning.
> i agree, but i still think that everyone at school in french with english lessons that are not too bad, that could help.
english lessons are crap because the students are crap ie in a class of 30, there are 5 who never learned more than the alphabet and the verbs to have and to be and after each summer they forgot everything and the teacher has to redo everything, so the other 25 students do not learn anything. take the crap out of the classroom and you will see an improvement.
i understand your point but video games made at mtl are big commercial shit, certainly not a prestigious element of the local culture.
shadow of the tomb raider, it's been a long time since i saw such a crappy game. it's not talking to each other in frenglish and putting sjw messages in the beginning that helped them, anyway.
crise you leave 🤣🤣🤣 y en a dez lank madernelle git
i never understand it. we live in a bastion of mixed cultures where we have the opportunity to learn two languages. in europe they speak 3 or 4 tbnk.
yes, we must demand the protection of the french language. because if we don't we lose like literally a significant language skill. see history: spartans.
in addition it is bizarro land for franco-ontarians. listen i can't stand journal du québec. but she is so right. you're not bilingual if you don't understand anything. an accent? ok. fine. but like are you practicing? cool. communities that want to maintain their bilingual status, stop being lazy crisse.
literally i think i'd be too much of a fascist if i ran the province. stick the english kids in the french school and vice versa. i know it's more complicated but i get my hair out when someone refuses to speak a second language (i. literally. don't. care. what. second. language). 2021.
don't even get me started on people in moosejack, sask or whatever... i just. omg. fml.
k. i know i have written in both languages. my way of gang rebellion.
it has nothing to do with individual bilingualism. your argument is the typical argument of the good liberal (in the sense of a party member). this country has been structured politically in such a way as to make the french-canadian nation a minority on all points. it's not very hard to understand. and it continues to this day. it is as much factual as saying that the earth is round.
the problem is political (yes, ethnolinguistic), if you think it is a sling against individual bilingualism, or you are being manipulated, or you have not really understood what it is (maybe the fault of the author).
sorry.
to be honest, i didn't understand much.
justin, get out of this body! vade retro trudo!
ciborium, cabochons like you kill quebec a little more each day, crisp of white neg at 80 qi.
not serious. but i'm not a liberal. dsl.
i actually just ranted. i read the article.
a nation based on language sees other languages as an enemy and bilingualism as a dilution of its authority.
those unilingual who believe in this state will feel threatened by the bilinguals and unilinguals of other languages.
i admit that he does not present a very good cause in favor of bilingualism if we cannot understand him. in my opinion, it is better to speak your language well than to try to gibber two as if it were some kind of teenage rebellion against pq parents.
no stress
the power of christ compels you! lol
ouch. my poor snowflake heart.
i am not saying that you are a liberal, but that the argument is the one presented by the liberals. it is their catch-all argument to mix the population well. he's a scarecrow. it is completely auxiliary to the debate.
rubbish. i speak several languages like millions of quebecers.
there is a fundamental difference between individual and institutional bilingualism. if french is not the common language, then it will be english. and the political structures that you take for granted were designed in such a way as to minority french canadians. of course there were accommodations and all is not dark. the fact remains that we are indeed in a dynamic of opposition and it makes me laugh when we tax french canadians for being against bilingualism, when in the roc less than 1/10 of the population speaks french.
yes. i understand.
for the unilingual, the quebec state is its bastion outside is incomprehensible.
for the bilingual, the borders of the quebec state are only lines in the sand.
bilingualism in quebec was [25.5% in 1961 and 44.5% in 2016] (
this is not to be "against" bilingualism, but we must recognize that if you are bilingual, the quebec state is more a "nice to have" than an essential.
the power of the quebec state is evaporating as its citizens become able to live in another language.
i have been bilingual since i was 12 years old. i never broach the subject of language with family / friends / colleagues. it's just not a hot topic for me.
for a very long time i thought that pretty much everyone else didn't care.
but in the last decade, i have met some really unilingual people. it was a shock for me to put myself in the shoes of someone who does not understand english.
i mean he just does not understand english at all, cannot read or listen in that language at all. for them, the english spaces are simply inaccessible.
at work, all of our documents are in english and the good 1/3 of my colleges cannot read it. it's not just a little harder, it's not possible at all.
and these people, for the most part, are never going to learn another language. this is the power of the quebec state. it is they for whom keeping the spaces of quebec accessible in french is not just a luxury, it is a necessity.
if the power of the quebec state depends on the unilingualism of french canadians, then how is it that the promotion of bilingualism is an integral part of its policy regardless of the party in power?
i don't understand what you are trying to say ...
pressure from its english-speaking population and the rest of the north american anglosphere.
it's a concession, not a goal. quebec is negotiating in a cultural position of perpetual weakness with the rest of the continent.
this is why in 2020 when all the pq candidates answer the question of an english-speaking reporter in english, [that's an article] ( -pq-des-candidates-pour-un-quebec-bilingual)
they correctly calculated that projected an image of exclusion of languages other than french immediately harmed their political ambitions.
the political system "first past the post" the loss of a few% can easily change the balance of power. so courting the english-speaking vote is a necessity.
the reduced number of unilingual french people reduces their political power because they can no longer decide the election on their own.
as the unilingual french disappears, the linguistic state of quebec will disappear to become just another administrative level in the canadian organization. like a large-scale municipal council with little power to challenge decisions at the federal level.
and yet, is it not systematically francophones, whether students or parents, who call for greater importance to bilingualism in the school curriculum? because basically we agree that bilingualism is a comparative advantage for the population who master it, so why would anglophones want to extend it to french canadians? it is simply illogical.
i think you confuse personal bilingualism with assimilation and migratory flood. that 100% of the population of quebec be bilingual in no way harms the national aspirations of french canadians. on the contrary, it would only imply a more educated and more versatile population. however, if the population adopts english as the language of use to the obvious detriment of french, if it assimilates to english, quebec would be effectively distorted and its national aspirations rendered obsolete. this phenomenon can only be accelerated if the masses of immigrants who are imported to make up for the demographic deficit also adopt english, but it is far from being compulsory. just take the baltic republics, [the vast majority of the population speak russian] ( and yet they are anything but moscow puppets.
are you english speaking i think i understand your point, but i had a little trouble deciphering. i think you are not totally wrong about the "first past the post", there can be a rapid and drastic transition indeed ...
it is sure that parents and students want to know english, it is a small french-speaking island in an english-speaking continent.
it's not for nothing that in the 1960s everything was in english. without the backlash that there was in the 70s and the period of unrest the french here it would look like the irish in ireland. just scattered leftovers, a minority in their country.
the baltics will disappear under russia as nato withdraws from eastern europe.
look in ukraine, it's the same process, the country is literally being eaten by the east or it speaks more russian than ukrainian.
english has become a global language, french is our local language.
so if we summarize, the population wants bilingualism then the state promotes it under the impetus of the anglophones of the continent, but in doing so it erodes its power which rests on unilinguals? it remains rather counterintuitive for a state to voluntarily dynamite its stronghold. it also does not help the cause of a conspiracy against bilingualism for the benefit of quebec isolationism. moreover, we should avoid sinking into ethno masochist. unilingualism is relatively impractical, yes, but is it really shocking? because if so, you would be extremely shocked beyond our lines in the sand!
ironically, french is a global language just as english can be. it is even quite simplistic, to see contemptuous as an affirmation.
i would like to recall my text on durhamism, this toxic ideology dominating english canada:
wow, great text, it really puts things in perspective, especially since that thought is still present today.
completely agree: quebec is legally a province but also a state, and it is a tendentious choice to choose to remind ourselves of our domination by choosing to speak of "the province of quebec" rather than "the state of quebec. ". the colony of quebec while being there ??
it's like journalists who use the word “national” for pan-canadian, or federal. the canadian nation exists, but it has an anglo-saxon language and culture, and quebecers are not part of it.
that's really not very nice, that.
as much as i want to get rid of the monarchy, we must be aware that it is part of the constitution and that it is an aspect that would require the support of all the provinces. and if it's presented as a step towards independence for quebec, you can guess how it will be received.
in fact i think about it and there would be a way to get rid of the monarchy piece by piece in quebec (with a lot of will of our elected officials .. which is not the case ..).
reform the provincial political system and replace lieutenant gov. by a president.
we could also do as in europe and mint quebec currency in canadian dollars (in europe each country has its own currency in euros but with different designs.)
we're asking the royal mint to strike 23% of the money with our stuff on it and not the queen. like it's the same money but a little different (like in europe).
well, i know that ottawa, the other provinces or even our elected officials in quebec will never move on, but it's not that crazy.
piece by piece one could advance the file and make the queen disappear.
in any case, when the queen is going to die, i think the debate will be more active.
charles or william on our $ 20 .. really ????
from the start i find that pspp has an image problem, he looks a bit like a rich kid who knows better than everyone else. i find it very difficult to identify for the average quebecer.
in this sketch he pushes the sarcasm to the max, which makes it hard to watch i find. he should really avoid this kind of staging that reinforces his pretentious first-class image.
i don't think pspp is salvageable, it's gone around so much and had all the opinions that the left says it's on the right and the right finds it too far to the left.
even in the best scenario he will not be able to stop the pq from almost disappearing in 2022. it would have taken a major shock for the pq to have a chance, the members and the party chose pspp .. too bad.
we still have a year and a half to see pspp clown before the inevitable. afterwards we will come together with no truly sovereignist party .. the end of an era .. but at least maybe the death of the pq will herald the birth of something better?
we'll see.
we miss frédéric bastien a bit ...
the government of quebec has full power to force a constitutional negotiation. but the caq preferred to abdicate and betray its electoral commitments to abolish the monarchy. its so-called "nationalism" is just a scam.
it's much more complicated than that in reality. getting rid of the monarchy would require an almost complete rewrite of the canadian constitution. there might be ways to try to get around some aspects, but the attempts could easily be deemed unconstitutional.
i do not agree with you.
> who knows better than everyone else. i find it very difficult to identify for the average quebecer.
>  
> its pretentious first-class image
** do you imagine that rené levesque was not a first of the class? ** that he did not know better than everyone else?
levesque hosted the show "point de mire" where he explained, like a first class, the things he knew better than everyone else. and people adored him.
* he explained [wwii] (
* he explained the [racial discrimination in the united states] (
* he explained the [war in algeria] (
he also explained why ["real unionism" was good] ( in front of a blackboard, like a class leader.
then he appeared on tv in front of a blackboard, like a first class, the reasons for the [nationalization of electricity] ( because he knew better than everyone.
even jacques parizeau [explained the budget to people] ( like a top of the class.
** there were 17 leaders of the parti québécois but just 2 referendums. **
and, magically, it is the 2 "first class" who "knew better than the others" who succeeded in leading a referendum. well, we did not win them, except that rené increased the idea of independence from 0% to 40% and parizeau from 40% to almost 50%. this is more than what other chefs have managed to do.
i don't worry too much about the pq anymore. what will happen with this party will happen. if it were to sink, well i'm sure something better would emerge and replace it.
i don't see the pq doing better in the next election than their last score.
he is still there. but let's be honest bastien is not a very good salesperson. he's a stéphane dion, a brilliant man but not a front man.
he seems to want to participate in the cause, we'll see where it takes him but i think he has good intentions.
bastien unfortunately had the charisma of a chair leg and was not really at ease when it came to talking to activists on an individual basis ...
it is indeed quite light like all the debate surrounding the monarchy. not that i would shed a tear to stop being a subject of her majesty, but that sucks as an argument. the monarchy is purely symbolic, queen elizabeth ii does absolutely nothing against quebec, even she is very sympathetic. we are far from the in-depth work of bastien who reveals the enormities of the camps opposite.
did you watch the video?
levesque had incredible charisma and parizeau had an aura of royalty that allowed them to connect with voters.
pspp does not have these qualities in my opinion.
we will see i may be wrong ..
rené levesque said that in his opinion, a political party should last only one generation.
> "for me, any political party is basically only a necessary evil, one of those instruments that a democratic society needs when the moment comes to delegate responsibility for its collective interests to elected representatives. but the parties called upon to they tend to turn into secular churches, out of which there is no salvation, and can be downright insupportable. any emerging party should, in my opinion, include in its statutes a clause stating that it will disappear after a certain time. more one day than an old age cluttering up the political landscape and preventing the future from breaking through. "
–rené lévesque
as it is there, i believe that hivon, gaudreault, lebel and bérubé will not represent themselves. i wouldn't even be surprised that the members of the gaspé peninsula switch to the caq. they are actively courted.
the pq is going to be lucky to keep 1 or 2 counties and even that's in an ideal world.
it's finito. qs broke the wall and the caq looted the city. there is nothing left.
but still, i think it's just a matter of habit. bastien was constantly improving with every debate.
sorry, but when you vote according to criteria like charisma or physical appearance, you end up with justin trudeaus. justin trudeau is pretty, and he's ultra charismatic, but he's a deep stalker.
when i look at photos of prime ministers from another era, i often find them quite ugly. they were intellectuals. they would never get elected today, in the spectacle state.
[deleted]
robert bourassa also had an image of intellectual he had several mandates.
the only one who could have led the project was pkp
i was not speaking of ugliness, but of social and oratory skills. prime ministers of other eras do not impress with their aesthetic profile, but they knew how to convincingly deliver a speech, convey a message. unfortunately, this was not the case with mr. bastien for having attended candidate meetings on two occasions. he was the least solid of the 4 in this regard.
> sorry, but when you vote according to criteria like charisma or physical appearance, you end up with justin trudeaus
or boisclair and maxime bernier with us. but on the other hand: stéphane dion and his disastrous performance as an example of what happens without charisma.
the problem begins with winning. and unfortunately we win mainly with a candidate who "goes well".
so it's more a question of entourage, team. it doesn't matter that a candidate isn't brilliant if his team is good and he listens.
seems to me that gnd is not very humorous. but maybe i'm wrong.
it's the arrogant tone and sarcasm. it is a tool that qs really likes. i see link too.
i'm not saying that intellectual = nono, i'm just saying that you have to dose. a square is a rectangle, etc.
bastien is never going to be a darling of the public not because he is intellectual but that is part of the reasons in my opinion.
there are also nerds who are very good at connecting with the "real world".
at the same time, bourassa was never a crowd favorite, i think at the time the standards were different. it was expected at a certain level and many politicians today would simply never have been possible in 1970.
not convinced at all. for me, pkp was the beginning of the end for the pq.
it reminds me of the tone of admonition of the very popular video clips that gnd puts on facebook. in addition to humorous, of course, because gnd is as sinister as an undertaker, but hey ... do we really want to vote for comedians?
he is the only one who could have really saved the face of the pq.
what? does a politician convey an important point through humor, something which is very effective in quebec, and he becomes a "humorist"? so let's see 🤦🏻
i do not believe in the myth of the savior at all.
same. stacy abrams is the role model for activists. a movement is built one person at a time who speaks respectfully with his neighbors. by presenting sovereignty as a non-ideological project (in right / left or inclusive / exclusive terms) it seems so obvious to me in the context of distinct people. but if we wait for the providential man, we risk speaking mandarin beforehand, as réjean tremblay might say.
it is not a question of finding the messiah. there are simply men who can fight battles that others cannot. i hope not to teach anyone anything.
what do you expect from the province that believes denouncing daesh is islamophobic?
on the same subject, at the bottom of the article:
let's laugh.
hilarious considering that it comes from the province which still has orange order parades.
it's not the same province that lets sikhs drive motorcycles without helmets because "muh religion, my turban is more important than your road safety code"?
yeah, i'm not surprised.
must not forget, and this all our federalist experts explain it clearly to the unison, that 1- the orange order does not exist, that 2- even if it did exist, it is without any relation or interest towards anything is relevant, and that in addition, you will know that it does not even exist any more, and that 3- we are in the current year so no time for species of old baffles of little white people.
the goal of canadian-style multiculturalism is to reduce quebec culture to "one culture among many." trudeau sabotaged canada in the name of the fight against quebec nationalism.
there are some truths that we cannot hide ...
it's all well and good to say that multiculturalism is wrong because many ethnic groups and cultures hate each other to the point of going into civil war, only prevents the closure of borders and rigid laws such as dismissing women. veiled who refuses to remove the veil, that will push quebecers to become really racist like the nazis and he risks having deaths among the minority because of extremist group. the human race is too stupid to use true authoritarian power without succumbing to corruption even though that would be said to be the only way to protect the country. frankly, it's been a while since for me countries and borders have no longer any value. it's just a geographical delimitation to better find your way around the world. digital air has literally broken borders.
i would say that trudeau sabotaged "the canadas" in the name of "canada" he wanted to create. both nationalisms suffered, french canadian and english.
so would you be okay with us joining the united states as an american state? borders are useless after all.
multiculturalism is the extremist.
france speaks more * frenglish * than quebec
the difference is that france is a colonizing people, not a colonized people. they don't have to fear their own demise.
france has linguistic comfort.
also with a mastery of french which supplants the average of quebecers
lol
are we surprised? what a shitty university ...
systemic racism does exist against french canadians
what's new??!!!
what did you expect ?? !!! are you tired of getting pissed off on your nose ?? !!!
you never had a place in this country. transfer your studies to quebec. it's not complicated. at some point you have to wake up. french canada is dead. only quebec can guarantee development in french. new brunswick is the same thing. the level of assimilation is incredible there.
english canadians know one thing that many quebecers refuse to admit: canada is not our country, and they are no longer shy about making us feel it.
for these pseudo-intellectual bastards, bilingualism means speaking english - or - french (sigh ...) like, for those who are not intelligent enough to learn any other second language. because everything is better than french and nothing is equal to english. let them go to hell.
thanks for the post, but you really have to stop all caps titles. it reduces the credibility of a post all of a sudden.
edit: i'm stupid. the original title was capitalized. it is therefore legitimate. long live the free quebec.
hey, eh? it's almost as if the canajun federation was founded by the nazis ostis of the orange order to wipe us off the map.
almost! but almost! we are lucky that we have the licheux of square heads to explain to us that this is only a myth.
he copied the title as it is written in the article
i copied the title as is.
my post does not need credibility since it is only a link.
ah! so my apologies
the first time i saw the "video games and violence" link was around the columbine days when jack thompson and tipper gore blamed the massacre on games like mortal kombat and doom. it lasted for a while until september 11, 2001.
then, it was difficult to find violence in microsoft flight simulator (and even to know if terrorists had access to it) and we decided to talk instead about * mental health * and * imbalance * to avoid talking about other subjects. .
even during the days of daesh: mental health, lack of medication and radicalization online? yes. video games? never saw anyone blame gta when someone ran over pedestrians in nice or postal for what was being done in raqqa.
but with the end of daesh and the return of the angry white man, we can go back to our good old politically correct habits: blaming video games and the rest of the culture around the angry white man (including him), something no one wanted. approach when it was the other boogeyman.
what i find funny is that when it comes to video games, the wokes and the right join in their bullshit ...
they have the same arguments whether it is normand lester, jack thompson or anita sarkeesian ... whether it is that "the goal of gta is to kill for points" or the goal of hitman is to "kill protitutes for to score points "it is the same chalice of connierie which comes from cellars which do not have any idea ...
there is a video on youtube which explains it anyway not worse: [ danemark( this the most pissing off is those who defended the games against jack thompson who wanted to ban gta and bully [(adam sessler] ( and fox news when the another crazy woman started to whine when mass effect had a sex scene with a blue jerk ([geoff keighley] ( it's made super woke and worse it has changed sides ...
it's always easier to find something to blame than a problem to solve ...
so does he ever blame mental health disorders or social media room echoes?
i always avoid his personal opinions.
good, and he adds more almost immediately in the next chapter. he says that in the first two months of 2020 there were 55 mass killings in the united states, which he defines as killing 4 or more people. in the next sentence he says they killed 74 people in total. doesn't lester know how to count? 55 times 4, that's a minimum of 220 deaths. not surprisingly coming from someone who seems mortified by the idea that people can own guns, come to think of it.
in addition, the phenomenon of serial killers is to be called into question after reading the book "programmed to kill" by david mcgowan.
all serial killers have a very specific recurring pattern - sexual and physical abuse in infancy, senior parents in the elite / cia / us army, sent to mental institutions at infancy for long periods without specific need, very close to top drug cartel leaders, very close to police chiefs and high ranking in the justice system, killings and accusations known and not taken into account by the police for long periods, killings with major evidence demonstrating the implication of several other actors during the murders and rapes, trial clearly biased to put the most murders on the back of a person, continuation of disappearances and murders following the arrest of the individual.
thirty years ago when he was on tv i thought he was a scary old man. it hasn't improved.
normand lester, jack thompson, same fight!
the last person i would trust to form an opinion on the united states is normand lester.
1 year after trump's defeat in the election, the big bad orange man occupies an ever-growing part of his sick and paranoid mind. just go read his texts in the jdm to see it.
he's just an overwhelmed old man who doesn't know how to find reliable information on what's going on south of the border.
i can't blame him, it's complicated. the world is changing and the traditional media (which i prefer to call "depraved media") such as the nyt, cnn and other major american channels are hate factories and delusional propaganda that have far surpassed the fox news of bush's time in this matter. .
normand lester should retire and be content to do his crossword. his blood pressure would benefit.
maybe later in the book, but certainly not in this chapter.
you would probably need to read it all to cement your opinion.
precisely, i tell myself that if he tells nonsense from the start, how can i trust him for the rest?
i refuted the theory of systemic racism until it was time to watch the debate in english.
well, it does exist, but not in quebec.
i don't quite understand what you're trying to explain. i just point out the fact that french canadians are mainly from continental europeans, which are germanic peoples mixed with latins. the majority of english canadians come from the british isles, which are genetically predominantly celts, sometimes mixed with germanics. in alberta the first settlers were mostly slavic immigrants.
i'm not even telling you about the religious cultural heritage (catholics vs protestants)
our cultural heritage is very different. our roots do not grow in the same soil. it doesn't mean that one is better than the other. it's just the reality of it: we are different. and there is no harm in that the difference.
this is one of the reasons why i refuse to recognize systemic racism in quebec. do you mean systemic racism? start by talking about the one maintained towards quebec.
i have already described systemic racism as being the set of social phenomena which result in placing one or more races in a position of inferiority, which includes institutional racism, but also the supremacist national myth, widespread prejudices, economic conditions, etc. let me tell you, the national supremacist myth? it is extremely widespread among the english, to the detriment of quebecers. full of prejudices about us. and yes, institutional racism exists towards us. why do you think it was necessary to specifically state in law that it is prohibited to do so? because the english are constantly trying to do it to us. and all these things are by far much more present among the english towards quebeckers than among quebecers towards any other group except perhaps the natives.
so, recognize the systemic racism against quebecers and we will talk about it again. until then, keep your hypocritical accusations to yourself.
so, instead of collaborating with other minorities who are victims of "systemic racism", we prefer to play "kissé who causes the most pity". it is not because some do not recognize the discrimination against francophones that we must necessarily inflict the same fate on others.
french is not a race
our minorities are better treated here than elsewhere in canada, in the usa and quite a bit everywhere. it's as if the americans started teaching us anti-racism lessons (oops, they already do) even though they were the land of slavery, segregation and ku klux klan.
it was a breed when it was popular to say that the anglo-saxon breed was superior. it was no longer a breed when it became a drawback. the result is the same.
french canadians are genetically and culturally different from english canadians.
are our minorities really better treated in quebec than elsewhere in the rest of canada? i would be very curious to know where this flattering information comes from.
the human is not really a race, we can speak of human plurality but at the cultural and morphological level the concept of race does not apply and is non-existent, it is human pluralities without linked hierarchy. a whole, although the word race is still used in 2021, it is aberrant.
well, fight against racism my little racists.
genetic purity is a myth
it is well demonstrated, particularly among the first nations. for example, the lowest hate crime rate.
yeah, that's why two white people can conceive a black baby. because races are in our imagination.
the word will have to be spread to [héma-québec] (
who is talking about genetic purity?
if you do not understand the cultural dofference between a people resulting from the cultural traditions of the roman empire, from the continental colonization of the germanics and from the catholic cultural tradition vs descendants of the celts, with a danish proto-germanic heritage and a protestant religious tradition , it's not my fault. i'm not really talking about "race", but it is clear that the descendants and heirs of the traditions of continental europeans do not share the same history as those who inherit the traditions of the british isles.
i never said one is better than the other. i like the british civil code better. but in quebec, we inherited the continental civil code because we share our roots with them. 2500 years of history, it weighs on a society and its collective unconscious, whether you are aware of it or not. and that has nothing to do with racism.
it's good to be different. that doesn't mean we can't be friends.
[deleted]
two people of nigerian origin have already given birth to a white baby. 😉
according to biological terminology, to find another real human race, we have to go back to the prehistoric age: men of cromagnon, homo sapiens, where these two cohabited at the same time. example: a labrador and a pitbull
today, there are no longer sufficient differences between groups of our species to speak of human races. the proper comparison would be different groups of labradors, black, brown and white. these differences are known in humans as the "phenotype".
you fix a genetic reference of the french-canadians. genetically, they (us) are very heterogeneous, mixed on several levels.
if you imply that all peoples have a different genetic signature, then yes it's obvious, but given that (antiquity), why not put it into perspective until pre-history? except that here the comparison goes back to more or less 400 years, not 2000 years. the french-canadian strain comes from france, which today has largely mixed with so many different ethnicities that one could not recognize a quebecois dna from that of a european, or even an american.
dress code
it's going really badly for you, isn't it? i imagine that you were refused a position of judge in quebec to continually bring her back to bill 21.
albino?
"race" and "subspecies" are not synonymous.
in fact, no, even that it is extremely well documented. [90% of the genetic heritage] ( of french canadians comes from the few thousand french settlers who settled in new france.
yes, you can relativize until prehistoric times. ie one descends from the indo-european peoples, the indo-germanic peoples have also probably interbreeded with the neanderthals.
it's not just a question of genetics. it is a question of traditions, of social attitudes, of what jung calls "the collective unconscious".
the history of quebec goes back 400 years. but our ancestors did not appear from the neve 400 years ago. our civilization began during the renaissance, and inherited the cultural baggage of france. for example, you probably can't necessarily understand why church arches are sometimes pointed, or have ribbed arches. this is because we inherited the visual language from our medieval ancestors. it is probably a detail, but the sum of all these details makes each of the peoples a unique people with a very rich history.
to be the heirs of french lower canada, new france, the french empire, the kingdom of france in the middle ages, the holy roman empire of charlemagne, the roman empire and the germanic peoples and hellenistic, that makes us a unique people, different from those who do not share our culture, our heritage, or even our civil law laws.
nor does a country with catholic ancestors share the same point of reference as a country founded on protestant values.
so if you think that you are like the americans, or like the tunisians, or like the belgians, or like the chinese, it is because you simply lack perspective and that you do not know your roots and do not pay homage to your heritage.
i don't blame you, it is a fairly common and all too common ailment these days. i invite you to discover your story and its heroes. the story of the others and their heroes. you will undoubtedly find a lot to celebrate, from your history and that of others, and you will understand what makes many cultures unique and interesting to discover.
it is not a question of "race" or of superiority. it is simply a matter of differences. and i'm tired of hearing ignorant people profess that we "are the same as everyone else" and "that we have just 400 years of history" and "that we have no real roots because we are mixed up".
quebec is the land of quebecers. there are not two. we did not choose to stay there but we have the right to be proud of it and to want to see it prosper. and we don't have to agree to diminish the importance of his story.
with that, i will probably not answer. i could write 50 page history essays, but i have very little time. i just hope someone will read my words and understand the importance of knowing our past and who will be passionate about going to learn more instead of relying on such nonsense, because i'm pretty sure that i will never be able to convince you if i haven't already anyways.
the dna of a quebecer from montreal for the past 150 years yes your definition is correct. but tell you that there is not just montreal which populated quebec the true french stock is the acadian which was the first to settle in the south-west of nova scotia and deported as far as louisiana.
[deleted]
there have been caucasians who have already had black babies too, no he was not albino, it is less and less rare, it makes a lot of talk more and more.
in a comparison for men, i couldn't find a better example.
yes, widely mixed, as well as hundreds of thousands (millions?) of americans or canadians of the same lineage.
saint - sacrament my old man say to me as we said by che "mi sa in your pipe pi fume lé"
your explanation is what i try to explain but when i have the rage to try to explain it no it doesn't want in my head.
thank you very much for your explanation i keep it in mind and continue to have the b ....... r.
obviously, you lend me intentions, or you misread me. this is absurd since i have never questioned the social and cultural foundations, but only and only the fallacious argument of so-called "pure" genetics at 90%.
that's why i say that it merges with the dna of an american and a french.
and yet you don't live there, neither in turkey, nor in france, nor in syria.
do you have a document that would explain it? i studied biology, never heard of it.
if 90% of the genetic heritage of a people comes from a single strain, can we really say that it is largely mixed?
what i am saying has nothing to do with genetics and genetic "purity".
you have to be really naive to believe that singh wouldn't attack him. he wouldn't even shy away from using disavowal and when that rekindled the separatist flame in quebec, he would just start screaming even louder at racism.
quebec will respond in block.
nobody sees the answer to the betrayal of françois legault, who qualified the plc as * dangerous *?
he is responding to hostilities. it's communication.
let's hope for a majority liberal government!
it is to your honor to familiarize yourself with a culture which, for many, is richer than canadian culture (which is american, let's face it).
your feeling is not strange since, against all odds, more and more young anglophones are interested in the quebec sovereignist movement, while young francophones have never been so disinterested ... not? the world upside down.
and you're right, yves-françois blanchet is extraordinary, to the point where canadian subs-reddit claim him to govern all of canada.
i always have to say that quebec remains a better land of welcome for any linguistic or ethnic minority, because it imposes a better framework allowing the emancipation of each and every one.
what better way to familiarize yourself with quebec than its television landscape? what i like about television is that it is not subject to the globalization of communications imposed by the internet. television depends on the locale, so watching french-speaking television channels, both current affairs and talk shows, allows you to immerse yourself in its culture.
finally: television.
“the black book of english canada”
hi, i don't know a lot of books, but here are some suggestions:
the quebec code - jean marc léger - not a political book but rather a study which aimed to identify personality traits specific to quebecers. they present 7 if i remember correctly. the process is rigorous. they also present the origins / historical context of these shared traits.
the conclusion being that we are a mixture of french, amerindian (from the northeast) and english traits
the black book of english canada - normand lester - i've never read it pcq i'm a little lazy, but i've only heard good things about it all my life. apartment an ultra well researched book, everything that is presented there is founded. here is the description of the book: overview of canadian history identifies injustices, discriminatory practices, racist and hate speech, encouragement of violence and infamous actions by politicians, journalists and anglo-canadian intellectuals against french canadians, amerindians, japanese and jews.
finally, i really liked the historical series which presents the history of quebec, from the very beginnings until today. it is a bit dated but the quality is excellent. it is: epic in america
the presenter, jacques lacoursière, is a renowned historian
first of all, thank you. you may not know how encouraging it is to see someone come out of the mold and leave this bubble, and that a good politician like blanchet has the power to do that.
i really recommend the youtube channel ["chaîne du québec"] ( for lots of great documentaries on the history of quebec! i particularly recommend "quiet revolution in quebec" to better understand where today's quebec comes from and its challenges.
otherwise, for history books, jacques lacoursière is certainly one of the best historians we have had and his books are of excellent quality. i also recommend "the history of quebec in 30 seconds" by jean-pierre charland. super concise and it taught me a lot of things even to me who is a history enthusiast.
there are also a lot of super good essays that are constantly being written on quebec issues if you want to understand them better. it's more my kind of reading so i know better. here are a few, older and more recent:
- option quebec - rené lévesque
- why i am a separatist - marcel chaput
- govern or disappear - pierre vadeboncoeur
- rhapsodie québécoise - akos verboczy
- multiculturalism as a political religion - mathieu bock-côté
if you have to read just one book on this list, i absolutely recommend rhapsodie québécoise, because it tells a story quite similar to yours. i really believe that you will find your way there and that it can be your gateway to french-speaking quebec.
good luck and don't hesitate to send me a message if you want to talk about quebec!
* the history of quebec for dummies * by éric bédard is a good starting point. then, you could deepen with other books on more specific periods.
full of love. it feels good to read that.
to understand how canada was born i recommend an excerpt from [to the voters of champlain county] ( by jean-baptiste-éric dorion years l 'avenir, november 28, 1851.
"the english government was not animated by more human feelings towards the canadians during the polling of canada than it was towards the acadians during the capture of acadia. if the thing had been possible, nothing proves to us that one would not have acted with the same barbarity towards our fathers and that one would not have adopted the means of export on a more large scale, to get rid of them and their posterity. but there was a great difficulty: the canadians numbered 60,000 and occupied a vast territory. the transport of all these people would not have been easy. however, we would have liked to get rid of this french population which was "an obstacle to the prosperity of the english colonies" in the english style of the day.
english gold, power and patronage backed by force rotted irish political society. the gangrene of political corruption has infiltrated all ranks of its population, to the great detriment of its national and political interests. ireland sold and delivered to england by its own representation; ireland united with england and subject to foreign legislation; ireland without representation, so to speak, in the english parliament; ireland tyrannized by unjust and arbitrary laws has struggled in the anguish of death for more than half a century. ireland becoming angular by the effect of its unnatural institutions, impoverishing itself day by day by the enormous taxes with which it is overloaded, withers, and depopulates in an extraordinary way; one would say she was dead or dying under the blows of her political assassins.
however, there are still large tracts of uncultivated land, but there is no more space; there is still air but there is no freedom; there is still work, but the burden is heavy and its people cross the seas to breathe, - go to the united states, to gain prosperity and enjoy the blessed american freedom.
we wanted to destroy the acadians, we drove them out, transported them, dispersed them among a foreign population, far from their native soil, in a single day, after having confiscated their herds and their properties. acadia no longer exists ...
they wanted to assassinate political ireland; the blow was fatal, she weakened, she got angry, she destroyed herself. ireland is degenerated, it only presents the aspect of a political corpse.
we wanted to lose the canadians; the work has begun, it is continuing, but will it be accomplished? english gold, power, patronage and corruption play a big part. let us be careful not to be england's instruments in the work of our own destruction, as has unfortunately happened too often.
i will not undertake to recapitulate all the facts of our political history since 1760 to 1837 to bring out the roundabout means that we have adopted to bring about our extinction as a people. sometimes we saw a council governing the country in an arbitrary manner; sometimes we heard the proposal of a parliament from which catholics would be excluded; later the abolition of the french language in public affairs and a host of other proposals equally iniquitous in their tendencies, as bad for us in their results.
let us come immediately to the great dream of england: to the anglification of the canadians, to their loss by a forced and disadvantageous union with a population foreign to its language, its customs, its habits and which would have us in its dependence.
lord durham, envoy extraordinary to the english government, to inquire into the real cause of the troubles of 1837 and 38 made a report in which he stated that if he had been canadian he would have revolted against the government of the fifty colony years before 1837. he recommended that england change its policy towards us; to unite the two canadas; to invent a system of government whose appearances would be popular and by which positions would be given to the principal canadian leaders; to build a railway through all the english colonies from lake superior to halifax and then unite all the british provinces under one government. by this means, he said, you will silence the canadian leaders and you will drown the french population in the midst of the english population; it will disappear and all will be well.
lord durham's report threatens to come to fruition.
the union of the two canadas imposed on our population despite its strongly expressed will and well known to england was made with the aim of losing us and if we judge from the fruits it has already borne, we are certainly approaching the abyss which will have to engulf us.
let us examine the act of union for a moment and see whether we owe more today than ten years ago to approve its content, to suffer the consequences, without protesting or without asking for its recall or for modifications such as these. can bring us to a better state of affairs.
lower canada was under martial law; its constitution had been suspended; many of its representatives were expatriates; its revenues were voted by england without its consent; a special council composed almost exclusively of what our population had of the most bitter enemies had been created by the english government to impose its will on us. the current chief justice, sir james stuart, who presided over this council, was charged with preparing the act of union in 1839. his plan granted representation based largely on population numbers, but judge robinson, of the high -canada, obtained a leave of eighteen months which it employed to intrigue in england to make introduce in the act of union the system of the rotten boroughs and to make it worse than it would have been without it. the special council accepted the union's proposal and to complete its infamy, it did so in the name of the people of lower canada.
in upper canada the proposal was accepted by a parliament elected by fraud and brute force, which lord durham denounced as vile and undignified, and whose existence he unfairly prolonged in order to have the proposal approved.
essential.
valentine's menu will tell you enough about where we're going in tk
what a great idea, does a particular channel have that you think would be best? i've often heard of the show 'everyone's talking about it', can you check that online?
i would add mathieu bock-côté for the intellectual positions.
my suggestion if you only have one book to read (and are able to find it) would be "why i'm a separatist" by chaput. everything is there, or almost. it is a clear and accessible text, it deconstructs quite well the usual criticisms of separatism. old, but still relevant today.
england having obtained the assent of the famous special council in lower canada and its servile parliament of upper canada, the english parliament passed the act of union which is the basis and essence of our system of government. the eighty thousand signatures of the inhabitants of the districts of trois-rivières, sent to england to protest vigorously against the union's proposal, had no weight in the balance.
the opinion of the special council and the determination of england prevailed, and the violated province of lower canada, married against her consent, was delivered to upper canada.
the elections of 1841, the first general elections made under the act of union, left in the memory of everyone who witnessed them memories that will never be faded. corruption, intimidation, violence, everything was put into play to ensure the government a majority willing to ratify the iniquitous union of the two provinces, the forced marriage of upper and lower canada. finally, we wanted to have the consent of the father of the bride and for that, we tried to corrupt him, to intoxicate him; he was even given strong blows with sticks to get him to sign the contract, but the people of lower canada still stubbornly refused because they were aware of their duties to themselves and to their posterity.
the demoralization produced by the syndenham election of 1841 left deep layers in canadian political society from which it is unlikely to recover anytime soon.
how is it then, you will say to me, that after elections held on the question of the union, not a single voice was heard in the first united parliament to ask for its recall? ah! it is painful to have to admit it, because the corruption of the government had already won over many former canadian hearts.
england had invented the beautiful and ridiculous responsible government in the colonial office. lord durham had recommended that she share power with the canadians and that she would amuse them, weaken them, destroy them by this tipping system which produced no good, always and always evil in lower canada. it will be remembered that the district of montreal did not send a single request to england against the passing of the act of union. however, the people of this district were as opposed to the union as anywhere else. but the opposition movement was stifled by the bigwigs of montreal, mr. lafontaine in the lead, who already predicted that two years later he would govern the country and enjoy unlimited patronage and capable of destroying three quarters of the beautiful political conscience of our country. and that is why our parliament, like the irish parliament, accepted the union while the people it represented cursed and cursed it again.
what advantages did you get from your union with upper canada? - none. always advantages for upper canada. nothing for the bottom. we had no public debt, we have one which is enormous for the country's resources. we paid very little in taxes, now we have exorbitant ones.
lord durham's report is being fulfilled to the letter, we have been united in upper canada without consulting us and in spite of us. we were forced to do the halifax railroad business without consulting the people of the country and beware! tomorrow they will impose on us the union of all the british provinces of north america without your knowing how or why if you still send to the house a representative ready to approve the government in everything and everywhere. "
do you have a television at home? look at radio-canada, noovo, tva, lcn, rdi, artv ... the first three are available without subscription, simply by air.
otherwise, here is a website that brings together several channels and programs: 
but conventional television by antenna (or subscription) is always better.
thanks for the snippet! i have never considered / observed union before as a colonial and assimilative project. it feels good to see another perspective; i am a little self-disappointed not to have examined the history of my country with a more critical eye during all these years. above all, we do not hear about canada like this in the english media in quebec - perhaps for the natives, never for quebecers.
i'll have to read a lot more. thank you, i have a lot to learn.
unfortunately i do not have a full television, and i will not have one for a few months to come. however, that does not prevent listening to broadcasts on the laptop. thank you for the link!
well, martineau and bombardier have long maintained this fantasy of seeing françois legault achieve sovereignty. to do so, we will have to receive much more than the latest attacks, we will need a majority bloc in quebec so that we can take it full in the next term.
* martineau did not know who to vote for, but the stupidity of the debate host convinced him to vote for the bloc ... if you believe that ... i have a fortune in nigeria and i need 10 thousand dollars to take it out and i'll share it with you. *
\-[andré arthur](
if the thick man in martineau votes for the bloc, it is clear that i am voting conservative. monsignor legault guided me!
there are fools in voters from all parties, and the conservatives are clearly not spared.
interesting, i'll take a look
i read 2-3 of his books a few years ago ... it's still interesting to read ..
i find elvis gratton really inaccessible as a film.
my impression of this author is that he is so buried under his own sarcasm that his message is largely lost.
i have the impression that he is a vanguard criticism of neoliberal capitalism but with a tone hostile enough that it graffiti even those who agree with him.
there is also "the oxen are slow but the earth is patient" which is in a way the continuation of this book and which is just as good to read.
> i have the impression that he is a vanguard criticism of neoliberal capitalism but with a tone hostile enough that it graffiti even those who agree with him.
that's not really how i understand elvis gratton. the target of falardeau is the quebec section of what the english call the laurentian elite, that is to say the clique of notables and petty new-rich businessmen who form the basis of the provincial and federal liberal parties. he exposes them in their smallness, their cowardice, like colonized quebecers and * amaricans * failed in the first film, and he shows how the media system managed to make us swallow them in the 2nd and 3rd film.
elvis gratton is indeed a very sour satire when we look at the message sent. for example, the end where bob tries outright to rape a young woman is disturbing, even if we can see the humor of the big christ who gets screwed and who plays frustrated afterwards. falardeau really wants to get the message across that lesson givers are often first class assholes. i would say that makes the character inconsistent, but we've seen enough of our politicians lecturing others when they do a lot worse than i understand his cynicism.
where is our sign puller to save this poor lost soul from quebec white supremacism? eh? very very very racist, jagmeet singh said it!
go nabila!
good luck. the block had papineau before trudeau under viviane barbot. the ndp presents a lady who speaks only in english on her twitter, they don't give a damn that the county is majority french.
is it too late to move to papineau and vote for her?
they are still in the commons because yfb no longer had the time to replace them, he was losing these candidates when the comments surfaced.
we still have not seen the invasion of veiled women in the igas that the bloc candidate promised.
so yes without satire or exaggeration it's a party with not all racist deputies of course, but it's not bad enough to lose your job depending on the party;)
eh?
1. i did not understand the message conveyed.
2. could it be victimization?
>npd 
they are so anti-franco and especially anti-quebec.
not difficult to predict that she will lose.
but hey, it's symbolically worth it, so a 1-month lease should be fine.
nabila ben youssef internalizes white supremacism?
i reassure you, it's irony! :)
the bloc was called a racist party earlier today, it's basically a retort to that
> jagmeet singh
endorsed the saying of his deputy and the guy from u. from ottawa which says that all quebecers are racist white supremacists.
i believe that for them it is really that the francos are one community among many others. english is the common language and french is a home language like arabic or italian or polish.
or are they anti-racism and for you québécois = racism? sometimes people confuse 😬
no, but the bloc has islamophobes in its ranks. it's curious to see people tearing their hair out because of a (very serious certain) failure by the municipal candidate will prosper 22 years ago, but we forget the small islamophobic group of the bloc which still sits in the commons.
i am not a fan of valérie plante but her admission of error and the involvement of prosper in his community for several are very acceptable in my opinion that the 3 and a half lines of semi-apologies that the islamophbes bloc members were told to read by their boss.
the involvement in improving their community remains quite invisible.
the hateful and defamatory remarks made by these people are worthy of fox news and 4 chan and have never given any real explanation or excuse to the groups they have tried to defame.
ah ok!
ps: they are no less racist.
ok good night the xx
no it is wrong.
white quebecers yes. ☺️
the others are certainly not all white supremacists.
what an incredible generalization.
see that i was put in the same basket as people who call themselves "native"
they are not racists.
yes yes don't worry they are 🖤 those who deny it are also very likely because you are unable to see your own racist bias.
but good luck in your life in the clouds
okay, and what leads you to say that?
give proof of their racism!
so why don't you explain to us your own racist biases as well as your internalized racism so that we can understand?
everyone has unconscious biases. whether you want it or not. yes you will have racist reflexes even if you think you are not.
but all those who come to deny it very strongly are those who do not even pay attention to these said pcq biases, they are too busy flattering their egos in front of strangers.
we don't care if i find you racist. it is you yourself who should try every day not to be and deconstruct your unconscious biases.
for you. to grow. to be a better person every day.
not for strangers to tell you you're not racist.
when's the last time you did an introspection to deconstruct the racist things that you learned and that are integrated by you? do you allow your biases to be confirmed as the other above who is convinced that people in africa are less intelligent and that non-white people are “culturally” more violent? while denying that he has racial prejudice 🤪
babe. people like you don't know the definition of racism. guess you're using the 1576 one and not the 2020 updates?
how could you understand if you don't know the definition mmm? 😆
i learned in school that the whites were superior so they had done well to colonize the americas pcq before that the blacks and the natives had nothing.
so as you grow up of course that it remains internalized unless you deconstruct these biases consciously.
you, what are you doing? apart from thinking that africans are really less intelligent than americans?
i repeat that racism implies a position of power otherwise it is called bias. discrimination. prejudices. but not racism.
you are surely mouth of all three to understand ps.
i'm not the one who denies my cretin bias. it's up to you to introspect instead of blaming everyone except you because you think you're superior. 😆
so nothing.
bla bla bla
so you are an avowed racist?
in short, you don't know me,
i asked you only one question
and on that you generalize my identity through your illuminated glasses on i do not know what information to define what i know or i do not know on 5 words written in an internet discussion.
your answer is from a very, very racist person.
"it's up to you to do some soul-searching instead of putting the blame on everyone except you because you think you're superior."
here, that's what you're doing, telling the world what to think without even being able to demonstrate your position, which is entirely illegitimate.
you call me a moron, don't see yourself offended if i call you a bitch, just don't deny my biases.
so yeah you are too. but your ego is more important. i understand. it's very difficult to admit that you're an imperfect human.
i hope that one day not being racist will be more important to you than not being racist. ☺️
awn. it's difficult for your little coconut, eh
everybody on earth has bias. it can't be that hard for you to figure it out right?
didn't school let you go so early in the process, the gang? i refuse to believe it.
people like you who ask for “proof” of bloc racism tell me that clearly you have heard arguments before but you prefer to deny them because you want to confirm what you already believe.
unfortunately. there is really no point in talking to people like you because your racism is subconscious and deep.
you are unable to see it, apologize and try to improve yourself, your head is so far, far away in your ass;)
and if for you. putting yourself in a basket because of your answer and not your race is “racist”. well you prove my point that you don't know what racism is. so you can't take a position on the subject if you have no idea what we're talking about 😆
either way babe. racists like you don't listen to others. why would i waste my energy doing anything but laughing at you?
you are a racist and you want to stay that way. you just wish no one named him 😊
it's hard to be more of a moron than you, eh. i am already doing my introspection work. i said it's everybody to do it. not “the others”
life has not spoiled you.
i just want to say that damn it feels good to have the quebeclibre sub. you publish this on r-quebec and you get demolished by an army of sanitarist zombies. thank you for existing québeclibre!
really not funny what's going on in australia…
they are mobilizing their army to reinforce all this, everything is fine
covidians have been telling us about the australian miracle for a year.
meanwhile in sweden and india covid is a thing of the past
yeah if you take a look at r / australia you're gonna see a lot of panic and bossiness.
when you have 400k cases per day (in india), it's a little easier to get good numbers.
australia has returned to its origins as a penal colony
india has put covid behind it for good with 4 times fewer relative deaths than quebec which continues to sink into the covidian civilizational trap
india has a real permanent and wide natural collective immunity, quebec is made dependent on semi-annual booster shots permanently and neo-totalitarianism
[
\[x\] doubt
because the original tweet is gone:
it's funny that quebecers gave up the church a long time ago and now english canada is doing it now.
difference is some of them are taking it waaaaay too far.
one would think in 2010 in the rise of atheism, especially on social media (r / atheism).
the woke side is a derivative of all of that.
no need to burn them, most churches are closing or used for something else now like the monastery transformed into an auditorium / circus.
it is part of our history for the better (the quebecois people survived through time thanks to the religious political power of the time) and for the worse (insert here all wars in the name of religion and other scandals).
the quiet revolution of the 1960s made it possible to separate religion from the state.
freedom of religion, freedom to think ???
how stupid considering the persecutions that new brunswick catholics have suffered throughout their history.
what is that thick tabarnak
except that quebecers did it without violence, without breaking anything.
don't blame atheism for the wokes and the sjws, the real story is that yes there were wokes on the atheist side, but they broke up and slackened off pretty quickly (atheism plus) to do their own bullshit.
you have no more anti woke and target wokes than the atheist community (just go see gamergate) which has kept a head on its shoulders ...
is it the same situation in the other provinces?
well no, to listen to the anglos, we put them in camps and we exterminated them until the rich forced us to stop by moving their headquarters and closing their factories. / s
[  /s
when i think that one of the reasons people replaced harper with trudeau is that the former censored scientists ...
dr. patrick phillips is the ginger doctor in the gray suit starting \~23:00
[
edit:
>in quebec, canada, as of december 2, 2020, 63% of deaths due to covid-19 occurred in private and public nursing homes (4,493 of 7,097). importantly, residents who are ill with covid-19 are not provided any form of existing safe, simple, and inexpensive therapeutic drugs"
i didn't like harper for that reason, among other things, as a scientist. but the liberal strategy is the obvious cherry picking. i will not go into details, but they are quite capable of consulting scientists and naming the flesh that will bring the whole to the desired conclusions.
it is the illusion of evidence-based decisions. the illusion of the left too.
not a fan of singh, but he expresses himself very well: trudeau flashes left, but turns right.
indeed. having said that, people are reporting non-governmental forms of censorship here: the college of physicians, anonymous websites and so on. i'm not sure i see the connection to trudeau unless i missed something?
>
this page doesn't exist.
> residents who are ill with covid-19 are not provided any form of existing safe, simple, and inexpensive therapeutic drugs
hmm, i have a hard time believing that we don't pump them full of antibiotics at the first chance we get. so what is this story really about?
is it a "just fatally ill dies of covid" or "but but hydroxychloroquine !!" ?
except that he mentions government agencies on several occasions, including the public health of canada. and that several of these non-governmental institutions follow the government's watchword.
it does actually, try again maybe?
i think it's more like "thousands of seniors have died in long-term care centers in quebec because our own people have completely abandoned them and left them to die in their own piss and shit."
our own culture in quebec is the problem. we have abandoned these people to die.
tried again, broken link for me.
that's standard neoliberalism, storing the non-productive in the most economical way possible is to hope that it slams as soon as possible so that it does not cost too much. and the conservatives surely call it socialism in private.
me when i hear them say "covid does not affect young people and the majority of the dead were in reception centers" what i hear is "why we should wear masks, it is the problem of old people not to catch the virus, he should be happy to die to let us run the economy! "
i don't know who derek sloan is, but i'm tempted to look for "derek sloan socialist medicine afforable housing elder care". see what kind of person does this signal boost in this thread.
weird. it's not broken for me, tried several times, different browsers, no problems
screenshot?
can you post a screenshot to prove the link is broken pls?
i've been studying all day and have an exam to finish tonight, don't feel up to posting screenshots, sorry, not personal.
try clicking your own link. takes one second. it's broken.
i've checked the link itself half a dozen times today. and again 30 seconds ago. the link is not broken at all. it's up to you to prove it's broken because it's working for me on multiple devices - on two separate wifi networks - just fine.
i'm not taking a photo and wasting time proving to you that the link works when it clearly does. sorry.
edit: ah yes, using a link that is not broken as an excuse to permanently ban someone.
wowowow
edit: proof that the link is not broken and /u/akesgeroth is straight up bullying me for shits and giggles
[
now /u/akesgeroth is claiming there's a typo in the link (there is absolutely no typo) and that's the reason he's banning me. he is straight up lying.
/u/akesgeroth has now sent me several insulting and degrading private messages and is engaging in cyberbullying.
**two of my former foster brothers, mark and david g, are mods on reddit who seem to get off on bullying and harassing me until i'm suicidal.**
mark is a pathological liar who poses as a lawyer online (he's not a lawyer, he's an ex-con who just got out of prison for trafficking coke/meth, hence why he's so familiar with the legal system, because he's a perp, not a lawyer... and also why he spends all his time online. and was diagnosed by mental health professionals when he was a young child as a pathological liar). i don't wish him any harm but he's engaging in abusive behaviour online and has been harassing me for years, it needs to be called out, once you start taunting/antagonizing people to the point of suicide, the line has been crossed.
so it's weird that /u/akesgeroth would first bully me, and then accuse me of lying, when in reality they're the ones who are lying. very characteristic of this foster brother in question. bully/assault, and then gaslight.
my former foster brother david g is likely the same daveygee16 who is a mod on /r/montreal and also engaged in bullying me for no reason. especially since /u/toastqc former mod of /r/quebec banned me from the quebec board because, and i quote, "we're not going to lick your pussy" (he sent it to me in pm, i can prove he said this and he knows it). this is exactly the kind of thing my foster brothers would say to me. these mods know me personally and are using their mod status to bully me. just like my foster brothers did when i was a kid. so these guys are monopolizing quebec's boards. hence, why the mods are so toxic/abusive to people on these subs.
all to say, i now know both of you are harassing/bullying me online, with the seeming intent to drive me to suicide. you are on notice. and i will press charges if you both continue to engage in abusive practices or try to drive me to suicide. i know exactly what you're doing and it won't work anymore. you guys are seriously fucked up if you're still going out of your way to bully me after thirty years have passed.
it is not surprising that it's only the foster brothers who can't form healthy, loving relationships with women and are involuntarily celibate - and who i rejected when we were kids - are now full grown men intent of harassing me to the point of suicide.
# incels gonna incel
edit: /u/toastqc has shown up and is claiming they're a woman.
right. a woman who bans users on /r/quebec because **"we're not going to lick your pussy"**
a totally normal thing for a "woman" to say to another woman on reddit, as an excuse to ban them.
this is the comment toastqc sent me:
"omg, you are dump as fuck and hateful from franco because we are not licking your clit like you want."
[
also, /u/toastqc told me they were disgusted with me for talking about my own issues with suicidal thoughts, which the mods on /r/quebec and /r/montreal contributed to by antagonizing and banning me unfairly.
**and then claiming they were trying to "help" me by calling the cops on me.**
**which is right before the mods of** /r/quebec **swatted another redditor, probably thinking it was me (wasn't me, i don't create alternate handles to evade bans or engage in harassment etc).**
**\*\*\*\*\* so the mods on** /r/quebec **are actively engaging cops to swat redditors.**
sooo compassionate, smart and level-headed, mods. /s
[
there is a serious problem with mods cyberbullying people on /r/montreal and /r/quebec
final edit: i may have ptsd and issues due to child abuse and sexual assault in foster care. but i don't create multiple handles and become a powermod and waste all of my life harassing, taunting, censoring and banning people on reddit for having opinions i disagree with, or just to be an asshole in general. talk about paranoid neurosis.
paranoid neurosis is taunting, bullying and banning people you disagree with from major regional subreddits because you're afraid of people who criticize quebec's culture and government.
paranoid a la max, the
here's the deal: your link is broken and i even know why: you made a typo in it. a typo i figured out myself, thus i was able to see the page. you'd have known that if you checked. but you didn't. you lied. over and over. as expected. 
and see, a few weeks ago, we decided that users who come here solely to troll aren't welcome. every time i see you on here, it's to antagonize others. call them names. and now, i have evidence that you engage in bad faith as well. even when you know you're wrong, you just lie and keep going. i see no reason to allow you to keep posting here any longer. so enjoy your ban. if another mod wants to lift it, it's up to them.
and never forget that in order to be right about us being evil assholes, you have to lie and lie and lie. that your whole position depends on your dishonesty.
wow, i never would have thought of having to write on quebeclibre one day.
1. i have enough difficulty managing my relationship with my brother. i don't need to deal with a paranoid who thinks i'm her brother.
2. i am a married woman. if you look in my history, you will see a nice image of a tattoo that i have and we see something shocking ... the shape of my booba.
3. i'm bi too and women are much better at licking pussies (sorry guys!)
4. eh, terf and paranoid. nice.
feel free to provide screenshots of those messages i sent you. i'd like to read them since, you know, i never read them before.
for those who are worried, admins have already been contacted about the threat of suicide.
empty article. the weekly promotion of independence by the quebec / montreal newspaper.
prove to us that a quebec leader who is not corrupt to the bone exists and after that we will think about it
yeah, this newspaper seems to me more and more like a sensationalist media that has come to make money on the backs of the disappointed masses of the last referendum by writing to them what they want to read.
prove to us that a canadian leader who is not corrupt to the bone exists ...
you know that all the corruption in canada has been the work of federalists since at least 1867.
in a country that gave birth to the phrase better crooks than separatists, it's pretty funny.
blanchet, aussant, etc
the pre-charest era is full of suitable prime ministers ...
jack layton, may he rest in peace.
there were no big corruption scandals under lesvesque and parizeau. on the other hand, boubou, charest and couillard were big corrupt federalists in the service of the english. lulu has had a few scandals (gaspésia if memory serves), but even there it was a little beer next to the liberals who followed him. political corruption has a color in quebec, it is liberal red.
do you think that there is no corruption in quebec and that it is entirely the fault of english canada?
truly?
yes surely
uncorrupted politicians cannot run canada
jean charest and his friend the soft couille
but everything that is "liberal" at the provincial and federal levels is corrupt ... we could do without it
you are english-speaking or you cannot read french. it's really not what i wrote, unless you consider that jean chrétien, jean charest, jean tremblay are anglophones, like trudeau father and son, paul martin (the filipino) are anglophones? and the desmarais?
all corrupt and corrupt federalists.
the only federal prime minister who was not corrupt is joe clark, presumably he did not have the time.
even with quebec
john a. macdonald was a conservative and he built the country from coast to coast on bribes and corruption.
it's true, i'm just saying that no one is saying that there are no corrupt people in quebec or in canada (still funny that those in quebec were / are mostly federalists ... shit everywhere too)
but uh ... if you want the list of tuesdays at the federal: [ / wiki / list_of_prime_ministers_of_canada)
lol you go back far in dirty. yes at the federal level, the conservatives are corrupt (mulroney had had a couple of scandals if memory serves) but even there they are still a check mark below the liberals.
the federal and provincial liberal parties are the crony network of the laurentian elite including the business community / law firms / communications firms / ect. these people specifically join this party to make contact with the business community. this is a recipe for attracting pigs that want to feed at the government trough.
it is not the fact of going back far, but of understanding why canada is a country based and built on corruption.
it's like the women killed in 2021, the majority are racialized women killed by their racialized partner too, but hey they have no excuse because it is a crime of passion and not for money or they can take refuge on the "they". do this because they have no opportunity in life because of racism ".
thank you for sharing.
it's the fault of systemic racism
thank you for the link !
we put plasticizers on cancer. without independence, quebec is doomed.
on the positive side, it's a little less "immigrants' fault" and measures (probably not that effective) for companies ("hello, is it ok for you if we do this interview in english ?").
on the negative side, nothing for demographics and the eternal measure of cegep which will not dissuade quebec parents that their children will go further in life by mastering english.
\ +1 for gryffindor to propose to use quantified indicators to measure the impact of their plan on the other hand.
it is important to remember that it is never the fault of immigrants when it comes to immigration. they apply, they are accepted and they arrive here legally. they are not the ones who determine the thresholds or pass laws.
the fault lies with the politicians who design immigration policies and:
* which instrumentalize immigration for political ends (plq and plc which disproportionately raise the thresholds because it then pays off electorally because they multiply the electoral strongholds)
* who butter thick in the moralization of all questions related to immigration policies and which poison the debate with their manichean speech (good vs bad)
it should be normal to discuss immigration policies (quantity, origin, regionalization, selection criteria, refugees / family reunifications / economic immigration, etc.) that said, this debate must be held in a civilized and respectful manner.
very just. immigrants are instrumental. to be against immigration is not to be against immigrants as such.
the pro immigration are quick to make the link that does not exist to defend their position.
i admit, i shed a tear in front of such a nuanced and constructive opinion.
one of the great tribunes of quebec history, an intellectual giant who loved quebec fiercely.
his only flaw was that the relentlessness of his argument made him a warrior, a great general instead of a politician.
if independence had been a military battle, bourgault would have won this war, but in the political world which requires a taste for negotiation and the capacity for compromise, where the key lies in sparing the susceptibilities of your adversaries, bourgault was a stick of dynamite in a porcelain factory ...
bourgault was one of our greatest. no one today compares.
it is also a sad aspect of our time, i have the impression that quebec no longer has great characters.
comparing the speeches of today's politicians with those of bourgault is really not flattering for françois "dissile" legault or justin "eee" trudeau.
rn >>>> rin
bourgault was an atheist and a socialist. we don't want that in quebec.
better orator than politician, bourgault does not disappoint with this river speech which incorporates some of his best lines. still, bourgault was a man of his time and a posteriori it is easier to detect the faults then obscured by drunkenness and hope.
first of all, his interpretation of the historiography of quebec is typically quiet revolutionary. he was of this current to think for whom the history of quebec is declined in five events. the conquest, the rebellion of the patriots, the conscription crisis (bis) and finally the quiet revolution. however, it should be understood that what this reading erases is the advent of quebec, colonization which is also brutally stopped with the quiet revolution. when we pretend that nothing was done before the * great fights * of the 1960s, we forget that whole countries were born. this is forgetting the colonization of the laurentians, then beauce, then saguenay, then abitibi, then bas saint-laurent and gaspésie. the contemptuous amnesia of contemporary quebec vis-à-vis this period is a self-inflicted affront. even today, we deprive ourselves of this glorious history where the roads were opened, the lands cleared, the parishes founded when quebec emerges from the valley of the st. lawrence and literally sprang from the earth everywhere on its territory.
his speech also gives reason to those who could claim that independence is the idea of only a generation. again and again he legitimizes this project with the turmoil of the 60s. against culture, drugs, sex, their afro-american clashes, hippies, flower peoples and of course the vietnam war which comes back several times. it is also part of the now obsolete and obsolete discourse of the decolonization of the third world like that of pierre falardeau. and yet, what do we have to envy of the algerian failed state? what do we have to learn from fidel castro or other ho chi min's of this world praised by bourgault during his speech at the congress of the quebec party? far from being universal, these arguments were played on the pitfalls of history and if the form still holds, the substance leaves much to be desired.
afterwards, we can sense a certain bitterness in the guy whose political career has only been a succession of failures. he stages his ultimately unsuccessful activism as much as he identifies the events. still, i would like us to be able to bring bourgault out of the ground to take stock of contemporary quebec. will it really have served us to abandon campaigns and priests in view of the ultimate failure of the quiet revolution which will not have bequeathed us independence? because for a man who kept talking about the majority and the minority and the minority, i would like to hear him talk about the twilight of the french canadian people within their national home.
i don't know about the others but these words are music to my ears.
i would like to indicate that in case of censorship of r / quebeclibre, there is the discord to inform of the redirection. the sub r / quebecnationaliste, r / quebecsouverainiste and r / quebecnation will also be used to indicate where to go.
that being said, i hope that this ban will be temporary and that r / francelibre will be reinstated shortly.
it is true that this sub was rather extreme (compared to here), but hey i never thought it would go that far
hello quebecers (and [coucou] ( / u / xworld), i hope you will not suffer the same fate that we. while waiting for any clarifications from the admins, we have reopened the store on / r / franceunpeumoinslibre.
yes, let's say that the extreme right of our french cousins does not hesitate to inhabit space either, unlike here (in quebec) where they join less in the debates (are less heard).
i haven't seen anything very out of place so far. i imagine that r / francelibre has a certain history unfortunately.
very unfortunate, i found this subreddit there a good model of freedom of expression on the web which succeeds. we must believe that the mods of reddit did not agree (or were influenced).
i don't really know what's going on. is it the>! bogdanoffs! <behind this?
in france, they are very much in favor of crazy theories. they have many more graduates but most of them have no general knowledge, unlike here.
we complain that our teachers write french badly. there they don't even know that the earth revolves around the sun.
do not give ideas to some!
but look at / r / quebeclibre it's quite clearly infested with antiwokes
hi to you! i have already subscribed to the new sub.
the admins *
they were influenced by abusive reporting.
so i'm the first to say that our school system sucks, but was it for fun or did you really see somewhere that we didn't know the earth revolves around the sun?
good...
just tell yourself that you have a shadowban.
basically all i have to do is report woke posts from r / merdeinfrance to get the same result?
very unfortunate that it was banned again.
what ?!
nah, you have to do it together for it to have an impact ...
i made a request for an appeal but i do not believe it very much.
your comments must all be manually approved. and when i try to go see your profile, it says you don't exist.
oh well, i created my account yesterday, it's great ...
i am shadowban for no reason, without warning and without having been controversial. top !
i sent a request to the admins and after verification, i had been shadowban for no reason because i did not violate any reddit rule (still happy!).
is the shadowban automatic or do you need manual intervention?
it can be one or the other.
i would not be at all opposed to the bloc putting forward 3 candidates in the francophone counties of northern new brunswick if, however, the party remains sovereignist. imagine the reaction of amazement and the cries of frustration that the liberals would utter, who have taken this political clientele there for granted for 100 years.
i do not agree. it is the quebec bloc and not the francophone bloc. their goal is to advance the interests of quebec in ottawa and to defend them, thus leading to eventual independence. they don't have to try to change canada to make it better for francophones, it's futile.
why not, it is high time to question the ruinous conclusion of the states general of french canada which threw french canadians outside quebec under the bus. since then, ottawa has continued to stand as guarantor of french canadians outside quebec when we know full well that this is rubbish. if you fear the secession of quebec so much and the resulting decline in the status of french in canada, then the problem is canada friends, not quebec.
strongly that the bloc rebuilds the bridges, it can only amplify the influence of quebec beyond its borders. ottawa likes to play in our flower beds and mind our own business? we will have to start answering tit for tat.
an interesting proposal, but could that compromise the independence of quebec advocated by the bloc?
the bloc should present candidates elsewhere than in quebec as an independentist party period. independence of the maritimes, independence of ontario, independence of the prairies and independence of british columbia. the liberals and the conservatives would blow their minds if we were to steal votes from them all over the place. and just the slight possibility that we can take power and deny the federation should terrorize them.
except that francophones outside quebec are generally very, very federalists and view separatists very badly. i can understand them, they are already being assimilated very quickly, it would surely be even worse if quebec broke up. they suffer a little from the battered woman syndrome with canada: they do not see the contradiction between the loyalty they dedicate to the federal government and the english and their admission that without the presence of quebec the english would not hesitate to establish more aggressive assimilationist policies.
in addition, there is the federal official languages law which ensures that by improving their lot, they also help anglo-quebecers. which makes them our objective adversaries (against our will) when it comes to protecting french in quebec.
the reality is that trudeau père played his cards very well to weaken quebec as much as possible on this issue and that it will be difficult to reverse this state of affairs without at least changing the federal official languages law. despite mélanie's promises, i doubt that the federal government will give up the principle of equivalence between the english minority in quebec and the french minorities in other provinces.
it is useless to work for the independence of others, especially when we have so much difficulty in asserting our own. all our resources should be put in the hands of independentist forces in quebec, and not wasted in saskatchewan.
as you say, you have to be understanding, it's been 60 years that we have had this contemptuous attitude towards them which wants them to be irrecoverable. it doesn't exactly inspire trust or loyalty. however, given that sovereignty is put on the greek calendar, the bloc could find its niche in these few constituencies where french canadians are in the majority. we may not get along, as we know full well that both liberals and conservatives will fuck them at the appropriate time.
from the article:
"the researcher frédéric lacroix, author of the book * why the law 101 is a failure *, observes a correlation between the regions where the complaints increase and those where french declines most rapidly. significant increases are observed in laval, outaouais and montérégie. ”
we will have to listen to demographers like charles castonguay, marc termotte and researcher frédéric lacroix who sound the alarm bells. quebec is heading straight for its assimilation with education and immigration policies that promote the decline of french at great speed.
looking forward to becoming an american citizen. fast food, big house, big car, big debts, racial debates ... all in english.
we're almost there #yeswecan
unfortunately, the caq does not seem to be seriously concerned about the problem.
> fast food 
ouep
> big house,
ouep
> big car,
ouep
> large debts,
ouep
> racial debates ...
ouep ...
> all this in english.
this is the only step left for us to take ...
everyone is pissed off. my tank, my house, my job. my children have to speak english to have a tank, a house, a job.
such is the electoral base of the caq, those who voted plq before.
it is not the desire to learn english that is the problem, but the disdain for our own culture that too often comes with it. i would be curious to know what proportion of generations y going down are completely colonized ... if it's above 50%, it's over.
normal when we do not talk about quebec culture to children / teenagers at school.
it's already over.
as a cegep in montreal, i confirm 100%. nobody listens to french-speaking music, nobody listens to quebec television either, except for a small portion of french-canadians. people around me think they are all americans, it seems.
the tv i can understand, it is often shit for matantes with a few exceptions. but on the music side we are still pampered, you really have to be solid colonized to sulk everything that is done in quebec musically. on the other hand, the radios are really doing an ass job to encourage the good music that is being done here.
very good initiative
small test that i suggest you do.
ask people what "kosher" food means, then "halal" food. i can assure you that the vast majority of people will be able to outline it.
okay, now ask them what it means to "eat lean". i bet the majority won't even know what that means. yet "lean eating" is part of the catholic religion and our ancestors have respected it for centuries (for those who do not know, it means depriving yourself of meat and animal fat, it was done every friday, but the fish and seafood are permitted).
another interesting exercise is to probe to see who is aware of ramadan and the fasts it involves, then probe the same to find out who is aware of lent and the associated fasts.
by obsessing over "diversity" and celebrating it ostentatiously all the time, we forget to celebrate and even remember what we are or what we have been.
emptying
> by obsessing over "diversity" and celebrating it ostentatiously all the time, we forget to celebrate and even remember what we are or what we have been.
you guess that's not the point.
i take this opportunity to stress that this religious control at the source of food constitutes a symbolic occupation of the territory.
in addition, what can only be described as blackmail requires retailers in certain neighborhoods to verify the presence of one of the certification acronyms on the products. for manufacturers, the threat that their products will not be accepted by retailers leads them to agree to pay the annual inspection fees of their production lines. some even decide to dedicate a permanent position to it. these fees are ultimately passed on to the consumer, regardless of their religion. method of financing much more subtle than the catholic indulgences so denounced.
correct, but it is also present in other sectors. for example, many people may enumerate judges of the united states supreme court while being unable to name a single one of the canadian version. there is an interest in the "elsewhere" which has been built at the cost of the "local" in many spheres (political, cultural, society, religion, etc.) and the impact can easily be seen for those who still keep a down to earth.
check your fridge and pantry for everything marked cor.
for 1% of the population.
> method of financing much more subtle than the catholic indulgences so denounced.
subtle and exceedingly well structured.
so well structured that it serves as a basis for halal certification and as a reference solution for the design of the ultimate certification, the one that will perpetually give the nest egg, the certification of * diversity *. people have no idea of the breach that was opened in the past and will never see the fissure of the future coming which will have both hands in their wallets and their lives.
it is one of many. it indicates the yeshiva which manages the territory where the producer is located.
they really don't want to let go. while the largest mask study failed to find a significant effect for the fabric mask and a shabby effect of 11% fewer cases in two months with surgical masks, as denmark abandons its vaccination passport after having reached a satisfactory vaccination rate (lower than that of quebec!) and plans to abandon all measures this week, while sweden announces the end of all local measures at the end of september ... we have a prime minister who is putting in place a vaccination passport and who insists on maintaining all current measures for the foreseeable future.
not to mention trudeau who talks about provincial vaccine passports as an interim solution for a year before the federal takes over (for until when?).
there are measures that seem dangerously close to being sustainable. will anger growl one day or the majority, reinforced by the media that are docile to power, will come to terms with this "new normal" in the long term?
it is those who have been sold the vaccine passport as a way to get the "good" vaccinated back to normal who are not going to find it funny. the vaccination passport thus only represents a loss of freedom for the unvaccinated without any gain for the vaccinated.
in the meantime, we are a little over 3 weeks after the [demonstration] ( against the health passport where the politico-media caste predicted the 'massacre. today, the massacre is 0 dead.
too many people have * called * the bluff. they won't go away anytime soon.
although the three hypochondriac clowns have yet demonstrated their total disconnection with reason and reality and they persist in wanting to continue their so modestly named health "measures", i wanted to give you some optimism.
today, they never mentioned that the vaccine prevents transmission, they emphasized the individual protection it gives. all the delirium about "protecting others" was no longer explicit.
legault nevertheless pointed out that the politicization of vaccination was problematic and that for the past few weeks there had been a very contemptuous attitude towards the unvaccinated in the public debate which had to end.
it's very thin as a consolation, i know, but we can say that there has been a small change in attitude, especially since dubé's open letter announcing that it was better to forget collective immunity ( he should have known it for just 3 months but hey.)
i think the next few weeks are going to be decisive. immunity to infection will continue to decline in those vaccinated and one should be in a similar position to israel, ie as many vaxx as unvaxx in cases and about 50% of hospits in double vaxx.
we will see what they will do by then, but the more time passes, the more the weariness of the population increases and the more vaccine immunity decreases.
in the meantime, we really have to hope that trudeau eats a volley.
two weeks to flatten the curve. the 28 day challenge. the curfew will only last a month. the vaccine is the key to freedom. the freedom passport. it recalls a famous phrase from claude péloquin.
fake la our angels are made outcasts?
unbelievable. i wonder when the population is going to have enough.
they really want the 2022 elections to be the fucking pandemic?
seriously, what the fucking goal is if the vaccines do not work according to legault. is there something coming up that scares them extremely so that we slow down as much as possible the return to a normal society and therefore economy and that even trudeau needs to be re-elected to push his debt? for 4 long years, either trying to cringe his camp?
thank you for your comments, i realize that i am not alone. thank you r / quebeclibre gang to exist.
made 100% vaccinated, they will find a way to say that it is not enough, that we must aim higher.
when will the delirium stop?
legault has just shot himself in the foot. it paved the way for the imposition of the end of emergency measures by the supreme court.
you want to live in an apocalyptic movie, keep nodding.
the only party that is against compulsory vaccination is that of maxime bernier.
anyone else noticed he said vaxx passport for patients too? and then when one of the last questions in english was put to him, he said not for patients yet, let's wait and see october 15th where the situation is or ?! i don't even fool around to listen properly.
> for the unvaccinated without any gain for the vaccinated.
the spectrum of the 3rd dose and the vagueness in the use of the elastic term * adequately vaccinated * will lead to a certain inference: since * adequately vaccinated * cannot be applied to an absolute number of doses due to latecomers ( eg someone starting their first dose of 3 today) and with ever-changing guidelines it will most likely be based on xx days since the last dose instead.
this will de facto result in the revocation of the vaccination passport for those who believed in a "one shot deal" and who are no longer up to date. some will not find it funny.
thank you for this optimism! i didn't listen to the lecture because they hurt my brain, eyes and ears, and other quotes from legault sound so much more frightening. maybe the marketing consultants suggested legault have some for everyone?
i hope trudeau gets screeched out and therefore the ccp comes in, but i would be overjoyed to see the ppc take down the 10%. but i think it's too tight in the polls then it's going to hurt the ppc (and the ndp).
excellent analysis. it gives me the impression that they are preparing the ground so as not to lose face completely and to keep the sheep on their side.
and yes, it is fundamental that trudeau arrives, otherwise i am seriously worried about our future.
you have the commentary that looks the same as what i've been thinking for a while. when it will be kiff kiff like israel and the united kingdom, the whole cassette will be "derubaniser" (reference for the 30 years and more nostalgic lol) even i think that they are made more hospitalization and death in the vaccinated due to poor immune responses maladaptive to variants.
but one thing is certain, the goal and the finality in my opinion is the pass. he will stay in place because he is the start of his digital identity project due for around 2025. this is why the pass is a digital qr code and not a piece of paper that we show. it is absolutely necessary to scan, showing the vaccination status is not enough. scanning is an act that leaves a digital trace, so everyone has to have their pass to exist digitally. vaccines are the lubricant for creating digital identity. very little info and very little risk so as not to scare. it is the beginning of a new identity card where no citizen will be able to escape authoritarian digital surveillance. google it: "quebec digital identity". it's not an obscure project, it's a project that they openly talk about as a future pride of quebec. the qr scan will become a biometric scan and the confidential personal information of our entire life will be there. so we will be scanned to go absolutely everywhere. we obviously need considerably more robust and faster internet bandwidth for these millions of scans every day ... and for the suspension of the pass by the authorities for bad citizens. the 5g network will surely be well established in 2025, which will ensure the ability of the internet to operate this new collossal digital world. paper money will probably disappear eventually .... it's not the joy to think about that but ... what to do? with a people who have never had to put their lives in danger for their freedom? it's harder and harder to believe in an uprising
*beatings will continue until moral improves.*
according to [ma'am legault] ( yes and they eat all the shit: you have to protect the vaccinated from the unvaccinated because uh ... search me because i am not.
also, the word * visitor * hides another: * natural caregiver *. so we come back as in march 2020: no nurse to change the diaper and no caregiver to help with meals. result: death of thirst in his layer full of mustard.
they were "angels" only as long as they obeyed the party line.
now it is the stake for those who dare to question authority.
the population applauds, the same people who will welcome the scan of faces with impatience
at the 8th dose
after 13 years of state of emergency according to the lockstep scenario of [rockefeller foundation's scenarios for the future of technology and international development] ( //www.nommeraadio.ee/meedia/pdf/rrs/rockefeller%2520foundation.pdf&ved=2ahukewiluumt-e3yahwtf1kfhyrzaxiqfnoecamqaq&usg=aovvaw1nvprhasbdvtk3&ved=2ahukewiluumt-e3yahwtf1kfhyrzaxiqfnoecamqaq&usg=aovvaw1nvprhasbdvtk3).
i look forward.
according to micheal burry (the guy from the big short), it's hyperinflation that will happen at the same time that everything is reopened. i do not know the details, however, and i really do not know how we will react with interest rates in the double digits after all these years at almost 0% ...
ah the comfort of the good old echo rooms.
if i put so much effort into the chslds i could have finished the female dog ... after reading the report 🥴🥴
100% vaccinated 2 doses but only 60% adequately vaccinated, go a little effort.
the opposition can do it. section 123 of the public health act allows this from the start. they just have to unite ... but as the opposition is as useful as a pair of underwear in a nudist camp, they prefer not to regain their rights of opposition.
what do you mean? in which extract in particular?
> some will not find it funny.
i'm not sure. logically, the more the government hits us on the head the more the world should rebel, but i'm afraid it will be the other way around. the more they hit us on the head, the more the carpets and the feminized will compete with each other to demonstrate their loyalty to the government.
i love doc mailloux when he talks about psychology, but when he talks about politics i always thought he was in the pot. it's an old red from the old school whose political thought remained frozen in 1978. one of the things he often said that made me roll my eyes is that "half of quebecers are cubists!" (in reference to cuba, totalitarian communist regime). crisse, not only am i starting to believe that he is right, but i am starting to have the impression that the proportion is approaching more than 3/4 than half ...
i literally agree 100% of what you just said.
yeah, they have to keep at least pretending to be right out of political necessity.
for trudeau tse, his defeat still means $ 1 billion less in a supposedly temporary vaccination passport.
i have the impression that the more time passes on the other hand, the more you are absolutely sickened and the more there are who never want to return to normal. beautiful divided society.
"the measurements are here to stay." by definition, a state of emergency cannot be permanent. it can last for several years, but it cannot be permanent. by saying that, someone could make the argument before the court that they intend to stretch the emergency powers indefinitely and the court would impose an end date, or rather the adoption of reasonable and objective conditions for the end of the measures. emergency.
it is certain that the government would provide the argument that the law does not provide for a limit, but the answer would be that if it was intended to be permanent it would not be formulated as emergency measures but only powers. normal. and if they try to change the law to make them permanent, that won't work either because it wouldn't be considered a reasonable limit on rights. of course, the notwithstanding clause could be used, and that's where it would get funny.
i agree, but there is something that also comes into play: pku / pcre which acts as a powerful anesthetic against measurements. i can't quantify the effect but i imagine being at home teleworking / collecting checks and undergoing the sanitary guidelines for the 5 minutes at the store is not, but really not, the same as when we get cut the checks and the job relaxes to do an ass job at the minimum wage directly in the store without a computer and this time for 8 hours a day instead of 5 minutes once in a while.
ah, ok. i understand your point better.
i am very impressed by the abysmal stupidity of minister cairo in this matter. you have to have a lot of talent to screw up so completely.
we can understand that the minister does not appreciate that his team passes for patent incompetent following a leak in the media concerning the vulnerabilities of the application of the health passport ... but the stupid reaction of the minister will ensure encourage the proliferation of such leaks in the future because the white hat will refuse to speak directly to the government to fix the problems and will instead go to journalists. gorgeous.
i've been working in computer security for thirty years and i've never seen a gang as bad as this gang. frankly more two of spades than that, it's hard to beat.
if you can't be a hero become a villain
minister cairo is not stupid. he has a mandate from his boss legault: nobody can show a weakness in his vaccination passport publicly.
the population does not have the right to know that his system is not secure because that shows how he governs like a cabochon family man.
he doesn't care legault whether it works or not so much people don't know it. he is not concerned that people may have fake vaccine passports.
eric caire has always had the reputation of a legendary idiot, and this since the electoral campaign of 2018 which saw the caq bring to power. gabriel nadeau-dubois was one of the most combative to raise his stratospheric stupidity.
the minister for digital transformation does not have the slightest idea, experience, knowledge, knowledge, pragmatism, notion - in short, an absolute incompetent - of the subject to which his position falls, to then expel any
contribution of real competent citizens.
paradoxically, china treats its citizens the same.
"the man points at the moon, but the idiot will see only the finger" - gabriel nadeau-dubois to éric caire.
we can stop the euphemisms. these are criss de tarlas and ostis of incompetent people who will have to be removed from their posts. eric caire, it is a waste who lied on his cv by inventing to have a university degree, and he was propelled minister tabarnak.
what do we expect? he's the kind of person who spawned the "technologically retarded duck."
but where is the problem? what critical information could hackers extract by the application? although it is easy to create fake passports, they will not be of any use. especially since the fake passports were created in large part from information published voluntarily on social networks. at that point, it is a bit of their problem as well.
well, you're still euphemistically.
the problem is the lies of the government and and the way the government tries to silence any opinion / information that sheds light on its lies / false information.
it is an extremely serious problem and it erodes democracy. the national assembly is not of much use in this case because there has never been a situation in the history of qc where the government has taken emergency measures for a year and a half and is not justified in the face of it. national assembly.
so much the better !!! tired of being overwhelmed by all these bellowing minorities !!!
the story of the ongoing health emergency will never pass if anyone disputes this. arruda has just opened the door to the imposition of firm and realistic conditions for the end of a health emergency by the supreme court.
me i hate that the war pogne between the 3 doses and the 2 doses. we are going to have the 3 doses, the 2 doses and the 0 doses. it will be great a beautiful case of study of how humans are incapable of caring about others.
when mainstream newspapers find it goes overboard ...
ygreck is a disgusting sellout who has participated in the normalization of authoritarianism.
already seen my first case yesterday which had "💉💉2 / 3" as a twitter signature.
it promises.
???
did you understand the caricature?
hahahah asti it's good. he can't wait to be 3/3.
on tinder it's a pandemic of cossin like ... team pfizer team moderna. shut up how much you need to say it. tell me your weight instead a lot more relevant.
he says: to vaccinate them agree with the passport
what? i am vaccinated and i hate his attitude of mini dictator.
i am against the vaccination passport and the deal was that if 75% were vaccinated we would stop the measures.
everything has changed i predict a reconfinement this fall.
government of trash that i voted for in addition.
legault is unworthy of being pm of quebec. he must resign. his dictatorship has lasted long enough and there is absolutely nothing that justifies maintaining the health emergency at this stage (more than 85% of the population vaccinated). its authoritarian drift has lasted too long, it is time to put an end to it.
tell him that in france there was a debate and go and have one. who declares himself emperor and we will never vote again so long to do. why vote.
and i, who thought we were living in a parliamentary democracy ... one of the most disturbing (and stupidest) political statements in the history of quebec.
worst ms in quebec history.
those who think people want a safe port. go read the google reviews of the cage at lebourneuf sport and put the reviews by date. i believe they will regret having associated with this pilot project
is that freedom of speech?
ah i thought i was on r / quebec and i found the comments weird.
dear quebecers: you live under a totalitarian regime.
[deleted]
without necessarily wanting to offend you: were you drunk in the ballot box?
unbelievable what he said.
i paraphrase: "we do not want to give a forum to opponents whose opinion is unfounded".
welcome to the new world where government policy = science and where mr. legault's word is the truth.
i regret having voted caq in 2018. it would probably have been the same with any of the other depraved parties present in the national assembly.
> more than 85% of the vaccinated population
it is 74.3%
125 rags
yes, but let's be honest. if jean charest was still a pm of quebec today, he was the one we would basher. it's all puppets
you are free to express your agreement with the government.
it lacked bosses in shorts.
i was chatting with someone a few months ago "well yes he said that if we went to 75% vaccinated we would all get back to normal"
me "... yeah, wait till you see, he changes the measurements as he changes his panties ..."
there are things i liked about him, he doesn't care about racial "issues" and woke issues, he seemed to be an economist, pq leadership was not very appealing i found at the time.
in the end, he doesn't care much about anyone, and he scrapes our economy.
honest question, and i'm not asking at all to confront you: who did you vote for?
i would have been curious to see a parallel universe where the other parties would have been in power.
with the caq there is a big catch 22, we influence public opinion as much as possible and then say that we follow public opinion. afterwards you even have the plq which acts as an opportunist by trying to use the strategy of manipulation of the caq against it by pushing for a health passport faster and stronger, compulsory vaccination in health, etc. qs and pq are too scared to say anything, but i think qs would have taken the thirst for power much less far.
it's really disgusting considering that we have no way out of this situation. legault is such a revolting person, then the population who applaud all this is really disgusting.
85%  
and then, even at 74% of 12 years and over, we already greatly exceed the initial target.
i largely agree, but the pq and qs at least want to debate this issue. and it could be interesting to hear the only elected member of the pcq.
i have [augusto ricochet] ( in mind when i see some comments there.
i feel you won't like my answer 😅
edit: the perfect opportunity to send me the tip of the drink 😂
the whole political dynamic is absolutely corrupt, depraved, decadent.
i think qs has a very strong authoritarian current so i think it would have been similar. but there might not have been a passport given that the ethnic minorities they fetishize are one of the least vaccinated groups.
i think there are more and more people who are against "health" policy. i think it will cringe when legault will inevitably confine the vaccinated also because it is the culmination of his completely psychotic "logic".
what is pathetic with the plq is that they had a potential angle of attack with patrick dery and the ventilation of schools but they screwed up everything.
it was a good angle: not addressed by anti-measures and the government was silent. even better: they could have had their heads on roberge. there, we go towards a return probably screwed up and no journalist to notice it.
false opposition all sold
that's correct, my first vote at cégep was for qs, in marois's time. i do not judge. no, i'm just curious what other option there was for people who are on a nationalist subreddit. i would have gladly voted for the pq rather than the caq in the last election, but lisée stopped me, with just one word. we have a strange offer of parties in quebec. in canada even more.
any political movement founded in the belief that it is possible to restructure society from top to bottom and to bend human nature to its will is inevitably authoritarian. some have qualified this attitude as "authoritarian high modernism", it is a mentality which is the cause of the great majority of the atrocities of the last two centuries, starting with the terror during the french revolution and crossing history to the fields. of cambodia's death.
and i would even say that the zerocovid madness is a manifestation of it, a desire to prove that modern human institutions are capable of defeating the nature embodied in this respiratory virus through central planning, if only the people follow the commandments in asking questions.
you think qs has an authoritarian current. i'm not just thinking. nadir yesterday want compulsory vaccination.
if it will be qs in post. i guarantee you that they would have gone door to door for the vaccination with the presence of the police.
qs is like a watermelon. green on the outside and communist red on the inside
one of the many pathetic things with the plq. in addition to playing overbid with the caq for who is the most tyrannical and stupid.
we will start at the beginning. i support any politician who wants to end the health emergency.
you're absolutely right.
hahahaha. wow i'm adopting your watermelon joke.
i'm going to buy a big block of marble right away and have your watermelon quote engraved, so good :)
oh yeah, what is "hate"?
i * hate * censorship, so i have * hate * speech
fuck guilbeault!
guilbeault ... isn't this the person who has lost the most credibility in the legislative assembly ???
sorry guilbeault, i preferred you defender of whales .....
10 million or 3% of world gross income in fines?
will it come from the same officials who had to * collect unpaid taxes from gafam * for 10 years? tsé, the story of mélanie joly?
yes n...
it's hardly brave new world the state that wants to regulate human emotions.
i very much doubt that it is permissible to recite hate speech loudly in public places. so why would it be acceptable to do the same behind a screen?
which is opposed to the popular discourse of the "current year".
all hatred except that against white people
as the term says. words that encourage hatred or violence / discrimination towards different groups in society (lgtbq, ethnic and / or cultural minorities, etc.).
if you are a respectful person in general you are not targeted by this. if you are racist, xenophobic, misogynistic and you have the habit of posting insults and / or false information online in order to create hatred towards these groups then this is for you.
the problem is that the definition of hate speech keeps expanding.
to say that women have a vagina and that men have a penis is now considered by many to be transphobic hate speech.
i think we have to be careful with this kind of law because what we actually do is let the government decide what we can and cannot say. it's not hard to see how it can go wrong.
isn't that already prohibited?
yeah popular in the "anti-racist" collective of qs and the evergreen campus.
hate speech according to people who want laws like this:
* i support law 21
* i support a strengthening of law 101
* men have a penis, women have a vagina
* i am against uncontrolled immigration
* committing an honor killing is horrible
* i have the right to own a firearm
* there is nothing wrong with owning a gun
* i am opposed to representation quotas
* say the title of the book "white negroes of america"
* i am for equality before the law
* i am for the presumption of innocence
* the people of quebec exist, are distinct from the rest of canada and have the right to exist and to decide their destiny
absolutely non-exhaustive list.
and who will be the arbiter of what is hateful and violent? the talmud teaches us about jesus that he resides in boiling excrement, are we going to put up to placard synagogues and yeshivas?
ok so if i insult the english is it correct because they are white and in the majority?
again you do not answer the question, what is to encourage hatred? to say that your against mass immigration is to encourage hatred and discrimination? to criticize a religion is you discrimination and racism?
for example?
> is now considered by
therein lies the nuance. it is not because certain zealots consider it as such that the law will do the same. in addition, there is a distinction between paying attention and systematically rejecting.
do not forget also among the artisses and worse among the electorate of trudeau / singh.
go to the station and denounce yourself immediately to hope for clemency.
i joke, i believe that the spirit of the law is good but the application is difficult and the misappropriation of the spirit is possible or even probable.
it's true that juvenile pornography on instagram and tiktok is crazy and something must be done
how dare you? you are good for prison, without trial!
either you are ignorant or you take me for an ignorant (you know the answer not me). none of the items on your list that are criminal will be.
we talk about real racism / invitation to hatred like treating asians chinetoques, saying that women are inferior or that immigrants are dirty etc.
if the hat suits you, put it on, but incitement to hatred and racism has no place in society.
you can be for or against many things without inciting hatred for a particular group.
either you don't understand this or you pretend to confuse freedom of speech with the right to spread hatred.
you will notice that i do not mention any skin color or the size of the groups. every human being has the right to respect point.
i don't have the time or the patience to educate yourself. if you can't distinguish hate speech from criticism of an institution there isn't much you can do i think.
looking at the liberal party of canada, i see a part where this ideology is dominant, justin trudeau being a world-class caricature. i don't trust them, even for a second, to define hate speech in reasonable terms.
moreover, you don't know who will be in guilbault's shoes in 10,20,30,40,50,100 years. what tells you that we could not have an ultra religious who considers that the pro-choice position is a call to murder and that to promote himself is hate speech. would you still support this law in this context?
let us not let the government define hate. of course, some will be offended by certain hate speech aimed at their identity, as i am when i read the comments on an article in the gazette. but it is a small price to pay to prevent this climate of ambient censorship which prevents us from thinking from becoming radicalized and materializing legally even on the internet.
the state literally prosecuted a horror novelist criminal for "distributing child pornography" (the story was fictitious and there were no victims). this law will be immediately abused.
[
> none of the items on your list is criminal will be.
yeah, no government has ever abused its powers. it's not like people are already the targets of witch hunts and get their jobs taken off even without such a law, right? / s
tabarnak, we have mike ward who has to defend himself from making humor in the supreme court and you really believe that a law [designed to be abusive] ( -harms-bill-would-allow-secret-hearings-and-raises-charter-concerns-critics /) won't?
> none of the items on your list is criminal will be.
do you know what?
who will choose what is 'hate speech'? all of what donald trump said during his 4 years in the white house has been flagged as 'hate speech' by one media or another.
you have to be crazy to think the government is going to do anything good with it.
i would like a concrete example of what the liberals are up to. if that limits the power of gafam over the population, i have absolutely nothing against it.
> every human being has the right to respect point.
not?
if a good man tries to touch my children, you can be sure that i will disrespect them, both orally and physically.
respect is not a right and never will be, and the fact that you use the term 'right' for something like respect shows that you have no idea what it is.
> violence / discrimination against different groups in society (lgtbq, ethnic and / or cultural minorities, etc.).
>  
> so we little against those who are not minorities?
hate speech included the religions, even if they have hate speech in their texts sacred beautiful irony.
curious that it does not include those with different political opinions, which is already a privilege for the religious, because you can not insult the muslims but yes the conservative even if the 2 are a lot of personal beliefs.
the problem is, there is what is commonly accepted as hate speech. but, facebook being a platform where most communications take place, there will undoubtedly be events that will be at the limit of our common definition, because, in itself, hate speech is already prohibited by facebook (with sufficient moderation). bland i agree). the question is how these fines will be legislated, and to what extent the ideological fears of opponents of the liberals (such as sovereignists) will be justified.
this is the question everyone is asking here.
> in addition, you don't know who will be in guilbault's shoes in
10,20,30,40,50,100 years. what tells you that we couldn't have a
ultra religious who considers that the pro-choice position is a call to
murder and promoting it is hate speech.
i do not have this fear, because we will not vote for such a character. i think the government defines what hate is pretty well and its rhetoric already with the already existing laws banning hate propaganda so i don't think there is much to fear for your freedom of expression online.
so we should sit idly by and do nothing lest someone somewhere is abusing it in the same way that the criminal code should no longer prohibit child pornography because the state has abused it. is that what you are insinuating?
not even the liberals. legislating the notion of respect is just absurd.
to the person who reported this:
1. shit for playing me that.
2. explain how it is disinformation and we will talk about removing it. it's satire. worse if you are not able to explain it, well, you will put squirrels in your pants and damn us patience.
haha it's very similar
if you don't think exactly like me, it's because you're clearly against diversity!
ain't no more racist than the dems in the us they love so much to put up with blacks who crush them because those who really know what is good for blacks are whites tse
🤣
i've always said: two sides of the same coin
do you have to be a cucumber to think that this video shows anything beyond sarcastic humor. turn off radiox when you go to bed and you'll be okay!
the worst part is that they think the same.
yes. conservatives in the united states are passing nearly 400 black vote suppression laws because they lost the 2020 election.
clearly, they are the worst democrats.
o \ _o?
ok trotsky you got the wrong subreddit, r / uqam it's over there.
they say the same thing without even realizing it ... it's not the same words but it comes back to the same ...
segregation, the most important in life is skin color, you should encourage companies based on owner's skin color, if you have a dark blonde it's just psq like that "exotic". ..
give me any example of bullshit on one side or the other and i'll find you the same thing on the other side ...
i see a caricature of a real reality
what is this bill?
the two clans help each other and justify their own existence mutually.
several republican states want stricter regulations on voting by mail or identifying a person to vote. and biden wants to make voting even easier.
now i would like to see one that targets black.
that's sure the democrats will never make it harder to vote, they just won an election thanks to the mailing vote.
[
[
[
[
[
oh, the laws have no language that specifies black people in particular.
all laws are, by sheer coincidence, targeted at places where postal voting allowed democrats to win.
a simple coincidence. out of 11 million votes in the mail, there were 16 cases of fraud. so clearly, hundreds of laws to suppress the vote are needed.
this is not at all the childish, stupid, destructive revenge of the cult of donald to prevent those who vote against them from being able to vote easily.
where is the suppression of the african american vote?
16 cases of fraud only? my eye.
can you imagine that these laws specifically target the places that the conservatives have lost, that is, the areas where the majority black population voted by mail for the democrats?
so this is a project hostile to democrats, not african americans (?)
ok fake it's anti racist because you feel like it's racist.
you really are a shitty troll arguing in bad faith, aren't you?
hundreds of bills are being formed by (white) conservatives to make voting as difficult and painful as possible for predominantly black communities (who already have nearly ten hours of waiting to vote, because the conservatives have closed some hundreds of voting points to prevent black votes).
these are bills that equal the laws of the segregationist era of jim crow.
i can tell you the same thing.
i see an attempt to specifically destabilize the democratic vote, not to destabilize the african-american vote, which moreover is increasingly voting for the republican party.
and i am not at all pro-gop, republican, or anti-institutional / systemic racism in the us. only, in what is shown here, i do not see a targeted attempt to suppress the african american vote.
and here the laws mainly affect mail voting and more rigorous identifications.
all things based on donald's lies that there was massive mail-in voting fraud, which has been shown to be false over 60 times, when all the courts that have received these frivolous accusations have them. rejected.
and all of these laws are targeted specifically in areas that are predominantly inhabited by blacks.
he is quite right about masochism! if we had a referendum, canada would fight to keep us. but, they just have bad words for us. it's completely inconsistent.
comparing law 21 and 96 to nazi germany is a bit far-fetched
but it is martineau who says it only poop. / s
can we go our separate ways tomorrow? am ready. since a long time…
"gives the language police the right to seize minority phones and see if they speak enough french"
beh yes you
to say quite frankly, i am less against the concentration camps ...
as long as it's fair to journalists like warren kinsella ...
you have to believe that we quebecers have no heart.
"bill 96 targets minorities for the language they speak and bill 21 for their religion"
always this hiding behind the "minorités" it is cursed "canadians" because they do not have the balls to assume their hatred of quebec.
it's called richlerism, it's a foundation of federalism, we must at all costs preserve the image of simple nazis that mordecai richler has succeeded in giving to international separatists.
even a broken clock gives the correct time twice a day.
does it include quebec bashing or is there an exemption for old traditions?
the totalitarian woke regime takes place guys
it is time for me to get out of this country.
i'm just going to keep a foothold in canada just to suck this health insurance, but will spend elsewhere than here. 5 years and i am out.
it is well too vague as a law that will be applied according to the present narrative. we will never see an ethnic group having a fine.
the trudeauist great reset is taking place ... we will have to show him the door at the next election!
"hate speech" same thing with the use of the term "terrorism", these are words which do not mean anything any more and are used to violate our rights.
ah, that's what the conservatives are complaining about, more than being able to say the word in n with impunity. poor them!
by the way it's $ 20,000, the $ 16,000 is in 'murica bucks
obviously, this has always been the case on the internet. there has never been freedom of expression on the internet. it has always been contingent on the true owner of your expression of approval of what you say.
and if you say things that go against their profit, you're just going to make yourself disappear.
well then ! canada never does business like that !! ;)
no, since according to the wokes, whites cannot be victims of racism by virtue of their white privileges. people of color cannot be racist, they can only be prejudiced.
courtesy of the wokes. trudeau is lucky that he rules a country of sissy
.
exception for quebec bashing!
grandfather clause
i hate to admit it since i love our people, we are rooted in our land, but the quebec that i love is in extinction, and it will become so unlivable to go live as a hermit in the woods or go into exile. abroad is not so crazy.
right.
[2017 - arrest warrant in montreal against a jordanian imam] ( -a-montreal-against-a-jordanian-imam.php)
nothing to worry about! let's all vote for trudeau!
> ah, that's what the conservatives are complaining about, more than being able to say the word in n with impunity. poor them!
i see / r / leopardsatemyface in your future.
as with bill 21, there is a grandfather clause for quebec bashing.
i have my finger on french polynesia. the advantages of france without the disadvantages.
ok but the law has nothing to do with your article.
yikes no, just if there is a risk that the conservatives will win.
if not bloc or ndp, whichever is more likely to beat the liberals in my county.
france is still going well in some departments. cantal, for example. or you can go and live in a norman village. but since it risks falling by the end of the century, we are probably not safe anywhere in france.
"we will never see an ethnic group having a fine"
it is already done for the motive of hatred.
"not related to the law"
obviously, she's on the floor just now. i don't know how to travel to the future, so i can't say who will be sentenced. what i can say is that there have been precedents.
are you seriously considering voting for the ndp, with their religious leader who despises quebecers? the ndp will be eradicated from quebec in the next election and that is fine.
i see very little difference between lib, ndp and block. only the conservatives have consistently degraded my quality of life.
best of all, a minority government crippled by any of these 3 parties.
to think of the ndp in terms of its leader, and to imagine that it is an anti-quebec religious, it is an fm radio dj hallucination.
there are a lot of people who speak french if you go to see elsewhere than with the mohawks ... and even there, the times i went to kahnawake, not at all to buy cigarettes and vodka at $ 10 , usually i come across a mohawk who speaks a lot more quebecois than a crazy oqlf with his "could i" instead of "i can you"
however, their problem is that they are far too federalist for an ethnic group, which has also been fucked up by canada.
> kim campbell also underlined that her committee was satisfied with the
diversity of candidates on its list. among the 18 candidates,
seven of them identified as belonging to a minority
visible, three identified with a culture or ethnicity
specifically, five identified as indigenous and one identified as
the ** lgbtq ** community.
easier to communicate one's private sexual orientations than the language of the second founding people. perhaps the coat of arms should be updated ...
a strap-on between the lion and the unicorn?
we should suggest that they appoint whoever they want to the supreme court, but on the condition that it no longer has jurisdiction over anything in quebec and that we create our own supreme court.
quebec is and has been as abusive as the roc towards the first nations. no difference, they have always gone hand in hand on the racism side.
not what the article says
> their problem is that they are far too federalists
precisely, ideal candidates for the sacrosanct supreme court! proof that the bilingualism is just that, bilingualism.
they have a right to forgive the government of canada for what they have done. i don't see why they should take our grudge against the federal government as an example. after all, they were historically enemies of the french settlers and their huron allies if i remember correctly. in addition, they are far from being white as snow either ...
[
> but on the condition that it no longer has jurisdiction over anything in quebec and that we make our own supreme court.
it's strange, i just thought lately that if canada were sincere about multiculturalism, quebec would have its own supreme court with judges appointed by the provincial government.
this is what is implied by ms. campbell. bilingualism would be an obstacle to progressivism. you can be sure that if we agree as long as it is a unilingual francophone candidate that all of a sudden it will not be correct for them.
it seemed to me more like the first "politicly correct" defeat mrs. campbell could find. to say that they failed to find a native with the necessary qualifications would surely not have passed. rather, let's denounce the existence of the missing prerequisite, it is safer.
tabarouette is defeatist and depressing.
i do believe, however, that he is correct when he says that the federalists and sovereignists have failed. and that this leads to general indifference towards politics and the quebec nation, and the elvis gratton phenomenon. ultimately, we will have to look at these questions again and decide what we are. boomers and x's are political cynics, and millennials and z don't care. one day we will have important issues to decide and a new generation will have to position itself.
the quebec people will disappear like padmé amidala, * just lost the will to live *
yes, there will be a new political cycle after the boomers and the caq, what it will look like remains to be seen. and by the time we're there ... our self-assimilation continues.
i wouldn't say we're in assimilation mode. all it takes is a spark, a unifying movement and young people will rally behind. getting closer to the usa and the rest of the world does not mean that we are giving up.
indeed, the cycle after the caq and soft nationalism will be either radically federalist, or the separatist parties will reinvent themselves and rally the z. that remains to be seen.
also, do not forget that we are on the status quo, on the move, both in canada and in quebec. imagine a major event that shakes up canada, we will see the movement fairly quickly. the politicians have no project to present to the population and it shows.
finally someone who dares to talk about it. unlike martineau, i believe that the chinese people also played a certain role in the spread of the virus (1.3 billion inhabitants in an area smaller than that of the united states, it is not nothing).
either way, blaming isn't so much the point. yes, china is accountable, but the stakes are now far too high to ignore the lessons learned from this pandemic, starting with the relocation of foreign labor, favoring distributing it to other territories, and why not even repatriate it to a lesser extent.
unfortunately i doubt that this debate will come to an end, if ever, or perhaps with the next pandemic. apart from a few rare personalities, very few people have addressed this issue, the only thing that matters to people is to leave their homes and start life again without limits, the abusive consumption they enjoyed, lifestyles that multinationals have an interest in promoting since a debate on china is not in their interest at all.
> from mid-january 2020
haha, no. they had known this since [november 2019.] (
le début d'un [volte-face](
the virus chintok
> if not never or perhaps at the next pandemic.
we were lucky with covid ... it kills people but it was a "warning shot" ... the next risk of having a mortality rate of 95% and we did not understand ... we are still too moumoune to say the real business even if it targets certain groups.
i shared a daily mail article about china a few weeks ago on this forum and was told that the daily mail had no credibility ...
trump was right.
absolutely
the daily mail is a tabloid: sometimes it misses, sometimes it hits hard. those who say he has no credibility probably took one of their articles that hit the nail on the head for once.
this tabloid is also able to obtain videos on quebec events before our media. also, the jdem will secretly repost articles from the daily mail if they are verified. i've seen too much of this to consider jdem as an original source now.
but it's still a tabloid: you have to be careful. on the other hand, here, the daily mail went there with a bombardment of screenshots very difficult to contradict.
several "conspirators" were talking about it and we painted them around and we laughed at them. everyone is afraid of china.
now that biden is in power, it's okay to talk about it. :)
here is the quebec inferiority complex, which i described previously, in all its glory. linguists are unanimous: [anglicisms in no way indicate the degree of health of a language on a demographic scale] ( -la-langue-francaise) (three quebec linguists unanimously here).
when you spend so much time devoting yourself to the purity of your french, you are blaming yourself for something. it is counterproductive. we are therefore complexed by our language. the french, them, employ excessively anglicisms, yet the language is not the least threatened of extinction at home.
anyway it's a sterile fight because a language without its local culture becomes something forced and soulless ... o can force immigrants to learn french but very few will assimilate our culture. as the majority of imigrants reproduce faster than the quebecois guess the continuation of the quebecois minority ....
anglicism has existed for over 200 years and many words "quebecois" are of english origin
a binne - a bean, a bean
this quebec word is an anglicism which comes directly from the english word "bean".
welcome - you're welcome / happy / no what
this word comes directly from the french translation of the expression "you are welcome" used by english speakers in this specific context.
underwear - panties, underpants (in short, underwear)
the origin of this quebec word is very mysterious. the most likely hypothesis is that it comes from the english verb "to bob" which means "to dance, to agitate, to swing", to which quebecers would have added the suffix "ette" to create this word.
the trunk box - the letter box
this word comes from a literal and then fancized translation of the english word "mailbox". the word "mail" having gradually transformed into a "trunk" with the quebec parlance.
and many others that you can find on the internet ....
scotch tape is a trademark ... it's like saying a frigidaire ... there's no more quebecois than saying a frigidaire, sti ... you just say "refrigerator" when you have a pineapple in the ass and try not to say "frigidaire" sounds like ...
the quebecois is not 100% "french" it is quebecois.
are you just me or is it when we decided that "forgive me, dear lady, could i have duct tape?" it was quebecois and not just fif? "pass me the scotch tape"
by the way yes i said fif ... for the context i have the same definition as mike ward ["it doesn't mean gay, it means it shows fifure"] ( / fcgtgtsj9jk? t = 101)
i have a question pk does absolutely a french-speaking coach or players with the ch? just the same are all rotten lol i will not see any cup before my death 😵
several things should be distinguished. anglicisms in language, in itself, is not dangerous for the language. except that there are anglicisms that are more problematic than others. it's okay to use anglicisms, unless you use it because you don't know its french equivalent. this shows a lack of education and mastery of the language and that is dangerous.
"contaminated" lol
in france the language is not threatened because they are not in the same situation as us. we are few in number and surrounded only by the english language by canada and the usa.
the children of immigrants are, in 90% of cases, quebecers. it is never having spoken to an indian child of parc-extension to believe that assimilation, * a natural process of the effect of the environment on the person *, would not work in quebec.
yes, 50% of immigrants speak english at home, but those who settle here will see the majority of their children speaking french + english + mumble on the language of mum and dad, while those who absolutely hate quebeckers tend to seek citizenship in ontario (easier), then rarely come back to live in quebec. the vast majority of anglo-saxon immigration to quebec is here for economic reasons and is rarely permanent.
i do not see why so much alarmism about the assimilation of quebecers.
conversely, 2/3 of the english vocabulary also comes from french.
stooler, toaster (the verb, and all its conjugations in french), timeur, speedometer, crosser, etc.
i find our obsession with anglicisms very pathetic. i would prefer that we accept the passive influence on languages, if not so that anglophones join us in proportion to bilinguals.
hahaha it's a classic this clip
this is explained because 95% of the canadiens fans are thick.
no, but in france the same discourse exists around arabic vernaculars and borrowings from them. it's just as cringe, in my opinion. france is no worse off if young people say diwallah
obviously, but the use of anglicisms has nothing to do with this if it is only a symptom of a conscious evil.
because i don't have the impression that 50% of them adopt french.
a lot of indians you speak of are going for a walk with their cow dung on their heads and who knows the kitchen knife on their belt. they will never be quebecers except on paper ..... and if i believe the students who came, before the pandemic, to 1000, sherbrooke east in montreal (opposite my home), most of them barely spoke french. ....
by the way, these are words that come from latin. but not sure it's 2/3
except that they all speak french without exception. over the centuries, many borrowings have been made without this affecting the power of the french language in france in a demographic way. a healthy language can afford these luxuries, that's normal.
normal impression if you just base it on the people walking down the street in montreal. but again, half of those are here temporarily, and their children probably won't learn french, but for the remaining half, my point still stands: children learn french sooner or later.
if, 2/3 of the english vocabulary comes from french:
never 2 without 3...
thanks for reposting!
“\ [they \] should have won. this is the whole discussion on immigration ect. far from me to say that we should not have won, i am starting to get a little tired of this kind of speech. this only reinforces the idea that immigration is the cause of all the ills of modern quebec, which is obviously false.
edit: i forgot that i do not hold nomos-tv in very high regard after all the junk i found in less than 5min. they are, in my eyes, generally as reliable as a radio-dustbin in quebec. i also find that they tarnish a little the image of the patriots by calling themselves "patriotic" web tv.
nice. i would like to hear zemmour speak more in depth.
well, i was going to post the full video but i can't find it anymore.
the program, about the new caledonian referendum, was interesting and very informative, as most of the time with the analyzes of eric zemmour.
what is quite fascinating in the new caledonian context is that it is reminiscent of, as zemmour himself described it well, the * ethnico-political-histo-national geopolitical * dimension of quebec. . thus, the kanak people would perhaps, following these findings, be more comparable to quebec than are the usual references, namely scotland and catalonia.
it is well known that chrétien accelerated the naturalization of immigrants settled in quebec at a record rate in order to drown the historic french-speaking majority. and it worked.
you are totally right and besides tv-names seems to me nothing more than a collection of supremcist with the iq of the fraction
should invite him to quebec ... i think he never came.
oh yes? how many immigrants did he bring back during the first 2 years of his mandate?
in fact, he would be squandered by the woke inquisition.
it was not the immigrants he brought in, it was the naturalized immigrants. 84% (!!) increase in 2 years.
*** political use of citizenship ***
* another major federal initiative during the referendum campaign: the extraordinary acceleration of the issuance of citizenship certificates to quebec immigrants awaiting naturalization. as noted by journalist pierre o'neill, du devoir, this bureaucratic runaway began with the election of the parti québécois in 1994, because the number of new citizens in 1993 was only 23,800, but jumped to 40, 500 in 1994, then to 43,850 in 1995, climbing 84% in two years. *
[
i do not have the figures for 1994, but the level of naturalization suffices to say that between 1993 and 1995 they increased by 87%, going from 23,799 to 43,855. there are 11,400 naturalizations only for the month of october 1995. then what luck, these same naturalizations fell by 39% in 1996. mmmmh you have to understand that blinded by national unity, ottawa saw fit to naturalize up to chic types like the tunisian [abderraouf jdey] ( // en.wikipedia.org/wiki/abderraouf_jdey). after entering canada under false papers to seek asylum, he began his career as a terrorist. the fbi is also offering up to [$ 5m] ( for information leading to his capture. this political maneuver is fairly well documented. add to that a panoply of other shady deceptions, including 338,104 voters not registered with the ramq, and the federal intention is clear. canada had decided to win and if in quebec we refuse to observe the electoral patterns that emerge among immigrants, in ottawa they are perfectly aware of it.
you're right, but neither is he. knowing that the referendum was played at plus or minus 1%, did the * ethnic vote, * as used by parizeau at the time, manage to tip the balance of 1%? it is not bad on that that the question arises. but yes overall i am also of the opinion that immigration is instrumentalized as much on one side as on the other.
that's fine, but these 80,000 immigrants are only a few compared to all the quebecers born here who voted no. i don't see why they should take the brunt of the blame. it is time to come to the facts, a large proportion of quebecers of origin voted no in 1995 and these represent a larger part of the vote than immigrants.
on this i fully agree, canada used illegal or morally dubious means to promote a victory for the no. only to say that it is the fault of the immigrants ... i have a little trouble with it.
it is certain that he has the means to qualify. obviously, it is more a case of instrumentalization than of bad faith on the part of these naturalized people. les bleu poudre did [a pretty funny number] ( on this subject. nonetheless, the argument that foreigners robbed or at least were used to rob the will of the french canadian majority remains fairly credible. the federalist outcry of ethnic associations, be they jewish, italian or greek, disappoints for a while. and what about the disparity between the clearly majority french-speaking vote for yes and the non-french one almost exclusively no, it is striking. it's a shame because the acrimony surrounding this debate is potentially limitless, but that is the state of the art. when we go to 54,288 votes for victory, it is certain that all eyes will turn to a couple of 10,000 here, a couple of 10,000 through which in the long run add up and weigh all their weight in the balance.
“well outside! we canadians don't want quebecers in our country! ”
«don't forget! you most vote no at the next referendum» 
gorgeous!
nothing more to say, he is absolutely right. these laws would not be necessary if we did not allow ourselves to be done.
the maverick show changed my life as an english speaker. it's a fucking cultural genocide that anglos don't know this guy and patrick lagacé. don't get me started on rémy girard and marc labrèche. fucking national treasures.
the arguments for the protection of the french language can serve as a springboard for the protection of minority languages around the world.
when i meet beige becky with her lululemon bag telling me she agrees with the freedom of tibet and not the freedom of québec i hold my head in fucking shame. there are parallels to be made. and to argue it brands me as racist.
on many occasions i have complained to oplfq as an anglophone. in quebec it is french first. french first. there are how many other provinces and territories that speak english first? give us one.
the protection of the french language in quebec can come to the aid of french-speaking minorities in canada.
but no, shy as the law. ok i guess.
so anglophones in francophone schools and francophones in anglophone schools. oh shit? my bilingualism makes me a target for sovereignists? i am a screeching sovereignist!
the new measures of bill 101, here is the result: a large number of francophones will emigrate to ontario or elsewhere to learn english. game over for language protection. fml.
can not believe that we do not push forward in french language education for people who emigrate and / or immigrate to quebec to make them learn good french.
nope. xénophobie. sweet jesus. 
it's like trying to move a fucking elephant i swear and any drastic measure is labeled as faciste. 
to the tune of dire straights-money for nothing
"i want my i want my i want my rddddiiiii"
"now look at them yo-yo's 
that's the way you do it
you play guitar on rdi
that ain't workin' that's the way you do it
money is worth fuck all and we're stunned "
lay off my dick this rhyming franglais was hard. bon dimanche gang!
with us? well no, the home does not exist. we're just another minority in canada. like the chinese or the arabs or the indians ... to say otherwise is racist and colonial, of course.
we are not at home, we are on an ancestral land of the natives ... after all, we know very well that the french are responsible for their genocide ... not the english who came after ...
to say that we are at home and that we can do what we want is systemic racism ... quebecers are racists ... crisse de quebecois ... speak white.
/s
that said. for francophone music, if i have to listen to safia nolin or alex nevsky, i creak into a wall with my tank.
we are our own invaders.
the sad part is that now you have to know how to speak english everywhere, even for minimum wage jobs.
yes tabarnak
it's a bit like the egg or the chicken. people are not idiots. centuries of survival to culminate in an american / anglo-saxon cultural tsunami. i understand that many drop out, even without verbalizing or mentalizing it. the existential threat weighs heavily in the long run. it wears out.
---
let me theorize and ** ramble ** freely, for the sake of writing stuff that possibly doesn't make any sense.
perhaps there is a cultural and epigenetic mechanism that causes members of an endangered culture to end up accepting or even desiring (consciously or unconsciously) their own assimilation in order to move away from this existential danger. perhaps there is a tipping point where the evolutionary reproductive pressure of ** memes ** (culture) inhibits or negatively affects the reproduction of ** genes ** (each individual). at this point, a hypothetical epigenetic and epimemetic mechanism comes into play in order to eliminate the danger to the organism (cultural and biological). in other words, representatives of a people living with existential cultural insecurity would end up accepting and embracing the cause of this insecurity, in this case another culture. this could be observed, among other things, by a voluntary integration into the other culture, or by a low fertility rate of the natives (less reproduction, less danger). as long as the genes feel themselves in evolutionary danger, they will prefer to migrate from one cultural organism to another to move away from the harmful effects of the decomposition of the cultural body. by the random nature of evolution, this obviously happens in various ways and to varying degrees, but remains observable. but what is clear is that as long as each individual must ensure the survival of the cultural body, which requires a lot of energy, the biological body, driven by its genes, will tend to migrate towards a cultural body in better health.
finally, if this phenomenon existed, we would be in the presence of a circularity in the case which concerns us: french is doing badly in canada because french is threatened in canada. to resolve the existential concern of french canadians, we must succeed in perpetuating french canadian culture, which involves eliminating the source of existential danger, by legislative means in the case at hand. any measure that fails to eliminate the existential angst of french canadians will fail its other goals. it seems to me that, according to this _highly scientific_ (/ s) analysis, the pl96 may not be exactly what we need right now, but who knows.
what is sad is the fact that we take a gun and shoot ourselves in the foot.
there is so much french music out there, and then nothing forces you to listen to recent popular music.
fortunately it is not limited to these two. safia nolin is boring indeed.
nice gestures to flatter us with the grain ... but i prefer socio-economic measures!
still, it is a nice gesture that will give some meaning to our motto "i remember" which for many does not mean much.
powder for the eyes.
a start ... what will his powers be and will they be applied?
it's not a panacea, but it's also more than i expected. we will see what it will give ...
i oppose the creation of this ministry until it is demonstrated to me that it is effective. for now, this gesture testifies to the exotic character of the french language, which is both worrying and unacceptable.
what do we do with the bureaucrats and civil servants in the ministries assigned to these tasks \ * currently \ * in culture, education, immigration, etc? a new bead filled with bogus posts for the obese as a certain columnist of jdem would say?
don't make me believe that no one was in charge of ensuring that the taxes went to minimally french-speaking objectives, especially at university or culture .....
blah, it's like the commission it's not much use apart from wasting cash, before that i prefer to have more agents to respond to complaints from companies that do not respect law 101.
do not worry, not only will we have a ministry, but also a commission to be able to exchange the ball with the office!
> would "progressivism" give greater capital of indulgence when we say bullshit?
no, these people literally believe that law 21 is the equivalent of putting people in concentration camps and enslaving them.
i hope so.
mbc fantasizes a lot this week.
me too, esti
haha. i think he feels what i mentioned yesterday, that is to say that we are at a crossroads, it remains to be seen what will happen.
despite our differences (for example, i find that he is not open enough as to the recognition of discrimination, i believe that it would greatly improve the scope of his speech to discuss real discrimination and possible solutions instead of only target ideologues), i think he's right. we have just entered a kind of twilight zone where i firmly believe that the story can change. it does not mean that anything is going to happen ... except that i feel that the "stars are aligned" for constitutional action. it is not trivial to live in a country without having signed the constitution. it is not trivial to accept for decades the court judgments whose legitimacy we have never accepted. even if we can masturbate and produce a legal argument explaining why it doesn't change whether quebec signs or not, it remains that morally, from a very fundamental, ontological point of view, it is a nasty problem. the current regime certainly works, it leads to the creation of wealth, it is not the gulag as lévesque said. except that the process of creating this state being in a way flawed at its very root (have there been any referendums for the quebec act, the bna act, 1982, etc ?!), i firmly believe that we live on borrowed time.
maybe it won't bother anyone (it's the federalist bet from the start - let's wait long enough, hold our own and the tiring ones will either be too few in number or will eventually be assimilated in language or culture), or maybe that it will bother enough people to fuck shit ... no matter what happens, i think it's pretty obvious that there is meat in droves to get angry ...
we can no longer count his chronicles with an almost identical title. this time around, it has the potential to snowball if the caq decides to make it a hobbyhorse, but legault must still be ready to respond to the refusal he will invariably obtain.
just this week?
ah yes, there is no better time to think about that than in times of crisis. it's kind of like people who finished their mario kart races (or other games) before leaving because of the fire alarm. when you don't know how to handle a crisis, you have to go about it with originality. if there is an earthquake at home, i will cut down trees to pile them up in the street, i don't think anyone ever thinks of trying that, it's very original.
ah, yes friends, didn't you know that disability and chronic illness are important vectors of diversity and therefore of strength, never of weakness! see, the law that a candidate for immigration requiring more than $ 21,204 in care per year is a drag is fundamentally unfair. these costs should be seen as an investment! who says they couldn't go to school, find a job, or even volunteer? especially in this year of pandemic we are able to see the resilience and excess capacity of our health system. i therefore welcome this reshuffle with open arms!
we do not have the means for free education, but we have them for that, for example.
here i will let my social-democratic side take the floor which will probably cause controversy on this sub.
immigration should be in the image of our society, that is to say not to take into account medical factors, to put the future citizen on an equal level with an immigrant in full health without taking into account his disabilities . i like to believe that a society can really be universal by focusing fully on the citizen. losing sight of that ideal would be a bitter failure for all these years of hard work. equality of opportunity must be asserted everywhere, not just arbitrarily, this is true universalism.
a real joke, the health system is already struggling to treat its own citizens. what bullshit.
if you want to see how it's going to go, check out this phenomenon in sweden in recent years, and the explosion of abuse: "brukarimport"
it's pretty awful. good intentions but bad conceptions frequently lead to this ...
immigration is a privilege that we grant to others, we have the luxury of choosing.
voluntarily import problems, no standards. talk about a loser mentality.
that is why we need immigration control.
the worker who participates in the scheme does not have to pay for others if his change does not change, we will have to separate workers and non-workers, each is a regime ya bin beau pay taxes and then taxes but at one point have work to live one can too.
the problem with that, what does it give us just to take a nigerian quadriplegic? not to be mean, but the purpose of immigration is to plug the holes ... not to make them bigger ...
> the health system is already struggling to care for its own citizens
that's okay, why would we be treated more than an iranian with down's syndrome? we are just another minority like the others. except when they do quebec bashing, we are no longer a minority like the others but white racists.
the message that the pandemic has been sending from the start: we are all equal citizens, it is for this reason that the vast majority are forced to protect the sickest.
if we falter at this task, we are no more than the united states for which there are two classes of citizens: those who are worth the cost and those who are not.
> user import
this is what will happen. we are currently unable to fight the human traffickers who coordinate a significant part of illegal immigration and now we will give them a dose of steroids by relaxing the rules.
if you had read before adopting a position, you would understand that i am talking about raising standards.
the mentality of loser here is yours: you don't just grant a luxury without taking advantage of it. it is the hospital that spits on charity. such an attitude will make us lose.
there is a way to take advantage of it, as a resource. the immigrant asks only that.
what do you prefer, an allophone immigrant, communitarized who judges quebecers too much on their territory; or a disabled francophone immigrant wishing to contribute to quebec?
honestly, you confirm that we are true settlers destined to lose forever.
> what exactly does it give us to take a nigerian quadriplegic?
a feel good story about an immigrant who costs us 500k per year. yay.
must see the list. i prefer to see this nigerien contributing to the cause (artist, francophonie, teleworking, etc.), to give him the tools of emancipation that he did not previously have. selection criteria can be high without excluding an immigrant on medical grounds.
the goal is simple: we appropriate this almost inexhaustible resource which requires only that rather than leaving it in ammunition to the anglosphere. it is a winning pact. nothing prevents us from doing it until the refusal. and when that happens, we'll have all the legitimacy we need to go our separate ways.
how are you going to go about separating when your vote is in the minority in favor of immigration spoiled on your taxes?
if you take the trouble to read (well), i explain how to make these immigrants vote "yes".
we're never going to be able to go our separate ways without it.
even though they would be given all the care and services they did not have before, it is the federal government that gives them citizenship. so the federal government is reaping the honors that quebec is giving.
have known how the federal system works and the liberal party represents the federal government that they are no further ahead.
quebec must use these powers.
the federal government decides until we refuse.
have you ever learned to say no?
have always said no remember the night of the long knives.
it was the queen who forcibly included us.
there is not much canada can do except use force. and if that happens, we have all the arguments to separate.
it's really good to see that. remind the usual suspects what the people of quebec really think.
obviously everyone wants quebec to remain francophone, even canadians. this is a false question.
the real question concerns first of all the methods, the linguistic balance of power and the culture, to get out of the very cute louisiana concept. there, the consensus disappears.
what should really be done is an english strike. basically, we are creating a movement that all quebecers who embark, we completely stop accommodating anglo quebecers by speaking english to them in shops, at work, and elsewhere. roughly speaking, the terms are as follows:
1- we no longer speak a word of english to anyone who lives or works in quebec
2- the only authorized exception is if you are addressing a non-resident of quebec who cannot reasonably be expected to speak french. example if you have to call a customer in the states.
i come from a family with scottish ancestors. but i consider myself a quebecer above all. my family has been living in quebec for several generations and we only keep the english aspect in name. not long ago i considered sovereignty to be a stupid idea. but by identifying myself with quebec culture and its people, i not only found a homeland to belong to but also a cause. i had become a sovereignist and i regret my old ideas. as a minor it saddens me to see my classmates have no interest in learning about politics and if they are, they will be liberal. he doesn't like our school system he doesn't show the liberal party as the best party or maybe i'm just in a school where pure quebecers are in the minority. in short i know that my comment started from the subject of the article, but i thank the creators of this reddit for allowing me to better inform myself on the news of the cause and to discuss with those who keep it alive . in any case, i still hope to be a citizen of the republic of quebec.
i am a quebecker of old french origin, and i think it is high time to stop talking and become independent now. long live free quebec today!
[photo from article including announcement to learn english at mtl] (
while reading the article, an advertisement invites me to learn english in montreal mdr!
it's been a few times that facal has been shaking the polarizing headlines. it is not to his credit. i hope he will be able to get up with the critical gaze we know him before he becomes a caricature of the reactionary.
it is nothing to understand. on the one hand, joseph facal rightly instrumentalizes professor attaran's speech and on the other he calls for its censorship in the name of canadian law. for a guy who never ceases to promote freedom of expression and its growing relativity within the canadian circus, it would be necessary to plug in.
there is no systemic discrimination in quebec ...
before pitching downvotes, is it impossible to have a bilingual identity?
it's great that you now share our dream of having a country!
i am like you but from a latin american family.
my mother's side has its origins in scotland too. all quebecers through the generations have necessarily come from somewhere.
you remind me of that tiny cute robot in futurama that wants to kill all the humans!
i also noticed that he wandered more and more in his last columns. i have the impression that he is transforming into what he denounces.
the question is not out of order, but it remains to be demonstrated. the bilingual peoples who have lived through history don't run through the streets.
yes, it is french-speaking quebecers.
um yes (?). not sure you understand your question.
separatism isn’t about killing nor destroying anyone. we are other than canadians & we want to own and control our own country.
pierre trudeau. louis riel. wood runner.
sorry? i am english speaking and trilingual.
i know that. it was to imply that you were adorable in a condescending way. 😆
and like the first comment, report?
😳
ok. maybe i misunderstood. i am trilingual. my mother tongue is english. your response to my comments (from what i understand) meant that only francophones were bilingual. did i understand your comment correctly?
🥰😋✌
we also speak english, it's just not an identity.
mli also i am english, french, spanish tribling.
louis riel was a métis, that's a nation.
ps: because in the camada the majority of french canadians are bilingual but not english canadians.
50% vs 15% around.
ah thank you. i wanted stats. where did you find this information? thank you !!
statistics canada.
outside of quebec, only 5% of english people speak french.
even in the province of canada alone, nb, only 15% of english people speak french vs. + 85% of acadians.
this is what we are against "bilingualism" because that just means franco bilingual anglo unilingual, example in the sports teams of canada we speak only english, french is even prohibited or discouraged.
apt in quebec and english people outside quebec who want to work for the federal government, very few people are "bilingual".
the "chiac" (fr english spoken in nb) is only the acadians who use it.
same thing in quebec, a mtl un franco is going to use a lot more anglo words than an english is going to use franco word apart from a few coronations.
hey! thanks a lot for the stats !!!
you're welcome.
it's excellent. the solution to not confuse people and highlight our motto "i remember".
since jfl brings back the godwin point and pierre elliott trudeau's very special affection for him, let me remind you of this little-known fact. in 1942, three years after canada's entry into the war, pierre elliott trudeau decided to ride a motorcycle with the german stahlhelm for a laugh. two years later, he went into exile in the united states to avoid the conscription imposed by the liberal party. a deserter with a seditious sense of humor, not a strong name!
ho that i would like to see trudeau son in there haha
converts are often the most zealous.
he wouldn't say anything because deep down he 100% agree. do not kid ourselves.
there is a solution; independence ... another example where quebecers and the rest of canada do not get along at all.
in addition, the figures show that quebecers wish to get rid of the monarchy without achieving independence, but in reality it is almost unthinkable. because for canada to get rid of the monarchy, that would require an almost complete rewrite of the canadian constitution, which the federalists no longer dare to touch. in short, without independence, we are stuck with it for a very long time.
"against the 65% of montrealers who favor the prohibition of religious symbols for police officers and 58% for teachers (crop sur la cma november 2018)."
the debate is closed. thank you good night.
> ** quebec is now a benchmark for extremist supremacists around the world **
uh, no!
thank you very much for sharing.
as much as i find inclusive writing naive, in this case, it is a problem that would be solved with a simple adjustment of the software used.
when did this change date? it seems to me that when i learned my french, we did inclusive writing with parentheses ... never heard of "midpoint" before today.
we understand, lepage and turcotte are not heavyweights at the level of the intellectual or the interview.
this ti mathieu seems to me to be part of the extreme right. have you seen how he does not immediately agree with all the statements coming from our honorable quebec stars?
the left in 10 seconds.
he got turned around like a pancake. guy a. lepage also suffered the same fate.
we are still talking about radio-canada, the largest gathering of francophone liberals in montreal.
ladies and gentlemen, we have a case of npc with 404 error here!
if you don't know goodyear ...
i find that to lend intentions to dany turcotte or guy a. lepage on this point is inappropriate.
ben lepage was able at least to say clearly that bill 101 is not systemic racism and he answered in a clear and frank manner.
turcotte is more there to add fuel to the fire and as 'comedy relief', but it is practically impossible against someone with a front like mbc. usually he does his role very well but in this case it will not have worked for him.
he speaks too fast when what he says is illegitimate.
> guy a. lepage 
is against law 21.
> turcotte
has never been very strong and tlmep has never had ben ben strong researchers.
sometimes, and this since the 1st show, they invite guests they know nothing about.
it is also true that mbc was somewhat in a fury of emotion also towards the second half of his interview. perhaps dany turcotte's words or jokes would have gone better if mbc had indeed remained slightly more stoic.
but hey, i don't see any controversial or offensive comments either.
* he uses artificial words! *
lepage was caught in the act and wasn't sure how to respond.
that is an excellent observation.
like a few years ago, there was one of harper's henchmen who showed up defending israel's crimes against palestine and all turcotte was able to do was compliment him on his blue eyes. .
what an idiot.
well ok but i would have a hard time blaming them anyway.
turcotte remains a pleasant person who still animates well even if sometimes his * fall flat *. he's as capable of playing the role of * comedy relief * as he is of * average joe * when asking obvious questions, which often allows guests to debunk myths or justify points that might not be obvious to the audience. public.
guya is a seasoned interlocutor and what i really appreciate is that he allows the guests time to express themselves without cutting them off, by listening to them and then his rare 'interjections' that he makes are intended to ensure a continuity of the conversation (deepen the reflection i would say).
and more, he has a lot of tact. he never belittles his guests, and i still find him * fair play *, especially on radio. if you want to see the reverse, check when anne-marie dussault interviewed marine le pen. you may not agree with le pen, but the interview was a disaster; radiocan's political position was obvious, conveyed by the host who explicitly sought to discredit her guest.
to come back to tlmep, although sometimes the subjects covered are really important, it's still a show and if they want the public to continue watching the show, you need a certain dynamism, and i find that this duo ensures it anyway. good.
words of three syllables! three!
confirming what mbc was saying. unable to speak out because he does not want to be crucified.
wow, what progressivism!
no; because mbc was in a passionate impulse and they did not know how to duly popularize their remark or remarks which i consider perfectly sincere in their intention.
i found the interview in question.
this is chris alexander, as of february 9, 2014.
to try and sound competent, they invited yakov rabkin and rachad antonius to talk about the israeli-palestinian conflict properly, and not just to gulp down the salads alexander had fed them while he was there.
if you've ever fantasized about a time machine to change the outcome of this battle at the controls of your apache, know that i understand you * thoroughly *.
haha, rather get high. but i never said that the french were the only ones to have been good during the battle! the english soldiers also made a great effort because they won.
my fellow dude, i am annoyed that after co-founding "modern" (late medieval) england and leading the score for so long, france got demolished in the second half all over the place. but at least they were snubbed about supporting the independence of the united states. and then dunkirk is still a noble gesture (of french sacrifice) and i think we have to bury the ax at some point. as much as the way the english scuttled europe between the 80s and 2000s made me angry, boris johnson and brexit pity them.
that said, new france deserved to exist from all points of view.
i'm sure new france could have become a wonderful colony under the french. if only napoleon would have made a turn when it was still there, he would have kick-kicked them. then about the americans, i say that but i know that this is not the case for all americans but france has helped them a lot and they would never have had independence without them. even until given a huge statue then today they laugh at the french for having the white flag during the second war. frankly :/. then also england had a big boost with the first industrial era
i bury the ax when the english leave us alone. as long as they continue to oppose us, i will resist!
_bot maître capelo_ 
apparently you made a mistake, the correct conjugation is
i know**
negotiations following the victory of a yes? lol.
independence cannot be asked for, it is seized by force. a people is liberated and that is all. i have watched the history and development of civilizations of nations for millennia, and few countries ask for freedom.
they tear themselves away from the yoke of the dominant country or government and proclaim themselves free.
i have so many examples to provide that i am running out of time. the revolt of congolese slaves in haiti with jean-jacques dessalines, the overthrow of apartheid and the new mixed south africa, the fragmentation of the nations of the former ussr and so on.
and in the examples i have just cited, you will tell me that they are not situations where the line is neat and clear leading to national independence, and that is precisely the point. each culture, each people, each society personalizes its taking of freedom with the means at hand, without asking for it.
to follow the hypothetical scenario of a post referendum of the victory of the yes, why consider that quebec would end up in an unprecedented economic crisis?
with so many potential economic partners, it's hard to believe that quebec would be alone in the world.
and would foreign interests established in quebec for years leave? surely. would immigrants who are new canadian citizens surely leave for ontario?
they leave for fear of experiencing a major economic crisis in the new quebec, and believe that it will be better for them to face the uncertainty in ontario, to seek the error.
in any case, the separatists and separatists have nothing to fear since the margin which separated the yes and the no is so thin, that ottawa fears that an upcoming referendum will make the yes pass by a thin margin, despite all their efforts. strategies for manipulating the results of this kind of ballot.
you're right in that sense, if we become a country and mtl votes at 55% to join canada, are you going to let them do it? of course not, it's the same for ottawa, thinking that they will let canada be separated in two by an independent quebec, the only viable nonviolent options is by a major boycott and a disobedience which will piss off the federal government so much that the roc squeals at us, the only time we have done something similar is at the time of the conscription when the english passed a law which gives the option to the rock by a vote of all the provinces the right of us screeching out of confederation.
i should really deny myself and write the text on the negotiations that i want to write for a few years. you don't seem to understand that negotiations are necessary in order to decide the details. for example:
* for prisoners in penitentiaries, do we have to redo the trials? how will the transfer of powers take place?
* how will citizenship work? dual citizenship for all residents of quebec? forced to choose between the two citizenships?
* when does independence take effect, and what will be the last fiscal year in which quebecers pay canadian taxes?
* how is the army divided?
several transfers of power will have to take place and good faith negotiations between quebec and canada would be beneficial to both countries. but this is precisely where i expect it will go wrong: canada will not want to negotiate in good faith. the idea that canada has of "negotiations" is the partition of quebec under various pretexts, demands for financial "reparations" and the isolation of quebec on the international scene. it would then be imperative for quebec to denounce these negotiations as not being in good faith and to achieve independence unilaterally.
interesting. the worst thing is that quebec is really close to having a referendum winning even by a margin of 1 or 2%, despite the fed's maneuvers to discourage quebecers from voting no.
it will eventually go to yes if it continues. it scares them very much, hee, hee, hee.
a comment that lacks seriousness, sorry, i pick up.
however, i commend your effort.
why do you say that?
because there are tons of precedents? the idea that we must, for example, re-trial mom boucher to confirm her imprisonment is slightly delusional.
i'm teasing you. your commentary is rational, cerebral, and unfortunately too intelligent for an emotionally charged subject.
indeed, it will have to be addressed what you say, but in most new countries, generally, the new nation engages in a cold war with its ex-oppressor to make sure that it is the end, then later the talks are over. initiate.
precedents about what? are you responding to the correct comment?
on the accession to independence of a state, legal continuity, the duties and obligations of successor states, etc ...
okay, and why would my comment be lacking in seriousness because there are tons of precedents?
among other things your retrial story, it looks like you pulled that out of your magician's hat.
in reality, your comment is very serious, but if i take the side of the separatists and or separatists, it is not, do not forget that generally, they prefer not to speak to canada the day after a yes winner.
it is a custom, even when india separated from the united kingdom, the republics in ruptures with russia, to name only those there.
cold wars, no dialogue were necessary to mark the beginning of true independence.
then later we will chat.
the eternal mbc in all its contradictions:
> a particularly virulent ideological offensive is waged against the people of quebec, against their right to see themselves as a nation, in fact, against the role of the historic francophone majority ** in its definition **, against its deepest roots.
the definition of historical francophone majority is french canadians. what do the strong demographic winds or the gravity of the situation matter if we refuse to name the real? this identity constipation has paralyzed our nationalists for ages. gregory kelley is from quebec. balarama holness is from quebec. howard galganov was also in the same capacity as guy rocher or frédéric lacroix of this world. afterwards, nonsense of the french-speaking historical majority type ca joins falardeau on the ridiculousness of identities in * phone. the portuguese are not portuguese-speaking portuguese, they are portuguese, period. so let's stop procrastinating, reaffirm our french canadian identity, call for the assimilation of foreigners in our midst and only then can we really think we can face the situation. otherwise it is lost in advance.
it was not a mistake on the part of mbc, it was quite intentional and in line with the civic vision of quebec that it is making for itself. using "french-canadians" with the visibility he receives (largely the most influential intellectual in quebec) would be counterproductive to him, he knows that the rehabilitation of this term aimed at designating franco-quebecers necessarily implies a reappropriation. mental to the canadian "we" in the federation, something which the separatists have tried to put behind since the quiet revolution. the goal, in my opinion, is above all to be able to sympathize with quebec populations of different ethnicities by sending them the message that the majority of the country is under attack strictly because it speaks french.
the québécois / french canadian dilemma has nothing to do with joining the canadian nation since it no longer embodies anything. ultimately, french canadian ca sonne facho in a country where immigrants are [praised as more legitimate than citizens by the pm] ( -interview/). quebec federalists do not identify as french canadians. quebecois on the other hand is quiet revolutionary civic nationalism. it is nationalism with a clean slate and a dagger in the back for our brothers from other provinces. this is what the federalists claim, right up to justin trudeau, this proud quebecer.
as soon as we have to talk about franco québécois, we sink into delirium. this means that there are also anglo quebecers, italo quebecers, sino quebecers and arab quebeckers. then it shows. assimilation is at a standstill in quebec. a people who do not know how to recognize themselves cannot arouse adhesion no offense to those who are still paralyzed by parizeau's speech.
it has nothing to do with the canadian nation effectively since it is first a question of adherence to canadian federalism above all else, and therefore as a result the regression of the efforts of the separatists to endow those who formerly identified themselves with "french-canadians" from an identity universe distinct from the previous one, which marks the beginning of a collective mental construction making it possible to consider the suggestion of a society and a soil that are theirs.
for the use that the population has made of it recently, "french-canadians" refers de facto to any french-speaking canadian from a french-speaking community, from coast to coast. the ethnic reference of the term of the time is no longer sufficiently explicit today to hope to see the population distinguish a franco-canadian from a french-canadian.
with a view to making quebec a country, this qualifier does not meet the needs at all when applied by ordinary people since necessarily "canadians" = canada = federation, the rapprochement could not be more obvious.
claiming no identity is an identity in itself, that is to say that post-national canada does not derogate so much from the fact that its citizens fit into the traditional national gentiles such as italian-canadian, arab-canadian, anyway. make the canadian identity clear to everyone). this also applies to quebec, according to its own parameters (french language identity, secular, etc.), as in the manner of other societies applying their framework as well (anglo-quebecois, hispanic-american, arab-french, sino -italian, which does not derogate from the identity that we have of the country in the foreground).
and yet, at the time of the french canadians, we already had an unwavering collective mental construction and fully our survival. it had nothing to do with canadian federalism, on the contrary it was a defense mechanism in total opposition to canadian aims. the worst part was that it worked, hence the drama of quiet, self-destructive revolutionary nationalism.
you lose me when you embark on the "french-speaking canadians of the french-speaking community". but what gibberish. french canadians are the descendants of the settlers of new france and their heirs who assimilated there. once we accept the facts, the distinction between french canadian and franco canadian is quite natural. franco-canadians are contemporary french immigrants and their descendants. it's crystal clear as water, you can hear it by ear. everyone knows that the guy who tells you about whv is not french canadian.
then really your last sentence leaves me perplexed. all the groups that you enumerate precisely derogate from the identity of the countries in question. let’s see, sino italians: p we are sinking into multicultural delirium and that does not apply at all to a state like italy which practices blood law.
oh well, aren't there 2-3 chinese in italy? it is not to say if it is good or not, but to say it for the use that one wishes to make of it. we are able to say that wong is studying in rome, the catholic capital. it does take a term, italy does not become more multicultural.
it is much more, hundreds of thousands of chinese work in italian luxury factories. however, they are precisely chinese and not sino italians, hence the distinction.
so you would go for "anglophone quebecois" rather than "anglo-quebecois"?
i would lean more for english.
and the french-speaking * french majority? *
it could certainly achieve the independence of the panties of many women.
where is it from?
if he's one of those who revere schwab, forget it monom
not at all. he may not be elected.
what an unconscious: the head buried in the wall without realizing it.
the federalists were driving only on the sentence of parizeau said in 95 and now, after 25 years, they now have access to a new documented argument, experienced by all and ultra-fatal: management by decree which has been rife for 18 months.
make no mistake: everyone knows that after a winning referendum there will be uncertainty and that is exactly what is happening with the covid. conclusion: the current management will be the permanent management of an independent quebec and that, no one could guess before because everyone was based on initial scenarios where democracy was functional with a balance of powers.
and the pq fell for it. now any no campaign is going to be based not on one sentence but on real dealing with dictators in shorts that everyone has seen go by. who is going to want to make a country with this?
the main interested party's facebook page.
king move
still, i find gnd screeching more patriotic these days than legault. the caq is disconnected
waste of time. let gnd bitch, answer factually. woke is overwhelmed, we understand. nothing to gain by calling gnd a woke!
i laughed for a moment, but basically gnd is right, and is much more reasonable in the discussion than françois legault. the demonization of multiculturalism as it has done is reprehensible, it is not fit for a leader. the latter's arrogance really goes to his head. to call gnd a cookie-cutter woke is reprehensible, it could have passed more easily for another qs mp. legault does not suspect that he has just given arms to the party which will very likely become the next official opposition within 8 years.
he continues to be his dwarf of the woods !!!!
> for the pm's office, there are "several definitions" to this term, but a woke,
it would be in particular "a party leader" who goes against "the
interests of quebec ”by not fighting for areas of jurisdiction
provinces.
what will it be tomorrow? * racist * to designate someone who criticizes the government of the day for the management of health?
gnd just has to answer this
"ok boomer"
gnd seems to really care about quebecers, no matter what approach qs wants to do so. legault is mainly concerned with his ambitions. the caq's control over public opinion is so strong thanks to its press conferences and its profound influence on the media that legault believes himself to be allowed everything, and with good reason.
lately, legault has made mistakes. for that, i give 100 points to gnd: legault sees himself almost as the one and only monolithic voice in all of quebec. his polls are going to his head.
> the demonization of multiculturalism as it has done is reprehensible, it is not worthy of a leader. the latter's arrogance really goes to his head. to call gnd a cookie-cutter woke is reprehensible, it could have passed more easily for another qs mp.
but why? françois legault is far from being the most brilliant of orators, but he is right. multiculturalism represents a mortal danger for quebec. as much as i hate the term, it is true that gnd is woke. especially since his exit was a shameless straw man typical of liberal federalists. we divert any stake whatever it is towards a profession of multiculturalist faith. "everyone is quebecois / canadian whatever!" it is certain that it is not bad for a marxist with two balls working within an islamophile and anti-nationalist party. but no, some policies are foreign to quebec, incompatible with its political culture. it is all the more funny that one of these policies is the restriction of abortion which i am sure disqualifies any interlocutor whether in the eyes of gnd or any other elected representative of the an. so we can't discuss abortion, but adil charkaoui is very, very, very quebecois and that's not debatable either. this is the idea of gnd and solidarity.
the positioning of the "independentist" gnd who says that respecting the areas of provincial jurisdiction is not a major concern ... it seems much worse.
some see it as the apotheosis of civilized debate ...
this is also my position on a personal level, but i cannot help but notice that this kind of protest leads to the progressive enslavement of society by corrupting civilized discourse. the positions are open to criticism without condemning the adversary.
multiculturalism, whatever may be said, is, in absolute terms, neither more nor less legitimate than another position. the national assembly is the place where this legitimacy must be debated, that is to say without collectively self-sabotaging with easy qualifiers favoring regression. the assembly should represent the common ideal at all times, without demonizing its neighbor, whereas quebec is precisely based on its ability to generate consensus from one individual to another. it would be a shame to let it all fly into the air and be surrendered to the growing cult of the individual.
the jdm cut the rest of his quote, where he goes on to say that we must focus on sovereignty.
edit: exact quote following the one cut by the jdm: "we have ambition for quebec, we want to make a country [...] we want to make a country, unlike the prime minister."
it is a legitimate point of view which certainly does not deserve to be closed the door by a qualifier for strictly pejorative purposes.
and yet, isn't it civilized enough to call your interlocutor a woke? it's an intellectual process, there is nothing wild about it. françois legault is not a taliban, he does not set gnd on fire. he awkwardly tells him his way of thinking and it is mutual.
as for multiculturalism, it is completely illegitimate in quebec. we are talking about a state doctrine that was designed with the specific objective of dissolving the quebec nation into canadian nothingness. shame on the deputies of the national assembly who agree to this ideology of ethnocide. there is no higher ideal that compels us to reach consensus with those who wish our downfall. on the other side, they do not hesitate to confine our elected officials and our ideals behind a sanitary cordon.
not a legitimate point of view for an elected representative at the head of a party which proclaims itself independent.
"and yet, isn't it civilized enough to treat your interlocutor as a woke? it's an intellectual approach, there is nothing wild about it. françois legault is not a taliban, he does not no fire at gnd he awkwardly tells him his way of thinking and it's mutual. "
once gnd is woke up, what happens next? is he going to call legault a dinosaur in response? or is the member of the ndp, who called alain therrien a racist, not also in an intellectual process?
no. it is an anti-intellectual approach which aims to make the adversary flee to his last corner before the discussion even begins, otherwise i would see myself antagonizing any person wishing to engage in a dialogue to see where it will lead me. .
the question is not "is it bad?", but rather "is it better?"; no, it is not better.
you give your opinion, and that your opinion, on multiculturalism. you do not hold the absolute truth any more than the montreal hipster who claims to hold the monopoly of the good. i share the same opinion as yours, but parliament has a mission to rise above the fray.
the national assembly has a specific role to play in society, it cannot afford to deviate from its ideals. it is a fundamental principle that ensures our sustainability.
you're dishonest, go back and listen to the full extract, not the version trafficked by québécor.
edit: the excerpt starts at 5:35 in the video of your article
sorry?! since when do the autonomists, or anyone claiming to be in the interests of quebec, hold a monopoly on legitimacy? ** all quebecers are legitimate, ** even federalists, moreover a word democratically representing a population. to delegitimize the adversary, under the sole premise of a disagreement, goes against the grain of civilized speech, of courteous exchange, of constructive conversation. in other words, it is the same wildness as at the source of wokism.
note that when gnd compares legault to duplessis he calls him a dinosaur and we hear no one moaning. partisan spiel is precisely the essence of parliamentary democracy. it also goes for the ndp, there is nothing savage behind the accusation that alain therrien is racist. on the contrary, it is precisely enough intellectual reasoning. it's okay "he's not acquiescing to our phony motion, so let's accuse him of racism", not "he's not acquiescing to our phony motion, so let's stab him with kirpan." it's pretty smart.
then as for multiculturalism, is the destruction of the quebec people an ideal of the national assembly? is the annihilation of the quebec people a fundamental principle that ensures our sustainability? okay, so we have to stop messing around. in quebec, it does not take two seconds that we go into a spin of godwin points at the slightest nationalist jolt. in addition, we will not be asked to fuck the asses of those who want to see us disappear.
i listened to the entire exchange in full.
gnd was perhaps intended to insult legault if we de facto associate * duplessis * with * great darkness *, but this qualifier is not, in my opinion, exclusively reserved for denouncing, where * woke * has never been used for anything other than alerting against a threat. in either case, the insult has no place.
since when has the enslavement of civilized disagreement become synonymous with intellectual reasoning? i would have to end up seeing something other than 12th century vikings killing each other to settle their various policies during a citizens' assembly, which in other words is the finality of the frontal conflict between representatives of the citizens.
the accusation of racism against alain therrien is not very intellectual except dishonesty. it is a non-reasoning, an easy shortcut, which condemns any answer and any healthy exchange.
> is the annihilation of the quebec people a fundamental principle that ensures our sustainability?
according to multiculturalists, they see themselves as saviors. who is right? it is an opinion like any other, and the assembly is here to debate it. i prefer to hear them, to tell them that they are wrong, than to condemn them before they open their mouths. this is the only way to defeat them definitively, even before declaring them illegitimate, otherwise we just postpone the debate until later. if we are convinced of our positions, then we know we are a winner as soon as they step into the arena.
so for you, is not saying that you have to adopt the sovereignist option instead of the motorist option?
do you know that woke is a term first coined by the left? it was the right which subsequently took it over to make fun of them.
we have to do both, not just wait for the big night and hope for a yes victory to defend quebec's interests. gnd goes against the entire autonomist tradition in quebec since 1867, defended by many prime ministers and sinks into itself.
also, gnd shows that he is disconnected since today, we now have a more objective look at maurice duplessis' record, and we have to admit that he was one of the best pms in quebec, without no doubt. so, use that for the purpose of insulting it, it falls completely flat.
gnd missed its parliamentary return and many will be disappointed if we compare to the approach manon massé had.
to summarize simply:
gnd who speaks of sovereignty = evil
éric duhaime who talks about sovereignty = good
it's called a bias
this is what i explain in another post
it is quite hypocritical to reproach an interventionist party, and therefore centralizing in its ideology, its autonomism. decentralization is typical of right-wing economic conservatism. it's a bit like i'm blaming the right for not being on the left ...
"also, gnd shows that it is disconnected since today, we now have a more objective look at maurice duplessis' record, and we have to admit that he was one of the best pms in quebec, without a doubt. so, use that for the purpose of insulting, it just falls completely flat. "
on the other hand, you have no problem with the pm throwing the pejorative ball back at him by calling him a woke?
it's just that qs has lost all credibility on the subject of sovereignty, and today they are choosing to go even deeper.
i thought leftists self-identified themselves as woke.
which does not invalidate their criticism of legault
bloc québécois, even though i strongly disagree with their positions on firearms and i would like them to be more critical about covid management. i am in a liberal riding where the bloc has the best chance of dislodging the liberal member as well.
the plc ... honestly i consider it a criminal racketeering which serves to give activists public jobs (see the scandals on the appointment of judges). i also do not condone the hate propaganda campaign against the unvaccinated that the liberals are trying to use for a majority.
the ndp, i voted for over a decade, but jagmeet singh's ndp is no longer jack layton's ndp. jagmeet singh is the politician who legitimately scares me, the guy is extremely intolerant, he considers anyone who disagrees with his positions a racist / sexist / fascist monster to be quelled by all means. recall that he wants the federal government to pass a law to have the right to arbitrarily criminalize political organizations as if they were terrorist organizations if it considers their positions to be "hateful" (and according to singh, the bloc is racist. , so...).
the ccp, sometimes i like their opposition to excessive liberal initiatives on social issues. and they're the only ones with a sane stance on guns. but i don't like their economic positions.
the ppc, the only reason i would vote for them is if i wanted to vote just to oppose covid management, otherwise i don't see myself in maxime bernier's libertarian platform ... but the demonization of the party in the media is ridiculous .
the greens, better not to talk about it.
i voted early this evening for the bloc. i was already pretty sure i would vote for them, but after the debate in english, forget it, bloc 100%. especially since singh's silence afterwards was deafening. trudeau and o'toole ended up saying the questions were out of place, but not singh. i believe it is because paul said what he is thinking in a whisper, but he does not want to lose votes in quebec. i appreciate the ideas of the ndp, but i do not trust this man who seems to hate us.
on r / quebec, there will be more npd votes (the wokist wing of qs is very strong).
block, already done.
> this sub picked up all the exiled cons banned from r / quebec so it gives a distorted picture of reality too
[12 days ago] ( today, i'm asking for your opinion my gang of idiots! 🤡
the difference between the results and those of air québec is quite striking.
i was thinking of canceling my vote since i didn't like my bloc mp too much, but i got wind that the liberal candidate in my riding is a scoundrel (actually the kind of guy who builds a fence on neighbor) so i voted the same block ...
i put pcc ... because for my job i need them otherwise it would be ppc
ppc. the liberals are pretty much 100% sure they'll come to my corner anyway and there is nothing acceptable about dealing with the pandemic for populist and electioneering purposes. i find that the pandemic has been a great excuse to make people accept extremely regressive measures and to associate its measures with the left, and that in the end, we do not really have a left or center-left party at the federal level. .
part of me has become more selfish with the pandemic and seeing how willing people are to sacrifice a lot of everything, especially the most destitute in society, if it makes them feel safe. i tell myself that the plc or the ccp wins, they will see the good of my investments and keep my taxes low, so i don't give a damn about the result, i just want to make money and stop working as soon as possible . i'd rather squeal trudeau out, but i'm sure after 6 years of o'toole many of us will love him either. it's still the same case.
my choice was ppc, without a candidate to represent my constituency, the 2nd choice was easy ... block
the bq is my 3rd choice behind the ppc and the pcc, but in the vast majority of barometer ridings, it will be played between the plc and the bq. i voted for the bloc.
i was also an ndp voter during the jack layton era. the party has not been the same since it was infiltrated by racial and intersectional wokism.
[deleted]
the npd is second there after the bloc which has 3x more votes, this is a major change from the last poll there where the npd was indeed first. it seems that the debate in english managed to shock even some voters npd
not that much. it is a noisy minority.
i've been dating this sub for a very long time, it's not all assholes anyway. but there is.
this poll except for the ppc will be more representative than the poll on r / quebec
and except for the ppc i think the survey here will be more representative of the result
i thought they had 338 candidates i'm surprised
of course the half-delusional mystic would say that.
do you have a link?
the few polls that i saw on air quebec showed quite well that the ndp is very popular (first or second) among them, which i find funny and which clearly illustrates their bias once again.
assholes of all countries, unite!
the assholes are on metaquebec
representative of the vote? absolutely not.
yes i too had voted for the party / candidate in the last ballot, i do not know why she did not represent herself.
[deleted]
npd = far-left qs fringe, so half the party.
please keep proving all of us right you fucking moron.
ndp voters really have no shame!
[deleted]
i'm more surprised by those who are members here and vote npd, the very embodiment of centralized federalism
see a psychiatrist.
the npd is in the lower half.
[deleted]
yes yes, but every npd vote here is questionable. i would like them to explain how one can be a sovereignist and vote npd.
euh... file not found.
how to be a sovereignist and vote for pcc and ppc?
well, it's "less worse" because they are more for the autonomy of the provinces.
it's good that the pq is waking up a bit ... but legault has been abusing the health emergency for 17 months now.
legault is made the chief despot of caquistan. there will be no return to normal in the near future.
about? we applaud this awareness, but it's a little understatement for my taste.
17 months later, we "wake up" a little bit for a press briefing, then we go to bed again.
> on point
are they good for another 2 years before confirming there is abuse?
too late sth ... you have backed them from the start. too late. you will be passed by duhaime and his gang
i'm not sure i like what i'm reading. behind a facade criticism, the pq proposes to pass laws to the national assembly to make certain measures permanent. which ones?
if there is an advantage to the health emergency it is that if it is lifted the most abusive health measures immediately fall because they are imposed under the state of emergency.
if the national assembly decides, the advantage could be to at least accept that there is a public debate. however, i do not trust the opposition more than legault.
we cannot afford to have a law that establishes the vaccination passport permanently or almost permanently. the state of emergency must simply be lifted.
too little too late guys ...
so, what the fuck you gonna do about it, pq?
honestly i would live well with the obligatory mask in the hospital .. that's all
the pq became senile, like everyone else before dying.
adios quebec, i had a good time. see you next year in polynesia without all these shitty delusions.
as has been done elsewhere, we are removing the state of emergency ... but not before passing laws that represent the same thing. from temporary to permanent ... * abracadabra * ... arruda transforms temporary into permanent!
yeah, it should always be mandatory in the hospital.
except that the mask is absolutely useless if you have no symptoms. and even there, their effectiveness in blocking the droplets sent into the air is highly questionable.
several staff members wore the mask before the pandemic, it was even very common.
what a surprise, the english who deny the existence of the people they want to destroy.
and the emsb is not a school board but a woke sect.
"vive le québec libre" worse in french.
with the 125 to sth ... you really want to be a live nation there.
everyone knows that the of quebec is not a * nation *, it is an insult to canadians to say it of the nation for the * national *. it is not the nation to tell the nation that of the truth for * everyone * and the * asymmetric * inclusiveness of the nation. it is not necessary to separate it but to connect it for the future of the children for the canadian nation.
brands
the opinion of the emsb is inconsequential, according to the intellectual givemeadrink.
i laughed ahahah.
at least, they assume, but from there to saying that "the only precise word to use to define the reality of quebec is" province "" aka conquered territory and that the quebec identity is only fantasies and fabulations, i i'm not sure they'll make a lot of friends here ...
do you want to let the english decide whether we are a nation or not?
except that anyone who is not a gourd knows very well that canada is a federation of several nation-states and administrative territories.
by definition, any province that is not a territory (alberta, bc, quebec, ontario, etc.) is a nation. in addition, given that quebec has never signed the canadian constitution (as i said, anyone who is not a squash knows under what conditions this happened) and therefore retains the right of prerogative on its territory in the as it was when canada was a confederation.
in addition, a nation shares its own language, ethnicity and culture. canada is heir to anglo-proteatant culture, cultural heirs to england, mostly ethnically slavic and anglo-saxon germanic. while quebec is franco-catholic, cultural heir to france, and ethnically predominantly from different regions of france (germanic franks and visigoths), irish, and scottish (celts), and mixed with the populations of different indigenous tribes. there is absolutely nothing that connects us culturally to cannada-english other than the fact that we are the common fruit of western civilization offshore. we don't even share the same civil law code.
it is not insulting. english canadians should be proud of their heritage. which is not ours. and they don't have to feel insulted for being different from us, as long as they let us live in peace.
the english, under harper, have already decided that quebec is a nation, in 2006.
very few mps voted against, almost all liberals, unsurprisingly.
there are no insults for the canadians and ottawa to decide it for you, sir. you can't deny it for the eleventh time, i see it say, you don't have to shout it just you have to accept the facts, in canada * for all candiens *. you are not talking about alberta, you are talking about canada.
thank you
the problem remains and will always remain our anglo-quebecers
"that this house recognize that quebeckers form a nation within a united canada."
it is intentionally restrictive.
go for a walk. when you know how to write, come back and talk to us.
thank you.
i do this on purpose to write like an anglophone who slaughters french. sorry.
everything woke turns to shit
what? stereotypes in humorous comics ?! at the stake!
it seems to be really absurd from a to z, we ban books for one name or another, or because the portrait of native americans is not rosy enough. it is under the impulse of a "guardian of knowledge" which i would like to see a dna test to verify the origins that she claims and who seems to have self-proclaimed this position of "guardian of knowledge". and the community follows its dictates without asking questions, because asking questions is wrong, it is re-victimizing the victim of colonialism by questioning his life experience or other bullshit of this kind.
a total lack of courage going hand in hand with a desire to signal its virtue and its support for "reconciliation" which is reminiscent of the phenomenon of zérocovid fanatics, also obsessed with their image and by the signaling of virtue in supporting as visibly as possible a collective approach without questioning anything, participating in an outbidding of "virtue". a virtue which here approaches the most zealous authoritarian conformism.
the irony is that by claiming to fight against stereotypes, they also propagate it on their own. they want an angelic image of native americans, as a population living in peace and harmony with nature until the arrival of the wicked european colonizers. that too is a stereotype. human beings are human beings everywhere on earth, we all have a part of light and a part of shadow. the amerindians during colonization were neither angels nor demons, they were men, a reality that had become socially undesirable.
do not draw the parallel with the nazis ... do not draw the parallel with the nazis ... do not draw the parallel with the nazis ... do not draw the parallel with the nazis ...
where are we going? burning books is something that is done in totalitarian regimes, otherwise it is completely stupid and useless. wokism is a very worrying drift, it will have to be attacked head-on eventually and put an end to it before it continues to get worse and worse.
i didn't think it was possible for us to fall so low. i think we should skip the century we live to move on to the next just to pretend this century never existed and not be ashamed of the rest of our existence.
if the instigator of this auto-da-fe which for once effectively remembers the worst hours of the last century does not understand the ignominy of her initiative, she should be evaluated in psychiatry. especially coming from someone who claims to be peoples without writing having known only prehistory, should have more respect for the civilizing medium that is the book. see, with books no one needs to trust the antics of a weirdo with a bachelor's degree in psychology, just open the book and see for yourself.
red alert
here we are, obscurantism by censorship, the inquisition.
"book burning is the deliberate destruction by fire of books or other written materials, usually carried out in a public context. the burning of books represents an element of censorship and usually proceeds from a cultural, religious, or political opposition to the materials in question."
we delete our memories because they are too sensitive to look head-on ... to simply repeat these memories, because nothing to prevent us from remembering them.
how many weeks before the nuts at uqam do the same? u / jelsaispas
> a flame purification ceremony was held in 2019 to burn around thirty banned books, for educational purposes. the ashes were used as fertilizer to plant a tree and thus turn from negative to positive.
> the author of the video for the students is suzy kies, presented as a keeper of indigenous knowledge.
why do i feel like the concept of * purification ceremony * constructed for this occasion is totally invented and comes from nowhere in indigenous culture, just like the title ms. kies gave herself .....
band of nazis !!!!
how do you want the natives to teach their children what is racist and why it is wrong if there is nothing racist left. the worst part of all this is the whites that it offends and not the natives.
yes, and it is justin trudeau's indigenous advisor who encourages ontario schools to burn politically incorrect books ...
lol, tintin is a perfect case to demonstrate the change in colonial attitudes.
the next step: burn all the asterix and obelix, because they encourage grossophobia and stigmatization of short people!
indeed
this is why the people of the ** traditional left ** are doing all they can to crush the wokeness virus which is trying to take control of speech ...
i was banned from a certain sub for drawing a parallel between nazi propaganda and woke propaganda.
the question is not there. these works describe a moment, a slice of the perception of history and society - moreover, it is fiction. to burn them is to erase and promote ignorance. * mein kampf *, for example, is always in bookstores with the prefaces necessary to situate it properly in time and in the socio-economic context. ** it is important to remember so as not to repeat the same atrocities **. to make it disappear would be a mistake. and then, what about the bible in the name of which the most barbaric crusades and the most controlling and inhuman laws (i remind you of what is happening ** now ** in texas) are sunk in the gorge? by force for centuries. this work still has a special place in the libraries of these moralizers. regardless of color or culture, humanity repeats the same patterns and that is why we must keep the tools to remind ourselves if we want to get by. what we see there is censorship, the index and it is unacceptable.
you're right, but so is he, because erasing the past leads to repeating it
if it doesn't deserve a scandal, nothing deserves it.
note that the researcher wanted in particular to test fluvoxamine, which has had several positive studies since, and ciclesonide, which a british study has just confirmed reduces the duration of the disease by 3 days and reduces the risk of hospitalization by 25%. or death.
the researcher was told by public health that the search for outpatient treatment, before hospitalization of patients, was not a priority. she denied him access to lists of patients he could have offered to take part in the studies. the quebec government refused to provide him with government insurance research for this purpose. and worse, for one study, the government forbade him to give interviews or announce the research, leaving only word of mouth to try to find patients willing to participate in the study.
the impressions are confirmed, the government of quebec has not only been indifferent to the question of the search for treatments to prevent the deterioration of patients, it has squarely put sticks in the wheels of certain researchers. there are probably hundreds, if not thousands of bereaved families who can say thank you to the government of quebec for this systematic lack of interest which may have cost the lives of their loved ones.
the abject incompetence of the health authorities is increasingly blatant.
the leaked contract with pfizer of albania prohibits promoting, among other things, any alternative to the vaccine for a period of 10 years. canada probably has a similar contract.
so, public health admits through its actions that we are no longer in a pandemic and that all is well because 2 vaccines [whose price is increasing] ( -covid-coronavirus-europe) and will likely continue to increase are available.
nice skewer of andouilles. we may be sitting on treatments at $ 1-5 a dose but we will kill them to finance the one at 30 ....
yeah, but you gotta give them a boost. they were busy compiling a list of conflicting injunctions to the people and using the police to stop people from celebrating christmas.
treat the covid? you can't do that when you're trying to pretend the end is near.
when you look at the situation objectively, i don't understand how you can't see a collusion between the pharmaceutical giants and the government.
- endless measures to maintain the state of terror in a population ill-informed by the media.
- the purchase of 40 million doses of moderna by the federal government, in a country of 38 million inhabitants already mostly vaccinated when there is nothing public to suggest that additional doses will be necessary.
- the establishment of a vaccination passport when 80% of the population has already been vaccinated.
and now:
- the nonchalance (or willful sabotage) of the government towards researchers looking at inexpensive treatments that could avoid mass vaccination (or at least the unrealistic target of 100%)
contracts from other countries have also surfaced: brazil, israel and the dominican republic.
ehden biber, a cybersecurity researcher residing in england but of israeli origin, reportedly made and reported the find of the contract with albania last january.
[selon son blogue, parmi les clauses du contrat:](
\ -pfizer accepts no responsibility for side effects, injuries, including death, related to inoculation for covid-19.
\ -the buyer will pay for any claims due to side effects, including death.
\ -the purchaser should acknowledge to pfizer that the long-term side effects of the "vaccine" are unknown.
\ -the purchaser must acknowledge to pfizer that the effectiveness of the "vaccine" is unknown.
\ -the purchaser should acknowledge to pfizer that unknown side effects, including death, may occur after administration of the "vaccine".
\ -the fact that cheaper and effective drugs entering or appearing to be available, such as ivermectin or hydroxychlorquin, for example, cannot be cited as a reason for canceling the contract.
\ -any arbitration will be held according to the arbitration rules of the international chamber of commerce in accordance with the laws of the state of new york - usa.
i downloaded the document. i'll see if it holds.
canada reached an agreement this week with moderna for 105 million doses (40 guarantees and 65 optional).
canada is a country of 38 million people, 5 million of whom are under 10 years old and 28 million have already received two doses.
do we have similar agreements with other vaccine producers?
your first three points are explained by incompetence and magical thinking. it's just the last one that's very disturbing.
if all this is true, it is clear that it goes against what governments have told us that the approval of these vaccines was done without cutting corners. recognizing that the efficacy of the vaccine is unknown implies that it would be impossible to cancel the contract in the event that a variant appears against which the vaccine is not effective. a nice contract of marde, we see who has the big end of the stick.
maybe i'm cynical but i don't really expect our government (no matter which party is in power) to tell us the truth anymore. with the naturalness that they have to accept secret contracts with corporations (it's downright bypassing people's free will, hello?).
the thing that bothers me is that they do business with [pfizer] ( [who are] ( //www.ledevoir .com / economy / 265347 / pfizer-pays-a-record-fine-for-abusive-advertising) [really] ( -drug-trial-ex-employee-claims /) [a crack] ( [de gang] (  [from bums] ( -american-nations).
“there is no sébastien tremblay in the street gangs” - daniel cléroux, retired police officer and police intervention analyst.
the dead guy was named molière, he's a quebecker for sure
what's the migration report in there?
who is it then???!!???
i don't know that, but there are dion and viau who cut up people in their garage and burn them afterwards.
pot brownies, cryptocurrency and firearms: 
"there is no racism in the police service. okay, now let me tell you about how only the damned races commit crimes ..."
tremblay in the street gangs i don't know, but the viau and the dion who burn bodies in their garage in the suburbs, yes.
undercover police officer "stunned" to discover so many firearms: 
[deleted]
i compared the original article to the reposted article on the aggregator, the line between the original text and the editorial additions of the repost are almost imperceptible. there is clearly a desire to misinform by altering the source as dishonestly as possible without the publisher being entirely singled out since he has found a way to make the limit very blurry, so without it appearing to be genuine or completely. tampered with either.
regarding the thumbnail image, the publisher is betting that a racialized group with an uncivilized appearance can make an audience click with prejudices about what the image shows us, regardless of the truth of the reposted article.
no even the article does not mention it. there are all kinds of criminals.
the article does not talk about immigration at all and this word is added in the title only. we can see how an article on street crimes (which has always existed and will exist) is fired to smear immigrants.
[bobépine](
la covid
if you really want to compare apples to apples, you better refer to the biker wars of the 90s. in both cases bikers and street gangs today have turned part of montreal into the far west, menacingly. the safety of civilians. in the end, the world grew sick of the bikers and police operations were carried out to deny their organizations and put as many of them in prison as possible. today, could we do the same with street gangs without being accused of being systemic racists?
they know who they are dealing with day in and day out.
no relation to the article in question. it is the zero degree of intellectual honesty.
i don't see the relation of this picture either. explain.
indeed, this is what i also deduce. the text was plagiarized and additions were injected. fdesouche et cie had never dared this fraudulent approach and only left a link (the comment section takes care of the rest), archive the article without alteration or leave a report after x number of days.
but plagiarizing and injecting as-is like hqa does, no. i don't know much about copyright, but i get the impression that lawyers are probably on the case.
it's because of global warming.
> today, could we do the same thing with street gangs without being accused of being systemic racists?
you have to wait for a reporter to get shot.
retired police officer daniel cléroux (left) explains that charges of racial profiling and the trudeau charter prevent police officers from effectively fighting street gangs. he adds that these gangs do not care about collateral victims, unlike to the mafia and bikers. "
to avoid being treated as a racist, they are locked up long enough in the dark, they turn white ,,,, another option is a hydrochloric acid bath
and he wouldn't lie, people never lie to push their twisted view of the world. / s
[deleted]
[deleted]
that would surprise me since, as i say, the vagueness is maintained on the editorial additions to avoid this kind of problem.
warming turns tan ...
that's not true, bought myself air conditioning, it's not hot at all and it produces water that is okay to drink
good point. this race gives more importance to the good conscience that they can display in their gala and their parties of farting than to play their role of fourth estate in the interest of the population. but when their physical security is at stake, that realigns their priorities in the right direction ...
the thumbnail of the reposted article is precisely racial profiling. it's beautiful consistency.
[deleted]
in fact i wanted to respond to the comment to which you replied.
> street gangs are mostly made up of people with an immigrant background
[citation needed]
okay, but you support the aggregator editor's point. me, i'm not even there yet. i am still looking for the authenticity of the original article as well as the connections between the additions to the text and the thumbnail clickbait of the original article. there is a clear desire to misinform.
remember the biker war changed when they tried to kill michel auger.
why are black people being arrested in such large numbers? because they are overrepresented among criminals. it's simple, isn't it?
if the police were just racist, they would spend their time arresting the chinese in brossard because they are different from us. but that's not the case, because the chinese work and go to college instead of killing each other in the streets.
> all the police officers lie because they are a conspiratorial and white supremacist organization?
find me some statistics that support your position and we'll talk again.
[deleted]
still no report to justify the thumbnail found on google images.
[photo is from a las vegas gang documentary] ( no report on the half-falsified vat item.
how do i link the original article to the thumbnail? an ordinary criminal group? no, they had to be necessarily black: profiling
[deleted]
no, this is misinformation. the repost is clearly tampered with in a way that the intent behind the changes is unclear. the thumbnail, something found on google images, has no authenticity with the original article.
as for the actual content of the article, we will talk about it elsewhere with proper authenticity.
colorful too .....
although the statistics are racial rather than immigration based, it is very interesting. thank you.
[deleted]
[deleted]
you did not understand, let alone the notion of objectivity which is not even a question here.
that's all well and good, so why not just post the original article?
why doesn't the publisher do a signed reply text?
drop the relativization, it's a doctored repost. i have absolutely nothing to give a shit if tva does the shit, at least that is their text.
ok but what's the point of all this? not understood.
the whites are not endogenous in america either you will know ...
[deleted]
it is the beginning the federal and the provincial are on their knees in front of bayer.
france has been dealing with pesticides and monsanto for quite a long time.
the scientist who helped monsanto is well known in france.
the elder of green peace omg
it was worse to kill all the bees that put the europeans in criss
so let's see, you have to be a conspirator to believe that the quebec people will disappear! / s
and in case you were wondering why i am saying this silliness, this is the chorus the anglos are starting to release.
new nationalists are arriving thanks to the new context in which quebec finds itself.
if quebec does what quebec did to the aboriginals, it could effectively disappear.
just looking at the state of northern quebec / canada following decades of policies to assimilate the natives.
the recipe is there and quebec has used it well to make the first nations invisible. so it's plausible that the qc gets done what he did.
radio-can has better than that. according to them, as the notion of "quebec people" has a flexible definition over time, this people cannot disappear. do you think i'm kidding?
[
> “it should be remembered that this is an unfounded idea, which is based on erroneous perception biases. a native people cannot be replaced by an external people, it being accepted that a people never has a fixed identity, neither established in time, nor fixed. there are no more ethnic quebecers today than there were 100 years ago. "
- benjamin ducol, researcher and expert in terrorism and radicalization
aja that the amerindians have never undergone a great replacement because in the end, the notion of the amerindian people is an unfounded idea which rests on the biases of erroneous perceptions, a people of stock cannot be replaced by an outside people.
quebec has done nothing, because quebec has no power over federal territories.
ps: the natives of northern quebec have kept their culture unlike the natives of mtl who were assimilated without having experienced poverty or residential schools.
you haven't produced evidence for the charges for several years.
not to defend radio-canada, but it is an interview granted to the program of joël lebigot (ironic last name), with a guest who condemns all nationalist concerns from a conspiratorial perspective.
more striking fact about the credibility of benjamin ducol, he is himself an expert in radicalization. to say that the experts in radicalization are themselves radicalized testifies to our collective failure to dialogue and to compromise, in one camp as in the other.
the definition of "great replacement" is changing from one movement to another. it can range from a simple economic reshuffle (klauss) to rather absurd european theories. given the wide appropriation of the term, i advise the groups concerned to adopt a different one to avoid confusion.
 the role of quebec in the forced assimilation of the natives and the abusive expropriation of their lands.
expert in radicalization? what next? the opinion of this clown counts as much as that of the neighbor on the subject.
question, have you ever seen this documentary?
because you never mention the arguments or the facts of your famous documentary.
and no, we're not going to watch a movie or read a book because you're afraid to debate.
in my opinion, it still takes this kind of expert these days, without becoming involved in activism.
> "in montreal, for example, heat islands are found mainly in neighborhoods populated by a greater density of racialized people, such as saint-léonard or saint-michel"
but what a fucking delirium these pseudo-experts
i have never seen so many people wanting to tackle the problems of poverty and racism but yet do nothing concrete.
as if it was new!
it should rather be called poverty racism, the same thing happens for the management of overconsumption waste from rich countries which send it to poorer countries.
it costs a lot to be poor !!
it is much more to get electoral votes than to solve the problem ...
while taking care to do a little quebec bashing in the process, since neo-colonial canada is so morally superior.
> there is no one who wants these industries in their neighborhood. the
last thing they're gonna do is put them in
white communities ”,
worse the gas tanks of lac-mégantic ....
ha worse let it be.
official article without an editorialized title:
do rural people exposed to pesticides and chemical fertilizers count as anti-white racism?
environmental racism is when natives get fucked in the ass with a pipeline or a mine. after 400 years of oppression they are so poor that they can no longer refuse corporate money.
maybe it's just to troll the green party which is being self-destructed by a woke virus infestation
of course, in hochelaga-maisonneuve, 90% populated by little whites, there are no heat islands or polluting factories! / s
as thomas sowell explains, we don't create poverty, we create wealth.
poverty is the basic condition of man and by creating wealth poverty is eliminated.
even poverty is racist. *it is unfair!*
i wonder what results we would have if we checked the air quality according to the mother tongue.
this is pretty much the only valid definition that i accept. the rest in urban areas is indoctrination blabla.
[deleted]
yes it is terrible.
it is rather the poor who are victims of racism (not the poor who are racists).
but i'm sure we understand each other: p
or depending on university funding
in this department the only limit is our imagination
o canada was sung for the first time in 1880 in quebec as a french canadian patriotic song.
it was adopted as canada's official anthem only 100 years later in 1980.
the french version still uses the original lyrics while the english version is in its ** eighth version. **
disagree. it is our name and our national anthem.
kicking 9 provinces of the federation to use our name, anthem and cultural symbols seems a reasonable solution to me.
[voici l'original](   
"he was born of a proud race" and "under the eye of god" would no longer pass today.
aaaah! how good it feels to read mbc after a week without reading it! excellent text as always.
canada, number 1 country for cultural appropriation. they really have nothing for them.
for some reason, this interpretation ignores the last two verses:
> from his boss, precursor of the true god,
> he wears the halo of fire on his forehead.
> enemy of tyranny
> but full of loyalty,
> he wants to keep in harmony,
> his proud freedom.
> and by the effort of his genius,
> on our soil sit the truth,
> on our soil sit the truth.
.
> sacred love of the throne and the altar,
> fill our hearts with your immortal breath!
> among foreign breeds,
> our guide is the law:
> let us know how to be a people of brothers,
> under the yoke of faith.
> and repeat, like our fathers,
> the winning cry: "for christ and the king!" "
> the winning cry: "for christ and the king!" ".
it's true. they are more beautiful, too!
of those i recognize, i see an exhibitionist, one who places her family and another who took a nice trip to india with justin (but who then became absent). i'm not too worried about the rest: all these beautiful people will be reelected.
on the other hand, for the exhibitionist, quite funny to see that the media / groups left him alone. i'm sure a curator in underwear would have had the same treatment ....
an apologist for bin laden, an exhibitionist, a compulsive liar ... nice bunch of liberal scoundrels.
worse, quebec sheep endure their assimilation by voting for trudeau. “ye so cute”.
emanuella lambropoulos ... seems to me that she could avoid a feeling of embarrassment.
the madam is lost rare. in a minute it goes from communism, to marxism, to crt, to cultural marxism to return to communism.
you have to have the balls, for example, to put the class struggle and identity politics on an equal footing. if i were not naive, i would almost say that this is a tactic of the ruling class to further invalidate the social problems that all workers suffer.
>crosspost de r jordan peterson
bruh
if you think china is marxist you must believe the nazis are socialist
ok?
one of the best source of woke masturbation on reddit
you're a lot quicker to answer than to listen or understand.
the lady talks about her youth during the cultural revolution in china. no matter what one thinks of china today, one cannot deny the marxist character of the cultural revolution.
there's nothing to listen to or understand from the poison sellers
the lady repeats the same ones that those who are able to want to hear. it's so compacted that it's just a series of keywords.
so don't complain about your wrong conclusions
it's funny enough to talk about poison sellers while defending marxist orthodoxy.
pointing out a false association is not "defending" it.
very funny [the tweets retained by the author] ( 2865 & width = 968). guy a. really comes across as the lousiest of reddit butthurts moderators.
his attitude became unbearable to me. i try to put myself in the shoes of the guests, and i wouldn't know what to say not to summon his wrath. even on my sofa, he makes me uncomfortable.
it's time for him to get rid of and change his job.
you are snowflakes in this sub. people spend their time pissing off celebrities, i'm glad a celebrity returns. he's practically his own boss at this point, so we don't care.
me personally, guy a leaves me indifferent, but i'm glad that they send shit the world who deserve it on social networks.
we are constantly rising up against the toxic climate of social networks, and when someone says '' fuck you '', do we stand up against him? it would take more pitbul like him to replace the world that overflows from time to time.
lol
all other media have reported that wiseman, a producer of several things, is facing charges. it was only québécor who introduced him as the producer of tlmep ** specifically ** and who has columnists who have gone on about how tlmep is bad.
it's pkp using its propaganda machine to try to harm its competitor, period.
the king of the plateau clique has spoken! pack the broken ones !!!
[reminder] (
also, don't forget that the * freedom of oppression * collective is currently building a phalanx around .... [guess who.] ( 329152505481691)
as [l'aut'journal] would say ( who is probably shopping for a label of extreme right among those not sure where this newspaper came from is * sprinkle the fire with oil! *
the one where he calls someone lousy because that person doesn't squeal a photo of his face on twitter and doesn't have a follower shows just how much of a loser guy a lepage is. it's not everyone who loves themselves so much that they want everyone to see them face, or who spends enough time on twitter to become an influencer with followers.
quite delusional! my employer would never accept this kind of behavior on my part, even on a personal account! i understand that it may be legal but we would find a way to sanction me;)
not guilla!
someone with editing skills should merge those tweets with the [trailer] ( of p. mcquade's investigation into trolls.
bonus if he changes dion for lepage!
let him start with a vacation and quit twitter.
what is shocking with guy a. is that he insults mr. madam everyone with the subtlety and finesse of a twelve year old child. one expects better from the face of the cbc.
he answers trolls, he wastes his time. there is just the cave air.
not false
don't know autjournal but it didn't take them a long time to start talking about "islamic fundamentalist".
joe public who does 5% of what guya does is going to end up with an employer bombarded 24/7 by a horde demanding his immediate resignation or the intervention of the courts. in memory, the drunk pruner was the worst example followed by the teenager / cashier / fb admin for a pharmacy.
yes i get it, but criss that the world are fools online. that he sends annoying chantale, the queen of his little life, i think it's great, lol.
it's not wasted time if we like it.
yes, the real left doesn't like that violent, sexist, medieval theocracy no matter which it is.
social networks are indeed not the scene of the most cordial exchanges and that is a shame. at the same time, you have to avoid being the architect of your own misfortune by fueling this vicious circle. because basically what emerges from this story is that everyone is legitimate to insult guy a. with the most abject rudeness considering that it is the modus operandi of the character.
yes but it harms his image too
i look at their history, marxist leninist, bolshevik union. these people have no problem with the authoritarians.
if they have the islam record on repeat, that must be their nationalist part ....
hmmm .. left nationalist, are you nazbols?
"islam is a feminist religion"
yeah, but the guy has more money than this whole sub. everything he touches is worth millions. i think he knows showbiz more than our little gang.
you mix up a lot of stuff. like you said, you don't know the l'aut 'journal gang. a little culture would do you good, it's a journal of center-left intelligentsia and trade unionists and there are plenty of federates and canadians in the big names who contribute to it.
we can say the same about mariepier morin
boff, i don't think mariepier morin deserves all the shit she gets, but there is still a difference between being drooling on twitter towards the ginettes and biting someone.
the comparison has no moral basis, but a professional image. guy a lepage's attitude has a negative fallout, that's all i'm saying, notwithstanding the attacks he receives, and i'm far from being a hater of mr. lepage and his show, which i watch. every now and then that does receive a deplorable influx of hate.
so, you wouldn't be behind [the alterhis channel] ( by any chance? it's extremely fun and enjoyable as an exercise, thank you for laying out these political fiction scenarios.
well done, i can't wait to read episode iii!
don't forget that kamala harris grew up in montreal, i think her mother is still in westmount actually
i like your exercise in political fiction.
to answer your question, i would first resolve the crisis with the english-speaking community. i will give a one-way ticket to ontario to anyone who no longer wishes to live in quebec. for the rest, well they will have to accept the democratic choice of the majority and live in our new country.
no, there would be no shortage of planes. but we won't have tanks that's for sure.
honestly, the hatred for the english is very real and it hurts to see.
no i did not know but it seems interesting!
no trouble, it's a fun exercise. i will refine as i go, but basically it is to do a geopolitical d&d with decisions taken democratically. it has the potential to be funny if it works.
indeed it's good to remind me!
[deleted]
hatred of the english?
anglophone unfortunately
a first but certainly not a last
since they traded patrick roy, i hate ch.
irrelevant
are hurt, it's not like it's wanted
made in quebec, estie
but nobody talks about quebec stars who do not want to play for the habs, for equal pay, they prefer to play elsewhere. patriotism? my eye!
soon it will be 112 years without a stanley cup ... the priorities ... competitive enough in the nhl for the habs to have had luck, added taxes, pressure and language war we could forget the possibility of winning nothing
it is especially exaggerated with regard to wokism in france. as someone pointed out here, these are retired veterans who watch the news too much.
in the west, civil war is more likely in the united states, it is undeniable. in quebec, it is rather a cultural war which appears under the guise of an invader, and in my opinion which will generate disproportionate damage compared to france, the true cultural force of the western world. france is undoubtedly in the best position to stand up to this cultural revolution.
this letter should have been signed by quebec. if these soldiers want to fight wokism at all costs, this is where they should give us a hand. on the other hand, it is very alarming that quebec is not reacting in this way. reading the letter, it is literally the reality that i have been describing here for months and that no quebecer feels (except the protesters who are indignant at everything all day long).
i am very pessimistic about our future. i do not see how quebec will be able to resist this cultural imperialism.
i was not aware of the letter. i would have answered "possibly" before. it is appalling to see so many military leaders sounding the alarm.
[text of the letter, for those interested.] ( defend-patriotism /)
quebec can take advantage of wokism. first of all, the anglos never took him for a real white, we always said “speak white” to him. the trumpists hate french canadians unless they completely renounce not only their language but their name: at least they must accept to be called only by the often mocking nickname that the anglos are willing to give them. i myself was called float because i asked too many questions about floating point arithmetic instructions when i was a programmer. quebec has always had by itself an anti-intellectualism of the maoist cultural revolution style which goes very well with the woke spirit. i remember the days of main-mise magazine.
a counter culture, we have the advantage of having a national conscience because of our conquered situation that is the reason that we are one of the last western people to speak of demography and assimilation of immigrants.
i don't know, in the states they have always been close to a second civil war which never happened, this is their great advantage, they are desensitized which is good and bad, bad because you continue the cycle of violence but good because the government is not going to overreact.
here in canada, if we have 10% of the political violence that there is in the states, we would already have a law on war measures in place.
wokism is the new terrorism. it is a way of destabilizing a society by causing it to overreact.
terrorism destroyed nato by prompting the hawks to wage unrestrained war in the middle east.
the wokism will allow the reactionaries to act without constraints under the guise of "saved the nation" (as for example by instituting checks of the vulva in the sports for women)
they are old, retired fafs.
i extracted the important memes for those who don't have the time
contre antiracism (they are the true racists !)
against demolishing statues of slavers
against the native and rejects colonialism
"islamic hordes" transforms the nation into "subject territory" which does not respect "rules of law"
the police her innocent scape goats, the yellow vests are the real french
politicians are liars
we are ready to "help you" (offer of violence) if you work to "save the nation"
if you do nothing, when the "explosion" will (inexorably) happen to "help you" even if you don't ask
"perilous mission of protecting our civilizational values and safeguarding our compatriots on the national territory" -> you, on the watchlist, now
if we still do not have a country, it is indeed because we are not even free of conscience yet.
demography and immigrants, is there a subject more frequently broached by the american right?
i don't agree to say "that quebec is the last people to talk about it"
ok so it's because of the reactionary journal de montreal that transsexual men are still not allowed in competitive sports for women?
there are still 10,000 soldiers who have signed, the soldiers who are not retired cannot get involved in politics but who know little how they agree with them.
obviously, being from quebec means having your head elsewhere.
the americans are not a nation, they will talk about illegal immigration yes, but it is not the same thing.
no matter where your family comes from, you are an american because you have this citizenship there, but for us as we don't have a country it means that the national consciousness is much more present.
it is an ethnic conscience, all pre-independence nations have that, it is one of the reasons that we are called racists, worse than the english do not understand our anti-multiculturalism mentality, maybe one day we will have our french country we would be multiculturalists, but for the moment we cannot, because it is not the real thing, there is no quebec passport, this identity is transmitted in the vast majority from parents to children, it has always been like that.
i never heard trump say that immigrants don't want to be americans, he talked about the criminality of this immigration but not about identity.
i don't think this newspaper has any influence on a phenomenon of this size. they are just another group that benefits from adding fuel to the fires.
the correct answer to this question is "it is not important". there is no problem with sports and trans, it is a distraction to keep the public discussion from going to topics that are important.
like the debates on intersectionality that concern less than 0.5% of the population?
yes, we would be better to talk about squirrels than to think that we are going to have a civil war because there are some who are afraid that guys will be castrated to win women's sports easier. what an incredibly stupid idea for a civil war.
[deleted]
has anyone managed to figure out something without falling asleep?
700 million at a time
grammond is dishonest. she speaks of anglophones + allophones attending cegep in french, but not the other way around.
has anyone read lacroix's book? what are the figures for allophones going to anglo cegep?
i imagine it is the real estate prices that are made mongolian, makes the owner think that he deserves 1.5x / 3x more money from the rent because where are you going to go? houses and buildings are more purchasable. you lose your apartment for whatever reason and you will be able to live nowhere in quebec your new house will be a cardboard box.
soon the shantytowns and mass death of cold.
what pisses me off is the landlord who bought his block in 1980 for next to nothing and, because his block is now (on paper) worth 2 or 4 million, he feels authorized to lower the rents by $ 600 at $ 1200 ...
but it's not new apartments, it's old stuff built in the 70s, 80s, poorly insulated, not soundproof ...
they make us pay the price of luxury for shit.
we will soon have to sell our organs
it is unfortunate, because this development reveals the economic illiteracy of a good part of the population. contrary to what protesters claim, rent control does not work see the current situation. when the state dictates the prices there are only two options, shortage or overcharging. what is even more stupid is this growing idea that profit should be exempt from the housing industry. yet the most elementary logic tells us that if there is no profit to be made with housing, no one will build housing and tenants will be the biggest losers.
the case of manoir lafontaine is moreover quite emblematic of the situation. it is claimed that housing, not only housing, but affordable housing on the plateau mont-royal, a stone's throw from the metro in front of lafontaine park, is a fundamental human right. i'm sorry, but i've rarely seen such stupid reasoning. if ever we are stupid enough to guarantee housing for the entire population, hands out is not where real estate is the most expensive they will stay! it will be in hlms in pointe aux trembles, grand-mère or saint-joseph de sorel, not on the mont-royal plateau! because no, the right to live where you want at the price you want does not exist, it is a fantasy of a little marxist with two balls.
when leaving the government should ban zoning which just allows the construction of single-family houses, why not starting with the waste island question of going to dilute the english. wherever you are allowed to build single-family homes, you should also be able to build 3-4 storey blocks. hlms are fine, but what would be even better would be to ensure that it pays to build and / or renovate housing, in particular by reducing the repayment time authorized by the increases in the management. or altogether by eliminating the price control of the housing authority, since it is bypassed anyway. by instituting more stringent price controls than they are now, all that would do is encourage more homeowners to convert their homes into condos.
i have not read the article but i put forward the idea that it does not even mention the presence in montreal of a group of financial predators who have been banned from vancouver and toronto and who have free rein here. i have good?
how do you say.... duh in french? ;-)
tenants should get used to making lease assignments rather than not renewing the lease. it prevents arbitrary increases in owners and acts in a way like the lease register requested by frapru for a long time.
there is no metro, senegalese restaurant and tofu gamelan yoga studio in grandmother, a vile region for a vile people of gallows game!
duh
it was a joke ... dsl
same haha
very happy to see jfl be the spokesperson for frédéric bastien's speech. he makes several good arguments, but i would have liked him to elaborate more on relative vs absolute economic growth. you have to understand that when immigrationists sell us growth, it is absolute growth. and yes, the economy does not depend only on the number of players, but above all on their prosperity. this explains why the economy of quebec and its 8m inhabitants surpasses in relative and absolute terms that of ethiopia and its 110m inhabitants. thus, if we really want to boost our economy through immigration, we must apply to only bring in actors who will perform as well if not better than the local population. otherwise, we import balls that will reduce our relative prosperity, as is currently the case with all categories of immigrants according to the [institut du québec] (
the voice of reason, as usual.
excellent text, i will keep it in note.
> otherwise, we import balls that will reduce our relative prosperity, as is currently the case with all categories of immigrants according to the [institut du québec] (
this is not what the report says: page 5, literally: "main observation: regardless of the scenario adopted, it emerges from all the simulations carried out that immigration alone will not be able to completely cancel the impact. aging of the population on the economy. it could, however, mitigate its demographic and economic effects, in particular by ensuring a higher ratio of workers per retiree "
i did not comment on the worker / retiree ratio, but on the economic performance of immigrants. to this end, the report proposes statistics canada projections of the wages of immigrants in relation to the average wage on pages 35 and 36 as well as the gdp / capita and its growth according to the volume of immigration in appendix c. according to these data, we learn that the growth of gdp / capita is inversely proportional to the volume of immigration. look at the projections for 2040, at 23% of canadian immigrants we are at $ 55,871, at 16% it is $ 57,511, at 12% it is $ 58,596 and finally $ 62,514 for the zero immigration scenario.
the funniest part, lisée takes the situation as if it will stay exactly the same in the next 5, 10, 15 years when the bottom line is that the ratio of workers to retirees is only decreasing: "yééé, we have the full employment. good, only problem, everyone is taxed at 80% and we can no longer pay for pensions and care for the elderly, but that's okay, at least we could criticize immigration. were we raising the retirement age to 70 instead? "
page 7 should screw up anyone who claims to love quebec or quebec culture, but hey, full employment! it is crying to have people who hate swarthy so much that they endorse slow suicide.
table 2 on page 35 and table 3 on page 36 discuss the income of a new immigrant who arrived versus at the end of his career, at least after several years of settlement. for immigrants - and not refugees who are a completely different subject - the salary increase is constant. i don't see what allows you to talk about cannonballs.
table 4 shows the reverse, the impact of this population according to the different scenarios, you know the famous "an immigrant forces the creation of 16 million civil servant jobs to support his arrival" of bastien and lisée.
gdp is increasing.
at 0% immigrants, nominal gdp is 3a 23%, 3.7
it literally says the opposite. you look at the average gdp per capita taking into account lower paid immigrants. but you forget the total gdp which increases greatly: 493 339 million, 532 847, 545 995, 567 270.
all with a better retiree / worker ratio. "yes, but i will possibly make $ 7,000 more without immigrants." yes, but you will be 1.8 paying a guy's retirement instead of being 2.3: you will lose in taxes a lot more than what you will earn more by increasing wages!
you fall into the room of absolute values. yes, the absolute gdp will be greater, but the gdp per capita will be lower. more actors, of course, but they will all be poorer. that's the problem, a greater demand for service with a smaller tax base. because otherwise, nigeria's gdp is higher than quebec's, but it's not exactly a guarantee of their quality of life. moreover, even at 23% of canadian immigration, the impact on the worker / retiree ratio remains marginal and that on the proportion of health expenditure almost non-existent. it is simply not possible to rejuvenate a population through immigration unless the floodgates are thrown open to proportions unprecedented in the history of the country.
i'm not falling into anything at all.
a higher gdp, shared among more people. certainly, a single employee alone in quebec would gain all the wealth created. on the other hand, it would be pathetic. otherwise greenland would be the richest country in the world. the fact that the gdp is higher with proves that bastien and lisée's point is false: one more immigrant is not less money for everyone, it is more.
but it's not the salary in these tables, it's the gdp. the greater the wealth of quebec, the healthier the economy is and can create wages and, for example, pay for health (the last column) or the rest.
i strongly advise you to look again at the study because its conclusions escape you. if we follow your logic, the nigerian economy is larger than that of quebec, so it is healthier, can create more wages and for example pay for health. true or false?
the gdp per capita is quite a simple concept, it is the value of everything that is produced, the gdp, divided by the number of inhabitants. for gdp / capita to increase, the growth of everything that is produced must be greater than that of the population. this study tells us that immigration negatively influences this growth. refer to the gdp / capita growth projections on page 25. otherwise, we will have to explain to us why a gdp / hr of $ 55,871 is preferable to $ 62,514.
did you see that on page 24 there is a drawing that explains exactly why you are wrong?
this is because it is artificially brought down to the average by inhabitants to give an idea. except that each inhabitant does not create this amount, it is arbitrary. a teacher creates $ 0 in wealth. ditto for a nurse. but by adding up and dividing arbitrarily by the number of people, we get an idea of what that represents. the important figure is the total amount.
so, total amount. with 0% immigrant, that's $ 62,514 per capita, multiplied by x inhabitants. the problem that is explained to you everywhere is that x is too small. this total amount of gdp is eaten up by pensions.
with 23%, it is 55,871, ** slightly lower **, multiplied by x + 23%, ** much higher **. the estimated total gdp growth is of the order of double (1% growth versus 2%). the worker / retiree ratio is much higher.
so, at the risk of insisting, it doesn't say what you think it says. it's not about salaries, a quebecer without an immigrant who passes the mop is not going to be an attendant who receives 7k more per year. neither in salary nor in gdp. it's going to be a lower gdp total with a lower number of people to share the taxes.
i don't want to be offensive, but this level of incomprehension is getting rude. if the important figure is the total amount then it means that nigeria is richer than quebec. this means that nigeria has more resources than quebec to finance its infrastructure, public services and pension funds. no kidding, don't you see the problem with this proposal?
we are bringing back indicators such as gdp to the per capita level, otherwise it means absolutely nothing. nigeria has a gdp of 443g $ compared to 380g $ for quebec. aie, aie, aie, should he start sending us humanitarian aid? no, because that translates to $ 2,150 / inhabitant in nigeria compared to $ 46,125 / hr in quebec. do you understand what that implies?
besides, i don't know what you smoke if you think a teacher or a nurse creates $ 0 wealth. are education and health worthless? are you unaware that these services are counted in the gdp? frankly, a teacher who does not create any wealth ... because it is absolutely worthless a workforce that can read and write? you are seriously slipping on this one!
if quebec will not be able to assume its expenditure items at $ 62,514 / h, it will not be more capable at $ 55,871 / h! let's see, greater demand for service, smaller tax base. have you read the jfl article? that of frédéric bastien? does nigeria help you understand the implications of low gdp / hr? your solution is a time bomb. we import people who reduce our fiscal capacity. they themselves will end up rentier and we will have to import more people who will again reduce our fiscal capacity, etc ...
finally, on the worker / retiree ratio. much higher? like the gdp / h of quebec compared to that of nigeria? we start from a base value of 3.1 in 2018. the zero immigration scenario brings us to 1.8 in 2040 against 2.1 for 12% of canadian immigration, 2.2 for 16% and 2.3 for 23%. as a reminder, the status quo represents the 16% scenario. this means that unless you immediately increase immigration to 73k per year, we will only earn 0.4 workers per retiree by 2040, despite the arrival of 1.3m immigrants. 1.3m immigrants for 0.4 workers per retiree and that will only cost us $ 5k of gdp / capita. do you think we will come out a winner?
> besides, i don't know what you smoke if you think a teacher or a nurse creates $ 0 wealth.
i thought we were talking about gdp, which does not contain these parameters. the teacher and the nurse are in the expenditure column from a gdp perspective. i don't smoke anything, i stick to the definition of gdp.
the rest of her answer in the study cited is just that you don't seem to understand what she is saying.
> finally, on the worker / retiree ratio. much higher?
yes.
[active population in quebec] ( 4,529,900 people. add 23%, that's 5,571,777 people.
gdp without additional person: 4,529,900 \ * 62,514 = 283,182,168,600
gdp with 23%: 5 571 777 \ * 55 871 = 311 300 752 767
of gdp, not wages.
1.8 employee for 1 retiree vs 2.3 employees for 1 retiree.
> do you think we will come out a winner?
>  
> i don't want to be offensive, but this level of incomprehension is getting gross.
this is exactly the conclusion of the study, any additional percentage of immigrants selected to enter the labor market is a respite for quebec finances. who also mentions that it is not enough regarding the low birth rate.
i agree with you, this is getting rude, but i decided to be patient.
okay, there is still something to clarify.
legault does what he can with the powers he has, most of the things that work fall under the federal and son a peupa trou'dcul:
1. trudeau crammed himself 3 times with the areoports. at the beginning when he let everyone in by giving little papers that explained to the world how to wash their hands and that's it.
2. the second time when he didn't want to know to close them
3. the 3rd time when he decided that "maybe 3 days" at the hotel if that auntie was en masse. australia and new zealand: 14 days, mandatory.
4. he stuffed himself by land too ... like 21,000 hasidic jews on easter, too dumb to say no to them.
5. troudeau got screwed with pku
6. it is made to have all that was masks and protection
7. he got fucked in the ass by the vaccines.
the big problem is the borders, that's federal ...
everything legault does (at least he does a lot more than trudeau) has to do with what he can do, the bitannic vaiant crisse here and the bresillian variant crisse in the west, they can't walk as far as 'here ... in the west they even know that it is a cellar that has decided to travel. without saying that the west is "our country" but made it a lot easier to get here ... it's not after legault that we should be cursed.
goal
that sums up the whole process for a year. are public health memos finally available?
tabarnaque is fucking beautiful
you are a gang of fools. gang de laches you quebecers. i'm ashamed of you tbrnk. prb vote vaccine and go to paradise in peace. we the wui others want to live free.
the two
bah, i think there is a way to be reasonably damned against the two. i completely agree with you for the start of the pandemic. total federal improvisation. what was previously described as unthinkable or impossible was applied two to three weeks late, resulting in pan-canadian spread of the virus. extremely bad for an answer.
afterwards, if we can blame the federal government for the introduction of the virus, that does not entirely clear the provincial as to its response to him. i even want to grant him a grace period at the start of the pandemic, he didn't know, he had to adapt, etc ... but it's been a year and we are still getting the argument out of the limits of the system. however, it is the government and the famous ciusss which are directly responsible for the limits of the system. this means that their incompetence and their inability to manage anything despite the $ 48 billion dedicated to health are responsible for the theft of our freedoms.
it's also trudeau's fault if we have a curfew at 8 p.m. while it's still light outside?
truly
no, but it's still something that legault can do, to see the mongol gang in lafontaine park not able to have a mask or to stay at 2 meters, the curfew at 8 o'clock it may not be cellaring.
instead of big "i'm doing nothing" to trudeau ... basically, there isn't a million things he can do, like i said, what can be done he's already doing. .. the rest comes from the federal, which is doing nothing to contain the virus. so we have to work out, the curfew is here to prevent the world from partying.
it's pathetic the pursuit of the pq just like this man is pathetic.
have pspp write him an inflammatory open letter or something. a frank pursuit lol
edit: i am pequiste
can it be that all of these debates are contaminated by bad faith? in the case of the n-word, there was nothing more sacred than academic freedom threatened by wokes, academia had to be brought in line so that everyone could express themselves freely because censorship is poo , and poor françois whose literary affinities were criticized. here, it would be indignant against a teacher who has an opinion, and finally the degree of academic freedom should not be absolute?
could it be that in fact, academic freedom is a pretext in any case to hide a simple "i like", "i don't like" depending on the subject? (by transparency, i didn't tire of reading what an ottawa teacher thinks about quebec, so i have no opinion on his possible rant)
i admit that i don't know what to think of the direction the pq is taking.
people are not as outraged that he said that as that he is being celebrated. and really, you want to compare a person who said "nigger" in a completely acceptable context to someone who does hate propaganda?
you're just aiming for that one. freedom of expression, whether university or customary, is not a concept acquired in quebec. i can hardly understand those of us who call for censorship of the type. especially considering and you notice it so well that they are the same ones who defended professor lieutenant duval.
besides, silencing professor attaran would represent a monumental strategic error. it is precisely through what he talks about and the response from the university of ottawa that we perceive the true nature of canada too often obscured. it wants to wrap itself in inclusion while shooting red balls on the first national minority of the country? excellent! that, that awakens the conscience and much more than the facade sleepy hugs that canada likes to give itself.
honestly, i think the pq doesn't know what to think about the direction the pq is taking
i also find that the reaction is disproportionate to this teacher. yes we see the hypocrisy of the university of ottawa which punishes duval esther but lets this guy do it, but otherwise, he is only saying out loud what a large percentage of immigrants think softly. he's a racist jerk, but people have the right to be racist jerks. i believe that it is important for quebecers to hear what immigrants really think of them. their disproportionate hatred will perhaps ignite some on the left that no mass immigration is not a good thing.
that we answer him, and that we use him to show the hypocrisy of cancel culture: you want to cancel so and so? why are you ignoring attaran then?
i ask if the debate on academic freedom is a cover-up to defend the subjects that join us. people in general and academia in particular should be able to criticize whatever they want, it shouldn't move us that a guy elsewhere in the world thinks badly of us (i mean, he's a guy in the world. the roc, on a smaller scale what the people of quebec think of montreal, that doesn't matter to me .. but then the roc?).
the columnist hardly speaks of the reception of the notice, but rather speaks of "denouncing the remarks".
totally agree, and as long as we bounce back on the treatment of francophones in the roc, it is a good spring. besides, personally, whenever the roc finds fault - not people, i don't see the point of arguing with everyone, but institutions in the roc or official representatives - i would take advantage of it. immediately to put the francophonie under their noses after having listened to them. just to say an argued fuck off.
yes and the gogauche has taken control, this dude is the best example because they managed to screech out a teacher for having said a word from a book but at the same time he insults the french canadians without any consequences.
it is because we, the people of quebec, are worth less than the other ethnic groups. canada told us, we are no more than the chinese in vancouver ... and we cellars believed in "we love you" from the last referendum and we elected daddy's son.
i do not know. ruba ghazal and andré fontecilla of quebec solidaire condemned the remarks. not convinced that the "left" is that strong in quebec.
unfortunately we are in canada so yes.
valérie plante and covid19: two sides of the same coin?
it's been 3 columns / articles that i read and no one dares to mention the salary envelope.
if the figures we had a month (or 2?) ago match, it's a minimum of $ 130,000. possible that it is currently $ 150,000 with expense account.
in reference, the premier of quebec is 180,000.
it is the beginning of an attempt based on "observatory on radicalization". the * discretionary budget * will come next.
$ 150,000 for a useless job like that? we really like it in quebec to waste our money on a lot of weird stuff.
the pm (and the deputies) are underpaid.
i feel that you are going to have a lot of trouble when you find out the real salaries of your elected officials (municipal, provincial, federal). just for the fun of it, i'm giving you [an unrelated list] ( non-represented-excluded-levels-superiors.html) at random for comparison purposes.
the premier of quebec has a larger envelope than it appears. the devil is in the details, as they say.
this is unnecessary from the usual economic perspective of the primary / secondary sector.
on the other hand, if we use guy debord's analysis in * la société du spectacle *, it is excessively useful. it is enough to treat "racism" (or rather "to speak of racism", all positions taken together) as a commodity, to transpose the concepts of the market economy and everything is explained.
the cynic in me would say that $ 150k / year is cheap to pay for peace from idiotic intersectional people. if she prevents one riot a year she pays her salary back. you could see it as a public relations job whose goal is to lull overly excited activists with a mountain of tabletted reports and statistics of varying validity.
but in reality, one can imagine that she will have a role similar to the political commissars of the red army. comrade manai is going to do her preached intersectional preaching. the city workers will listen to him, rolling their eyes and eating the donuts in the middle of the conference table. she is going to tell us that we should hire more black people, but obviously without ever thinking of resigning from her position herself to leave it to a black person ...
in direct salary.
was she elected? is she in a recently uncreated position?
i learn it every day!
>user reports:
>
> 1: large pig
that's not the end of it.
instead of playing smart, follow the link for other unelected ones, you will see that there is nothing there. i'm not saying it's normal, i'm saying it's the norm.
someone must go and take refuge in his safe space
proud quebecois without fear of showing it, not like george st who has a fleur-de-lis tattooed on his thigh but was afraid to enter the octagon with a quebec flag!
gsp?
it has made quebec shine enough in the world, let's give it a break.
it's not that tough to have 1 dude on your team with a flag like everyone else in mma and boxing does.
in that case you will go to mma and you will let us know
ok
to all the friends of freedom of expression who frantically downvote the dissenting opinion to take it out of sight: you are extraordinary. i would not have thought that the left gestapo would be rife here.
i want to play the sjw's game well by lending myself to prejudices:
the president of the alq has the appearance of a true hipster bobo from uqam - no surprise to see him politicize everything he touches
québécor radio host talks about a québécor columnist who saw his book withdrawn via a québécor article. same thing as an article in la presse written by marc cassivi which talks about rima elkouri's intervention on cbc radio following his presence at tout le monde en parle.
it is guy debord's * la société du spectacle * in its simplest form. the subject is not the * reality and the proletarian * but the * spectacle and the star *.
they removed an advertisement, left the interview online and suddenly, we are in a chinese concentration camp according to the forty media who talk about this "censorship" for three days.
or we have easy indignation on the right.
note that the gestapo did not remove advertisements from youtube, they killed people or sent them to a concentration camp.
a negavote is not censorship.
i'll leave that here, by nic payne.
"the process is always the same:
1) we intimidate people, an organization, etc., by making them understand that if they do not agree to comply with the prescribed moral rectitude, we will cover them relentlessly, and very publicly, with accusations of the worst ignominy: racism, rape culture, misogyny, invisibilization of the natives, patriarchy, whiteness, and so on, in order to make them infrequent as soon as possible.
2) once censorship is obtained, we say that it is not censorship.
3) since 2 does not work, we change our strategy and put the censorship on the account of the people or the organization we were targeting at the start, saying that we did not ask for censorship, and that we do not rather wanted to open a "dialogue".
promise that you will be erased, that you will lose your job, your savings, your reputation and your friends: what a beautiful invitation to dialogue, indeed. "
have you finished shitting our plate and telling us it's chocolate? the prime minister made a recommended reading list and a couple of activists disguised as alq employees took advantage of their position to withdraw it by calling him a witch. fortunately, reason triumphed and the alq dissociated itself from their actions.
no, being spotted by joe blow on reddit is not like the prime minister getting censored for false allegations. everything we see here:
1. if quebec solidaire were in charge, their political opponents would be better off paying attention.
2. their supporters are dishonest.
but we already knew that.
freedom of expression is threatened every day, criss even the pm after the murder of the french teacher said that there are "limits" to freedom of expression.
and that's the point, to take away freedom of expression under the excuse of "racism".
"yes but mbc is a racist, yes but the killed teacher is an islamophobe".
as the antifa did in the states "we must strike the nazis"
worse, the "nazis" are all those who are not left-wing communists.
why are you defending this?
"to the right"?
what does it have to do with the right and being outraged by censorship?
freedom of speech has become a concept only defended by the foul "right"?
i see that we agree.
to intimidate the association to remove or put an advertisement which belongs to them is not dialogue.
regarding the negavote, i would really, really like to point out that it is exactly that the people who expressed reservations to the association on the ads concerning legault said: "ah, hey, i don't like this point of view. ".
have i become a supporter of quebec solidaire?
they removed the ad for the interview, not the interview.
there were no allegations, nor was there any censorship. mbc's books continued to sell, the prime minister still had his interview online.
have you stopped being indignant about a few things?
you say that when there are about 50 columns published on the subject in all the daily newspapers in quebec. because an association withdraws one of their own advertisements.
i dunno, people censor opinions with -1 on reddit, right? false ?
the point is, that's right on freedom of speech. a private association decided to withdraw an advertisement that belonged to them. not the interview, the advertisement. in theory no one should have a say in the matter. but it is now that you can force an association to publish or not publish advertising.
is it a real issue? force the hand of an association in one direction or the other?
why are you defending the opposite? it is freedom of expression that is at stake, in both directions, when we try to intimidate people who have no connection with legault to advertise.
the accusation is that the ** left ** censors. because a few guys on the internet have written to a private association to have an ad removed.
so i imagine that it comes from the opposite camp. indignant? so easily ? that validates my point a bit by the absurdity, doesn't it?
that said, i am referring to legault, martineau, dutrizac and bock-côté. i think i can say right without exaggerating.
there is a good difference between saying "i don't like something" and "i don't like it and i want to prevent anyone from seeing it".
yes because the majority is against this censorship, the problem is the small left-wing minority who are very militant and who make believe that they are more numerous and the alq has bitten me.
> a private association decided to withdraw an advertisement that belonged to them.
not bad all associations are like that. then go ask the members they represent what they think, not sure that the decision will last.
you amalgamate with a bunch of definitions that have nothing to do with each other. your right-wing definition is actually the definition of conservatism, where mbc and martineau are more of a social-democratic conservatism, or even progressive conservatism, in short "the old" social-democratic left specific to the pq.
are there still people who really know what it is to be right or left in 2020?
by the way, i position myself more on the left, and i also agree that the censorship comes mainly from the radical leftist fringe.
on reddit, it's well documented that downvoted opinions are read less in quantity, so it's light censorship (or you really have to let go with "removing the interview ad is censorship") . and that the basic system was, vote + if it brings something to the conversation, vote - if it disrupts a conversation.
instead, we make it a system of co-opting the majority opinion in a sub. exactly the thing that dislikes about / r / quebec
but good heavens, whether a private company publishes or does not publish an ad, since when does it concern the general public?
are we still a free country where everything must work by collective approval?
if so, how is it that legault has been ruling by decree since march without this shocking you?
exactly, we asked nothing of the members, the usual divas yelled at the gestapo, nothing less, and radicalization. for removing an advertisement.
freedom of expression is good just for martineau and bock-côté. meanwhile, legault has been managing quebec by decree since march, because democratic debates, eh, should not fit into "free expression" as well as the gag.
no, to respond to basic comments about what the left is, free speech or censorship, i don't need to clarify a thousand hours on who is what. don't make delusional accusations, i'll spend more time dissecting the different currents.
mbc takes up the theses of the great replacement on occasion, it is of the extreme right or even of conspiracy. and to be honest, i don't care, it's such a stupid theory that i don't think i can change a believer's mind. it's like persisting with a witness of jehovah that god does not exist: i have better things to do (assassin's creed, let's say).
i point out the inconsistencies in the debate, however. censorize to death on the one hand, call for boycott, dismissals, cry out for censorship when a private association decides not to use its own material. qualify people who disagree as leftists (like we have read and endorsed marx ... all this to defend bonyeu free enterprise), or those mbc loath to be radical ... when you are a prime minister who is supposed to represent the whole population. population.
if it was censorship, the few people who cried against the association would have asked not to sell bock-côté. this is not what happened.
when in martineau, let's understand, he's a guy who takes the direction of the wind and no more, no less. he and sophie will write mainstream for the rest of their lives, no matter what.
in a thread with 1000 comments. yes. in a small sub like ours where the threads hardly ever go above 10 comments, a -20 comment will be read anyway.
they published it but afterwards they censored it because of the tweeters on tweeter one fsit believe that the majority of quebecers wanted the censorship which is loim to be true.
like you say "free country", you have the right to tweet against the list and i have the right to tweet for the list.
but who is that "we"?
this is how it works:
1.a committee takes a decision that is perceived massively unpopular by the members
2. members are not happy; they fired the committee and the president for the next appointments
3. the committee is not happy to have been ousted, they regret their decision
4. the new committee formed reconsiders the decisions of the old committee, the members are happy again
this is how "we asked them nothing" works.
> do not make delusional accusations, i will spend more time dissecting the different currents.
sorry my lord, we are going to communicate with you at this step, the whole country, taking you by default as our first interlocutor, sire.
i think you need to push your analysis a little more, because apart from your formal disagreement on the chosen term, in this case "censorship" here, your analysis grid is not complete, and i suspect that a bias is at the origin.
it saddens me the same because the creation of the sub is linked to the censorship of different opinions on / r / quebec and that obviously it is negavote because of "i do not agree" but i accept your point, which is reasonable too.
it's not censorship. it's their creation, they do what they want with it. freedom of expression is to take their own creation off the air.
i agree with your second point.
yes, and none of that happened. you know why ?
because it's a director who said to herself: "hey, my goal is to sell books". "our clients don't like this interview. i'm going to leave it, but remove the ad so they close it, because i want to sell books, not waste my time discussing politics." here, the people on the right are waking up and crying out for censorship. "i will put the advertising back online."
possibly, the members will forgive him for an error in judgment for the rest of the job done in recent years, which includes selling lots of small mbcs despite the strength of the bolshevik movement.
or not.
but that all the columnists, politicians and the prime minister make a cheese ... have you noticed that we have a terrible score with covid in quebec? don't you have anything better?
incidentally, the "people" have not been represented since march since the opposition parties have been muzzled since march. doesn't that bother you when it comes to censorship?
on, it was the salon critics who turned it into a crime against humanity before asking any questions. the publications of internal discussions on facebook show that it is a storm in a glass of water, but it serves well the speech "right muzzled" held every day in the montreal newspaper, on the radio, in the media.
here, a trial of intent on an alleged bias. note that i refrain from passing judgment on you. i pass judgments on arguments. if you want to talk about arguments i am your man and i read what you write carefully. if it's to make any hints that smell of sulfur, i'm sure you can find a better way to occupy your time.
thank you for showing me the deference that is due to me on the other hand, it is a pleasure.
i agree with you. negavote is not meant to be used to say "i disagree" and should be reserved for bad faith users / trolls.
and you forget something very important, it is not just a "private company" it is an organization of 125 libraries which aims to promote the canafian-french culture, to see them censor against their will because do not forget they have published the list and only after a few tweets they changed their opinion, it says a lot about the current state or you can easily with 5-10 activists and a few fake profiles tweet changing the policies of a 60 year old organization as important as the alq.
well listen, you seem particularly deep in the management of the alq, which is not my case for reasons that you explain well.
on the other hand, the members of the alq are bookstores and booksellers, not readers:
*> exercise a dynamic and effective representation of the professional, economic and cultural interests of the members, with political bodies and partners of the book industry. *
not wrong, but the reasons are not the least legitimate, especially in the current context.
i'm telling you this in good faith because your analysis does not seem to me to be based at all cold, rather on emotion, because to speak of the extreme right for mbc is to show little intellectual honesty for your ideological opponents, which would be easily more attackable with a precise analytical portrait.
there was debate on legault's list. knowing that they want to sell, they hesitated to want to debate in the public place and we left the video but removed its ad (which suddenly was an error of appreciation). i am comfortable with the debate on this.
where i am not comfortable is to say that because some guys criticize this choice, they are "radicals" and "gestapo". both camps are doing the same thing: putting pressure on the association to force its publications.
the speech becomes hateful.
yes, that is why the debate is insane. these people sell books of all colors. and there's no better way to defend your quebec identity than by supporting quebec booksellers, versus the scolding amazon, the quiet revolution, nelligan, jeanne mance and the sons of liberty.
but it sells the cloth to make believe that there is an internal enemy who hates us and who plots.
one should be able to criticize these decisions without falling into the "leftist plot worthy of stalin".
there you go, i agree. you disapprove of the minister, you talk about it, you refrain from asking that it be hidden. but you have to understand the role of the girl who wants to sell something. his job is to sell, not to outrage the populace. if she only receives complaints at first, it makes sense to ask "do you advance the cause of the book to make customers angry?" "do i remove the ad to refocus the discussion on quebec bookstores, or do i want to place myself in the field of politics?"
and for her turnaround, for me she is no more solid than in her first decision. ah well, finally, there are plenty of people on the right, let's restore advertising ... with a warning to please everyone.
it is not a reflection, nor principles. she's a salesperson who makes business decisions, period. but it's not the abominable far-left censorship that wants to put bock-coté in a gulag, we are talking about mathieu there, not solzhenitsyn.
the big replacement, for me it is one of the clear limits. when you criticize semi-colors for existing, for being a propaganda tool and so on, you left the world of politics and entered into ... radicalization. it's no better than isis who kills you because you're not in their sect.
there are 8 billion of us, there are no more virgin territories, we have means of transport. girls from the neighboring country are as horny as ours, it happens. seriously come out that this is a plot to bastard the white "race", you cannot defend me that it is a rational thought or which will end for the benefit of the "people". the purity of the people, it always starts with what is easy (melanin), it ends with the fireworks and the crime of opinion once the obvious impure have disappeared.
mbc is the student from the university of montreal who told black people that racism does not exist. the rest is the development of this niche over 20 years.
no, but there's something to be shocked about in withdrawing the remarks of the pm that they posted. that's how i see it. +
except that i believe that legault is a considerable promotional factor for these books. even philippe couillard would have helped raise the sales of a list of books. it strikes me as completely unrealistic to believe that such recommendations would alienate bookstore customers to the point of lowering their income. you are indeed the only person to support this thesis. this is a reasoning that does not hold water at all, it is just completely contradictory to the principles of sales. manon massé could also offer books that nobody would flinch, that only benefits sales.
> e a propaganda tool and so on, you left the world of politics and entered into ... radicalization. it's no better than isis who kills you because you're not in their sect.
>  
> we are 8 billion, there are no more virgin territories, we have means of transport. girls from the neighboring country are as horny as ours, it happens. seriously come out that it's a com
i have never heard, seen or read mbc supporting this racial-based "great replacement" theory, nor even martineau and the rest of their "reaction" clique. mbc was one of the few at le figaro to have denounced the extreme right-wing groups after an effigy of joan of arc, depicted as mulatto, was vandalized by them since they were not white.
you are really wrong in the interpretation you make. i do not know where you want to come from but your plea does not hold water. in the field across the board, as well as an extremely incomplete analysis of those you criticize.
that doesn't mean he can't say something smart. he did a doctorate. it's just that there are educated islamists, educated neo-nazis, educated mafiosi.
you don't seem to understand what the big replacement is.
[deleted]
certainly, and this reasoning is very typical. it should be understood that if multiculturalism affects foreigners, it is because it allows them to express their most chauvinistic feelings towards their country of origin while delegitimizing the local culture. nor should it be surprising that with such a dynamic, foreign conflicts are imported to us, for example the latent conflict between the indians and sikhs with the latter who are much more numerous and influential here than in their country of origin. .
multiculturalism is madness. we must stop this delirium before each people loses for good their unique culture which distinguishes them. because that is basically the goal of multiculturalist ideology: that there is no longer a common culture.
i was talking in the other thread of [light in the eye to see if the brain is still working] ( = 3) and i just realized that with the mention of thailand but especially china and systemic racism it's not just with a light that we test but with a lighthouse.
i would not give the reason: it is much too big for a person who was not born yesterday not to make the connection ...
fasten your hat and not just for the coming winter cold. it will be more and more popular the idea to propagate diversity in the suburbs
for example, a tourist site near my home replaced the historic citizens of new france with new french mot-en-'n '. i laughed in tabarnak but it's not really funny.
on the other hand, to be against this push is clearly racist and should especially not ask questions to where it will go.
> it is because it allows them to express their most chauvinistic feelings towards their country of origin while delegitimizing the local culture.
extremely important point. few people understand the dynamics in place.
the best example would be to think that a home country with conflict is a street owned by 2 opposing families on either end throwing rocks at each other. if someone at the end of the street throws a rock at the other end, chances are they will hit a family member in the way so they moderate. in a foreign country, the rest of the street except for the ends are made up of people we don't know and don't want to know so we don't care because:
1. they just had to be part of our family.
2. their "silence" made us think they were members of the other family.
3. the police take time to come and help the stranger who received a rock, it should not be too large.
each of the 3 points serves as a common thread for any recent political initiative: "awareness" program, attempts to force the taking of a position (and diversion of resources) in imported subjects, reduction / delegitimization of the legal process and its police force, etc. interestingly, attempts to "defuse" old cultural conflicts are minimal as it would indicate that the newcomer to this dynamic, the local, has nothing to do with it ...
or the pogroms of armenians by the turks as in france
he is right.
the covid does not threaten the health of the population today. 90% + double vaxx.
we must stop testing, the data point of daily "cases" is the source of hysteria.
if we succeed in protecting the vaccinated triples from vaccinated doubles and unvaccinated cats who put them at risk, perhaps we will avoid re-containment.
this is the purpose of the vaccination passport. but i understand his point, and yes, it has to be worked out someday. let's finish the vaccination of 5-11 year olds and get back to normal. covid is rampant at this point.
but it will still come back.
[deleted]
tell that to all the fanatics who are going to ask for one in less than 3 months. it's coming, you're in the eye of the storm, it's just to make you believe in the effectiveness of the first two vaccines so that you adhere to the full schedule. 3 months check bin that, a reddit nowhere will have predicted the future better than all the "experts" that we present to you in the news (even that i am very generous with the 3 months)
hehe, don't forget that we have the next variant coming up, the sharks.
the health care bill is really the tree that hides the forest.
i would answer tse, it's all well and good to want to save people aged 75 and over, but if you decide to put quebecers under a glass bell, would you mind paying for the associated costs (vaccination, pku, monster inflation, etc.)?
do you think the vaccine doesn't prevent hospits?
ah yes, which one?
how to demonstrate that yes?
edit:
gibraltar, ireland, two places vaccinated at 99 and 92% (on average 3 vaccines / person in gibraltar) both have more cases than ever and have re-confined. germany, israel, england, maine, etc ... all good vaccination rates and the same story (israel has reached the 4th vaccine for the elderly, without a 3rd vaccine you lose your vaccine passport ...)
who said the number of hospitalizations would remain relevant?
the european countries which return to confinement all use the argument of the number of cases to justify themselves.
no, i'm not telling you about the "cases" confirmed by pcr.
i agree with you that it does not prevent infection / transmission as the places you mention precisely demonstrate.
rather, i believe the numbers show that it appears to be beneficial against hospits. just look at the number of uk "cases" vs hospits and compare before vaccination. it seems to me that it has some effect.
yes and no.
i agree with you that there is a kind of hysteria around the number of "cases" here and there.
but if you look at austria and germany in particular, hospits and deaths increase significantly.
the reality is that the difference between these countries there and here is that we had a big wave of deaths in the spring of 2020 and not them. so we can speculate that they have lower natural immunity.
the same thing happened a few weeks ago in the western provinces which had a good wave of deaths because they had not had a wave in april 2020. it is a pattern that is occurring. currently seeing according to my understanding of the data.
in any case, we should live normally and so should they. or at worst, put measures targeting the elderly or otherwise at risk. because the vaccine screech won't prevent transmission and eradicate the fucking virus (that's hard to accept apparently).
difficult to say, compare the 1st, 2nd and 3rd wave, without a vaccine it drops drastically, not only do we develop natural immunity (especially by letting people without risk such as young people catch it freely), but also we learn how to treat it better. and the most vulnerable people have already passed through it in large numbers.
we have been sold a potentially dangerous placebo at the cost of tens of billions, all over the planet.
moderna? sweden, norway and denmark no longer administer it at the age of 30 and under because of myocarditis, iceland not at all.
we? we do it cheerfully.
who says no to childhood immunizations like many real experts not chosen with tweezers.
we? 5-11 let's go and within 6 months the toddlers from 6 months to 5 years old.
we literally stopped injecting astrazeneca because of the dangers, proof that when we hurry it is risky, and there we continue to inject the 0 population at risk of covid with a risky product * in the short term, imagine long-term*...
we have been played, we must accept it and stop complying with nonsense before becoming beings perfectly conditioned to accept and defend it.
but hey, all it takes is a few articles every day for two weeks in the newspapers and repetitions on the news to convince that yes children are at risk! well more children are drowning and we continue to give them baths and let them bathe ...
the covid only kills one thing, common sense.
> who says no to vaccination of children like many real experts not chosen with tweezers.
glad not to be the only one who remembers the who goals which were basically to vaccinate people over 50 (population at risk) and send the rest to poor countries asap.
it's crazy to see any mention of this fade from the media and come up with stories of toddler and zoo animal vaccinations.
listen to me the vaccine is not one of the holy sacraments so i can admit that we are not 100% sure if it has the effect we give it.
and i agree overall with what you say. however, what i understand from the current data is that it seems to have a certain effectiveness.
and that we should live normally.
where's the bunch of hysterics normally screaming for privilege?
we should live normally (protecting people at risk) from the start and invest to the max and deploy the army to boost the health system to absorb the influx, governments are forced to play with numbers anyway, like a government te would hide that a meteor that will end life on earth until the last second. trudeau bought 8 doses per canadian for until 2024 in mid-april even before vaccinating the 60 and under, they clearly know something that you and i don't.
small exercise, remove the covid from the equation, and look at the measures imposed worldwide, without covid we agree in the second that it is the signs of a takeover on a global scale. add the covid, it's the same thing but with justification.
in either case, and regardless of the truth, caution, mistrust and patience are required more than ever.
we should just have done like florida or sweden.
it is terrifying the country that i will bequeath to my children and grandchildren. we are stripped of our culture and our identity by our politicians. i do not understand what their real objectives are behind such immigration policies.
don't give a shit about the color of people if they share our culture.
at least my great-grandchildren are going to be able to have a go on the job market because they will be part of the visible minority.
/s
when north americans talk about whites, i never know if we should include quebecers ... but hey ... we are all on earth to prepare for a future without us ...
ah yes, to confuse the color of skin with the enslavement of a riot ...
[deleted]
this should come as no surprise since it is well documented. [in 1951] ( visible minorities made up 1.8% of the population. [between 1981 and 2006] ( their proportion increased from 4.7% to 16.2%. at the last available census, ie that [of 2016] ( it is now a question of 22.3% and it will surely exceed 25%, a quarter of the population in that of 2021 it's hard to imagine 2106, but that's what canada aspires to and what drives canada. do not kid ourselves.
so, end of * white problems * (gretapocalypse, drag queens in schools, pronouns to use, cisgender toilets, gender reassignment at 5, patriarchy, not enough pills, etc) not planned until 2106.
it will be long.
pis?
it's normal all the provinces will be out of this bureaucratic hell
to please the international industrialists.
well, the problem is not directly related to immigration, but rather to integration.
in a colony, you need manpower to exploit the resources, distribute them to those who ask for them and enrich those who set the projects in motion. canada is not post-national, as jt claims, it is still colonial. i would even say that the entire planet is more than ever thought of according to this model. at least, it's a seductive dark idea that would support my little dystopian ailments.
as quebecers, we have the advantage of having worked with the colonial project from the start. i imagine that should give us a maturity that other countries do not have.
good luck with that.
i totally agree, but it is not possible if the quantity of returning immigrants is too large.
do the members of haitian street gangs in montreal-north share our values?
a canadian / quebecois who talks about "whites" is not so much the same as an american who talks about it.
there is obviously no black crime, that's a myth.
black americans (13% of the population) do not commit 50% of homicides year after year. this is obviously a lie of the extreme right.
there is nevertheless a big variety metropolis vs city and suburb. try to find a black in my little town, it's almost all white
at this rate, the last white man in toronto will be murdered by a racialized scum in 2084, and those who denounce the murder will be sent to an anti-racist re-education camp.
slavery is freedom. diversity is our strength.
not bad sure the world that grows this just looks white.
you drank too much kool-aid my man.
can you elaborate your thought?
the two are not independent of each other. you can't have integration if there is too much immigration.
so whites with whites is the only thing to do?
yeah we agree
those who do not assimilate will stay in their ghettos
what gives them their values is their skin color?
of course not, the problem is that they grew up under a liberal reign where all communitarianisms were encouraged and where the majority people were demonized. let's be proud of who we are and reach out to people everywhere, invite them to join us, to integrate into our society. they are already several to do it.
what excuses mom boucher's actions suddenly?
the french canadians who emigrated to the us assimilated into the white american majority and became indistinguishable (except by their last name).
dishonest, fallacious and demagogic comparison, without respect for the truth, like the daily diarrhea that you shit on us with your fake hqa news.
indeed, but the ripple effect is engaged even in the deep quebec. for example, [between 1996 and 2016] ( 408 & topic = 7), the proportion of visible minority has doubled in quebec and canada, but it has tripled in the city of saguenay.
shit, empty-headed host.
the best way to have a machine that is easy to maintain is to have interchangeable parts that work well together, but do not organize together against the machine.
it's a bit like when women are "emancipated" to be chained to an office 40 hrs / week. quite a victory for society ...
no. but at this rate "our culture" will become "the local culture" which will be a kind of incoherent collection of ideologies, uses and customs.
i invite you to read this paragraph which summarizes a scientific study, specifically the penultimate sentence. just saying...
[
ethnic quebecers are clearly under-represented in prisons. we import crime every year. it is irrefutable.
so that's why we should import the american racial divide here, which wokes and right-wing racialists believe would be a successful model of society?
did i hurt your feelings?
it remains around 1% their increase is very low compared to metropolitan areas. if have used your logic, what will it take 300 years for the deep quebec !? assume that the increase in visible minority is stable and constant.
and anyone who flips the top (which is mostly a metropolitan problem, immigrants almost always choose the big city first) ignores the real problem. it is because we are not making babies, in any case not enough to replace the base population. we end up with an aging populace, who needs more manpower to take care of them.
dixit the great intellectual.
find me a place in the world where the quality of life has improved with extreme multiculturalism and massive immigration.
pis so? here it will be paraye. the people of toronto are laughing loudly today and they had the same attitude as you.
which means that race (according to melanin?) is biologically criminogenic?
it is good that there are yellow, brown or black quebecers. it shows that we aspire to the universal. but they must remain a small minority, because quebec is above all a nation of white race, french language and catholic tradition. otherwise, quebec would no longer be quebec.
is that the best you have to offer? fake news and crude amalgamations to push your ideological fight and then respond in this way?
it is so easy to advocate the wild, unlike the rigor and intellectual honesty which require real critical effort. .
opposition to multiculturalism is independent of racism.
let him cry racism as soon as he has no more arguments.
i let you judge.
[
i have such a hard time imagining a future for my homeland ... we had started a nation, but i no longer feel like i live there; and i don't have the feeling that it is for the love of my country that the new settlers are coming here. on the days when i take myself for an old man, i ask myself: what could be better to bequeath? i convince myself that, regardless of the color of our descendants, the important thing is to follow up on what is most precious.
in the meantime, we are alive. we still have an imagination to grow. without him, whether white or mixed, there will be no more quebecers.
the white race, catho, francophone ... for what it can build and that others cannot do in its place, perhaps, but i'm not sure what that represents.
the rigor is to call a spade a spade and to trust its eyes.
imagine treating someone with an empty head and knowing nothing about ethnic differences.
civic nationalism never worked.
as long as we don't replace that with a [crt] court (
will the new course on quebec culture be less indoctrinating? i have doubts. the politicization of education, i'm in the middle of it (the university department where i work is undergoing more and more ideological invasion).
let children be given the choice between nationalism or multiculturalism without imposing one or the other on them.
don't give me a heart attack.
as expected, just before the elections
and they're going to do a nice "mission accomplished" for us [like bush on the aircraft carrier] ( 04 / rtrs0m7 / original.jpg)
and instead of making the decision to have our children vaccinated based on medical considerations and their interests, we will do it under duress because legault tells us that this is the only way to end his dictatorship (roman definition of the word , appropriate)
the despot legault continues his work, deciding in a totally arbitrary fashion that the vaccination of children is essential to overcome the health emergency. anyone who looks at and analyzes the statistics at all understands how there is no longer any urgency right now and that it should be lifted already. of course, the sheep will only see fire and approve of it.
there is nothing that will be lifted ... we just transfer the social pressure on the backs of the kids who are able to squeeze the lemon from the unvaccinated.
this is a completely unscientific criterion. children aged 5 to 12 are not at risk for covid. none have died of covid in 19 months of the pandemic, and they represent less than 3% of hospitalizations in the fourth wave, less than their demographic weight even if they are not vaccinated and the majority of age groups are older. aged are 80 +%.
he is only looking for an excuse to stop the health emergency ... just before the 2022 elections, so that he can campaign with a people "grateful" to have been released.
me created it when i got it.
the health emergency and vaccines, they do not care. it is the digital identity that they are aiming for. all this to make the.
how could digital identity be used?
if the id is linked directly to the government to collect information on your preferred habits (scanner in restaurant, gym, grocery) we can create a user profile and this data can be sold for targeted advertising.
will there be restrictions on certain locations when there is a scan? due to the age of the person, the status of the person. example the person has not paid a ticket, these taxes.
if there is permanently plotting (which i doubt the jurisdiction of the government).
is the government going to be able to charge you per kilometer. your carbon tax?
if you have any other suggestions. i'll take it. because for the moment the implementation of the digital identity is the only logical reason for the relentlessness on the unvaccinated.
children should not be vaccinated
[nothing justifies the health emergency.] ( we are witnessing a play serving to hide the real threat to the health of the population, namely our health system. health and its ever more frequent wanderings.
again the old cowards who try to scare the people of followers. and it works. what a people of sheep. legault is a moron, but if you look elsewhere, most countries have pretty much the same restrictions .... the sane minority who chose not to get the vaccine for whatever reason are right, but wrong ... .90% of followers, it was scary. good luck to all ....
2022 its will be your 3rd dose that you should take
i don't understand what went through the minds of lawmakers when they created this emergency measures law to think it was a good idea that only the one who benefits from these extreme powers decides when, how and for how long he will use it. without limits, without debate, without justification.
the romans had a similar law but it was not the "dictator" who decided when it was over, it was the senate and they had a lot of debate. 2500 years later we have regressed so much as civ :-(
when the children are vaccinated, the anxiety and covid paranoia of the 45-year-old quebecois matante will decrease. this is his real criterion for ending the state of emergency.
yes, exactly all it is to implement the digital control company. all the provinces have the same plan. fusion of biological, digital and physical. what is human interaction and human freedom will only be privileges and digital data that the government can switch on and off in a second
law passed in 2001 by bernard landry not long after the attack on the twin towers.
the funny thing is that the matante is probably also booking a vacation in the dominican republic (with a vax rate probably in the 20%) or has already left with her rv in florida, where she said the streets were littered. of corpses barely a month ago.
he's got to have a bunch of hypocrites in there.
we still suffer today the authoritarian abuses passed in the name of september 11 as we will still suffer in 20 years those passed in the name of the covid
landry was perhaps too humanist to believe that a future premier of quebec would abuse it so much and that the checks and balances would let him do everything for 2 years.
damn, he was one of the few pms in our history that i respected ...
> not to follow political news. la joute, at lcn, does this job remarkably well.
plug in the first paragraph. it becomes fat because it allows to deduce the rest: from * plugage *. we were promised the equivalent on [télé-québec] ( and it always ends with the same thing: we * plug * first and then we'll see.
speaking * plug *, i advance the hypothesis that richard martineau is going to plug * singer masked * in a future column in the style * political parties are like the singer masked at tva: they sing during the elections and after the vote, they are revealed. *
apart from "tout le monde en parle" and a few little-known programs on the "savoir" channel, there is not much in quebec to really respond to the curiosity of quebecers regarding certain complex subjects. there is nothing to meet the need to educate yourself on a hot and / or complex subject. we are always caught picking up pieces here and there like a puzzle to try to form an opinion on a subject.
a weekly program capable of delving into this and presenting viewers with different points of view thanks to multiple invited intellectuals and professionals would certainly do good in quebec.
we would have something else to do on the weekend than talk about the cellar or the bitch who looked badly to "everybody's talking about it".
translation: bock-côté wants a platform that will allow him to reach an audience who is not normally able to read his columns and who is especially not able to understand and detect the fallacies he uses in profusion .
so let's debate!
creamy or traditional ~~ disgusting ~~?
bock-côté simply wants quebec to equip itself with a culture of debate as it is used to in france.
i fear that our mediocre offer in this area will keep it longer in france.
let me go shave and brush my teeth.
then i give you a big beak.
your comment is so perfect
salad ? ouash
don't tell me you want their old bread burnt on the outside and soft on the inside?
yuck.
martineau could have put it in context because at the moment, he is not citing anyone. this kind of technique is sterile and tiresome.
* this gang there, like there there, you guys there, the kind to say that like .... *
i have the impression that we are giving too much visibility and importance to the wokes and their movement.
i don't think i'm an atypical quebecer, i live on the far outskirts of montreal and i've never met anyone who fits the definition that we can read of wokes.
it may also be a question of the circle of acquaintance. i am not denying anything and i do not want to generalize.
this concept is totally outside my reality.
the answer to this nonsense is if it's not that bad, they won't mind if it is ended.
according to legault it would be that in the heads of people and these people would not be part of institutions nor of organization / associations.
if you want to know more about wokes, here is psyhodelic [ danemark( a specialized youtuber in dramas and he's one of the biggest and most popular youtubeur in france. basically a woke these are privileged groups of people who screw up for nothing because they are too fragile and have the government, but are stupid enough to demonstrate to force the government to come and help them and save them all in not giving a damn about the government's mouth. in short, the extreme left who are all so strong and crooked that they do like the extreme right without realizing it. by the way, i don't know how many in the quebec libre group believe in the theory of the fake 9/11 attack, the chemtrails, that the covid was manufactured to regulate the population, to make money on the vaccines on the back. people, the big replacement ect, but in any case it demeans the group in my eyes because i have seen videographers who have debunked conspiracy theory in such a professional way that i believe more to debunk it from the stars than those who say that the vaccine got dangerous.  but i like this group all the same, you always have to keep your reservations and remain flexible in your approach. at least i try more and more. good evening.
according to chantal guy, none of this exists
the title is an opinion held by no one.
wokes are above all a storytelling of the status quo.
but they still refer to a real movement even if it is only a caricature.
for me a "woke" is someone who acts like a person who has just learned at 18 what racism is and says a specialist the next day and believes that the rest of the planet has never think about this.
it's the equivalent of the "i am a virologist" syndrome which has taken too many people by storm for morality.
are you referring to that? [ journaldemontreal.com/2020/09/11/une-virologue-chinoise-pense-que-la-covid-19-a-ete-fabriquee-par-lhomme) honestly, given the dirty tricks that governments have often done, this is one of the cases where i am unable to judge who is right or who is wrong, if it is true or wrong ect. the question is no longer to judge whether it is scientifically possible, but whether they have done it or not. by the way, your definition of woke also works. like, i've read a lot of things about the problems of this world and every time i want to make a youtube video of it, i hold back because it would come out too much of the genre (the government and the people are too cowardly selfish and stupid and it is impossible to save the world without using violence, but by using violence it will give reason to the frustrated which will start the cycle of violence again etc. so, i have to study more to have a vision of clearer together and find the spark of common sense in the world so as not to be fatalistic.
no no, i was referring to the point that since covid appeared 80% of the internet claim that they have a long knowledge of virology which makes their comments that of someone who knows what they are talking about and not someone who just read something and copy and paste it.
there are of course people who know what they're talking about, but having that attitude for morality is pretty much my definition of a woke.
wow! it's perfect!
i am astonished to note that his analysis of wokism is not completely exact (he confuses minorities with impostors who use minorities for their cause, he gets tricked).
zozz
he will have to find other registers than islamism to campaign because his list of themes is too short at the moment to propel him to the second round.
i am ready to vote yes for the third time.
unfortunately the immigrant side is not won in advance.
the door was opened to them by the federal liberals.
and for a third time, we will be beaten by money and the ethnic vote.
with the who saying it's endemic, the pressure will mount.
[deleted]
i think the who is conspiratorial and that we definitely need all the "measures". there is still 1 complete death per day.
worse have you thought of the variants!?!?
i am not woke. i did not know their other positions taken in the past, but in any case as regards the state of emergency, there is no longer any and we must return to a normal democracy.
[deleted]
theoretically, discrimination against a minority population is a social cause (whether on the left or on the right). for people who doubt the similarity between the kkk cult and pro-measures, just check out the newspapers and comments on the web in general. [here is an example] ( this post is sorted by controversial comments, but even if we put the most positive, it's not so much the better. the post is padlocked and the moderators seem to have analyzed all the comments well to remove the thoughts that are too dissenting (there is really not much dissent). on the other hand, hateful comments ... it seems quite accepted by the moderators. yet the pro-measures are supposed to be socialist and therefore both anti-hate. anyway, what i understand is that just because the rights league takes positions that we don't like doesn't mean they're stupid. in fact, i believe that most of us are endowed with a very high intelligence, but we do not have all the tools to cultivate this intelligence collectively, because we are easily divided by different ideas and behaviors, but also because quebec is losing its community. when people get it into their heads that people are stupid, something is wrong.
a broken clock gives the correct time twice a day.
i asked myself the same question when i read "the league of rights and freedoms".
on average, people outside the big cities are not racist you say?
who is definitely an organization of battery mongolians serving china, but if their statements are admissible to establish a state of emergency, they are admissible to end it.
the right is harvesting the media buzz but the left equally condemns the health passport. we necessarily associate the right because it is also the one that straddles all the protest movements.
this is where you go wrong. the state of emergency will be lifted when leger marketing finds that the science of polling has changed!
this is what i also think: it serves to justify and it serves to invalidate. but i have the impression that it just goes in one direction with our "quebec science" ....
especially since they positioned themselves against containments as early as may 2020, something that all governments have subsequently ignored
who's top, who's bottom?
who is it? (for a breton)
i like more françois legault aka the feudal lord with permanent emergency powers and o'toole who wants to cut funds for early childhood.
what tells you they don't chisel?
the outgoing prime minister and the leader of the leaders' debate.
haha it's 100% scissors
i would tend to agree with the conclusions of christian ~~ rioux ~~ dufour, the culture of freedom is far from being acquired. it is precisely with events like these that we are able to observe the durability of the old parish fund of quebec. faced with the unknown to the devil, freedom, what we want is from a strong man who announces the good news what françois legault embodies and what is reflected in the voting intentions.
i cannot help but notice to what extent the poverty of the media offer contributes to the phenomenon. for the past 18 months, all the media and all the media have of course been talking about radio-canada / la presse and tva have eaten in the hands of the government. very difficult for mr. madam everyone to form an opinion contrary to the liberticidal approach of the government when they are stigmatized on all sides as quasi-murderers at the departure of grandmothers and today of grandchildren. in such a context, how to oppose the constantly evolving health dogma?
one of the only lucid voices in quebec. he puts his finger on the sore spot.
after 18 months there are so many layers of lies, half truths or superimposed errors that it's almost impossible to change course.
there we are stuck with vaccine segregation and the "argument" of our good confiners is that it protects the vaccinated (false and insane) and that it protects the unvaccinated from themselves (because of course it is is up to the government to manage the personal risk that i take, according to the polls).
for how long will the delirium continue?
would our ancestors be proud of us? we weigh on a ti piton to have drinking water, we have heat pumps to have an ideal temperature, we live 80 years minimum in cotton wool, and the behn we have which behn afraid of dying, we have to stop the wooo. before covid it was the bad terrorists, and after that what will it be? in any case at the time that we were being invaded by barbarians at least we were afraid of something real, criss that we are in moumoune (me included).
> everywhere as near murderers at the departure of the grandmothers and today of the grandchildren.
the ironic thing is that during the days of the islamic state we were careful about * amalgamation *. a truck crushes people in nice? we must show restraint, a call for calm! a bomb / kill at a concert? be careful what you say, we don't know everything, you have to be neutral. anyone who dared to release a * stigmatizing amalgamation * was blacklisted. even used * bearded * was enough to attract the wrath of the intelligentsia who today like to say * toothless *.
and if we go back even further, we remember alexandre livernoche and the conclusion that pedophiles and their privacy should be protected by all possible means, even if it means relocating them close to primary schools without informing local families. don't * make * stigmatizing amalgamations * here!
and what about the * tough on crime * approach of * dictator * stephen harper! he and senator boisvenu! they dare to raise their voices! a chance that our * pro-liberties * journalists did not hesitate to say that * criminals * deserved respect and that conservative stigma has no place in quebec!
but today, all is well: we have a certified scapegoat and the entire media-political class has regained its courage by magic ... but only this scapegoat: the others are still in the dead corners.
didn't you mean christian dufour?
i agree with your analysis, but on the other hand, it is the majority of the population that eats out of the government's hand (extremely high approval rating). there are of course a few dissenting voices, including this article, but nothing that does not seem to me to be under-represented at first glance.
after a lie you continued to believe the kidnapper.
christian dufour has always been the one who sees things coming with a head start.
> for how long will the delirium continue?
everything will stop dry when wall street decides: either in reaction to the end of the trillion subsidies or via the * economic correction * (or crash for those who do not endure the semantic dances). in both cases, wall street will ask to restart the economic machine. and quickly because we are not making enough cash at the moment.
our ancestors literally went to school at -30, crossing a 10km forest to get to school, very often without lunch and being sick.
we? we complain about the end of the world sitting in our armchairs in front of netflix.
phew, what a typo, thank you for the clarification!
let us not forget either one of the great taboos of the quebec model, the crass mediocrity of public services and more particularly of the health system. we cannot admit that the bench of the guardian angels which swallowed up half of the state's revenue is rotten, stale, a good kick in the door and the whole house collapses. and yet the minister tacitly admits that if we are being imposed what is increasingly akin to martial law, it is to preserve the ever-diminishing capabilities of the system. unfortunately, there is no way to question this national shame.
the remains of our governments
he will surely send the responsible criminal to the gulag
if i remember correctly (the site is still down), you must give the exact date of the injection of the vaccine and also its brand. for the average person, it is difficult to obtain but for the exhibitionists of the last months ....
on the other hand, a qr reader will disclose it and this information will still be obtained. back to square one.
this nabot desbois is a finished and expert asshole to beg!
he should thank him
in 2015 i would have been angry. in 2021 it's not even the most stupid news of the day.
in this case, being the founder of the gang in question, we can even evoke the possibility that he infiltrated the rcmp. his position on disarmament makes so much sense to me now.
after that, don't tell me that woke leaders are honest, sincere and honest. this guy is clearly a real manipulator (hey, like the feminist administrator of the page le revoir) who has shown no regrets. he plays a character in public like any other antisocial being would, using the spell of the weak for purely narcissistic ends. the person he is showing on tv is not at all the picture portrayed by the rcmp.
in the next few days, we will witness his resignation from the municipal campaign, then possibly a kind of media repentance where he explains regretting his mistakes, but it will seem so false (like his remorse for the rcmp) that he will be ejected forever from the public sphere, from which he will try ceaselessly and always to return because he thrives only on self-admiration.
[nice candidate for the green plant.] (
ah shit, but what the fuck is the guy! nah really, to those who identify with him or his double-headed bodies, you deserve better.
"suspected", what does that mean? did you get it finally?
[a plante candidate excluded from the rcmp for his links with a gang of killers] ( -a-gang-of-killers)
one might wonder what motivated his anti-police stance even in the face of the rise in violence associated with street gangs.
[
but on the other hand he has no restraint in criticizing the work of the police when it is violent people who are "of his gang" who are killed, and not innocent people.
[
> documentary filmmaker and anti-racist activist, will prosper is very active in demanding more equality for black and racialized communities, in particular with the hoodstock organization. but he is also a former police officer with the royal canadian mounted police.
>  
> "as a former police officer, i always ask myself a question," he explains in an interview with la presse. when the person is a threat to themselves, the police officers present should step back, take the time necessary to properly analyze the situation. if it takes all night, that's it. they are there to protect lives above all. "
this is what happens when manipulators get into your head that the destruction of a society is necessary for the good of all.
if you read the entire article, you learn that he had the choice to quit or to be shamelessly kicked out. the rcmp really gave him a gift on that. if you have content to kick someone out, it's because you still have solid evidence otherwise it can bounce back at you anytime.
well i suspect that it is a smear campaign by the police institution * against one of their political enemy.
edit :*
so let's see lol
moreover, the fact that he appropriated the cause of mamadih camaran (everyone's talking about it), and that he spoke on his behalf, is worrying - leaving the fate of a man victim of a false wrongful arrest at the hands of a founder of a street gang, having leaked information to murder suspects of whom he has expressed no remorse, who uses disarmament to benefit gangs, deal with the fate of an immigrant left to fend for himself is extremely worrying for anyone left on their own who is dependent on their community. i just can't believe that someone like will prosper could even get in touch to take advantage of them.
during his visit to everyone talks about it alongside mamadi camaran, when he replied to guy a lepage "do you know what it feels like to be a slave? to be treated as a negro?", i would have really wanted to answer him: "you don't know either, you have never been a slave. on the other hand, i imagine that to be called 'nigger' for a black man must be as painful as to be treated of 'racist' for a quebecer "
note that, as someone else said, the rcmp planted bombs and said it was the flq.
when a smear campaign has only brainwashing as a solution!
probably, but is it wrong? would you have preferred to let will prosper sneak information into street gangs and delay police investigations?
> "you don't know either, you were never a slave.
worse than that, he should have been told that the little white girls forced into prostitution by his boyfriends in the street gangs know more about slavery than he and his villainous friends.
what is even more shocking in his case is that he owes absolutely all his notoriety to the fact that it was an rcmp officer who would have left this job to work in the community. he was being treated like mother teresa who left her comfort to help the needy.
well, no ... he got fired from his job for leaking secret information to friends accused of murder. his reputation was not only based on a lie but it was the exact opposite of what he claimed.
yeah well there is a difference of time too
assassin's replica
what would it have been like at montreal-north city hall? disarmament, delayed investigations, enrichment of gangs and violence ... enough to suppose the infiltration of organized crime in municipal politics (we are starting to get used to)
we just discovered the tip of the iceberg.
i can't wait to see him call us a racist system.
it's not hard to understand what's going on. the government has touted the vaccine as the holy grail that would end the virus. but it is increasingly clear that this is not true. the vaccine is useful, but it does not prevent the circulation of the virus as promised by the government. the vaccine will not induce herd immunity.
they said 70% at the beginning, thinking that would be enough, because they believed that the vaccine was 95% effective against infection, while it was against disease. how effective is it against infection? moderna's most recent study found that it was just 55% in the first two months, and it probably goes down after that.
if their calculation assumed a herd immunity at 70% vaccination rate with a vaccine efficacy of 95%, then if the vaccines are only effective in reducing transmission by 55%, the herd immunity threshold would be 121%. not to mention the risks of variants escaping vaccine immunity, produced by the selective pressure of the vaccinated.
but they don't want to admit it, that. because admitting that the vaccine will not produce collective immunity would be embarrassing for them and they would then have to admit to the population that the virus will not go away and that we must learn to live with it. remember they've been calling everyone who said that covidots, antivaxxes, conspiracies and conspiracies for months. they have too much ego to admit their critics were right.
so what's the alternative? what theyre doing. without admitting that they messed up, they say the magic number has shifted, and they always put more pressure on the unvaccinated, so that no matter how much the vaccination rate goes up, they can say "c it is not our fault that it does not work, it is because of the antivaxx which prevent us from reaching the magic number! ".
so they said the virus would be 70% gone, we're getting close and the cases are increasing faster than ever, so they say 80%, then 90%, then 95%. everything so as not to admit their failure and to blame others.
real madness. anything to keep the health dictatorship in place. this is where we realize that the conspirators were right.
it makes you wonder if the government is hiding data about the vaccine. it does not make sense that our society is considered in danger if 5% of the population is not vaccinated.
if we hadn't had a vaccine, would it be a cataclysm, the worst viral pandemic in human history?
we know that if we reached 95%, after that we would say "yes but we have not yet 95% among 30-34 year olds" or "yes but we have not yet 95% at trois- rivers ".
it's been a year and a half since i found that things were not right, but now, it really starts to turn out but really screeching wrong.
the next goal for the upcoming 4th wave, a 3rd dose
lol, no 75% properly vaccinated is enough. i'm starting that the vaccine is not as good as we hoped, but too bad. we have already done enough and that's enough.
soon 105%.
i remember in the early days of covid in america. read on a science reddit a biologist wrote an essay explaining why we will never find a vaccine for the virus. it was very interesting and now almost 2 years later i think about it every day.
a fucking dystopia. covid-1984.
it is nonsense!
the vaccine causes the mutations. and they are already starting from a 3rd dose.
and many already have natural immunity and then we are going to inject them with the magic potion anyway ??
this is called a dictatorship! and soon a police state ...
the truth about collective immunity and variants is starting to emerge:
[prof. andrew pollard, oxford vaccine group](
"i think we are in a situation, with the current variant, where collective immunity is not a possibility because it still infects vaccinated people. and i suspect that the next surprise with the virus will be a new one. a variant that may be even better at spreading in vaccinated populations. so this is one more reason not to rely on herd immunity when designing a vaccination program. "
> remember they have called everyone who said that covidots, antivaxxes, conspiracies and conspiracies for months. they have too much ego to admit their critics were right.
funny thing is, their most important review are themselves, april 2020 release:
* a safe vaccine will take years. trump in the united states is lying and his attempts to speed up will lead to a dangerous vaccine so we have to bet on natural immunity by breaking the curve and deconfining at a rate the health care system can handle. *
it's crazy to see how everything has changed since then. we even sabotage the alternatives and the competition of pfizer / moderna because tse, the pandemic, it is very important.
> if their calculation assumed a herd immunity at 70% vaccination rate with a vaccine efficacy of 95%, then if the vaccines are only effective in reducing transmission by 55%, the herd immunity threshold would be 121%.
this is an obvious point for those who have passed their differential math lessons but i think it deserves better popularization for others.
collective immunity means reaching a point where the effective r \ _eff (r \ _eff) is equal to or less than 1. where r \ _eff is the replication rate, i.e. an infected person transmits the disease to how many other people on average. when r \ _eff is greater than 1, we observe an exponential increase in the number of cases, more and more rapid when r \ _eff increases.
the disease has a basic r, which we will call r \ _0. this base rate represents the rate of replication of the disease in the absence of any preventive or mitigation measure.
r \ _eff is related to r \ _0 by the following equation:
r\_eff = r0 \* (1-f)
where f is a number between 0 and 1 representing the effectiveness of all preventive measures, from containment to vaccination.
if we assume that r0 = 3, for example, f must be at least equal to 0.66 to have an r \ _eff below 1.
suppose the f factor comes entirely from the vaccine. the value of f represents the effectiveness of the vaccine in preventing ** transmission (and not symptoms, very important to differentiate). ** this value will be called f \ _vaccine.
the vaccine depends on the effectiveness of the vaccine and the vaccination coverage, therefore:
f \ _vaccine =% vaccine efficacy \ *% vaccine coverage
as vaccination coverage cannot (in real life) be greater than 100%, there is a vaccine efficacy threshold below which even complete coverage of the population does not allow r \ _eff to drop below 1 .
hence the situation we are in at the moment: the vaccine is not sufficiently effective in preventing transmission to make it impossible to increase the number of cases exponentially even with 100% vaccination coverage.
i tried to warn people, without much success.
on r / quebec i try to open my eyes to people who don't yet realize the horrible madness of the situation, and i just get downvoted and insulted.
it's not that i'm not surprised, but i'm really not surprised.
ouch. worrisome there how they want to stay in their illusions
hahahaha it didn't go round right from the start. the day (early april 2020) that bill gates appeared live to say that normalcy will not return until we have widely vaccinated 70% of the world's population when no vaccine against coronavirus has yet been invented and that to say 70% you must also know the effectiveness of your vaccine or the duration of its effectiveness etc ... i can understand some conspirators, i thought i heard a demon tell us laughing that we will never go back to life before ... like who him is to be able to make a prediction like this, shut up and go back to molest children with jeffrey. another not worse is the famous event 201, in october 2019, a simulation that involves exactly everything that is happening now and which served as preparation for all key people ... mainstream knowledge publicly accessible no ambiguity on this information and there is still nobody who lights. hey magically just before the covid [we sleep on gas] (
i suspect the influenza vaccine will be added to the vaccine passport as well, by the end of the fall.
at the point we have reached, it would be so easy to justify. even if covid almost completely cracks the camp, our health care system is going to be exploding this winter. i've been worried about lockdowns next winter that have nothing to do with covid for a while, knowing that several other viruses will be making a comeback.
!remindme 5 months
yes i know. but the government and public health still refuse to admit what is admitted elsewhere, and they accuse everyone who mentions there of "disinformation."
excellent rational analysis.
or in everyday language: here is assumed conspiracy.
they are just continuing to cover-up their abject failure down the line. whether we are talking about the protection of the most vulnerable, the unnecessary confinement of the population, the flagrant violations of human rights, the disastrous economic policy supported by trudeau-legault and now having sworn in all the forums that the vaccine would magically eliminate the covid . not to mention always finding scapegoats.
what a horrible destruction of society. of our way of life. we will pay for this disaster for a long time.
r/quebec, lol.
damn it makes me laugh (in fact it's sad) to see comments on it, how they are bandaged on the vaccine, the containment, the extreme measures and the passport.
just looking at the comments on the post "most vaccinated canadians are indifferent to the fate of the unvaccinated getting sick", it shows a bit of what kind of people this sub is made up of.
i would say that on their post and i would be called a conspi (the same cards as the legault government) because i do not agree with the entirety of government interference. then i am vaccinated thinking.
r / quebec had a hyper-posivot post which predicted the bankruptcy of amazon at the beginning of the pandemic because * the economy will change towards communitarianism. * 🤡
it is a transmission belt on the virtuous ++ opinion of the day. when the media change their position, they will follow.
the government's next steps are easily predictable. regardless of the vaccination rate reached, we will see an epidemic caused by the delta variant. at this point, the government will have to react with one or more of the following measures:
1- force everyone to take "booster shots" of the vaccine under penalty of losing the validity of their vaccine passport.
2- redo containment
3- if a new vaccine is available that is more effective against the delta variant, force everyone to take that vaccine there.
there is also a fourth option which is possible, but which would force them to end the media hysteria and be held to account (unacceptable to them).
4- do nothing and accept that we have no control over this virus.
exactly, you described the sub and the majority of its members very well. it freaks me out to read their comments, to which point i'm not proud that these people “represent” quebec.
it's serious
r / quebec is a haunt of conformists and qs voters (maybe i'm repeating myself).
so they are in total denial of reality and do not know how to count.
"predicted the bankruptcy of amazon at the start of the pandemic because the economy will change towards communitarianism."
this echo chamber 😂
option 4 is the most rational. but i would add that without "doing nothing", we could take basic precautions to protect chsld / rpa and hospitals.
but that would take even more than admitting that we have no control over the virus. it would also require admitting that the virus is really dangerous only for a sub-category of the population.
so i am not too optimistic.
> it would also require admitting that the virus is really dangerous only for a sub-category of the population.
woah there you with your disinformation! to say it's practically just old people dying of it is agist, you can't do that in "the current year".
wow good point! i hadn't thought that we were in "the current year" and that the end is near!
1 + 1 = 2 is racist?
it's still strange when you realize that the symbols you use are called ** arabic numerals ... **
the concept of the number zero would have been invented several times, by the ** babylonians ** and by the ** mayas **.
the calculation would have been invented by the ** egyptians ** for the construction of the pyramids
the ancient ** greeks ** invented fractions and geometry (pythagoreanism, etc ...)
the ** chinese ** invented negative numbers ...
the ** indians ** (india) might have invented trigonometry
algebra was invented by the ** arabs ** before islam came to stupefy them.
europeans (whites) along with ** jews ** europeans invented just about everything else, differential and integral calculus (newton) and almost everything else ...
** so for a science that was invented by mayans, egyptians, greeks, chinese, indians, arabs, jews and whites i do not see how mathematics could be racist ... **
all the details on this madness here:
fact check : true
to say that american taxpayers are subsidizing this crap. republicans need to step on the accelerator and define pbs (and npr).
[
exactly, all of the great major mathematical breakthroughs have been made by these great civilizations. that's why when certain ethno-nationalist activists retort to me that the great civilizational breakthroughs have all been made exclusively by westerners, i laugh.
and the wokes? they support the exact same argument! namely that mathematics is exclusively western. what a crazy world!
ethno-nationalism = wokism, same business
worse, it is written that the teaching of maths is racist. not math as such.
this is for teachers to check their biases while teaching.
i have one of the gang who explained to me in dm that schools in africa are less good, that's why we don't recognize diplomas. it's funny. yet as you say here maths comes from africa. it's funny.
because when the teachers of quebec talk about all the inventions in the world, they explain that the whites invented everything and the africans were savages without education before colonization.
maybe explaining that we had brains and a life before slavery scraped our lives that would be cool.
because teachers and schools whitewash history in order to give them the good role and pretend that non-whites were all morons before the arrival of europeans.
it's not the math that is racist, it's the ways of teaching it that are.
do you ever read the comments under the posts yourself? you don't see that what comes up most often is that we (bipoc) should be grateful for colonization and slavery otherwise we would be backward savages without education.
i invite you to listen when the bipoc denounce things. it doesn't come from a vacuum.
he's a pretty serious american guide. it shouldn't be long in coming here.
this is the horseshoe theory
[deleted]
so we are not black pcq we are not in the same quantity as in the usa?
the natives are not pcq we are not in the usa and people of color / color are pcq we are not in the usa?
really you want quebec to be backward by all possible means, eh you 😆😆😆
for real i love this country. people who are not oppressed seek at all costs to be seen as victims but then do nothing to help anyone 😆😆😆😆😆
if in english canada they learn that the french-speaking people were morons who did not know how to work like everyone else, they were sub-human. surely you would like history to be rectified so that people would learn the truth.
but if it's the truth about blacks and natives it shocks you 😆😆😆😆😆
i can’t with y’all. 
be idiots until death follows, guys. pretend you don't understand. just to better play the victims and contribute to oppressions.
continue to think that black people here do not deserve justice because they are less than in the us. it will really help the reputation of the qc.
french * 😆😆😆 everything to be a minority eh.
quebecers need to be victims otherwise they cannot live a full life 😆😆😆😆
unbelievable.
in summary. if you turn on your brain you will see that it is not the math that is racist but the teachers.
so go handle it instead of whining pcq our name is bipoc since we are black. indigenous and people of color 😆
even if you want to be a victim, try to put yourself at the center of everything.
what time do you stop whining? you'll send me the memo so we can start talking smart instead of having to wipe your crocodile tears all day. 😆😆😆
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
i do not care about the french. if you talk about it just to silence others.
when we talk about francophones versus anglophones, i'm here.
but if you talk about francophones to invalidate what the bipocs are going through to this day. we have a problem.
unfortunately for you the history of the united states is linked to that of canada yes.
although there were fewer slaves in quantity. there were still some.
although our number is less important to you. the sufferings were no less severe.
we're humans. not just numbers. whether it's 4 slaves or 1 million. the 4 were not happy that they were just 4.
so yes we have to talk about this story here pcq it happened.
precisely instead of always talking about the usa let's talk about what is happening here.
instead of comparing to minimize. let's talk about what's going on here. we had our own “jim crow” law, we had our own segregation. we had our “africville” problem that your favorite colonists destroyed.
the story of afrocanadians is not to be overlooked just because we are in smaller numbers and not important enough to you.
i'm not saying do 24 weeks out of 30. but it deserves not to be erased from history. yes.
teachers deserve to check their biases when they teach any subject yes.
and no francophones do not have "more sufferts than blacks"
i remind you that we can be both.
black and french speaking.
otherwise i don't see the point of comparing other than to minimize the suffering of others. slavery is no more pleasant than the lack of employment just because there are fewer blacks than french canadians. 🤦🏼‍♀️🤦🏼‍♀️🤦🏼‍♀️
i will really repeat. it's not that i don't know her.
but i don't care if you mention it just to invalidate other people's stories.
it's just that vrm.
so. to prove that the usa is not canada. you compare american workers and canadians.
your stats calculate how the black french canadians.
did we have 54% of your 52%?
did french canadians spend 400 years previously working for free?
once in 2021, will linguistic profiling and racial profiling compare.
i don't know how to put it another way. everyone has their own struggles.
to compare them is 100% ridiculous. and trying to talk about your story to invalidate the story of others is 100% inappropriate.
so stop playing the victim. worse accepts that the reality of others is no less valid pcq we are a smaller number of humans.
our history doesn't deserve to be erased just because you want to earn the title of ultimate victim.
lol reread what she answered you first and understand that it is absolutely okay to talk to a certain person because you are just wasting your time. when there are 50 emoticons and the message boils down to "lol cry moar snowflake", it's time to move on.
before giving me the favorite stats of racists don't forget that racial profiling which leads to 4x more arrests among blacks and 11x more among natives contributes greatly to the numbers in prisons.
then you have to see the false accusations etc. equal criminal penalties.
good luck with your calculation ☺️
chinese and asians are pocs
so it remains bipoc even if you want to change the letters in place.
ça reste black indigenous and people of color 
why does the name shock you so much? 😆😆
people are no less pocs just pcq you refuse to say it.
i stay black. so the black remains valid.
i know what you are stubborn with 😆😆😆
i don't care about your bickering between whites when it's said just to invalidate others.
wasn't that clear when i said it earlier?
in 2021. it is the bipocs that suffer from racism and oppression.
you may want to play the victim for 1680. but i'm talking about 2021.
then i ask that the truth be told in history and math class. the truth is valid for french speakers and irish people.
so i still see ps pk you're crying.
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
finally a good idea. !
it's cool to keep quiet every now and then. when you have the right to speak 24/7, you can let others speak a little to make a change.
i like your vibe !
well all the stories are made up anyway.
no one from 2021 was there in 1607 so these are pretty much just stories that are believed to be as true as possible, many people have similar versions.
your guy said discover a continent where there were people and it's in the history books. so. you have no problem with lies really.
just problems with those who don't benefit you hahahahah
you just whine when you don't have the right role.
you can get numbers to say whatever you want. why do you think all trumpists have the same 3 arguments and don't go into depth.
pcq we can make say what we want with figures.
must repeat again. the letters are no less valid. you can use another acronym. put it in french. in italian. i do not care.
we're no less black. indigenous ni people of color!
if you want to say it in french have fun. it won't change the situation.
if you mean ibpoc go ahead. i do not care.
its good ! can you also tell us about segregation in canada and africville? ☺️
it would also be good if you took the opportunity to talk about the different forms of slavery.
and how racism was invented to justify the slavery of europeans. i can't wait to read you on these topics!
it risks worsening the "manpower shortage" in the health system.
the water is wet
perhaps that is the objective, to destroy the public system and replace it with a private system.
arruda even suggested that restrictive measures could be in place forever because our health care system is overwhelmed. there we are trying to make it overflow even more by selling it as being to increase safety in hospitals.
the more it goes and the more it really does not work, there is nothing rational.
i lived almost 10 years in china, from 2003 to 2012. i saw it how it sets in, gradually, one measure at a time, a system of monitoring and social credit. and that's exactly what's happening here, even faster. if only people knew where we are going, i think there would be a lot more people on the streets. i hope that there will be many at the march tomorrow, saturday august 14, at 100, rené-lévesque west, 2:00 p.m.
* the covid is likely to be declared endemic soon by the who so any measure declared temporary will have to be declared obsolete or permanent. it will be like a "super flu" and should be treated as such.
* the vaccine breaks down over time. the estimated duration is probably 6 months max so the vaccination level will go down quite quickly if people do not take their dose every 4-6 months to life (let's not forget, * endemic *).
* the passport is tested in 2 private businesses, not affiliated with foreign multinationals. ** no saq ** participates and ** no sqdc ** either. like this the government believes that the pot joints ** that it sells ** are very, very essential? hey, casinos (with bars and restaurants) too .... another gang with waivers?
* vaccination centers are closing and the last delivery from pfizer was last week i believe.
conclusion: it is unnecessary, harmful and the government knows it because it tames the burden on private traders. it's a bluff to boost vaccination before the vaccine stock runs out and probably the last bulwark before the arrival of the question: * can the 1 billion-a-week health system do a worthwhile job 1 billion per week? *
[deleted]
the passport in reality is confinement. it's just that you add an infamous layer of discrimination on top of it, but it's the same logic.
as the government is up to its neck in the logic of containment when this method should be discredited for a long time both epidemiologically and ethically, it continues to apply it.
since partial containment (passport) will not work and the vaccine does not prevent contamination or contagion, there will be a new generalized containment.
op is right.
unless the next step is to put the unvaccinated in camps. and honestly i'm not sure i'm joking.
> the passport is not the only alternative to confinement.
very nice title, it would be even better if some of these alternatives would be shared with us.
> so you will have confinement anyway, but with an additional passport.
it makes no sense as reasoning. you can't have both at the same time. if there is confinement, it is because there is no vaccination passport. if the vaccination passport allows you to access something, it is because there is no containment. these are mutually exclusive things.
we will be.
[we were.] (
the answer: not with our population pyramid.
go read about the japanese health system (15k deaths from covid for 130m population), it's fascinating.
i predict they will just declare a state of climate emergency.
i really wish you were right
what you say would perhaps confirm my theory on the loto vaccine which ends exactly at the end of august. i noticed that the last week, the final date to register is the 31st (a tuesday) unlike the previous weeks where it is thursday. as if from september 1 they will no longer be able to vaxx ... and dubé has already spoken of lifting the state of emergency at the end of august. if the state of emergency is lifted, they can vaccinate since vaccines are "only authorized" under the condition that we are in a state of emergency ...
> the vaccine deteriorates over time. the estimated duration is probably 6 months max
no, 6 months ** minimum **.
exactly. not in my quebec.
that the caq has a socialist agenda, must be delirious.
the reality is much simpler than it looks: accountants making scientific decisions.
a great party of business people.
there have been unanswered questions in the federal parliament regarding the construction of '[covid camps] ( no answers were given. we even cut off the microphone.
news flash: there will also be outbreaks among the vaccinated. so it is very likely that despite the passport in place, the government decides to re-limit even if the passport is in place.
and yet who says that the government cannot arbitrarily change the places opened by the passport until they are completely eliminated? we are facing a government that does not consider winter boots to be essential in winter. i do not believe that it is below them that to combine vaccination passport and confinement.
kudos man. what a great demonstration. too bad the rest of the world will never know, with the lousy reports that talk about 10,000 people max… lol
no no there is an agenda. arruda wears his tite pine and all of it. "17 sustainable development goals" that say.
outbreaks in vaccinees do not warrant re-containment. not to mention that it doesn't change anything i said.
if there is confinement, it is because there is no vaccination passport.
"the revolution won't be televised"
gil scott-heron , 1970
what agenda?
it is easy for the government to find reasons. outbreaks in the vaccinated increase the presence of the virus in the entire population and therefore will encourage outbreaks in the unvaccinated as well. hospitalizations will increase in the fall. and although they are relatively small in number, our hospitals are already overflowing, staff are not capable and staff are understaffed everywhere.
we cannot put vaccine passports for private gatherings. for the latter, would we be really surprised if the gatherings become more limited again by the end of the fall, with legault citing the delta variant and citing the impossibility of verifying the vaccination of all the people present? people will still take pleasure in spitting on those who want to see another world at christmas, then the cases will fall again in january and then finally it is just in the spring of 2022 that we will drop the masks, perhaps. ..
uh, logic creaked the camp in government decisions about 18 months ago ...
this is what you and i think. on the other hand, this government has shown us that it is capable of just about anything and of going far enough in its sanitary frenzy, so i would not rule out this possibility too quickly ...
wouldn't it be inoperative rather than non-existent? the passport exists and will soon be universally deployed, it is there and for a long time to come. can we say with complete certainty that from then on there will never be any more confinement? especially since technically we are still in relative confinement according to the color code. either way, we're all green, but are we going to stay that way forever?
this is the [lockstep] agenda (
you wouldn't rule out the possibility that there is a containment but that there is no containment at the same time. brilliant.
> sanitary delirium
the delirium comes from those who see bebittes in the vaccine.
it will quickly become a multifactor system where the two populations, vaccinated and unvaccinated, will each have exclusive measurement systems in place.
a real joke.
ah yes, a global conspiracy.
when did they plan to fix our roads anyway?
either white or black. what a time ...
good question. make a thread about the asphalt industry we are debating lol
is there nothing in the conspiracy to do this?
probably! do your research!
since the entire planet has closed and the fear of an ultra-contagious and dangerous virus permeates every sphere of our lives, symptoms of anxiety and depression have doubled among young people. the continuation: a report on the wet state of the turf after the rain. more details at 10 p.m.
* young people, real moumounes who cannot wear a mask for just 10 hours a day! *
\ -roger, civil servant in petoufles and dressing gown for 1 year and a half who posts in the comment section of jdem during working hours.
we never tire of jdm comments
dr. arruda: the most i can do is get a chance to win a scholarship if you get the vaccine.
can be anxious there saw their parents being afraid of the covid washing the boxes of corn flake when entering the iga
hypochondriacs will say that this is one of the symptoms of "long covid" ...
we have so many in france that we don't talk about it anymore.
cut part of the article:
> "there is no such crime. courts, crown attorneys cannot charge someone with honor killing. they will charge people with physically assaulting someone, et cetera. ", she explains. "it's mainly the doctrine, and now the politicians, who are going to talk more about honor-based violence."
>
> she recalls that this kind of crime is not linked to a particular culture, country or religion. "we have to be careful when we talk about honor-based violence, because we make an amalgamation with immigrants, and we forget that the majority of honor-based violence that there has been in quebec was in the 1950s to the 1970s. "
[islamisation](
update: a 2nd islamic honor crime in 2 days in quebec?
[
in an ideal world that would earn them a one-way ticket to saudi arabia. bunch of monkeys.
real article and real title: 
u / akesgeroth, i think it's time to make a regulation for repost sites.
and the 92 other women in canada, including 14 in quebec alone, killed by a family member, an ex-husband or a spouse? are you going to publish articles on them?
that's what i think too. honor is a pending concept.
on the other hand, with 4 people involved, there will be accusations of conspiracy and i believe that it rakes far (planning, support, logistics, etc.).
if you're not happy, feel free to submit the original article.
we had already discussed it and the decision is that it is tolerated.
visible minorities of the male sex, which represent less than 7% of the quebec population, committed more than 40% of “feminicides” this year (at least 6 out of 14).
you are free to do it ... we can't wait! maybe you will realize that you better not do it pcq it will not go the way you want. :)
source? (and "mes foufounes" is not acceptable)
so what? "visible minorities" = "muslims"? the bugs in your head are talking very loudly today.
it gives the feeling of living in the village in the 50s. but you can't save yourself in the city.
canadian
i really like mbc but i think we start to know its "talking points" in the long run. it has always been the same for the past few years.
this guy is a provocateur in the same vein as fox news. if you are not homophobic, racist and you do not broadcast hate speech against others you will live in peace and without problems.
the guy is worried that he will no longer be able to be a racist in public, have no mercy
loss of privilege = oppression
with the difference that the village was not crazy.
at the same time it is the theme on which he is working. can you blame someone for talking about their field of interest? i can also understand that reading each of its many columns can become somewhat repetitive for those reading it every day.
just a translator repeater of the fox news trump crowder shapiro tucker business model etc ...
it is easy to spotted their memes as "trans child" and racism even if it is not applicable in quebec.
do not.
if you fit in and you are not a violent criminal who interferes with the proper functioning of society and others, you will live in peace and without problems.
freedom of expression is not a privilege.
people are crazy they just say shit so other people think they think right
well let's get serious ...
the privilege was the absence of consequences for his discriminatory language.
not crazy.
your comic strip makes no sense when it's a minority that decides it's offensive and "not funny" when the majority tell you to change jobs and shut down if you don't like it ...
but that those who decide are so out of touch with reality that they take the edge of the bullshit.
listen to the not pis farme ta yeulle
look at the step and the farme ta yeulle
pay no tickets to go see him and see him
change job and shut up your yeulle
follow the step on facebook, twitter, youtube etc pis farme ta yeulle.
do not buy films, books, music and even farme ta yeulle.
you don't have to cancel someone, you could just squeal, and farm your yeulle ... you don't have to ruin everything for everyone, sacrament.
crisse, it's looking for bugs, it's looking to be offended ... are you for being part of #metoo? to win a p'tite medal for offended marde?
(farme ta yeulle = shut your mouth but less moumoune)
who was he discriminating against?
if you're punished for doing something, it's because you don't have the right to do it, no matter how many comics written by a former nasa programmer you link.
it is precisely not a minority that shows them the door.
these comments have become socially unacceptable because everyone knows it and agrees that it is unacceptable. if it was a minority you could say it with impunity.
we have decided that the world that spreads hate speech and lies causes real harm and the solution is to respond to them and not put up with them or repeat their words.
nothing prevents them from going into the forest and talking about their bullshit, hallucinations and lies to the trees but they talk to good people they will have to suffer the consequences of words.
it's not a religious majority that took offense at nothing in the years 70-80-90 when someone laughed at religion on tv ... it's a gang of old, crumpled women who screamed louder than the others. .. a minority of cursed karen who flipped over ... when the left was not a nazi religion?
it's the same thing today, except that the karens have blue hair, are vegan and self-flagellate themselves for jokes they found funny, like everyone else, two years ago before pretending to become the screeches of robots ... not scuse "the best people" as if they had just discovered their religion worse than the rest of the world it was shit ... osti of meres theresa there to save the poor p ' all minorities who need their twitter account and the "blm" filter on their facebook photo to help them.
what about?
while these minorities have asked them nothing.
this is one of the things that i find downright stupid, they act like blacks, asians, gays etc just aren't able to live normal lives without their "help" ...
condescending at 110% they just give the impression that the minorities they "help" are just children who do not know what they are doing so they must be protected ... and those who get into it play the game and we see them have a fucking psychosis in the middle of the street if things don't go the way they want ...
it is a gang of 95% white "human sciences" students who look for bugs everywhere, tell blacks, women, gays etc. what they should be upset about but the majority of them do not care. chalice ... it's horrible a black joke ... but 95% of blacks who saw it scoff or have a sense of humor, they know it's not a racist joke. .. but you have a gang of crazy women who are offended in the name of blacks ... sacrament ...
what is it going to take for people to turn on?
funny chronicle considering that to impose the cultural supremacy of quebec on its territory, it is indeed the strategy of the caq. yes, these policies guarantee the sustainability of quebec within the federation as advocated by françois legault. we must stop playing the offended virgin. if our opponents attack us, fiercely moreover, it is because we are doing our job. mockeries of amir attaran or to a lesser extent of jj precisely contribute to the collective achievement so desired by richard.
"all you have to do is tell them they are being attacked, and denounce the pacifists for lack of patriotism, and exposing the country to greater danger."
jj mccullough rightly believes that quebec should be independent. he is one of the few english-speaking columnists to have inquired about the origins of quebecers. he is usually right on most points, including the myth of bilingual canada.
> "astronomy is a western and sexist science which must become indigenous and gay".
>  
> "there is a culture of rape in dogs".
>  
> “masturbating while thinking of a woman is sexual assault since she did not give her consent”.
>  
> "the fight against transphobia would progress if men practiced inserting sex toys into the anus".
>  
> "teachers should rate their students taking into account their ethnicity".
as a person who did his baccalaureate and his master's degree in sociology and who no longer works there.
i find that mr. facal has really put his finger on a sore spot that i have been describing for a long time.
here are some of their jaw-dropping theses:
"astronomy is a western, sexist science that must become indigenous and gay."
"there is a culture of rape in dogs."
“masturbating while thinking of a woman is sexual assault since she did not give her consent”.
“the fight against transphobia would progress if men practiced inserting sex toys into the anus”.
"teachers should rate their students taking into account their ethnicity."
😂
it is a recurring argument from those in power to those who criticize them: "your field of study is ridiculous and should not exist, long live the status quo".
nota bene: he and his colleague bock-côté come precisely from there, studies in sociology, we must pass them the memo to stop using their doctorates in social sciences of the 19xx as a tool of argumentation. yes, it was socially acceptable to beat up gays a few decades ago, and yes, it was kinsey and other social scientists who helped get us out of there (not the police on their own or the politicians). we will understand that becoming civilized scares joseph: "what, are we to forbid me to use others as scapegoats?". concrete example, when our friends at the journal blame immigrants for the wages while conveniently forgetting the role of their boss in union relations in quebec. who put the journal in lock-out to force negotiations and fire staff in the process, any tanned, or the savior of the nation that is péladeau?
another possibility: even if that does not suit our ideology, maybe the researchers in the human sciences are right and that we will one day leave the mentality of the 19th / 20th century quietly, even if it does. fear to some.
like any disciplinary field, sociology is no exception. however, care should be taken not to paint a crude caricature of it like this columnist does. there are many interesting subjects of study in the humanities and social sciences, and some authors display greater intellectual rigor than others. why not bring other interesting ideas from the social sciences to the public arena (e.g. the distinction between constructivism and naturalism via pragmatism seems to me to be topical) rather than bet on extreme ideas that have few followers. the baby should not be thrown out with the bathwater.
it's late though. isn't that the false papers of the shokal case \ ^ 2 this case?
> "your field of study is ridiculous and should not exist, long live the status quo"
i think what he is saying is more that certain lo-logists discredit their profession with their imbecilities. i quote you the first lines of his text:
> companies need plumbers, lawyers, farmers, waiters, delivery people, doctors, etc.
>  
> ** they also need people who think about the major collective issues. normally, this is the role of the social sciences. **
>  
> ** this is why what is happening in these areas of academia should alarm us. **
the shokal \ ^ 2 case cannulars illustrate very well that some activist lo-logists are willing to accept just about any nonsense as long as it goes in the direction of woke orthodoxy, while trying to get it across. for "science".
mbc and facal are columnists, you can very well find they are talking shit, and maybe they are, but they are not trying to hide behind false scientific objectivity. the whole scandal is there. if the wokes sociologists want to be activist, they do well, but they stop passing it off as science.
> it is a recurrent argument of those in power towards those who criticize them: "your field of study is ridiculous and should not exist, long live the status quo".
do you want to tell me what you can squeal with "queer studies" other than get on your nerves?
hey you still have clouns like the author of this article who finds the worst possible examples and paints it as "the norm"
people like that, ctrl + all delete, he doesn't deserve to live in your head without paying rent.
correct, these are false papers, that's the point.
it's funny that these columnists only attack the social sciences, but ignore the scientific frauds and "militancy" that can be observed in the natural sciences. it shows in fact that these "sociologists" do not really understand the reality of scientific communities and the issues that are intrinsic to them.
well yes, scientists can be biased and that can lead to funny research. scusé, in fact, all social scientists are biased, and recognizing these biases is the first step in a scientific process.
it's just so much easier and sensationalist to type social science.
i completely agree with what you say, but not with his way of presenting it. there is a big difference between pointing the finger at a study and pointing out its flaws (unrepresentative segment of the population, theory not proven and others) and saying that an entire developing area is in the field.
what is at stake here are wacky research publications. it has been known for more than twenty years as a problem: the main journals have a pressure to publish and tend to turn corners. researchers have very few career incentives to verify the studies of their peers, which limits verification.
all this is documented and has nothing to do with the social sciences, it is found in biology and mathematics too, it is a problem of the universe of the specialized press.
> if the wokes sociologists want to be activist, they do well, but they stop passing it off as science.
one of my sociology teachers said:
"the observer cannot be an actor"
here it is, these pseudo-sociologists are looking for facts that fit with their ideologies, rather than finding meaning in facts.
> hey you still have clounes like the author of this article who finds the worst possible examples and paints it as "the norm"
when the "norm" finds it racist to eat a burrito when you're not mexican or condom if you take a gif with a black one to express yourself if you're white ... or find that it hasn't a lot of blacks in a game about mythological medieval poland ...
your "standard" is screeching fuckée ...
do you have any leading examples of activism in the natural sciences?
for examples of fraud there is the case of the doctor who had supposedly demonstrated a link between autism and vaccines, if memory serves, he had defrauded his results, right? unless he was just incompetent, i dunno.
it's not the norm, that's what the fool brainwash thinks the norm is. the problem is the world filling its brain with its stupidities and spreading it like a literal virus.
militancy and fraud intersect quite a bit on the side of the natural sciences honestly.
let's get into the scandal about the impact of cigarettes.
> it is the world which fills the brain with its stupidities and which propagates them like a literal virus.
who are you thinking? for fun ... because if you look for "digital blackface" on google you will see creaking "wokes" that cry. even if there is not a racist on earth who would represent himself with a gif with a black one.
why am i polluting my mind with this garbage? why not look for "blood and soil" while you're there? garbage in garbage out.
because the stupidities don't come from facal, mbc and martineau ... they come from idiot who decides to start from the bullshit and the thick ones who find that it makes sense. it comes from backward mongols who can't see how stupid it is.
it is clearly people are looking for the worst elements and the signal boost for political gain. it's crap that poisons the well.
mongols? what blatant anti-asian racism! why is the word banned and not mongols?
> it is clearly people are looking for the worst elements and the signal boost for political gain. it's crap that poisons the well.
the "worst elements" of a bunch of mustard is pretty hard to find ...
you want to talk shit, when the leader of an idiotic ideology cry out for the "patriarchy" and the "white supremacy" for everything ... i think you are wrong about "shits that poison the well"
by n word, i imagine you mean nomos?
i do not believe that a handful of activists are representative of immigrant communities in quebec.
good old mathieu who no longer tires of arguing: native quebecois footsteps boo in english, full integration is a failure. blam. if you're some french-speaking mohammed who runs a pizzeria serving bacon in hochelag ', fail. if you're an english-speaking vietnamese woman working in a downtown sushi shop, fail.
in the same vein, if you're a guy who writes nauseating german-style columns from the last century despite his university studies, do you count that as a failure of the entire education system?
as usual, make no mistake, mathieu knows very well that he is grossly exaggerating. the goal is just to launch the keywords that make the buzz like "multiculturalist", "immigration" and use them to play the victims, to change. it's snowflake identity to the max: "* someone criticizes me, scandaaaaale *".
ok breivik
no but did you shut up your screeching eyes with your nazism insinuations, sacrament of a slight moron?
do you have something else to contribute? returns to metaquebec at worst, we have had enough of the other mongolian elvis osti to variousdata who occasionally passes with his squeaky orangisto-nazio-kkkanada square head shit in the same genre.
as a commentary on the article said, the difference between quebec and all other canadian nations (aboriginals, métis, acadian, etc.) is that quebecers have political weight and a state of their own. so we are a threat to english canada, because we can make things happen.
hey, they finally figured it out! it's been just about 20 years since this is a problem, tse ...
i went to cegep in 2002 and the students i worked with were clearly illiterate. it was ridiculous that it was possible then and it is ridiculous that 20 years later nothing has been done.
it's sad that we let it go (er) * ... it's not normal that my employer is obliged to offer courses in past participle (s) * agreement (s) * and improvement in french in general, it must be said, has several employees of the company who are in their twenties. they always have a bac it is (these) * people there who conjugate (s) * in the infinitive 75 percent of their (s) * verb (s) *. homonyms are terrible too. how did they get their diploma?
edith :. my self-correction.
abolish cegeps. the world will be all the better for it.
based on my experience:
french lessons put 40% of the mark on spelling and grammar and 60% on "content" and teachers gave 100% in the content section to students to pass them.
you've got 7 mistakes for about 60 words, you wouldn't have graduated either.
why do you think it should be abolished? i just got out of it and it was all in all a great experience notwithstanding the online courses and the closed bars.
now 100% of the mark is content and i think they can take up to 30% off for faults. however, for the uniform french test required for the dec, you have to make less than 30 mistakes in a text of 900 words to pass what seems reasonable to me but still allowed me to stress my life.
i'm lazy i admit on social media. on the phone it goes quickly. in a professional or school context, it is not the same thing. a quick review of my comment and i found the errors. thank you for forcing me to do this exercise.
it was irony
i admit it ** s **. ** at ** this exercise
in 1632 when i was in elementary school, a being / having fault resulted in the right to copy the conjugation page 20 times for the next morning (all the time, of course, let's be ambitious!). it took so long to do that our parents always realized it even if we tried to hide it. it was also the good old days in france when slapping was a sacred parental right. good times, chalice.
you will understand that i am not an "economic" immigrant but a refugee.
i am beginning to be convinced that the purpose of bill 96 is not to reform bill 101 but to test the possibility for quebec to amend its part of the canadian constitution without asking permission from english canada.
if canada remains silent and allows quebec to make this amendment, that opens the door for legault to make other amendments.
the result is either a confrontation with ottawa, which helps advance sovereignist sentiment in quebec by showing that canada harms quebec and risks causing the death of french in canada.
or it is the victory of quebec which will be able to give itself more sovereignty without asking the rest of canada.
** the world doubts that a majority of quebecers could still vote for independence, except that if it became clear that we are going to be assimilated, the wind may well change sides. **
either way, quebec wins. either we have more power to manage our province as we think we should manage it or we become a country.
** one thing is very clear, as long as quebec has to get the support of english canada to get the powers it needs, quebec is never going to get what it wants because english canada thinks that quebec must be a "province like the others". **
i am not sure that we all interpret the reform in the same way. personally, i prefer to take a step back and wait for the reform to be analyzed a little more. i have the impression that columnists and such are reacting a little too quickly and maybe even a little too badly.
([24 flagship measures of the reform of law 101] ( ).
** here are 24 key measures: **
> - ministry of language
> - language commissioner
> - reaffirmation that french is the only official language
> - abolition of the superior language council
> - clear predominance of french in signage and advertising
> - registration of the status of the charter of the french language in the canadian constitution and in the quebec charter
> - grant law 101 preponderant status over other laws
> - creation of francisation québec
> - *** limitation of the number of places in english-speaking colleges to the 2019 level with a maximum increase of 8.7%. ***
> - *** anglophone establishments must prioritize access to anglophones ***
> - *** no additional subsidy if the number of francophones exceeds the limit ***
> - obligation to pass the french test at college, except for students with a course in english at primary and secondary level
> - obligation of companies to offer services, products and documentation in french
> - francization committee for smes with 25 to 99 employees
> - francization services for businesses with 5 or less employees
> - the minister can suspend or revoke a permit in the event of non-compliance with the law
> - possibility of terminating a contract with a company that does not respect law 101
> - application of bill 101 to federally chartered companies
> - prohibition of the bilingualism requirement if the employer has not taken the means to do otherwise
> - recourse for employees
> - entrust unions with the role of ensuring the protection of language rights
> - limitation of the bilingualism requirement for judges
> - use of the derogation clause
> - require municipalities to adopt a motion to maintain their bilingual status, if this status is not representative of the language of the population
3/4 of the measures are useless, the other quarter an artifice.
it depends on what you expected. if you expected that we ** "impose" ** measures, then yes a major part of the proposals do not serve much purpose.
but personally - ** if practically nothing is imposed ** - several proposals encourage the practice of french.
at the level of businesses and private companies, they must provide service in french if requested, and citizens are more seriously allowed to react if they are unable to obtain service in french.
nothing is imposed of course, but everything is a strong incentive. will the francization measures offered be sufficient, i don't know. but if we force businesses and businesses to have to provide services in french if requested and we make french language programs available to them ...
more explicitly, what i'm trying to say is that from my point of view the only thing that has ** "artificial" ** in this reform is the illusion that we respect the ** "free choice "** of english speakers. i repeat, by forcing them to provide services in french if they want to break into the quebec market, they are forced to consider their frenchization more seriously.
the measures seem to me very present. i find it very difficult to fully understand the pq and company.
explain to me why our measurements are so artificial ...
yes. symbolic. the reform should have been prepared by demographers and not lawyers. demographers all agree that there is nothing in this to reverse the decline of the french language in quebec
not in quebec, but i think it's worth remembering to what extent these people have total control over institutions in certain countries.
it shouldn't take long to happen
"people of the left" has become an oxymoron as the vast majority of woke leftists are so useless and easy-going bourgeois that they have to try to feel that they exist by defending uninteresting causes (inclusive writing or defense of junkies robbers of pregnant women)
well done normand lester! 100% agree.
for those who have not yet done so, a good advice, read "[the black book of english canada] ( anglais)".
a reading that every quebecer should do.
excellent article.
cheap proposal: the word woke is just a very convenient way of not addressing the real issues that are growing (climate change, difficulty of our economy faced with the rise of a new giant with the consequences that this has on the quality of jobs and wages here, weakening of the collective culture because of the overabundance of supply and so on).
until the early 2000s, cancel culture had always been the privilege of the right, from zola who defends a jew to maccarthy in the united states, to the dixie chicks for their anti-bush commentary, with the great french successes on the algerian war and the former colonies and the bans on acquiring harry potter in certain schools. at the time, it was said "take responsibility for the consequences of one's actions". if you said shit in public or unpopular things, the consequence was that everyone fell on you (see gainsbourg and his criticism of the tax rate by burning half of a ticket on tv). now, if you say whatever shit you can think of that hurts you, you have the privilege of being able to bawl "cancel cultuuure".
ditto for wokes, we have always had reactionary movements. there was the wave of maoists and communists before people like alexander solzhenitsyn said what is really going on "in heaven on earth", and these people became a minority afterwards. you have a soviet far-left office in center-sud, but we will agree to say that it is three lost in slippers and not a movement that changes quebec. i understand that for the far right, the corpse of quebec solitaire is brought out all the time as if it were a powerful party capable of influencing society to find an enemy, but let's recognize that it is a small third party in leftist reaction to the liberal delusions of the charest years, there's nothing to whip a cat in reality ("yes but manon massé said quueeeeee" ... as if she had the power to pass a law or start a movement) .
the big "reaction" at the moment is to claim that caucasians are victims and to see conspiracy everywhere. in fact, it's just that the world is changing, and that if collectively we do not all move to get things done, emerging countries are not going to cross their fingers just to be "fair play".
finally i reluctantly end up thinking that lucien bouchard was right and that a segment of the population is lazy (at least intellectually) and just wants to benefit from yesterday's world without paying the same price (tse, the catholic church is fine. naughty, we are secular and all that, but it is all the same thanks to them that quebec has experienced a population growth which means that it is a province that can now face the others). but, let's talk about systemic racism, the roxham road and the muslim veil in the public service, these are the most important issues of the day, it is really what threatens the quebec of tomorrow the most!
in truth, the evil left has stood up for a lot of people besides george floyd, but it's just that you're not listening.
ah yes the famous junkies robbers of pregnant women.
it's not easy to find
quebec finds itself in a crossfire of racial crises happening in the usa and in europe.
considering quebec's vulnerable position in terms of identity and its eternal quest to define what a quebecer is or what he should be, it was certain that this question was going to wreak havoc here.
quebec is also well isolated from the rest of the world. far from the conflicts, famines and horrors of the rest of humanity. quebecers have never participated in the game of world politics and have never been invited to it. they are little concerned by the ecological problems and calamities which affect the rest of the planet.
it is because they are incapable of listening.
do not forget; conservatism is inertia. it is not only the absence of progress and social evolution, it is to work for the return back to the social level.
never heard of saint george?
edit: or saint adama for france?
you tell me that and my feeling over 22 years of living in quebec is that we are just a little less monuncles than before. now you have to want to go to the conflict to make jokes or comments that before you could legitimately make without thinking badly. i don't have the impression that becoming less offensive towards blacks, women, muslims and so on is going to destroy quebec society. at least, i don't have the feeling that no quebecer that i know is going to fall to the ground struck by lightning reading an email that begins with "hello everyone" (we can perfectly find that ugly and useless, but it will not do dead man, even though the sheep shout "woooooke" like it's the worst thing on earth).
for ecological issues, i both agree and disagree. agree that it hasn't been a constant public concern in the media or among politicians, but disagree in the sense that there are people who shake their asses in the shadows to save the furniture in the last decades.
citizens like claude dallaire who saw jean charest's crap in wanting to privatize mont orford just to put a few well-placed condos there in return for a lot of money for the private sector ... but no one who could save the millions from the chum and the muhc that went into snc lavalin's pockets because, deep down in stories of contracts like that, you can't do much about it as a simple citizen, even if you know you're getting screwed .
volunteers who went to negotiate with a few oil companies to finance the clean-up of the st-laurent in the corner of tétreaultville because we could not count on our business governments to worry about it ... but we could not prevent the communities wetlands in laval to be dezoned and sold to finance the mayor personally. it is no longer there, but the areas in question are lost the same.
for the moment, the protection of heritage and the environment has remained more of a matter of goodwill than anything else.
it's not that we don't have real problems, it's that those who benefit from these problems are very happy that we are tearing our shirts off over the use of the word nigger rather than getting involved in their endless shenanigans. (like bill 66 which reduces environmental requirements for infrastructure).
edith: i'm telling you that, and [voila] ( )=internal. it is not a black, a feminist or an islamist who are destroying the forests of quebec. he is a good purebred quebecois, with a baccalaureate in political science, fire of the liberal party, recycled caq. and while that is happening, the opium of the people is wokism.
> they are unable to listen.
uh ... scuse but the far left woke is also unable to listen ... don't know if you've seen it, but as long as someone doesn't think the same, cancel and shout louder ...
worse, i'm not even talking about the left and the conservatives ... i'm talking about the extremist left and the left.
the proof you put those who have another opinion with the conservatives and you are bandaged on the fact that the stupid left woke is "progress" and "social evolution" when it is as bad as the far right.
you speak of "backtracking" but, fyi, on the left we fought against the cellars which were offended against everything for religious reasons ... and then we come back to the "i am offended therefore i am right "screeches the cochonnerie which returns ... so the turning back it comes from who?
yes then to preserve the values acquired by our parents before they are trampled on by stupid ideas from the united states
as long as you want, but to be a woke is to think of yourself better than the vulgar evergreen cake thief that you are ...
yes, the left are the good guys and the conservatives are the bad guys.
yeah, i've been through saint-georges before.
if not for saint adama it is in which corner?
the business is that social cohesion was better before we were brought out all these imaginary oppressions that are pushed by a minority of people. quebec was moving in the right direction of acceptability and i have the impression that we are rebuilding walls that have been brought down.
the other problem is that through woke talk, the very real issues they raise are inundated by the avalanche of hype and finger pointing that comes with it. we learn to be wary and reject everything altogether.
if it was just the summer we could discuss it but it feels like this is the theme of the week and those who ask for these things will just ask for something else and something etc ... that it is more out of a spirit of revolt than in good faith.
when anglophone concordia students who call quebec a racist redneck province tell us how to fix it, we tend not to listen to them.
it takes two to tango. i completely agree that we spend too much time talking about identity issues in relation to their real importance, who is to blame? it is as much the fault of those who attack the quebec identity as those who defend it.
are you not the same guy who defended the use of the n word as an insult?
i don't think it's just a matter of "opinion".
but that's exactly their technique. trying to pretend that insulting black people is just opinion and not outright racism. that way, when we call them for that, they hide under the "i just have a different opinion"
this is what we learn [michel fugain's theme] ( for the film je ne sais rien, mais je dire tout!
sorry, i should have been more specific:
let's look at the list of the great causes of the left with these two interesting examples because they mobilized a lot of people, means and "time of struggle":
- i'm not insulting you to introduce mr. floyd convicted eight times between 1997 and 2005 for among other things possession / sale of hard drugs, theft, robbery (of a pregnant woman by pointing the gun at her stomach) and violence m
- a french case or the left of this beautiful country wanted to imitate the americans with adama traoré ... charming man who has been convicted 17 times since 2007 for theft, violence, consumption and sale of drugs and even a very beautiful rape on a guy with a fork?!?!
these two examples alone have eclipsed almost all the struggles of the left (social, economic or egalitarian) to defend garbage that largely deserved their fates ...
yes the post-modern left "woke" is a huge joke that must be turned in their graves all the thinkers of the social left who have allowed us to improve our living conditions
edit: oh and you want the funniest on adama? his family is known to be slave owners in mali ... well done the wokes!
my point is that when you receive an email written with .es everywhere, the worst thing it can do to you is roll your eyes. a veiled lady (or not veiled for that matter) who teaches in kindergarten, as long as she does not read the koran for snack, kesse that that changes in your daily life? whether the spvm feels a little embarrassed to control black people 83,000 times more than others, will you really turn longueuil into a war zone?
meanwhile, the people who ** really ** sell quebec to the highest bidder can do their thing, we bring them to power as long as they ** claim ** to hold in quebec. that charest, vaillancourt and legault are in power makes me fall out of my chair every time i seriously think about it. ok, they are white and vaguely catholic / atheist / ethnic, but is that really important as a criterion when you think about the rage that manon massé's mustache can elicit? (not to say that we should vote for her, but why obsess over her who has no real power when others are busy scuttling everything). did valérie plante really do things that bad when you think about all the lies about the electric formula and the attempts to pass on mr. coderre's baseball bill to us?
we're talking about attacking identity, okay at a pinch when we talk about attaran - and let's get on well, he's just a guy with an opinion, his burp was worth our reddit posts in terms of influence real - but are the famous wokes, really, that powerful and present in your daily lives? do you already have a black and muslim immigrant who has landed at your place to tell you to slack off from there and that in fact, your daughter is his now and you are going to call me sir?
lester's famous noir book was very good, but "wokism", really?
> are you not the same guy who defended the use of the n word as an insult?
even if that's what you think, no. all i said is that being offended is not a reason to impose yourself or impose what you think on others. you went on the other's "nigga" all by yourself even though i haven't even mentioned it. do not cry.
what is the woke technique? someone says something they don't like (even if it's true) and they just make them scream louder as if screaming would change the facts ... i stopped doing that around the age of 5 psq it's crazy crazy.
the bad guys have chosen the wrong side!
it's funny because you demonstrate exactly what i said in my 1st comment
the thing is that you choose the "wokes" examples that suit your business. i am absolutely not against telling the police to stop making black people sick for no reason (if that was what they were doing), but you know very well that their demands go much further than that.
by what right do islamist teachers from the csdm allow themselves to judge the clothing of their muslim students?
[
what twisted logic inhabits blm activists who see montreal as chicago when we live in the metropolis with the lowest homicide rate in north america? that we have all the social programs that black american activists dream of !? despite this, on a relative basis their community still commits more crimes than the rest of the province, and it would be our fault ???? despite all this they allow themselves to put the quebecers on trial as if we were in alabama ?? let them go shit calisse!
you cannot reproach us for defending ourselves against the activist sub-groups who aspire to our tolerance and our good will to advance their identity politics.
would it be our fault that we were forced to vote for sellers? crisse the english and the minorities of montreal have a tribal vote for the plq because it is the party that works best for our long-term assimilation, isn't that an identity vote? nothing would please me more than burying the hatchet, but not if it is to surrender to those who want to make my people disappear.
i will stop voting in the interest of quebec nationalism the day the minorities in quebec stop voting in the interests of canadian nationalism.
it sounds just as crazy as saying the n word to “shock”. usually people stop after going through puberty. but hey it's not for everyone, eh
well, i agree with you except that ..
.. in the case of clothing, these are personal comments which affect a small number of people, not society, and which are dealt with by the establishment. teachers of all profiles do this kind of thing and when we can prove it, these are administrative measures that concern the establishment. tse, my point is that it's an administrative thing in a school that only affects her, it's not a social problem. if you jump a turnstile on the bus, we don't say that all people who look like you are monsters.
making it a social thing, for me, is like when i am asked to apologize as a man for violence against women in general: "fuck off, my partners have never had to. complain, i will not apologize for the wrongs of the neighbor ". here, ditto, it's unrelated people who must be corrected by their boss and fall into line or lose their job, period.
for blm, there is a problem here as in many places with blacks in the way they are viewed or treated. i do not accept generalities either, we must not tell just anything, but we cannot ignore what they experience as if it were far-fetched. in real life, since personally i try to bring it back to everyday life, i have witnessed two clear situations of discrimination in employment (because he is black, i don't want it, i know his cv is excellent. but nothing to give a fuck). we can't say that it doesn't exist, it's crazy to say that every quebecer is a racist. the two propositions can coexist.
my point about elected officials is not that it is a matter of fault. we do with what we have. what we control, however, is our anger. that imaginary black claimants enrage us (or tse, anger against muslims and reasonable accommodation before discovering a few years ago that they were in the minority in the demands compared to christians), it's a little crazy when in everyday life it is not colored people who have such power over us: we get screwed by good people from home (the vincent lacroix and others).
i agree on the link between the plq and the minorities, but at the same time when the pq and the adq designate certain minorities as a problem, what do you want to do? how many times has the pq torn its shirt (sometimes rightly) on the hasidics? no wonder afterwards, i will not vote for a party that would say that french immigrants are a burden (luckily i earn more than 57k!)
do not know if you know the concept of "in spite" or the grudge in french ... seems to me ... entk
it's as if a vegan comes to piss you off in a restaurant psq you eat a steak ... and you eat it in the face and take another just to piss him off.
the idea is not to be racist, if you take everything in the first degree the words can be according to their definition so i am not completely in disagreement with you, but the idea is to send shit the other psq you are disgusted with bullshit like "the gifs with a black are digital blackface" (there is not a racist on earth who took a gif of kevin hart to represent himself)
knowing that, what's the perfect word to get them out of their way? y'en a one worse starts with "n" ... i'm not saying it's a word that i like (i mean it's a little low blow but eh ...) but it's not necessarily used with the intention of being racist depending on the context.
> tsé, my point is that it is an administrative thing in a school which only affects her, it is not a problem of society. if you jump a turnstile on the bus, we don't say that all people who look like you are monsters.
it becomes a social problem because it is supported and encouraged by multiculturalism and the trudeau charter.
> there is a problem here as in many places with blacks in the way they are perceived or treated.
i am not saying the opposite, it is clear that there is racism against blacks and that it must be denounced. except that at the base you wonder why "wokism" causes so much reaction. it is not their reasonable and sensible demands that create the controversy, it is their exaggerations and their lies.
> we can't say that it doesn't exist, it's crazy to say that every quebecer is a racist. the two propositions can coexist.
totally agree, but there is a cohort of activists who do not see it that way.
> let imaginary black claimants enrage us
it's not imaginary, you have anastasia marcelin, fabrice vil and webster who are in the most filthy exaggerations and lies. on the side of the islamists, you have ève torres, adil charkaoui and bochra manhai (i may be killing the names ...) who peddle a lot of nonsense.
> it's a bit crazy when in everyday life it's not colorful people who have such power over us: we get screwed by good people from back home
the greed of crossers can end up being satisfied. the utopianism of revolutionaries will never be, the world and humans being imperfect by nature. cross-racers and revolutionaries must be fought, but you are surely right that we focus a little too much on the latter rather than the former.
> i agree on the link between the plq and minorities, but at the same time when the pq and adq designate certain minorities as a problem, what do you want to do?
same thing for the plc / plq. how many of their deputies rejoiced at the demographic decline of quebecers? i can't find the quotes, but it has often been said. there is no way i can vote for a party that wants my people to disappear. the plq could present the reincarnation of the chirst as a candidate in my county that i would not vote for him.
frankly, i don't know how this problem can be solved without violence or without surrender on one side or the other. perhaps when the most fervent identities of each side are more there that we can be reconciled, but what is certain is that the wokes are detrimental to this possible reconciliation.
and in context, it was to insult another.
the worst thing about the collective's statements is that according to them, their treatment within qs is because they are "racialized". she explains that the politburo has gone soft with the pro-secular group and the mp who made "racist" comments against the chinese because they are white.
qs would therefore also be a system of systemic oppression.
when you are a hammer, everything is a nail.
i hope it will blow them in the face during their national council.
still no name or examples. is that what modern journalism is?
we do not know anything about this famous collective or almost but ginette de sherbrooke, we know that she, who lives in 3rd row with her frontpage photo, liked a post from la meute in 2016 .....
> in any case, there is no question for the moment of ousting the collective which has become undesirable. “this is not a foreclosure proposal. we are not there at all, ”explained the president of the party.
so at qs are welcome the ass licks of attaran, but not the laymen. it sets the tone!
[la presse] ( -a-toxic-climate.php):
> "despite numerous warnings and interventions carried out \ [… \] for over a year now, the collective has not changed its way of doing things, that is to say using tactics of threats, denunciation or pursuit, ultimatums or intimidation, ”deplores the qs executive committee.
so that's completely astounding: quebec solidaire, the first direct victim of woke activism. i never saw it coming that way. i suspected that it was a ticking time bomb, but that qs suffers the most serious consequences first, and by this fact could potentially become a rampart against this militancy? i'm on the ass.
can you imagine the impact? * quebec solidaire condemns the anti-racist movements * on the front page of the journal de montreal, it gives shivers down your spine.
if this faceless "collective" that apparently sows terror within the party were to be disowned and ousted from the party, that would convince me to finally maybe vote for qs.
indeed.
i'm waiting for it to pop too par rapport à cela.
it does not surprise me, i have already spoken with gnd about that, we are several to vote qs tired of the small percentage of fanatics.
> that would convince me to finally maybe vote for qs.
i would still miss a lot to get there ...
how will you go about separating anti-racist activism from racism? you will be attacked on this point.
i am not qs, i vote qs but i am not even a member.
the host was intrigued at first but didn't look thrilled at the end haha
he made a mistake in the language conversion: he said "ice cream" instead of "ice cream", not sure that they all understood.
i don't consider myself to be a huge fan of richard martineau, but his column hits the nail on the head. the philosophical gymnastics shown by the followers of this anti-racism is disturbing.
> are you white and do you think races are not equal? you are racist !
(the definition of racism)
> are you white and do you think there is no difference between blacks and whites? you are a racist too!
("supposedly" because you refuse to take into account the different realities the inhabitants)
the definition of ** "racism" ** is eating the semantic steal of the centenary.
[racism or systemic racism] (
> the first definition of racism speaks of a belief in biological and hierarchical races. there is therefore today an erroneous conception that racism has disappeared or is not very significant since the proof has been made that races do not exist. but the contempt and hostility to which racialized people are victims, their access to resources and their different living conditions persist. we must now “think racism without races” since ** its justification is now based on the inequality of “cultures”, “ethnic” customs and religions. **
but let's see, where are we going !?
note here that this is the second article in quebec about the book. while in france, mbc is currently on tour on all the tv shows and all the newspapers.
for the wokes, objectivity, science, capitalism, tradition = racism
i'm just waiting to see a "woke" separate the whites from the minorities at the drinking troughs ...
we are 10 years behind everyone so in 10 years we will talk to a mass when it will be too late
in fact, here's what i think is going on:
1) people working in offices have a rigid and classic schedule, but are mostly at home
2) the other employees have a slightly different schedule
3) we are at the end of a month
4) transit passes are for the entire month
5) the roads are busy again, but the transit is not.
my hypothesis:
a) people still working and taking public transport in 2019, thought they would not have congestion for a long time and do not have a pass, knowing the transit time. the same goes for easy parking.
b) people are afraid of being contaminated by public transport
c) many returned to the office during the month of april and therefore, did not take a pass
d) congestion is worse because public transport is underused.
if i'm right, public transit is clearly essential in quebec ... and we now have proof.
80% congestion with so many people at home? imagine once more people returning to work ...
simmer for next time: a trafficking vaccine
yes you are certainly right. there was a car shortage last year. well, no doubt there were some problems in the supply chain, but there was also a lot of demand to buy cars.
i would like to see statistics on public transit to verify that. if this turns out to be correct, it is very important.
exactly...
it was my wife who read the article yesterday saying that public transport is empty, no matter what friends i look for, i had not found it ...
maybe this:
i believe this is a very important look into the psychology of people in positions of authority. preserving an appearance of competence is more important than ensuring competence. the british post preferred to send people to jail than to admit what it already knew, that its system was failing. do you realize the enormity of this decision? be prepared to sacrifice people's lives (one committed suicide, not to mention the consequences for the others in prison) just so as not to have to say "we made a mistake, we made a mistake"?
to keep in mind when thinking about the response to the pandemic. how many mistakes have our leaders made who prefer to persist in error even if it means killing people just so as not to have to say "sorry, we made a mistake"? they will never admit their mistakes, hence the importance of an independent commission of inquiry (which the caq and public health will do everything to avoid).
it might seem weird to post this here, but it has to do with the idea of disarming the police. it's based on the uk, but that's the kind of country we're dealing with. a country with cameras on every street corner, where you are fined for teaching a dog to give the hitler salute, where the police let gangs of pedophile rapists crack down in the name of diversity and now where you are put in jail rather than admitting that a program is broken.
are you looking forward to your [caq digital identity card] ( renamed "vaccine paseport" to be mandatory to protect you from covid ? identity theft is going to be epic. imagine unified access to your credit, medical, legal (police and tax tickets) files and much more, coupled with the database of all your trips and purchases which will be collected and resold by all the merchants who scan your card at the front door. this is to protect you from covid, don't ask questions.
> how many errors have our leaders made who prefer to persist in error even if it means killing people just so as not to have to say "sorry, we made a mistake"?
from memory:
* daniel paré, of manoir liverpool, has been promoted to head of vaccination in quebec.
* the katasa group, from chsld herron, was washed and paid a full page in the jdem to say that it is a very good year for the group
* dominique savoie, linked to bullying at the mtq, has been promoted to deputy minister of health.
personal conclusion: never. even the private sector (katasa) can escape in quebec which is even worse.
without forgetting the approval of the scottish law aiming at the denunciation of blasphemous words and this:
"new evidence indicates that attainment is closely related to socio-economic status – once this is controlled for, all major ethnic groups perform better than white british pupils except for black caribbean pupils (with the pakistani ethnic group at about the same level). a higher percentage of ethnic minority young people attend university compared with white british young people"
from the article:
> ** the ambitious project will cost billions of dollars and has never been carried out elsewhere in the world. **
and with the snap of a finger, everyone forgets the phoenix system, the cgi shenanigans, the it mess, the fake it company at jean charest.
quebec is ready for another cash pass for yet another white elephant with questionable bases. and eric caire in addition!
funding studies in english is like subsidizing our own assimilation.
when the english ask for protections for the linguistic minority, they forget to say that in canada they are the majority and since quebec is still part of canada, the english represent the canadian majority in quebec.
stait the time!
not so long ago, this type of proposal was blocked from the cnjpq. there has been a kind of shift since 2018 ... which does not really go in the direction of the values and the vision of pspp. he nevertheless explains that the causus now has a strong democratic mandate to start a parliamentary debate on the adoption and implementation of bill 101 in quebec. to be continued, there are 2 years left before the election.
what does “apply law 101 to cegeps” mean in concrete terms? lots of talk but few answers.
the intention is noble, but the pq still falls into patchwork and survival measures.
even if it passes tomorrow morning, what effect will it have on our assimilation? shall we gain another 6 months?
same pq as always, what its members see as a measure that will save quebec goes almost unnoticed and everyone does not care.
the pq should talk about 24/7 independence, the rest is patching.
its more important for anglophones to learn french than it is for francophones who have been attending french schools their entire life. loi 101 in cegeps wont really help preserve french, because everyone there will already be fluent, it will just create a bigger divide between anglophones and francophones. anglophones will still have the choice, but francophones will not.
are you going to stop your nonsense? there are majorities and minorities in all countries and regions and everyone has the right to fair treatment
yes, but the anglophone can also tell you that francophones are the majority in quebec. the argument of a majority beyond the border applies in both cases.
or give tools to learn a new language without leaving quebec. some francophones go to these schools for the sole purpose of learning english. learning english is not negative in itself and is even an advantage in the context of job search.
the problem is not there. the real problem is the integration of immigrants who do not always have access to french courses.
it is clear that to force quebeckers to attend only francophone colleges, but to leave anglophones the privilege of choice, it is morally contradictory. it sort of amounts to punishing the group that should be privileged. the compulsory french courses immediately make more sense.
measures to prioritize:
1- compulsory french courses
2- proportional subsidies according to demographic weight
3- outside of cegeps, give more priority to francophone immigrants.
4- look into the problem of the recognition of foreign diplomas
5- develop a program that is both migratory and economic with the help of regional businesses in order to fill the economic deficit which will assimilate both immigrants dispersed over the vast territory of quebec.
francophones and immigrants must go to cegep francais, but anglophones can choose between cegep english or french. sorry i am english speaking so my french is far from perfect
according to the united nations, francophones in quebec are in a minority situation in canada while the english in quebec are in the majority position even in quebec, as long as quebec does not become an independent country.
>the human rights  committee  of  the  united  nations concluded  that  the  anglophone  community  in quebec  **is  not a  minority**  in  international  law.  
>  
>the un committee  has  determined  that  a  minority  is  a community  whose  distinctive  characteristic (language)  is  in  smaller  numbers  and  weaker position within the state as a whole and not within a federated  unit  such  as  a  province.    **in  canada,  it  ist he french minority across canada as a whole that has the legal status of minority in international law.** therefore  the  anglophone  minority  of  quebec cannot  invoke (minority rights) as understood in international law.
[
he cannot seriously claim that funding studies in french amounts to subsidizing assimilation against his nation when no study puts forward that, while for the very situation the trudeau government says it wants to defend french in quebec.
the only common point is that english-speaking institutions are over-funded in quebec as in ontario vis-à-vis french-speaking institutions in terms of the proportion of the budget vis-à-vis the proportion in the population.
french cegep for everyone. this does not mean not having "english" cegeps where a certain proportion of the courses (say 75%?) could be in english. on the other hand, as long as there are alternative institutions entirely disconnected from the french-speaking network, but disproportionately funded by the entire population, no measure will solve the problem.
i would like not to deprive francophones of anything and rather impose a quota of courses in french, as well as a passage of the exams of the ministry at the secondary and at the cegep for example. it's boring but unless you make french essential in the natural school path, we will probably only aggravate an already tense situation, without improving it.
a quota of courses in french would probably make anglophone cegeps less interesting for many francophones, while pushing the anglophone mass to integrate into french.
so francophones are punished for being in a position of weakness, and anglophones in a position of strength are privileged to choose?
it is ridiculous and unhealthy.
law 101 is already in place for primary and secondary. it's good if you don't want to learn english, because english lessons in a french-speaking school are not very good. even in english-speaking schools, french lessons are not very good.
f
laval, city of agriculture
look at this. only one city in quebec has joined the 21st century!
and the most multicultural city too.
hm. it is almost as if multiculturalism is making progress in an otherwise homogeneous and stagnant society.
if laval is your example of a city to emulate, your business is going badly.
what is this cucumber logic?
yes, but made it should consider sex-selective abortion an element of progress!
😂
i spent my adolescence in ste-rose. it was quaint, regressive, and fucking horrible. that's my point. laval is more progressive than the rest of quebec.
/s
lol
* cucumber logic? *
i am dead.
i have no defense.
you win.
is it municipal laws that allow that? or that laval does more than the others?
no, to be honest in canada, abortion is not regulated by law.
what is the link with laval first, i'm not sure i understand.
none, it was more of a point against the virtues of multiculturalism. gender-selective abortion is not exactly common in canada, but it is a growing practice given the preference of some groups for male children.
do you hate multiculturalism so much to the point of trying to compare it to the oppression of women and eugenics ??? the original argument was clearly not made in good faith, it's cheap criss to use as an argument to shit about an argument that shouldn't even be taken seriously.
it's a shame because we should agree on this. one of the by-products of multiculturalism is the introduction into our country of sexist and barbaric practices by foreigners. i like to denounce them at all the opportunities open to me. on the contrary, this observation pisses you off so much that you lose your french and yet, i am convinced that the idea of killing women because they are women revolts you as much as i do.
believe me, we agree on this but it's the way you position the argument and the language used that bothers me.
the idea that transmitting our culture to them would erase its practices in certain communities may seem to make a lot of sense, but nothing is certain that this would be the case.
it's more a question of tradition vs culture.
traditions are just practices that we apply because it is socially imposed to do so. tradition may have had a use when it was first created, but its remains are vestiges of the past. in quebec we have abolished our most toxic traditions but that does not mean that we have more. these traditions are forced on us with prejudices that condition us to react in a way that perpetuates them.
in quebec we still have a lot of people who are pro-life, marriage still exists, some still ask for the hand of the bride to the father before their request, for some to dress chic for christmas or go to a restaurant on sunday is not even a question.
one of the best examples is that in quebec it is customary to tip your server (because of minimum wage laws but as i said traditions can be useful), result even when you travel you tip a lot even if it would be in a country where the conditions of the servers do not create the need for a tipp, we do it by reflex.
traditions and customs are just irrational mental shortcuts that are perpetrated by society.
my favorite definition of tradition (from urban dictionary)
« tradition is just peer pressure from dead people » 
the idea that immigrants speak french and consume our culture absolutely does not mean that they would lose it's practicality. immigrants who no longer practice the traditions of their country of origin are the children of immigrants. quite simply because tradition is no longer justified.
without the utility associated with it, tradition loses its power. in canada it is not useful to have a son instead of a daughter because it does not benefit the parents in their social statue. without the encouragement of a behavior or an idea at the social level, the tradition loses its raison d'être. (i want to say here that i do not think that in their country having a son is useful but although having a son is considered useful).
even if i want to continue to practice certain traditions, the fact that certain foreign traditions are not socially encouraged or still frowned upon in the host country means that losing these traditions is much simpler. the traditional idea being in the minority in this new society, it loses its conditioning power. if you are the only one wearing black when everyone is wearing white, you will tend to conform for fear of exclusion. we would quickly lose our habit of tipping if we went to live in japan or it might be frowned upon to tipper.
the idea that a son is more useful than a daughter, like many gender prejudices, is deeply brainwashed. it is indeed more difficult to change than lifestyle habits, especially for an adult immigrant who has lived in a society where a way of thinking was encouraged. their children are much less conducive to adopting the customs of their parents' country simply because it has no reason to exist.
it is not a result of multiculturalism but quite simply of immigration.
you say that selective abortion is brought to canada by foreigners. i totally disagree with the language used.
introduction: action to promote (a fashion, a product, etc.)
regardless of whether that is your intention or not, your argument implies that other canadians would adopt this practice. sex-selective abortions are most prevalent in immigrant communities from south asia. there is no indication that these communities introduce this practice to others. as i said above, without encouragement from society, the tradition will tend to die more than to flourish. otherwise, the abortion rate should therefore rise despite immigration because the idea is now introduced to our society except that the abortion rate has fallen by 23% since 2001 and the children's ration female / male is 100/107 which is the ratio considered natural in our world.
sex abortion, like all traditions, is not rational, it should not be treated as something fundamental coming from immigrants.
i absolutely want to abolish abortion by sex. i am not a fan of canadian multiculturalism either, but associating it with a social evil to push one's political opinion is in my opinion ignorant or ill-intentioned.
edit :srr wall of text.
people who think the pq is dead should do better research.
good, but it would be better if that was reflected in the voting intentions. the pq is still by far the party with the easiest fundraising task. however, its last majority government dates back to 1998 despite the loss of the popular vote.
he does the best advertisements to make the party look better.
so much money wasted (although i'll probably vote for them)
when the federal government is going to put its big dirty hands on bill 21 ...
the ndp claims to be fighting white supremacy, but is going to support the interests of us imperialism in china.
at the same time it's been like 10 years since he died. they cannot mummify him and worship his corpse forever.
i understand that the party is changing and taking another direction, that of having no deputies in quebec.
i don't like lisée at all.
but it's sad to see how much different layton's ndp has become.
1. the only time in its history when the ndp had a result sufficient to have a real weight in the national assembly was in 2011 with the orange wave in quebec which gave layton the status of official opposition. the window of opportunity arose when ignatieff had no chance and the ndp was able to take advantage of it.
2. layton died a few months later, the party has done next to nothing but make himself laugh at him with his absent and lost mps. they have hardly stood up to the conservative in any way.
3. the ndp lost miserably with thomas mulcair who was announced at the start of the campaign as the electorate's easy choice to fire harper, but he shot himself in the foot by changing the discourse in each province. at the end of the campaign, since people abandoned mulcair and no longer wanted harper, trudeau was elected by default.
4. trudeau and his liberal government are definitely betting on immigration to strengthen his electorate, a strategy that has paid off when he was seen as finished in the 2019 elections. without forgetting that for this election, the conservative congress s 'is shot massively in the foot by choosing scheer as leader instead of bernier (who would probably have ensured the conservative victory). scheer sees himself unable to rally support outside the traditional conservative support of the west, while bernier leaves his side with an alternative party which, by its existence, withdraws votes that come from the conservatives. the conservative then gathered with 121 seats but with no more power than the ndp or the bloc, which had just as much power with the liberal minority.
well, it was a long recap but i wanted to put that before continuing.
now in 2021, when the political reality has drastically changed, the ndp is changing course and electoral strategy; he knows that the majority of the electorate is not in quebec, and he knows that this majority is historically antagonistic in quebec. while layton's ndp aimed to align the east towards a moderate progressive agenda based on the accomplishments of francophones in quebec (being himself quebecois), this new singh ndp aims for a more extremist progressive agenda by aligning the anglosphere against nationalist / traditionalist quebec.
but he is not mad in his so-called delirium; the ndp is aware of trudeau's strategy, and considering that this government sees itself very worn out, with voting intentions that go down poll after poll, it will leave behind a huge electorate who will certainly no longer vote liberal and who have been led to think that the conservative is a nazi group and the bloc a group of white supremacists.
we will not hide that this electorate is not badly silly, but the modern ndp plays according to the modern chessboard too; he is not the author of the current political spectacle. truth be told, current politics are largely americanized due to social media and the new age of internet media; english-speaking canadians (and even many quebecers) only talk about american politics (biden vs trump) and the social issues that are revealed in the usa (blm, systemic racism, net neutrality and blablabla), while consuming strictly american culture woke (hollywood, netflix, american music). the ideas of the left are also sold as trendy and hip as the average canadian has difficulty finding housing and jobs, in addition to being left with cohorts of indebted university graduates with bogus degrees who are faced with the reality that they are not engaging.
and what does it give? it gives that a good part of the electorate will go to the polls like americans. and so they will vote like woke, for the party most in line with * wokism * (i hate that expression). however, the npd is positioning itself exactly as the option to follow in this case:
- promises full of free
- economically uneducated
- leader not white
- leader not christian
- leader anti-qc, antinationaliste, antitraditionaliste
- leader who openly accuses others of racism based on the woke definition that a majority of people deny
- the major points are to withdraw funding from the police and the army and other woke nonsense.
in short, personally the more his advance, the more i see that it would be highly plausible that they would be elected.
that said, if the ndp is elected, both quebec and alberta, the two provinces being the most strongly conservative in their own way, risk the federation's fuckoff fairly quickly.
in the end, if the ndp is not elected and we come up with a conservative or a minority liberal, singh will be quite forced to leave his office and then the ndp will have another 4 years to come up with a hot strategy of the moment to try again. his luck. one more failure for a party that has only known that it would not be too serious.
if elected, either quebec and / or alberta hold referendums. it would be ideal to finally get quebec out of the federation. if the ndp passes and the referendum passes, it would be an incredible historic turnaround.
but if there is a referendum and it does not pass, quebec risks collapsing.
in any case, if the ndp is elected the current canada will collapse heavily, you don't have to be an economist to see that happen.
bye singh.
i found singh sympathetic even his position of blocking bernier in the leaders' debates, not strong for the new democratic party to want to censor an opponent ... but to see where we are today it is not surprising.
the side of the good
i'm curious, how does he support us imperialism in china?
it was a big electoral fraud his business. layton did his last campaign on the bone drug on amphetamines just to stand up while he was dying of cancer. i take my hat off, it takes courage, but he tricked the voters who voted for him into thinking he was at least 4 years old and not a few months old.
why is lisée so unpopular? i like him a lot, his podcast is great
your comment is super interesting. it is true that the ndp makes a political calculation based a little on the wokism of the united states, and which pushed (in part) the democratic party to win the election in 2020. on the other hand, i have big doubts that it works here. but of course, nothing is impossible.
ok, george bush.
ah yes, everyone should know how much time they have left to live
intellectual, cold, elite ... from the outset, it does not mix well with the people. it is more popular on the english speaking side.
he managed to bring down the pq from the official opposition to the least popular party when he was at the head of the party. he then confessed that he had not changed anything in his ways or done anything different, indicating that he was proud of his actions and that he had lowered the pq so low at the level of provincial power.
on a personal level, i find him narcissistic, condescending, arrogant and pedantic at will.
he's moderately annoying. in itself it is not the end of the world, it has served him well in the race for leadership. on the other hand, it is completely deflated by afterwards culminating with the election of 2018. his campaign was absolutely lousy. it is to be asked how such a skilful strategist could have hatched such a bad plan. that and its monumental blunder in the vat debate.
well i think we share the certainty that wokism is not in the majority (or at least not in many places), but i remind you that plante is in power in montreal with around 50% of the vote. 40% of the electorate present themselves at the polls (effective 20%), and trudeau is currently in the minority with 33% of the federal vote with 67% of the electorate at the polls (effective 22%).
the fact that coderre receives 50% of respondents even before announcing its candidacy says a lot; probably a majority of people do not like wokism, but we are in a situation where it is made this silent majority which is absent at the polls during the elections.
i see 2 reasons for this; they probably don't like the opposition either (even if you hated trudeau, hard to vote for scheer. even if you hated coderre, hard to vote for plante (and vice versa in a few months)) and then the wokism shames all those with a different opinion than theirs and therefore they prefer to stay on the margins of the political world to avoid the hateful repercussions coming from this group of fuckés.
ok, xi jinping.
the light side. the good ones.
bin voyon. layton was a special case: he knew he was going to die in a few months. i think it was dishonest of him to hide it.
the guy reviews marvel movies on his blog and is the worst at pulling off evil but funny jokes. i think he is the victim of an image that is not really fair. well, whatever!
ok zbigniew brzezinski.
yes, dick cheney.
he had been dying for 10 years. you might as well do nothing more then.
ok, deng xiaoping.
it's getting really funny: p
i thought that quebec women were the most badly treated in the world? / s
no kidding, we already knew. americans did not understand anything in the 1960s when they saw independent quebec women arriving in new york to work.
one of the negative points is that family values no longer exist. quebecers very rarely marry, which has repercussions on children who will never experience family stability, giving rise to asocial individuals incapable of compromise. even if love is no longer real, marriage at least provides better protection for the child by discouraging divorce (legal procedures, etc.), where cohabitation does nothing for the child. those who do not prioritize their children are selfish, and their child will inherit it. it doesn't make strong societies.
having a place in a childcare center is magic. a gem
we never really completely finished the cpe project. pauline did not have time, unfortunately. then there, well, it's kind of crumbling, our incomplete network.
instead of aiming for pay equity for women, we could instead opt for additional leave for women (which is already the case for pregnant women). less annual salary, but the same conditions (insurance), to help rebuild strong family homes. obviously, we can aim for pay equity for those who prefer a career.
> quebecers very rarely marry, this has repercussions on children who will never experience family stability, giving rise to asocial individuals incapable of compromise.
i think you put a lot of it, do you have any statistics on that?
it's so not true what you say. why don't you have any sources
it's not easy when your hands are tied
it's not that we haven't finished it, it's that the liberal government used the sale of private daycare licenses as an * alternative * source of funding.
they don't want it.
without going into the argument itself, it has not been established that quebec is [the country of a de facto union] ( -x / 2013001 / article / 11788 / tbl / tbl1-eng.htm)?
i wonder what society you live in.
quebec is the world champion.
yes it is very widely known. we are the world champions with sweden just for the marriage rate.
of all the things the kremelin worries about, this is the last thing they should.
i was expecting some stupid russian whataboutism, but it is clear that the reality is crazy enough to play into the kremlin's game. i would even add that beyond othello, i can't wait to see a cover of roots with why not ed sheeran in the role of kunta kinte!
moscow is just trolling. you have to see the headlines of rt to understand that the russians are just screwing the fuck up.
moscow has no concerns about human rights, racism, or even human rights in general.
3/4 of those who run the kremlin were brought up in a system where torture and disappearances were a daily occurrence.
the kremlin poisons its political opponents and sends them into gulags.
as much as the treatment of minorities is poor in russia, sergey lavrov is aiming right here.
when the kremlin is brighter than the rest of america
they want destabilization, as much as possible i think. like the united states did in the east.
uh, a big point of the "opponents" of putin and the state of things in russia is precisely that the minorities are too good, that there are too many immigrants, etc.
do you think the neo-nazis, the ultranationalists and the like are pro-kremlin over there?
navalny made his career blasting immigration, muslims and "thieves" (who are often closely or indirectly associated with jews because of the 90's), with the same rhetoric as the far right in the united states, with their anti-billionaire all-controlling and anti-immigration messages.
i am aware of these facts, but still find the treatment mediocre by our standards.
putin likes to treat all his opponents as nazis, but you have to be wary.
navalny isn't even really an "opponent" in the sense that he's not running against putin, he's not a politician. he only denounces the corruption of the putin regime.
attacking navalny on his "extreme right" is useless, he does not want to rule russia. he just wants to get putin fired.
> navalny made his career blasting immigration, muslims and "thieves" (who are often closely or indirectly associated with jews because of the 90's), with the same rhetoric as the extreme right in the united states, with their anti-billionaire who controls everything and anti-immigration messages.
good point. i love it when the media gives us such obvious bullshit that 2-3 minutes on google is enough to blow it all up. it was a bit tough with bhl and ukraine, but boom: it's everywhere.
here, [sister gruda de la presse] ( l-ours.php) who paints a hyper-noble portrait of the guy who, here, was allegedly reduced to ashes by her and x.camus for calling muslims cockroaches. we even go to the * russian nelson mandela * ostia.
worse a * anti-corruption fund *, for sure no one is going to make the link with another foundation!
* la meute russe * is good, * la meute québécoise * is bad. and it goes like butter.
"putin likes to call all his opponents a nazi, but you have to be wary."
or you can like, ignore the "putin" part altogether and just watch what's been going on in opposition in russia since the 90's. you have a very strong right-wing nationalist movement, it's not fictional, it's real
"putin likes to call all his opponents a nazi."
hey there, i have the impression of a déjà vu ...
not just poutine.
the russians are not very "moderate" in their political vision.
it would be surprising if centrist parties dominate the political landscape.
it is held in extremes everywhere.
let's just say that calling your opponents a nazi is a constant in russia, i reserve the right to question these accusations.
the bolsheviks, far from compromise
hi! i am 20 years old and i want to reassure you a little, not all young people are like what is described here (you would have guessed it but i think a point of view of a person concerned would be interesting).
anyway, i'll start by saying that i'm an independentist (otherwise what do i do here) and that, frankly, most friends my age are too. in fact, the “problem” is that the young people described in this article seem more to be young people from montreal, or from large urban areas. i am a local guy and the portrait in the article does not seem to describe the reality in which i grew up, but my world is not that of thousands of other young people in quebec so i will not speak in their name. name.
however, as far as french is concerned, i also find it deplorable. the situation has never been so bad for our language. it is true (for me included) that the appeal of english and american culture is very strong. after all, english is the language of the international, the language of the internet. it is the language that is spoken in the rest of our "country". it's hard for young people to motivate themselves in french, since we too see the decline of french, so why force yourself to learn it?
finally, for being someone who was born with the internet and who grew up surrounded by cultures of all kinds in the shows i watched, the content i watched on the internet, books, music, etc ... quebec was very little present. in fact, i'm about to say something harsh, but ... we don't have a strong culture in quebec, or at least ... we don't put it forward at all.
indeed, why are young people more interested in a barrack obama than a rené lévesque? because we are not sold our story as something to be proud of, something exceptional. our education system does not encourage us to be proud to be quebecers. i was lucky to have history teachers from regions who were pro-independence and who tried to instill this in us, but this is not the case everywhere.
in short, in the end, my friends and i dream of a 3rd referendum, since we missed the first 2, but for that, we must rekindle the independence flame which has died out and we must above all ensure that a succession young, dynamic and full of hope takes up the torch of the last generations.
i have noticed that young anglo-quebecers seem more and more interested in sovereignty than young francophones. it's the world upside down. i embrace the great curiosity of these english speakers.
the french are already having trouble reconnecting with each other, i recommend that you wait a bit for the mess with us to be resolved otherwise you will get into problems dear cousins
yes
exactly. i live on the south shore, and i'm still in school. since the start of my education, québec has hardly been touched upon, putting almost all of the focus on the natives, the new france and the thirteen colonies. this independence side, i got it completely from my father. that's stupid to say but for most young quebecers, if your family is not there to educate you on the subject, you have little chance of learning much
france has always recovered.
this is the first time that she has encountered this kind of problem, but i do not think that she is condemned, just that at this moment a rapprochement with france would bring you many more problems than advantages. see how many french people dream of coming to live with you
will this serve to sow doubt among their canadian cousins?
so therefore here no longer? because we have the same monarchy?
lol, if you expect the angloids to admit the racism of their institutions, you are quite naive. we are talking about what was once the empire that colonized the entire world.
complitly normal. the reverse would have been the equivalent of saying "* ok joe nobody at minimum wage, we apologize for calling you a racist all these years. the real racists are those who rule you and we will start to attack them and their salaries at + 200k and their big advantages. * "
that would make a nasty * backfire *.
same mechanism here: admitting that institutional racism exists at the spvm would mean that the * big boss * is behind it and who is it? valérie plante. we are not run by computers or staples channels anyway.
so we would indict the mayor instead of blaming joe nobody from limoilou? * not on my watch! *
"new evidence indicates that attainment is closely related to socio-economic status – once this is controlled for, all major ethnic groups perform better than white british pupils except for black caribbean pupils (with the pakistani ethnic group at about the same level). a higher percentage of ethnic minority young people attend university compared with white british young people"
minorities are treated better than the majority
it's not their cousins, it's more like their abortion, in any case every time i tried to talk about canada with a brit it's the impression i got.
no idea. for quebec, i dare to believe that it is not. for canada, i prefer to let them speak, even if to boast of systemic racism (apart from the first nations) seems rather eccentric to me for a population that accepts so much difference.
the british empire was one of the largest colonial empires in europe, but it did not colonize the entire world:
- france colonized most of central and west africa as well as part of north africa. it also colonized part of the antilles and polynesia where it still has territories (the overseas departments).
- spain colonized most of latin america as well as equatorial guinea. the canary islands are included in its territory.
- in addition to having colonized brazil, portugal also colonized african states such as angola, mozambique, guinea-bissau, cape verde as well as sao tome and principe. macau, china, was also a former portuguese possession.
- belgium colonized the democratic republic of congo as well as rwanda.
- the netherlands in particular colonized indonesia and still have territories in the antilles.
if only england had taken part in colonization, i do not believe that it would have been so widespread in the world.
lol come quebec are not racist, you are the same, quebec and great britannia
i love the metaphor
way of talking. we know that there were other colonial empires.
oh yes? how? 'or' what? how many ethnic cleansings do we have in our portfolio? on how many continents we had colonies?
what is practical when one calls mozart or beethoven of racists and white colonialists is that they can hardly defend themselves ...
i did the music program in high school and i came across something of the same kind a few months ago, my reaction was "well let's see tabarnak, its going far for nothing" but i decided to watch the same video. worse chalice, i fell on the ass. in our classes, we say we teach music in a holistic way, but in our textbooks we only teach the theories popularized by old europeans. the musical concepts besides do not work like ours, in india they do not build a major scale with a tetra chord (tone, tone, semitone, tone, tone, tone, semitone). i have always thought that music was studied with the same rules everywhere but it is completely wrong. it's an opinion piece so i'm not surprised that little research has been done but i leave the pcq video it's really interesting.
edit: threw up on myself looking at my mistakes in french.
> what would mao say to see that in 2021, it is the westerners themselves who are self-flagging?
baizuo.
what annoys me about this story is that on one side, england and the anglo-saxon world jump destroyed and it's fun to watch, on the other is that it overflows here and that the damage could be irreversible in quebec.
not easy ..
raaaaycist
let them eat mustard.
everything is racist "colonial" "white" it gets on your nerves. i have a chalice of indian sitar or african tams, and i don't have the taste to do in samblant that medieval chinese music "it's good" ... it's shit.
you have to want to faker be "woke" in screeching to make samblant to find it good.
it stinks of "look at me! i am so woke that of the violin i find it racist. i like better listening to inuit albums which is choking"
you remember this court judgment that said that [sophie durocher est une jug] ( right-to-say everything /)? (i'm paraphrasing, but not by much). well, surprise, this is [fake news] ( this stuff.
unbelievable. imagine being privileged enough, and let's be frank, probably white, to study at oxford, and even have the audacity to say such bullshit.
decolonizing heroes turn around in their graves when little angloids with a * white savior complex * say things of themselves. call me a single decolonizing or anti-imperialist government that has not included and promoted the education of music - classical music even under the pretext that it was racist, in their efforts to enhance culture and knowledge among the masses once subjected to colonial oppression and forced into misery by imperialism, the kind of regime of exploitation and impeachment maintained by rich angloids graduates of oxford and cambridge.
absolutely laughable.
if you are rich enough to study in oxford, stuff your year criss!
boring
all that's left to do is do the same with conventional medicine
right in the target. especially since these little wealthy westerners who constantly sermonize the popular classes with condescension themselves live in abundance and lust. they think to wash their conscience of their privilege by self-flagellating and moralize the less well-off with a haughty air to reassure themselves.
nothing but a host of hypocrites gang. real birds of prey.
the woke wave is a wave that occurs in quite a few developed countries such as the usa, england, sweden and here in canada, etc.
this wave is like am: when everything is going well for a certain time (x number of years) in a society ie; no war, no difficulty in surviving / eating and no adversity, we are looking for bugs everywhere.
why? because the human brain (and the brain of quite a few living species for that matter) has been developed following the evolution of always seeing the negative first. the primate who fled when he saw a bush in the distance move for fear of seeing a predator nearby, survived. on the other hand, the primate who saw the bush move and said to himself "eh, it's just the wind, all good" had a chance of being attacked, and killed, even if the odds could be slim. so the gene for "me caliss" was not transmitted (the gene "me caliss" was transmitted to the population of st-jérôme only).
it's really a simple example, but it's the same for everything else.
when there is no more misery, we are looking for misery everywhere. it is the basis of survival genetics.
it's going to take a mega-crash for the woke wave to disappear. a huge economic crash that could lead to war in the countries of the west, or a high level natural disaster.
the fall of civilization
check how it won't bother china to hurt people.
yeah i had heard of her before, reminds me of a story i had heard in the us which was that at the time the doctors believed that black people felt less pain, it made that for certain procedures the doctors gave less morphine to black patients than to other patients. supposedly it continued into the 21st century with the old doctors
> according to what le devoir learned, its content was deemed inappropriate by some because it would have brought together without context the links of pierre vallières, the author of nègres blancs d'amérique, with the front de liberation du québec, the refusal of the legault government to recognize systemic racism as well as examples of controversies such as that of blackface at the théâtre du rideau vert.
we teach hatred of francophones in our english schools. does that surprise anyone?
> denver thomas is particularly concerned about the directive "urging non-black teachers to avoid discussing or using material that may contain the n-word" and the precedent created by the banning of certain books.
it's funny because there is a nice parallel here with the history of the saint-eustache hospital. strangely, i don't think it will arouse the ire of attaran guys.
negro.
peasoup (i committed a crime according to the left)
no because we are white people and therefore we are the oppressive group so we cannot be discriminated against.
for now, the pq is still the best vehicle to do this in my opinion. then, it will depend on their electoral result in 2022.
without a major political event that would come to unite these forces? no. for many "progressives", the pq has been burned since pkp (and for some before that). for most centrists / right / conservatives and nationalists, qs has been burnt from the start of its existence. the only thing that could cause all these fine people to row in the same direction would be a massive and undeniable federal attack on quebec. like a conscription crisis or something like that. it would take a real political earthquake, probably bigger than meech.
people rarely change their minds through debate and argument. people change their minds when the reality on the ground changes.
the pq. a party which accepts separatists from the left as from the right, and which does not impose its ideology as a condition of "making a country".
honestly i must say that for this generation we may have to throw in the towel. with the large number of migrants accepted by canada in recent years, their vote and that of their children are almost guaranteed not to go for separatist parties because it would lose them advantages and they would still have recognition for it. government of canada. we will have to wait at least until the third generation to get their votes and since this one is for in a few decades at least i must admit that i do not have much hope when it comes to a possible imminent separation ...
for the union of the right and the left under a single separatist banner, that would be perfect but almost inconceivable in the climate of current political tensions.
there is only one answer to these questions: no
éric duhaime ftw, let's fix quebec before handing it over to low-level communists.
short answer, no.
personally, i'm just waiting for the pq to crash in 2022 so that we can move on.
i defended the pq for a long time but i threw in the towel, this party is blind to its own situation and its members live in a delirium that nothing can change.
and until recently i was a very active member.
the sovereignist movement will go through after pq, the faster the better. anyway 2022 is going to be a disaster it's written in the stars, i don't even know if they are going to save a single mp.
frankly even though i'm not a big fan of the pq i think that if the opportunity would be present, qs and pq should form a coalition. his would make a fair political representation in parliament for all sovereignists and increase our chances. it shows a desire to go further despite the various political stun moves that could embark on the undecided too.
the problem with the sovereignty project is that unfortunately it is not a primordial subject for the majority of quebecers.
i ask the question, because i wonder if after having failed twice the independence of quebec, then having literally put the option on the back burner in the hope of being elected like any good government, if the party does not lost the confidence of the people of quebec. can paul st-pierre plamondon and his team succeed in convincing the sovereignist electorate that they are going to make quebec a country? i like his ardor, but i am skeptical ... will he be able to impose himself as party leader? or is it better to make a clean sweep, put an end to the pq and found a new independentist political formation?
i have the impression that the pq puts a lot of emphasis on the fact that it is a progressive center-left party. i'm not necessarily against that, being more in favor of a social democracy in quebec, but should the party instead bet on a neutral position on the left-right economic divide? basically, making independence the heart of the party, because as bernard landry said, "independence in itself is neither on the left nor on the right, it is ahead".
no kidding, i can't wait to see the influence he will have. in quebec, we have the extreme left as the second opposition, but not a single truly right-wing party. hopefully his arrival in the conservative party will serve to rebalance the political arena. because otherwise the sovereignist movement is plagued by the left from top to bottom.
i can't wait to see what he will do in 2022 but mainly for the lulz. pcq is the other extreme of qs on the spectrum, i just don't take them seriously.
éric duhaime is a sovereignist?
i am okay. they're on the life support.
rip social democracy
if the pq, for example, loses all or almost all of its seats in 2022, then yes, we will have to think about finding an alternative. i would like a party with positions closer to what the national rally is doing in france.
they put the accent above all on social democracy, i find. in any case pspp has put that forward.
but you might be right, since qs made a breakthrough, they want their left wing back.
can't wait to see it go too. i hope he will be more on the populist right rather than the plq / caq-style business right that we are used to. basically, the business right wing likes state intervention when it is in their favor, i hope that duhaime will not fall into this trap. on the other hand, its quebec anti-nationalism does not please me at all.
he will have the same influence he always had: little.
no. he is like françois legault. a federalist by default.
he is a former sovereignist activist
if only this party could realize that eu countries have very few immigration controls because of the treaties. it is incomprehensible that they do not position themselves as sovereignists and for frexit. this is the sine qua non for immigration control. if ever the rn came to power, i'm afraid it would only look like the caq, lots of talking, but hands tied.
he is on the protestant trumpist populist right.
we must not be under any illusions here; this is the third time that eric duhaime has launched.
> right
>plq/caq
mmmmmm. not yet seen the state deflate.
he is above all a libertarian.
the pcq is not a party that i would describe as a sovereignist.
all is relative. right in the pro-business sense of say.
that's not my point. he already campaigned for the pq when he was young
the only business we encourage in quebec is through corruption. completely detached from the political spectrum.
frankly, i'm glad they're honest for once. maybe one moment our federalist bon-ententists will end up hearing the roc's message: you count for nothing, they don't care about you. the second it will be possible to abolish federal billinguism without risking the separation of quebec, they will do so without hesitation.
no, that's correct, french is not a race. / s
another proof of systemic racism towards francophones.
lol wtf
first of all, it rather says that ** many of us speak french **.
it says the fact that a lot of us speak french ** it's a disadvantage ** lol.
so technically speaking french for a tourist or immigrant would be rather an advantage.
fuck mdc canada mon gars, wtf lol.
and mélanie joly's department of official languages responded:
> more than ever, canadians from coast to coast have a positive vision of bilingualism.
i don't want to piss off, but that's obviously wrong. if, as written in the following sentence, the federal government must do more to protect french, it is because canadians don't give a damn about french. it is far from being at the heart of their identity. at best, it is a token to distinguish itself from americans although they know very little about it. at worst, it is this damn language of the vanquished that deprives them of reaching the positions that are due to them.
official bilingualism is a schizophrenic policy that has never worked. today, the balance of power is even more disadvantageous for french than it was when the law was adopted. i understand that justin is trying to patch up his father's mess, but precisely the window of opportunity was fifty years ago. we must listen to contemporary canadians sees a replacement. they are interested in spanish and mandarin, at the limit urdu or arabic, not french.
a good reminder that the roc is an entity hostile to quebec. and of course, with the collaboration of these great philanthropists, the desmarais.
what do i hate about this man's smile.
a smirk, petty, arrogant and mocking smile. he laughs at you in the face, he laughs at you and passes this insult on as "charm" or "charisma".
trudeau father, quite a traitor towards quebec him. it's major news.
the article in french:  (i'll let you publish it again if you want u / akesgeroth).
dude the comments on onguardforthee.
"i dont see anything wrong"
"it was a long time ago"
what hypocrisy of the "wokes" men, how they manage to see themselves in the mirror these people.
thank you, the us, for investigating our country.
we recognize the democratic fiber of the roc. it is said to be a post-nationalist country, but be careful if a part of the country wants its independence, in this case, anything goes.
it's funny how the worst mess canada prepared for us is almost always revealed by the americans.
not bad at all this video!
i am folded!
good idea, but i very much doubt that the plq will support this. as for the caq ... we'll see where it fits!
too late, we already have a new absolute monarch with legault premier and cardinal arruda
i like the vigor of the new chef. he is not shy and he thinks outside the box. he is proactive and i like it!
hey nasty scoop ...
the caquistocracy (kakistocracy) is in place.
the hasidic jews are proof that even if anyone can be a quebecer, it is not enough to set foot in quebec to be one. it is high time our leaders stop turning a blind eye and take action. especially if they want people to obey the curfew: hard to be taken seriously when you let people do such things.
although obsolete according to developments, the question could be put to the lev tahor.
basically, what is it to be a quebecer? are you born on the territory of the province of quebec? are you living in quebec for 5 years and being able to vote in the province or eat chinese pâté and kraft dinner with sausage and ketchup ???
since when, because people break the rules, they haven't been quebeckers? those who have celebrated christmas in secret, who have gone to the south, who see it from time to time in secret, who are conspiratorialists, are not quebeckers too?
were fines issued for the first gatherings?
if so, have they been paid?
2 important questions.
let's not forget that there was a media barrage on the legality and universality of fines and it boiled down to * according to experts, anyone can have them and everyone will have to pay them. no right of way and close it. the other guy and the dcpc cancellations? ignore it. *
now this is the test: another rally received 56k in fines at mirabel. the 2 are going to be compared by anyone with a minimum of thought.
the gang at the founding of françois blais surely has their finger on the "save" button at the moment ....
it's not to defend the hasidics, but they are like that all over the world. it's a silly comparison, but i prefer this to quebeckers going to demonstrate in the midst of a pandemic with signs written in english.
share common values and compatible objectives with those of quebecers already established. for example, freedom, democracy, love of french, consensus decision-making, secularism, and many others of varying importance.
there must also be a desire to share what is perceived as "quebecois"
i will tell you what it is to be a citizen in 2021, it is to pay your taxes pi shut up. the world wanted this.
someone said:
whether you are black, yellow, green, red, purple or white, the important thing is that we are all walking in the same direction ...
at the same time, the quebec nation is not really threatened by hasidic jews. other than the abused children (the ones getting the wrong one), i don't care.
we are talking about hasidic jews, not about a family from lévis who see each other at christmas ...
lol the fines you knew that there is not even 10% of the fines which are paid, easily contestable.
it reminds me of a napoleon proverb:
"if you share the values of the french republic, wherever you are in the world, you are french."
oh yes? you have to show me how. i must not have contested in the best way.
no more french people, no more cannon fodder for mass levies. how strong this napoleon was!
i don't know i'm based on an article read
it is obvious. charest and couillard are two gravediggers of the quebec people.
doesn't speak badly of charest, he allowed me to introduce my youngest to political activism with casseroles in hand.
hat!!
it's a bit like saying what i'm already thinking: qs's identity politics is a form of anglophone colonialism. it goes against the principles of the french-speaking world and the vision of a better world that we have. it is to americanize us.
frédéric bastien proves once again that he was the leader the pq needed. no banality to the "we will be the party of the environment" of pspp. man, the train has already left the station and you're not in it. bastien hits hard and on the right nail, that of the betrayal of the qs crypto communists.
nadeau dubois, our favorite bolshevik
> it was the qs congress at the end of last week and the issue of bill 21 came back to the table. the qsists promise to abolish it.
[i know exactly the kind of person who opposes law 21.] ( -nadia-murad-nobel-de-la-paix-2018-20211118)
qs stune bunch of woke buffoons .... we have to stop giving them importance .... qs supporters should switch to the conservative party ....
qs is the liberal party's school club. they claim to be sovereignists to collect votes but all the rest of the policies are trudeau ndp. their goal is the assimilation of the quebec people.
a bolshevik who fights for religious minorities 🤷‍♂️
our favorite bolshevik neo please excuse me
it's just fucked up stiff.
it is a deeply ideological gesture.
"" all our dictionaries have been inclusive for several years ", affirms marie-hélène drivaud. we have as proof this other correction of the dictionary:" we have reviewed all the times where there was written "man" to replace it by "human "." thus, in the definition of "hair", we no longer read "hair on the skull of a man" but "skull of a human". "
[deleted]
ahem... c-16... ahem
for the first time, cormier-denis saturday on october 23, 2021 will take place directly on the nomos-tv.com site at 4 p.m. (10 p.m. in western europe), which will bypass gafam censorship.
it is not necessary to subscribe at the moment, but the access will become chargeable from december (minimum amount of 5 cad per month, more if possible).
the site is still under construction, but it is possible to play the videos in the background, which is a plus compared to youtube.
the live link: [ danemark(
alexis cossette-trudel is no more censored ...
i hope they will keep the saturday live free otherwise i think they are really shooting each other in the foot unfortunately. they do a job of immense quality, but to attract new people it would be difficult.
cossette-trudel still has access to paypal.
haha how much will it cost to whom we cry for peace for the rest of our days ... give the indians a blank check that decides the number and we never talk about it again.
the thing that always annoys me with “our ability to integrate” is how such a thing is measured. what statistical criterion is used to determine whether someone is integrated or not, and how do we determine the maximum number of integrated people that the system is capable of producing in a year?
* it is absolutely correct to be anti-quebec! / s *
there are already integration classes, french courses available. many go to these courses because they are paid, but without interest because people in their ghetto manage without french. as soon as they find a job, they drop out. there should be a scoring system for all of this that is used to adjust the number of immigrants admitted in the next cycle. the trade-off would be between the score and the available budget: bad score, less money, significant drop. bad score, more money, less drop, etc.
and put the brakes on the family reunion. immediate family ok, but cousins and brothers-in-law no. especially since if they cannot come by themselves, they are less interesting for us, likely to remain bullets.
[deleted]
it cannot be measured objectively. roughly speaking, our "integration capacity" is the number of immigrants that we are able to welcome until the disadvantages of immigration become more important than the advantages. as we will not all agree on the nature of these disadvantages and advantages, all points of view are equal and it becomes a matter of public opinion. if we don't give a damn about the survival of french, if we consider that the ethnic enclaves are a source of diverse wealth, and if we hide from housing problems, then * sky is the limit * ciborium!
to complicate the whole thing, this famous "capacity" is not just a number, it depends on the origin and the quality of the immigrants. if all the immigrants were like boucar diouf or jean pascal, i would say come back in 100,000 per year no trouble, big-replace us as much as you want! if it was all freddy villanueva and adil charkaoui, i would tell you that we had 1 of each and that it is en masse.
i do not know if there is a certain extent. but there are countries where you can clearly see the symptoms of the harm caused by exceeding this capacity.
we can see it in the very diverse diversity of groups of "buddhist" rapists who repeatedly rape young christians in england.
or even the same buddhists from the parisian balieux.
or the same boydhists who behead history teachers or destroy christmas markets, for example.
well, it's not just buddhists and it's true that not all buddhists are extremists and a good number of them fit in well (i'm thinking of my friend who opened a super cool shishtaouks that fits in really well to the life of a local québ with his family), but at the same time i really do not want to live in a civilization where it is normal to be beheaded by a buddhist because i showed a drawing of boudha in my class.
there is probably no precise and objective measure, but we can definitely say that an individual who denies the quebec nation and seeks to destroy it is not integrated.
okay, don't make the mistake of giving too much importance to the legality of the thing. when the hour h arrives i have no doubt that the english will not get caught up in the flowers of the carpet regarding the constitutionality of seizing montreal in whole or in part. it will be the strongest pocket. the repatriation of 82 was not legal and that did not prevent them from doing so. tell yourself that it is ottawa that appoints the judges who decide what is legal and what is not. this whole rule of law circus is just a gigantic farce of which we are the turkey.
yeah but at some point, to justify what number the government should admit each year, you have to be able to measure that notion of "integrative capacity" and create a formal definition of that thing. as long as we do not measure, we remain in abstractions, in principles. otherwise it gives rise to cases like the caq which improvises by canceling immigration files yet under study or which changes its mind on the number. if we pretend to be pragmatic on this issue, then we are just supposed to take the pulse of reality. we do not make a policy just on the basis of a feeling and an impression.
truly the friendliness of buddhists, non-ironically, is a myth. sri lanka and burma are not super tolerant and are very buddhist. so it's not really a good antithesis to we-know-what-religion-yet.
you can measure a bunch of socio-economic variables, the fact remains that there is no canonical way to interpret them as there would be in the natural sciences. for example, taking the unemployment rate among immigrants, suppose we set a threshold beyond which we start to reduce immigration. some will say that if there is more unemployment among immigrants, it is because they are discriminated against. we could reply that it does not matter, if this particular ethnic group is discriminated against, it would be better to reduce the number of entries while mentalities evolve. others will say that it is because their training is not adequate and / or not recognized. others will say that they were chosen badly, that we should favor candidates more suited to manual work rather than academics, etc ...
repeat the same trick for all the socio-economic comparisons you can imagine.
it is impossible to define a precise figure which would describe this "capacity" according to a panoply of socio-economic indicators. first of all because these indicators are difficult to interpret, their interpretation is muddled by the ideological biases of all stakeholders, and these indicators are incomplete anyway! can we measure today what the legacy of mexican-quebecers will look like in 50 years? we have no idea. it can be something wonderful like it can be a bloodbath of crime.
moreover, how do you decide to favor one indicator over another? we must go there according to our values. nationalists like me will say that we must look at the evolution of the french language and favor secular muslims over more religious muslims. the boss of the montreal chamber of commerce is against all that and says that we just have to look at the growth of the gdp.
so in my opinion, the least worst solution is still to ask the population once every 4 years whether they prefer to vote for a party that will reduce this immigration or for a party that will increase it. (assuming obviously that this debate can be done in a normal way, which is not the case at the moment).
it is not true that we can leave everything to the experts in politics.
it's just because we have the right to talk about buddhists and not about a certain other religion without sounding like a racist when it has nothing to do with race but the ideas in people's heads.
dubé backs off! at least it shows that a number of his advisers have both feet on the ground ...
although desirable and predictable, this last pitfall of christian dubé's short term as minister of health is catastrophic for him. this is the second time he has had to go back on his supposedly unwavering word on this one measure. it simply no longer has any credibility whatsoever with the public or with health personnel. especially with its small revolution which is at this point a bitter failure that we recruit as far as lebanon to replace our guardian angels of yesteryear. in any normally constituted state, the minister should resign.
finally they are breaking their teeth on something sanitary. they must realize that their power is limited.
who is going to take the november 15 date seriously now? they'll keep putting this off until the covid calms down on its own.
the demand for hospital staff will increase between now and the peaks of demand in winter, which is what usually happens. it's not just infections that increase in winter, even heart attacks are more common in january.
it was the right thing to do. another failure signed caq.
hahahaahha
should decaliss the dubé have played with the mental health of several people
*laugh in unvaccinated*
it was predictable from the start. we are governed by incompetent little accountants.
imagine professional orders now! 🤡
[removed]
we'll see !
it will be like the 28-day challenge which has become the 332-day challenge ...
[doc mailloux]( joined the battle!
it would be the end of the line that the order of nurses does not retreat!
me too.
either he persists and collects himself as a perfect cuckold.
either he shifts to november 15 and confesses his total vassality.
in both cases, the reputation is screwed up for years. to paraphrase yvon deschamps, * the orders, kossé that gives? *
it is appalling.
shawi lol, female dog offspring from members in good standing of the christian jean fan club it's 100% sure.
i invoke the law of retaliation here, the class is adjourned, thank you all.
one, all public schools are rat holes full of problem cases, two, an autistic person has nothing to do in this kind of place, the fault is completely on his mother.
one is the fault of those who assaulted him, two, autistic does not mean deficient.
three, is that a reason to assault someone?
in the minds of many, being autistic is a heinous crime.
anyone who has read 1984 or aldous huxley's brave new world is well aware of what's going on with covid right now.
a masterpiece and a reading that i would consider essential. after reading this novel, my view of the world changed. it is a very memorable and memorable book.
what worries me is that with the totalitarian drift that we see everywhere at the moment caused by the covid pandemic, i can not help but see certain parallels with this dystopian universe.
yes, and the information is so controlled that we do not even know if really enemies and perpetual wars exist, we do not know if big brother exists, we do not know if the enemies of the people exist. it's like in north korea where people think americans are so poor that they have to eat snow and even their children to survive.
after brave new world and 1984, we could read fahrenheit 451. especially since it's topical. the stated goal of the burning of books, in fahrenheit 451, is equality between men. they also say in the novel that burning books is only spectacle, that it is not necessary because people have stopped reading on their own anyway:
“we all have to be the same. we are not born free and equal, as the constitution proclaims, we are made equal. each man must be the image of the other, so everyone is happy; no more mountains to intimidate them, give them a point of comparison. conclusion: a book is a loaded gun in the house next door. let's burn it. let's unload the gun. "
“happiness is what matters. having fun is all that matters. and yet i am here repeating to myself: i am not happy, i am not happy. "
“you don't have to burn books to destroy a culture. just to make people stop reading them. "
“after all, we're living in the kleenex era. we do with people as with handkerchiefs, we crumple after use, we throw away, we take another, we blow our nose, we crumple, we throw away. "
he said it all, as always.
i wonder if he's going to talk about it today on cnews. it is an attack endorsed by the highest organizations in society, "we must talk about it".
ok, i have to come back ... that's what i hated your criss of the sovereignist movement.
are you going to stretch that out for a long time. go read the comments of the majority of the world elsewhere in canada and they found the reporter thick in criss.
slacker with canada, this country that hates us.
i have studied the history of quebec since its creation, and especially since its conquest by the english. you should get started, and then you will resume thinking about your "going to have to come back".
it's not just a little movement from the 70s and hippies, pot smokers who listened to harmonium ....
if you don't fight a bit with the anglo-saxon system, you're not out of the woods ...
sorry but
do not
the media have spent the last 18 months dividing the population and pissing off a significant part of it. they are now caught with a herd of rabid bulls who want to hear nothing more and who are going to run on the ccp and the ppc. they had 18 months to slack in the shit and talk about the roc but never did.
it's a last blitz to prevent the enraged herd from reaching their destination on the 20th. it's magic: last week of the elections and poof! i treat you more toothless, i scare you more with the delta and let's all put together hand in hand towards the bloc (which has always supported the liberals but that, we forget to say it)!
let's see who will bite ...
journalists represent no one in society. crunch it outside and we can talk about it
yes you are heavy. majority of anglos loved blanket
the majority of anglophones do not prevent the canadian elite from seeing us as complete old-fashioned.
as in any society, only a minority holds the power. and the one who holds it in english canada does not particularly like us.
it's wrong. "start over" suggests the guy has quit ... and he never quits.
yes, ensaf haidar and nabila ben youssef the wolves of white supremacism, we will have seen everything! to paraphrase professor attaran, denying he's a careful whore is like denying the earth is round.
there's a quickie in hqa's post, will you be able to find it?
>! decolonialist anti-racist qs collective still with the qs brand as if nothing had happened. did you trust the media to believe that qs was completely separating from this group? 🤡! <
quebec lives "rent-free" in its head
i do not understand the importance that is given to this guy. he has his opinion, whether we find him stupid or not it's freedom of expression. he doesn't like bill 21 and there are people in qc who don't like canadian multiculturalism.
each company has its approach.
well good news: the qc does what he wants and the roc does what he wants at home. what we think about it or not does not change anything at all.
the fact that yfb mentioned his name makes it important when it could be simply ignored.
he is not an elected official, he has no authority and can throw up as many texts / opinions as he wants on the qc, nothing changes as it is insignificant for the qc.
he lives for free without paying rent in the minds of lots of people.
crazy people like him are everywhere. as there are racist and anglophobic freaks in qc. thick people who have internet access to talk nonsense is not exclusive to one side or the other.
the good solution with the freaks (on one side and the other) is to ignore them and not give them a platform. this guy has a platform guaranteed by those who have a fixation on him
someone asked him to calm down during the election i think ...
he took a break to praise the quebec health pass. it also explains why some in the political-media sphere who were on his back ignored him for a certain period of time ...
because it is a university professor who has his salary paid by our taxes and in the same university we fired a quebecer because she read the title in the book, if you want to go blind it is your personal choice.
* by concentrating in it the image of a possible role, the star, the spectacular representation of the living man, therefore concentrates this banality. the star condition is the specialization of apparent lived experience, the object of identification with apparent life without depth, which must compensate for the fragmentation of productive specializations actually lived. *
\ -guy debord, the society of the spectacle
a nobody who complained would have been flushed the next nanosecond.
it's been like this for decades, princess durocher had to endure it for us to talk about it .... really?
you need the hammerhead pie to tell you. criss get up you're minister of health and go see. no need to see if en beauce is used in french.
if she was dead, would we have failed as much as we did for joyce?
poor little mourrial eh, it doesn't fly high ...
well done for guy debord's quote ... it sounds like a lot of stuff, but it's clearly beyond my comprehension abilities ... or he's a very bad teacher.
it's clear, it's not as if the minister of health had something else to do right now than to come and visit for each complaint. / s
i think the minister of health has other things to do during a pandemic. i am extremely satisfied with his handling of the situation, a liberal minister would never have made this effort.
guy debord is quite heavy and it took me a few readings to understand but in short:
* what tv does is a commodity $$$$$
* veudette = merchandise = $$$$$
* what looks at her is not worth the m .... because it is not a commodity.
* veudette which has an event = $$$$$ (veudette dlc). it's like putting new chrome mags on a tank.
conclusion:
1 million people who have an event = $ 0 \ * 1,000,000 = $ 0.
a tag that has the same event = $$$$$$$$.
so the minister is traveling for the tank (veudette) with the new mags (not served in french).
hard to be brief but that's about it. on the other hand, he discovered the secret of infinite cash: tv that speaks to itself (show a which invites b and show b which invites a)!
haha! hey if you do a real literary column on the entertainment company that would be excellent! i tried to read it one day but after spending 2 chapters having to reread each sentence 2-3 times i got tired ...
more power why basically? reproduce the plq's migration policy? we can't wait for montreal north because with leaders like this, the areas of wilderness can only multiply!
good the legaults lovers will pitch on cpc and bq
it would mean controlling the movement of people inside the country as well as in china.
"mr. legault is also asking that quebec have full control over the family reunification immigration category, which represents 24% of immigration to quebec," he said.
this category is under the responsibility of the federal government, which does not require any knowledge of french, recalled the prime minister.
“we have a very specific request \ [to the parties \]: do you agree to transfer the“ family reunification ”category to the government of quebec? one of the first things we would do, of course, would be to put conditions on the knowledge of french for these people. it is a question of survival \ [from french to quebec \]. ""
yeah also like the nazis, because legault is a nazi.
yes, but it speaks french very well in montreal north: p if our government had the slightest intention of alleviating the demographic decomposition of quebec, it should appeal to abolish family reunifications and the reception of refugees.
i agree, but it's a start.
if knowledge of the language becomes a sine qua non for family reunification, we will mathematically end up welcoming fewer family reunions.
the 40-year-old pakistani cousin and the 65-year-old jamaican matante do not speak french and they will have all the hard time learning it ...
4 american states are positioning themselves to ban the crt from schools, we are still quite far from a serious counter-offensive.
the whole thing was created after occupy wall street began to identify the 1%.
everything will be dismantled overnight when the 1% is, once again, in the same position.
but not before.
as the other would say, * when amazon, nike and the banks fund the revolution, it's not a revolution. *
that i know people always tell me awful things to achieve this; those who do not think like them are harassed or buy the peace by keeping quiet or taking their positions.
i find it disheartening that after having spent the last 5 years of my life denouncing the intellectual terrorism of the woke, the pundits of the mainstream media discover an obsession on the subject too late and at the same time as they themselves have become prophets. of the new iteration of woke: covidian wokism.
no one talks about white supremacist racialism and obese transgender anymore, the wokes are now on the battlefield to push for state repression in the name of covid
every day i see in the jdm a title making fun of woke, literally next to another title indulging in covidian wokism
looks like they're doing it on purpose to drive us crazy
a last jump before the final crash ... if there is a serious opposition to come from the "woke" ideology, it will come (maybe already comes?) from france or maybe even ... of quebec
"the economist magazine tells us that twenty-six american states have introduced or are about to introduce laws to ban or limit the teaching of crt at the elementary and secondary levels."
bingo
martineau is doing his covidiot / touristata in france while public health recommends canceling unnecessary trips abroad. it is probably the same for a quarter or more of the media-political clique. the * goldfish * readership has yet to notice it, just as it has never noticed dominique chaloult's vacation.
so the jdm and the rest of the media know who their audience is: goldfish who gobble without flinching.
or maybe the usa, because the war ground is on american soil. this is where it happens first.
i don't think it will come from france, seriously they believe it solidly, it will come from canada because it is not for nothing that trump pointed the finger at justin when he was next to him. it is not for the president of the united states to do it only.
du qc 😂😂😂😂
we are there.
i refuse to believe that things without peer review were put together in a totally natural way. someone pushed it all. the foundations of ideology at crt are as unstable as anything that has stayed the same for 40, 60, even 80 years. here, we could draw a line of the progression of the creditists or the libertarians and it would be flat for a century. but others? poof! progressing to growth hormones at the most opportune time ....
those who have already introduced it, states without too much dispute, can be counted on the fingers of one hand. there will be a clash when half of the states attempt to legislate against the crt.
it is serious because legault is part of this public of fools and he bases his policies on the brilliant appeals to hatred and the panic of the bloggers of québécor.
the opposition is already present in france and they did not take long to ban inclusive writing from all institutions. president macron has repeatedly shown himself hostile to american cultural imperialism, which he condemned in interviews for american newspapers. quebec is much closer to the threat and is still doing nothing against this invader. we're going to pay the price. as for france, it has proven that it will survive as always.
> it's not for nothing that trump pointing the finger at justin
uh ... we can't judge social movements simply by the understanding or disagreement of two politicians.
in addition, these two are 2 ribs of the same coin. they both do identity politics, but aimed at different audiences.
instead, universalist policies are needed, which treat all citizens on an equal footing ... even if it means favoring those who are financially deprived by taxing the wealthy more ... as is already the case here.
ok
on what points was trump engaged in identity politics; for example when he did not condemn white supremacism from the start?
> on what points was trump engaged in identity politics
build the wall!
u.s. against them
i forgot this episode
has anyone inquired about the tripartite language that trump uses often? 🙈
coupe in 1993.
referendum in 1995.
final on st john's day and cut in 2021.
a country in 2023?
you shouldn't have given a large ticket to the 10,000 gathered outside. ah the narrative
the spvm has just declared this illegal ...
we let the muslims and the jews demonstrate for their war, and we can't even have a little fun.
so for the cup final we have to introduce ourselves shouting "allah ackbar" and they should be patient.
according to the [government] ( 19-per-region), it's 8 people outside until june 28. mask and 2 meters too. no mention of * covidiots * or medical personnel in criss against the world stuck on the media side either.
indeed, a beautiful demonstration of the narrative.
well see, everyone knows that by wearing a vest of the canadian one is immune to covid.
good thing
it's usually normal to want to learn the language of the place you choose to live. i would not move to france, england or germany without learning french, english or german... i also would not go to the philippines expecting that i could get by on french alone..
that's something canadians can't seem to understand.
the fact that this one who tried to shout the crowd had to do it in english says a lot about the integration of these immigrants into our society. especially since such manners are unacceptable to me when it comes to watching over tragically deceased people. a little civility out of respect for the memory of the decimated family in bonyenne london!
very chic, we can really see the integration that takes place in parc-extension. especially when we know that the [canadian muslim forum is an organ of the muslim brotherhood] ( au-loup /), that promises for the future!
even muslim extremists would never have thought of blaming bill 21 for what happened in london. or at least they would have believed that people wouldn't gobble it up. but now that the roc intelligentsia say so, don't be fooled, they will push that angle.
the high class to which the regressors have accustomed us. go fuck shit at a funeral.
of course most of these fuckers are not muslims, their only religion is to hate quebecers
did it surprise you that there were hundreds of family members? this is how it works with these profiteers of the system… family gathering… a partially educated islamist returns to canada. then it is his wife and children then brothers, sisters, cousins parents etc in 5 years they have picked up a whole range of these islamists !!!
let these ungrateful immigrants return to pakistan if they are not happy.
you will also notice the signs written by google to try to give the change.
i find it super fun that it is us who eats the mustard, at home ...
it's up to us to change. not the contrary...
the first intervention of the community representative is ... in english. most of the signs are in english. the slogans are in english.
the intention is fine, what.
i don't think the privilege of booing our politicians is reserved for natives. after all, they too are entitled to disagree with government policies like any other citizen. unfortunately, the time for the expressed was in my opinion badly chosen.
but already there, when someone defends his point in the heart of montreal with english slogans, i have a hard time not making him lose some points in my esteem. that being said, that does not necessarily invalidate the ideas they defend.
translate it into any language you want it's just shit
there were, are and will be great english thinkers. it has nothing to do. at some point, we would have to agree to say that someone who immigrates here to make a living in english does not want to integrate into quebec. these people benefit from living conditions here, social and government programs by the ton, peace, security, etc. integrate with the people who built and who finance all this? no thanks.
a proportion of immigrants have no desire to integrate, we owe them everything.
there will be? i find you optimistic.
there will be more dumb sjws, as long as me.
> i sincerely believe that we are a beautiful little people and that independence is our destiny. either we will embrace it or we will disappear. to achieve this we must reconnect with our identity.
>  
> more than ever, the perspective of historians is vital.
>  
> because history is not an ordinary discipline. through it, a people discovers their adventure through time. through it, man sees himself acting over decades and centuries. history cultivates the imagination of the people and the desire for freedom of the human being.
in my opinion, the recklessness of many towards our culture is the result of a glaring lack of historical knowledge. history is not taught in school and, if it is, it is a federalist story, which does not tell what quebecers have really experienced.
why care where we're going if we don't even know who we are?
amen .....
after having looked at what the newspaper reported about nathalie roy's comments, i believe that there is a misunderstanding on the part of the author of this letter ...
> during this exchange, it was also question of the depoliticization of the national holiday, the minister of culture not wishing to see flags of political parties floating above heads during the festivities.
she did not say that the flag of quebec is a political party flag, she said that she did not want to see flags of political parties ... which is curious, because to my knowledge, there is no no political parties with official flags. the closest is the mlnq flag, the famous patriotes flag with the star and the old gun on it, but the mlnq is not a political party and generally, it is 99% of the quebec flags that are worn on midsummer day.
this is really what i read too. what a mind-boggling article. proof that the publisher of jdem does not check much.
it is clearly still jdm's "yellow journalism", this publication only serves to inflame discussion and divide the nation.
shit that gets us drunk for their profit
it shows their verification process, a bit like their report defaming a mosque on the edge of a construction site.
civil lawsuits begin in the us for racist programs by joe biden. it will follow here shortly.
i no longer have an opinion at all, it's made too difficult to know what is racist and what is not ...
if i say nothing, then i can't say anything racist ... ah fuck it seems that keeping silence is racist too ...
i think i will make a commitment to go and colonize the planet mars ...
can i self-identify as a black person?
this guy is still a huge asshole ...
that would make a good base for the [soul man] sequel ( (film))!
this is the kind of slippage that wokism generates.
racial discrimination: trudeau offers hundreds of millions, but only to black entrepreneurs.
[
> equality rights
>
> marginal note: equality before the law, equality of benefit and equal protection of the law
>
> 15 (1) the law is no different from anyone and applies equally to everyone, and everyone has the right to the same protection and the same benefit of the law, regardless of any discrimination, including discrimination based on race, national or ethnic origin, color, religion, sex, age or mental or physical disability.
>
> marginal note: social promotion programs
> (2) subsection (1) does not operate to prohibit laws, programs or activities intended to improve the situation of disadvantaged individuals or groups, in particular because of their race, national or ethnic origin , color, religion, sex, age, or mental or physical disability.
> colonize
psst ... that's also racist
wow ... colonize mars? another white man who wants to control everything. / s
seriously, we have to stop giving importance to those who call anything and everything racist.
it's simple, to find out what is racist:
everything is racist all the time for any reason.
for example:
are you breathing air? do you look like a black man? it's racist. your lungs have a white privilege and they have to stop it.
certainly, canadian society accepts [trans-race people] ( jpg), they are even given important positions in the government!
breeds do not exist until it comes time to create exclusive breed grants.
posting the original article would have been a lot better
our constitution is really tough compared to that of our neighbors to the south ... facepalm
i am well aware of the law is public systems. there is always an element of discretion. is this where they get stuck.
> psst ... that's also racist
indeed, you take the place of a black or an arab who could go. so it's racist.
[if only it was a joke.] (
are we really here ?!
there is no chance of a 4th wave to train where the vaccinations go. even if there is a wave, it will not kill many people because people at risk already have their 2nd dose.
there will be one anyway.
there will be a fourth wave due to the high propensity capacity, the coming variants and simply the fall. then the question is to measure the magnitude of this fourth wave, which i imagine less than the third. in terms of waves of covid19, we are moving towards 5-6 in total if we take a graph, the latter being equivalent to those of other seasonal viruses in terms of impact, if not even less. but yes, we are not yet completely finished.
until there is a variant that is resistant to the vaccine, i don't see what changes. and by the fall, virtually everyone who's not a covidot or a stranger is going to have the vaccine.
the pandemic is going to be over for us.
we've been saying that for a year. has anyone learned their lesson?
it is not a shock wave but a storm in a glass of water in the roc. above all, our neighbors find it hard to believe that * djustin * can make a good decision in general. the oppositions see no stake worthy of the name and the specialists on the other side express "[serious concerns] ( spark-backlash-among-quebec-anglos) "to the idea that each province could change the constitution. this is the normal expression to say "we do not agree with the concept too much but creak, we have other things to do, let's go for serious concerns ...". at the same time a liberal senator [thinks it could improve the position of the liberals in quebec] ( senator-says /), so no serious concern at all on his side.
wait, europe expressed "[serious concerns] ( about press rights in ethiopia ago a few days. i imagine the tanks should follow shortly. and then the white house to "[serious concern] ( on the state of the pandemic in nepal, same thing, i imagine that * significant * actions should follow.
ciborium, i have serious concerns about the size of the [12 inches] ( -of-his-12-inch-sandwich /) which keeps shrinking at subway.
it was time...
there was a time when the 12 inch was $ 5.
me created it when i got it.
> prime minister françois legault will make the announcement at the time of
present his government's deconfinement plan at 5 p.m. tuesday,
according to information obtained by tva nouvelles.
if the channels are not public, it means someone is leaking the information. no one is leaking information without expecting an elevator return.
this way of governing, * unchumctunchumocracy *, irritates me.
lol.
not to whine to whine, but why wait until the 28th? it should be like, tonight, that's it that's all.
barely 5 months too late!
may 28 for the 28 day challenge
symbolic date
\ * m'ecque m'a l'wére
original article from journal de montréal:
[deleted]
at the same time, the solution is not to stay in canada. because it is a wheel that races, a tautologism: we stay in canada because canada is in debt for us, so we stay in canada, which then allows canada to continue to get into debt on our behalf.
john oliver made [a good video] ( on the topic of the national debt not long ago. in essence: debt is real, okay, but it depends what it's for. if it saves the country's economy / people, it's good debt. the bet is to finance the possibility of a post-covid recovery. if you don't have debt but the economy crashes completely while others recover, you're in a lot worse shape. the question should be about the type of debt rather than strictly the question of the amount.
a copy-paste of an article in the journal de montréal published 3 weeks ago.
heads up, if we become sovereign, we will have to borrow a lot. if you're afraid of debt, don't vote for sovereignty.
you have explained the concept of creating money but you are missing several important details. i do not know if you are an expert and that you wanted to simplify or if you do not know them.
first; the bank keeps a reserve. it is false to say that she invented $ 40,000. she makes up a portion of that 40,000, the vast majority. it must, however, have reserve capital behind; deposits.
if deposits decline because the cost of accumulated debt increases, or for some other reason, the ability to create money drops, creating a drop in the ability to create deposits, creating a drop in the ability to create money. money, creating a decrease in the ability to create deposits, etc.
to counter this, the federal bank (not the government) may print money in the hope of kickstarting the creation process again. otherwise, this exercise is very perilous because it can very quickly increase inflation and create injustices.
so even if you are right that a country's debt is different from personal debt, it should not be taken lightly because the ability to make payments on that debt is not automatic or guaranteed.
you are 90% right!
the problem is not so much the amount of debt, but the amount of interest on the debt.
raising debt to stimulate the economy in times of crisis is not a huge problem.
but after that, the cost of interest will be higher, leaving less money in the government's pockets.
when the amount of interest is too high, you have to borrow to pay it off and a spiral of debt is created.
we're still a long way from that in canada, but the risk is still high if the interest rate goes up, which can happen if canada loses its super credit rating because of debt.
so:
no, you don't need to pay the debt, but you have to pay the interest on the debt.
if interest goes up too much as a% of federal budget, the credit score will drop and force the interest rate to show.
the 3.22 trillion in debt doesn't worry me too much. much of it is mortgages.
the 1.18 trillion either.
it is the 65.5% + 45% that worries me, if the interest rates go up.
the point is that a large chunk of the wage subsidies given by the federal government went out of the country immediately. i have a friend who works at continental near granby, the company took the money from the wage subsidy at trudeau to invest in their factories in mexico ... yes, a country's debt is different from the debt of a person, but i have the impression that trudeau burned a lot of money in the boiler without generating steam.
inflation is already above 2% in the states, the interest rates on canadian bonds generally follow those of the americans, it will not be funny when you have to refinance this debt, especially if a large percentage has been spent in vain.
at the same time, it's nathalie elgrably-levy, not the smartest in the box.
all the more reason to prefer less spending power in ottawa. i much prefer o'toole to trudeau.
[deleted]
nahh man, i understand your 0% thing and while in theory it's true, in practice it's not.
there are capital requirements which are the equivalent of reserve requirements.
it would be crazy crazy otherwise.
there was no inflation because the low velocity of money following 2008 made up for the massive impression.
in any case, i'm tired of talking about this every day of my life to talk about it on the internet besides but i can hear you and i understand where you are going in spite of everything! we don't completely disagree actually, i'm the kid on the details. peace ✌️
well we're heading for hyper inflation
it is very disturbing to see that. we can see where racialist ideology is taking us, towards a more dangerous world. the enslavement of society will continue if we do not correct this quickly.
it should also be remembered that all of this stems from problems that arose in the united states, and not in canada.
with such developments, it should come as no surprise when it becomes explosive in the powder keg of montreal north.
this morning, i was able to listen to the interview by paul arcand at 98.5 granted to yves francoeur, president of the fraternité des policières et des policières de montréal.
i was speechless. the situation is worse than i thought. racialists have really found the best weapon to attack our institutions with accusations of systemic racism. it works so well that our collective security is threatened by the use of a strategy of psychological devaluation. this will have for cause the increase of communitarianism in montreal as well as an indigenous security in the neighborhoods.
yves francoeur is unanimous: he does not know any police officer who has ever arrested anyone according to their skin color, not even those in charge of the mamadi camara case.
frankly, the spvm are the architects of their own misfortune. the camara case was just the icing on the cake. if they are fed up, stop harassing people for nothing, stop protecting the "bad apples" and stop the quotas. damn, did you read this passage?
> according to the new policy on arrests implemented by the spvm, any police officer who wants to stop a person at random must document and have his intervention approved by a superior on duty.
it bawls because it can't upset people for no reason so easily.
normal, there are an obsolete institution which places too much unrealistic responsibility on each police officer intervening.
it takes a complete reorganization that takes public and employee safety into account instead of the old mard wild west sheriff model we have.
it will cost at least twice as much to do this.
they only have to make their interventions properly and not to abuse the force of the law.
it's simple.
"[he doesn't know of any police officer who has ever arrested anyone based on their skin color] (
ah but it was not the color of his skin, he looked suspicious !!
look when you believe your own lies
i am okay. the police have too much on their hands: psychologists, social workers, therapists, bodyguards, shooters, road patrollers, first aiders, mediators, justices of the peace ... good heavens, but let's do a bit of departmental sorting.
there is nothing to conclude in this study that the police arrest a citizen according to his skin color. it is only a question of representativeness and the basis of the results.
ok, but, the odds that a black in montreal north at 3 am on the rolland / perras corner is part of a street gang ... still pretty high, eh?
see, if i put on criminal clothes (rapper caps, hoodies), and listen to criminogenic rap in a car at two in the morning with other people dressed as criminals, i have the have suspected. even as white, and especially if i'm making a fuss. when you manage to look suspicious ...
nobody stops a well dressed and polite black in a park at 7pm.
we're all happy, however, that the policeman is wondering about the people in rapper clothes squatting outside our apartment blocks at 3am.
you don't even have to be black. anyone with 3xl laundry in a red light district at 3am with their crack-smoking friends looks suspicious.
ah i see, it's totally reasonable, you're wearing the wrong clothes, the wrong hairstyle or listening to the right music and you're going to have trouble. is that freedom, yes?
worse, imagine if he's taking the wrong drug, it's not who's black, it's who smokes crack. cocaine would still have been a slap on the wrist, but crack? no, crack is for the finish, plus have you seen that curly haircut? direct to prison!
yes company same, select all -> delete
i think you misunderstood, kitten. i will try to explain to you by being a little more exhaustive.
i never said we should arrest people for what they wear, it's silly to pretend that. you have to commit a crime to be arrested. i say that what we wear sends signals that are interpreted, whether we like it or not, by others. these signals are of all kinds. they provide information on age, economic condition, political opinions, modesty and probably also on race. unless you're dishonest, you'll be okay with a white guy in a tank top, with a shaved head, military boots and tattoos that say "white power", 88, ss, and has a big radio that neo-nazi metal player, even erika, is presumably a neo-nazi. you understand? we saw his appearance and made a "profile". it is not a negative and hurtful stereotype. the skinhead knew the message and image he wanted to send when he shaved his head and got an eagle tattoo. it is presumably something like "i don't like exogenous races, homosexuals, jews or their allies, and i am ready to act to implement my vision." if the police see him and see fit to go and ask him questions about what he is doing in such and such a place, it is because they have picked up the message and acted for the protection of the public.
however, rap and the clothing fashions associated with it are not elements of traditional black or african culture which can be very positive. they come from the criminal culture of the states. rap sings and glorifies crime, theft, pimping, drug use, rape, prostitution. i'm not inventing anything, anyway. this is nothing new, criminals and gangs have always found ways to identify with each other. bikers are usually big, gray bearded * bears * with leather tank tops. so someone who sends the message that he identifies with rappers says something like, "if i'm not a criminal myself, i have sympathy for crime and the criminogenic culture of rap" . yes, of course, you can find me some rapper with a positive message, offer it to me as a counterexample. it's a drop in the pond and when a policeman sees a person in a hoodie, in a rapper's cap, who seems to marry criminal culture, he notes the message she wanted to send, and if he sees fit to go and ask him questions about what he is doing in such and such a place, it is because the police officer has naturally acted to protection of the public.
as for your crackdown on crack, i'm not sure what you're talking about. both drugs are equally serious. it seems to be very specific to the american context, like most of the racialist nonsense.
it's starting to sound a bit like "ethnic cleansing", isn't it?
qs: disavow the decolonial anti-racism collective and then repeat the same speech.
what a great tour de force. hypocrisy draped in virtue.
hey boy ... burn the past the better to rebuild the future ... i'll pass!
i have no colonial past myself, in any case no colonizing past.
what "our" manon is she talking about? his?
because the tendency i see is that the world who make this kind of talk about colonialism and slavery tend to be personally heirs to families that have become wealthy through colonialism and the slave trade.
i imagine that means getting rid of the ideas of the english-speaking colonizer. certainly not that of the french colon because otherwise that would mean evaluating whether we are treating the natives well.
"celebrate" should be the word. new france is not a shameful past for quebeckers. when she describes our past in this way, ms. massé shows ignorance and flaunts it. ms. massé, read a little and stop repeating the canadian-english or us refrains. quebec does not have to bear the burden of the history of slavery, the history of european empires or that of the united states. inquire! a little less slogans and a little more depth.
uh. no. pass.
don't you remember when the quebecois flag flew over its many colonies? people forget so quickly! how do you think the government manages to finance itself by asking us so little in taxes? have you been to your history lessons? we see that in politics we don't really need to rely on much.
again the policy of the clean slate of the communists ... i'm also quite surprised that some users have internalized this discourse and deny the colonial past of quebec. sorry folks, but the history of quebec is purely colonial. from the first counters financed by commercial companies to the royal colony to the colonization of the laurentians then saguenay, abitibi and gaspé. even today, quebec is expanding and asserting itself where its mark was previously non-existent, for example in the valley of the romaine river.
it must be understood that modern quebec is the glorious heritage of some 10,000 french colonists and their descendants who for 400 years have built this country from scratch. no colonization, no quebec. besides, the self-denial of quebec and its history is precisely the objective of the self-flagellating anti-nationalists of qs. we will gain absolutely nothing by acquiescing in their stupid paradigm.
when i see quebeckers supporting colonialism with all its crimes, i am ashamed to be quebeckers.
you spit on the memory of the aboriginals and acadians. it is despicable and absurd.
english colonialism is guilty of ethnic cleansing, including that of the acadians.
the responses to the tweet are violent
haha, that's a joke, isn't it?
saying that we have to change or questioning the motivations / consequences of certain actions cannot be compared to “ethnic cleansing”. we can agree or think it's ridiculous, but your comparison is very extreme, it's an exaggeration!
i admire your honesty.
his education stopped at the clichés of american films. she has no instruction or the slightest idea how things got done. quebec did not colonize anything (apart from florida).
[deleted]
why do you feel targeted? are you english?
french (canadian) settlers were demographically insignificant in north america and never had to forcibly displace natives to settle unlike english and american settlers.
and again we have nothing to do with new france apart from the ancestors. quebec became what it is when france lost the war in new france. quebec did not colonize anything. on the contrary, it was colonized.
nor should we pretend that the new france was white as snow. the coureurs des bois exchanged alcohol for furs despite church bans, on the pretext that if it was not them who supplied alcohol to the indians, it would be the english. alcohol + amerindians = violence, probably even more then than today given the interbreeding that has taken place since that time. the testimonies of the time tell that once packed the amerindians attacked their wives and their children and became half-mad, which led the clergy to want to prohibit the supply of alcohol to the indians. but this ban was not followed given the economic interests at stake.
even today, many indian villages are dry villages when they are far enough away from more populated areas (especially in the north).
our ancestors did not have the same genocidal aims as the english, but we must not believe that they were angels either.
when we talk about ending the colonial regime, we are talking about anglo-saxon colonialism, above all.
florida, a proud quebec colony
the french colonized these lands. the quebecers did not colonize anything from the moment they asserted themselves as a nation as soon as france deserted the continent, otherwise we could also say that the french actually came to colonize france from the colonization of the gauls by the franks, or anglo-saxons migrants to england.
how many more natives would have died without a french presence in america to counter the unbounded barbarism of the english? give me a number.
who celebrates colonialism? i know he has bob gratton's in droves, but i don't see any here.
well, the only colonial past in quebec is that of a colonized land. the fact of wanting to erase this past would be to deny the oppression of which the territory and its occupants are victims and to accept the fate as a colony.
we cannot ignore the past.
the tweet probably wanted to be a reference to the idea of separating from the colonizer to become sovereign, but is very awkward, as it hears the idea that we are guilty of the actions done by others for the economic and political purpose and not racial or religious as followers of the contemporary american school of thought think.
you put "cleaning" and "colonial" next to each other, it recalls a certain far-right discourse that decolonialists spend their time boasting. it's just a different side of the same coin. the two deserve each other.
> quebec did not colonize anything (apart from florida)
i admit, i laughed.
i am partially métis. like many people in quebec.
and culturally, quebeckers are as indigenous as they are europeans, even if we don't admit it to ourselves.
no, but sometimes i eat an english muffin for lunch and that makes me a cultural appropriator, therefore a racist monster.
would you say that we treat the natives in the territory of quebec as if we were good guests?
but even if we include the new france, the french were allied with the native tribes. the english came here and colonized them, and the americans with their manifest destiny ended them.
the new france blocked the expansion towards the west by what itait the native tribes who lived there. there were no french in ohio ... it belonged to the french but it was native land.
> neither should we pretend that the new france was white as snow.
indeed. nothing and no one is perfect. no nation on earth has a flawless course. and anyway, the purpose of the story is not moral - this is important to remember because politicians have been using history for strictly moralistic reasons for the past few years. there is no point in studying history to demonstrate that our ancestors did not live by today's moral code.
obviously, reading history requires a minimum of critical thinking
does this mean that quebec ethnogenesis takes place from the time of the conquest? and yet quebecers are extremely chauvinistic about the legacy of the french regime. we should rather see the french, canadian, french canadian and finally quebecois continuum after the states general of french canada. otherwise, there has been a lot of colonization since the conquest, the majority in fact since we went from 70,000 to millions. the nfb has made [films on the most contemporary efforts] ( and it's quite exotic.
read the comments properly.
> the tweet probably wanted to be a reference to the idea of separating from the colonizer to become sovereign,
no, i highly doubt it, but she will soon come back in force by feigning awkwardness, which she has done many times in the past rather than admit her faults.
as a reminder:
[
i am not denying that quebec was colonized, that is a fact. but to say that massé suggests or agrees to carry out “ethnic cleansing” is going too far.
this is what happened in armenia, in some places of america with indigenous cultures, even the holocaust, or what is happening with the kurds in the middle east or with the uighurs in china, that's ethnic cleansing.
massé's comment may be ignorant, ridiculous, or even stupid, but it is not ethnic cleansing. let's see!
culturally or ethnically?
nobody says that.
i do not follow you.
wow! it is so well said! totally agree!
i do not believe that it is so much ethnogenesis as a feeling of belonging or an identity defined by circumstances pushing towards a desire of a people or a nation. logically, if we were colonizers, we would be de facto french, while in reality quebecers have their roots as much in american and canadian culture as in french. we became quebecois as soon as france abandoned new france; we were unable to do anything else or go anywhere else; circumstances have led us to make this place the only one that is ours.
> america with indigenous cultures
by the way, it is the english who shit on the aboriginals, not bad more than the french ... during the seven years' war, france was allied with the indigenous tribes in new france while the english and the american colonies fought against them ...
but what exactly is she proposing? what should we do concretely to "clean up our colonial past"? i remind you that the laws of relativity forbid time travel. so what do we do, i self-flag to the blood for the crimes (which?) of my ancestors? i don't mind, but on condition that the minorities do the same for theirs: the amerindians were slavers, the arabs and berbers too, certain african peoples also traded in slaves.
the only sane attitude to the history of colonialism is to see the past as it was. nothing more, nothing less. we gain nothing by wanting to place the blame for past crimes on people who have done nothing.
> massé's comment may be ignorant, ridiculous, or even stupid, but it is not ethnic cleansing. let's see!
i never suggested this thesis.
where did i mention ethnic cleansing?
she talks about assimilation yes, but not ethnic cleansing.
worse for info the fun, a little news item, but the natives that we have in the south of quebec, a very large part of them are fairly recent arrivals from the current usa. those of the colonial era have mostly disappeared due to disease, internal wars and very little at the hands of local settlers.
the mohawks have been here for less time than the ancestors of european descendants.
it has nothing to do with it, but i find it interesting.
culturally much more than genetically
you just have to fall in front of a herd of parisians who have just landed on the plateau to achieve it.
i'm not saying they're mean but they're really different, if we didn't speak approximately the same language they would scare us
quebecers like to relax in the woods, make campfires, hunt, fish, we speak slowly and calmly, we do not respect the official authorities but we allow ourselves to be easily manipulated by the tribe, we do not know how to debate. ... this is our native american side.
it's parody
obviously you haven't been to uqam for a long time. let u / jelsaispas tell you what's going on in these speakers ...
so, by virtue of your partially mixed ethnicity, could you embody the intersectional purity so coveted in feminist studies?
partially partial, it is the rank of demigod in the world of tomorrow. 🙏
> not content with proclaiming its existence, he knows it well enough to tell us what it is not. some boors had the boldness to assert before him that, since state employees are prohibited from wearing signs at work testifying to their political, social or union convictions, the ban should also extend to signs of religious conviction.
>  
> nay! admittedly, he admits, the prohibition of these other signs violates the freedom of expression of the employee, but it indicates to us that it is not a fundamental right which it is appropriate to protect. why ? because "this violation does not reach the soul or the very essence of that person". have you dedicated your life to feminism, ecology, independence? know that your vocation, even if some of your loved ones find you obsessed with it, has by no means percolated into your soul or your essence. it did not even leave an imprint, unlike religion, writes the judge, "one of the very foundations of being".
according to lisée's reading, this judgment explains what several critics of the judiciary and federal jurisprudence have said, raising loud cries from defenders of these: there is a hierarchy of freedoms. , and freedom of religion is above all else. freedom of expression can be flouted without a second thought and without the need for a substantiated demonstration, but freedom of religion, no, it is sacrosanct, and it takes you hundreds of pages of study to justify the slightest hitch in a religious practice. .
and why? because the "soul" of people.
that's exactly what i've been saying for a couple of years, canadian charter jurisprudence makes non-religious citizens second-class citizens and religious minorities privileged citizens with all-powerful rights.
addition
by the way, this is seen as a common tactic of canadian courts. they lay very long analyzes that seem rational, but in the chain of logical reasoning they make a very meaningful claim without any evidence that allows them to conclude what they want. and someone reading the judgment is practically mesmerized by the long paragraphs and is very likely not to notice the introduction of this arbitrary assertion, and it is this assertion that forms the keystone of the judgment and without which the judgment collapses.
here, this assertion on the soul is the basis for ignoring the fact that freedom of expression is subject to constraints similar to law 21, otherwise a judge would have no choice but to either to invalidate all the limits to freedom of expression in the public service or to validate law 21. without this affirmation, brought without proof and without demonstration, like an axiomatic a priori, the judgment would be of completely different force.
lisée puts it in judge bouchard's teeth.
the more you enter these boxes, the purer your soul is:
it is necessary. the reasoning used to justify the exemption of english schools is unfounded, if not incomprehensible. the judge was clearly desperate to strike down at least part of the law and it shows.
i am against bill 21 (the grandfather clause is racist, because it allows employees already in the system, who are predominantly white and christians, to continue carrying the cross, while the new ones, who are more varied, no do not have the rights).
it is the same as orphan clauses in collective agreements, and i am against it as well. we apply the same rules to everyone, or not. when i grew up, orphan clauses were almost always used to abolish pension funds, and to keep in the hands of boomers this privilege that only boomers will never have them: their parents did not have any, their children in the private sector did not. will not have any.
but putting in francophone and not anglophone commissions is even worse!
our parents or grandparents made the quiet revolution for equality between anglophones and francophones, we are not going to go back to the time when anglophones had more rights, anyway!
the bos-wash region (from washington to boston) has more than 50 million inhabitants and a loan economy of 4000 billion dollars (as a "country" it would be the 3rd economy in the world behind china and japan without count the rest of the usa).
it is the greatest concentration of wealth in the world.
this region is our direct neighbor to the south and our main economic partner.
the future of quebec depends on north-south relations with this region as well as our relations with the mega region of the great lakes west of quebec (toronto, chicago, detroit).
not according to quebec solidaire.
if we had to be proud on qs for everything, we would have been in the wall for a long time.
yet one of the bases of qs's ecological vision should be to limit the movement of resources and goods. the closer our partners are, the less energy is burned for travel.
let us also think if quebec could provide hydroelectricity to the two megalopolises of the great lakes and the boswash corridor how many coal and gas power stations could close.
to think local is to think of our neighbors and less of asia or europe.
a large part of voters trust them. money grows in trees.
at some point it seems like they forgot what you just said and “think local” has become “defecate on anyone who doesn't want to live in a tower condo downtown”.
gabriel nadeau-dubois literally tweeted shortly after his appointment as co-spokesperson for quebec solidaire that quebec exports too much. françois legault retweeted it with a laugh.
> money grows in trees.
especially with the current price of wood.
police blunders are resuming in the usa. it smacks of blm protests in solidarity one day and anti-measures protests the next. it will be beautiful in the media:
* a peaceful demonstration with only 2 cars set on fire unlike the other ..... demonstrating increases the spread of the virus but not today for this other demonstration .... the cases will multiply but not this week of the demonstration but in 2 weeks after the other of next week on the other subject .... social distancing is temporarily raised tonight but will be postponed tomorrow .... *
in the meantime, the inspq curves for covid follow the same pattern as last year. we're going to have another "3rd wave / measures work" gaslighting session shortly.
there would have been no problem if the curfew had ended 2nd week of march .... but no, we were taken for granted.
the curfew is an extreme measure that the government does not treat with the necessary respect.
it's going to be fine
yess! so it begins!
it's gonna be a hot spring
2012, take 2.
> the day before, hundreds of people had gathered to protest against the postponement of the curfew to 8 p.m.
hundreds, lol they were at least over 2000 easy.
you know people. it is not the government or public health that decides on the curfew, it is the stats that come out every day that decide the next steps.
don't say curfew isn't necessary. every evening, there are around a hundred reports of violations of sanitary measures. content that an infected person infects an average of three people. we have to do with a following potential: 100 × 3 = 300 (over the first days).
i say "potential", because the measure here is pessimistic.
[deleted]
osti that i find them intelligent!
curfew pisses me off, so i'm going out and doing civil disobedience! worse, i'm going to grab a ticket for $ 1500 ... my entire paycheck ... it'll piss them off so much if i help the police with their cota ...
crisse is cave.
"only two cars set on fire"
because there is now a breakage limit before the police can act?
the blm demonstrations were carried out with masks and distancing, they are people close to the democrats and therefore less opposed to the measures unlike the geniuses of january 6, these are two of the most effective measures (with the rapid screenings in south korea sauce ). the variants are more common among young people under 40 (yes, from my point of view 40 years old is young) who have more difficulty following the instructions at the present time - and not those who are vaccinated as a priority - then it could actually go wrong.
this is the case with the majority of measures, and it is true because these measures do not affect those who impose and defend them. they are all exempted or outright advantaged by them.
it's always less serious when others pay the price for our decisions, eh.
let's say i'm ready to make one last effort until most people are vaccinated, that is, until june. after? don't count on me anymore.
happy cake day!
it really is. a pretext to demonstrate before bringing any form of protest to this movement.
the curfew is not only completely unnecessary, it does much more harm than good. i really can't believe that the government has been imposing it on us now for 4 months in a row for a measure that should be used extremely temporarily for a very short period of time. the caquist dictatorship is well in place. it is now up to us citizens to demonstrate (as much as it is still possible, the government is already preventing people from demonstrating as they want by imposing a mask on them).
so much, but the statistical analyzes that work in the factory will explain other things to you.
damn good movie!
so much that.
here, the newsrooms that were exempt. no legal obligation is one thing, but moral obligation? why do not all these beautiful people wear the mask "in solidarity" and continue to defecate on the population who must do so?
the equivalent of an acquitted criminal who not only just walks out of the courthouse but also gives everyone a middle finger on their way out.
that's why it leaves me dreamy when people want to rehabilitate duplessis. an autocrat is fun as long as you 100% agree with everything he does.
you have a lot of patience, but i respect you for that.
my patience is gone for a drink in cancun.
i think it's mostly a wake up call what's going on there. the pans also start again
if you were under a dictatorship, you couldn't even mention it. go take your effexor.
as i said. the police repeatedly caught the same people who did not respect the sanitary measures. according to observations, the curfew is effective.
then the consequences .. lol.
look, i've been in atypical depression for three years and i live in isolation because i can't stand very long due to the impending fatigue. morally, i'm doing very well even if i see no one and i go out little. then because of immature people who are unable to live with themselves, i no longer have access to my treatment follow-ups because i am not suicidal compared to these people.
so read a book and stop pissing off. because i would like to have my medical follow-up back and be able to stay up for more than 3 hours a day as an egocentric host.
indeed. i had seen a journalist attempt to compare the situation between ontario and quebec with covid stats when there is a huge lack of information on resources.
-how many policemen are in the streets at night
-the number of personnel in emergencies
-home services
-ect
to have a good comparison, you need more data than you need to "get closer to the truth". it's easy to compare when you just don't know how to compare.
with the low esteem i have for legault, this is the least of his mistakes. he punishes the population for waking us up to the fact that we are slacking off and that we risk putting the cover back on for real confinement. i understand that everyone is worn out, but the variants hit the young harder than the original. as always for a year, just look at europe and korea to see what awaits us in 4 weeks.
false. there are different kinds and different levels of dictatorship. here is the original definition of the word:
> "the term dictatorship is borrowed from the political vocabulary of the roman republic. in the event of a serious crisis, a" dictator "was created, a magistrate vested with almost absolute powers for a limited period (six months in principle): then we would come back to the normal organization of public powers. the modern notion of dictatorship is very different, except on one point: the exceptional, abnormal nature of the regime. "
so yes, the term is quite appropriate. we must put an end to this constant abuse of power by the despot legault whose power and control have gone to his head.
dude, while agreeing on the basic question, your answer is aggressive.
not pcq you are sick that the province must stop everything just for your beautiful eyes. it's sad but its part of life. like me who did not choose to have experienced physical and psychological trauma when i was born today. sanitary measures only make those who live with fear and stress happy. science has already shown it so many times that the only thing that makes you sick is stress continuously and without a break. go read about meditation and you who talk about reading books. gaia.com - rewired. enjoy
> the variants hit young people harder than the original
oh no, instead of one 40 year old obese per 100,000 cases it is 2!
no, because a dictatorship is a means of pressure against the people. the measures were introduced for the protection of the people and social services. i'm glad i don't have any cancer or problem that requires surgery. because having to delay operations because of the recalcitrant would make me anxious.
t'imagines ?
because of people like you who do not follow the measures, we have to delay more and more surgeries and treatments. are you able to understand this?
you mix aggressiveness and pragmatism.
if a person finds the situation stressful, it is solely their fault. because for now, the only people who experience real continuous stress are the police and health services. funfact: i haven't seen any testimony from these two gangs being against sanitation measures. ironic, right?
can it be fuk that it is only stress that makes you sick?
the sun gives skin cancer, should we prevent ourselves from seeing the sun?
one day you have to grow up and learn to manage your stress in productive activities. this is called personal development. then just because you're stressed out about confinement doesn't mean that i and thousands of others have to postpone our treatments.
then don't recommend books to me. i would like to point out to you that i've been doing just that for over three years. when you're able to theorize about the butterfly effect, general relativity, and particle science for me, i might think of you as something other than a pretentious anxious. enjoy your buffoon stress.
it's funny, [lagacé just talks about you] ( today .
have you looked at the death curve around the world since january?
do you see a link between averages and skeptical / lax countries? (like brazil). it's crazy, all the obese we had that we didn't know each other.
this is hogwash. at the worst of the crisis on the same date last year, we had no mask and no curfew (to mention only that). now that vaccination is progressing very well, the government is still carrying out new liberticidal measures. there is no logic except that the government wishes to keep absolute control over the docile population.
lagacé is a propagandist troll and asshole literally paid for by subsidies from the legault government which, like his mentor martineau, tries to make politically illiterate morons believe that the world opposed to a theocratic police state are "strème-douat"
you're very funny with brazil, you wouldn't even know how to find it on a world map, so stop repeating the talking points.
ps we compare our diplomas every 3 when you want. as long as you treat the others thick, back it up.
no, no matter how much we vaccinate, that won't be enough. vaccination usually takes a month to take effect and 70-80% of the vaccinated population is needed to have sufficient immunity.
even if you are vaccinated, it is not a perfect protection. so the risk is reduced but still present. in addition, age groups that were not at risk are now. therefore, there is a risk that hospitalizations will be even more abundant for this reason.
it is sad and frustrating. but this is the reality.
i understood well: "i believe in unicorns and nothing will make me change my mind". ok, i respect your right to alternate reality.
> asshole ... morons ... illiterate
>  
> as long as you treat the others thick
heum. i doubt the quality of your reasoning on this specific subject, not your general abilities about which i know nothing.
the reality is that we should have learned to live with the virus from the start.
the problem is indeed between your two ears
if you are ostrich on the consequences (username checks out) what you say makes sense.
yes. if we had given the virus a chance, we would have had thousands of deaths. in addition, we would have given the chance for it to mutate even more.
when we do not know the effects of an action, we remain cautious. we cannot go blind when we are responsible for millions of lives.
yep. as said, i don't see the point in continuing to insult each other. one day there was a guy who said that we all have the right to our personal opinions, but not to "personal facts". that you tell me that you do not believe in the effectiveness of the measures, that is debatable, it is reasonable. that you tell me that everything that is encrypted is worth nothing and that it is conspiracy, and well that's super correct, i respect you the same, but i leave the conversation.
we note the aggressiveness here
15 people train in a big empty gym, omg send the army, we put them in punishment and they don't obey!
** ironically: ** according to * le journal *, the owner of the mega fitness gym is currently hospitalized. sources confirm that dan marino is in intensive care at a hospital in quebec, suffering from covid-19.
[
and at the same time, it doesn't shock anyone to have religious gatherings in spaces even more closed than a gym.
"madness is always doing the same thing and expecting a different result" the quote is attributed to albert einstein
so to follow your logic if your spouse / partner tells you that she has an std and that condoms are found uncomfortable the one and only solution is to contract aids? instead i have a better solution. if all people anti-mask, flat-earther, anti-vax and imbecile inbred background of rank would just shut their mouths, stay at home and respect the safety instructions and well the children would not need to wear masks because there would not have a virus.
"there were just two of us on the highway, who bothers if we were driving 350 km / h?"
people screw me up with the measurements. do you really live in the same place as me right now? it's not the covid the danger, it's the government, i don't know how it could be clearer than that
> it does not shock anyone religious gatherings in spaces even more closed than a gym
very dubious assertion.
seems to me it's not difficult to understand either?
we've been doing the same thing for a year, telling ourselves that it will work next time.
can you make metaphors even more ridiculous than that? try to see.
and the "government" wins what has to do with it? just explain it to me please, because when i see the amount of public funds trying to keep the social fabric alive i don't see where the government is winning. this is his i have difficulty i see a government that lacks transparency that does not show a clear objective about the pandemic, but i have zero desire to go to the streets to keep the open gyms.
> it's not the covid the danger, it's the government
yeah, it's the government that makes people sick. / s
why ?
it's not enough
do not.
your claim being ridiculous deserves such a metaphor.
the great reset. trudeau and legault read the book to claus shwab. yes the covid (some variants) could be fatal for our society, but our government is taking action to make us sick. with the curfew, it is not the fault of the people who congregate among the people that the disease is spreading, it is because of people bulging in transport and shops. it is serious what is happening. the health passport, you must stop thinking that it is just for travel, it has already been said in conference, the passport will also be used for private companies. look at israel how "awesome" this passport is.
i don't know what exactly their goals are to do all of this, as you mention, they don't tell us. on the other hand, i find that we are playing with fire to let it go. if people start dying tomorrow, people will say it's the fault of the anti-measures, the anti-measures will say that it is the fault of the pro-measures, we must stop the censorship and pressure to resume discussion. things like toxic masks handed out to children shouldn't be a piece of news that goes unnoticed, it should be the first page for a nasty jerk!
we can say that it is the government with its measures that makes its population sick (mentally). the cost to health is real in both cases.
yes it's the government that makes people sick! we have known since february 2020 that the n95 mask is effective, the media have just released an investigation to say that. how does preventing people from going to people's homes (which is good for communities and our health) prevents transmission more than bombing people in stores, transport, etc.? in addition to emphasizing the division, they poison our children with masks !!! and irresponsible parents did nothing when their children said they were choking on the mask. but of course, they are all trying to keep the news from spreading. add the censorship, what are they really doing for us other than making sure we get sick and beat ourselves up? it is irresponsible that in the media they continue to distinguish between conspirators and others. as if the people who criticize the government are worthless inhuman enemies. if the crisis starts for real, it's going to be a big mess and we will all be responsible for letting the government and the media do it.
from what i can observe, people don't seem to like the exception for people who have imaginary friends.
enwoeille therefore tries, to please us. i know you can if you try hard.
the only real "divide" is the rich vs. the poor. as if its taken the covid to make you understand that the media have agendas and belong to private entities with objectives to sell something you have missed a lot of events for 100 years. anything you tell me is a diversion created by people who take advantage of algorithms to get rich selling the "truth" the same way those you denounce.
you have to stop making movies. claus shwab doesn't want the world to stay locked in their home, and justin and legault are not being controlled. there is no one who gets up in the morning, except a conspirator, with a goal of taking over the world, like dr. terror did in austin powers.
/ facepalm
honestly if you criticize the government with arguments like its based on your opinion and not on facts you are going to sound like a conspirator. you don't necessarily get covid in grocery stores or metro stores because you don't interact with a lot of people you don't stay in the place for a long time either. the risk is more noisy in a school, work or a party at your place, because people let down their guard since it is people who frequent and know. you can blame the government for 1001 things like border management, for not doing more screening, curfew, or just trusting science more and being transparent, but it's clearly impossible for me to be convinced by you.
the children said they were choking on the masks !? my children told me that it was a bearded gentleman who entered the house and ate all the cake. a child is imbecile and it tells nonsense. as an adult you could make a little effort and not do the same.
because of the distance ?
here is one: long live the uqam
listen, i'm angry right now that i'm writing fast, i'm not putting all the sources. i'm going to do a post, because i can't believe people find what's going on right now and you're unable to see what's coming with it. i don't have the government's budget, nor the contacts. i don't have the reasons why they are doing this either (other than controlling us and getting us caught up in the rat race). i don't know how it's an argument against me to say that private companies have owned the market for a long time. quickly like that, i would say that the problem is that the market seems to respond under a single entity, instead of being a competition between several, as it normally is. i'll try to come back to it, but it's not easy to put together, it takes time and people don't want to be interested in what i'm saying. they talk to me as if what i was saying was completely stupid. we've been in this for a year, it's time for people to let go, it's not me who attacks the elderly, who manages to kill them, leave them in the shit and prevent them to have real social contacts.
you will see. negotiate me, you have no arguments.
well said !
the government is hiding the information! [be attentive, we are in danger] ( % 20snn200642% 20ont% 20un, un% 20c% c3% b4t% c3% a9% 20gris% 20et% 20bleu. & text = les% 20masques% 20snn200642% 20du% 20fournisseur, l'enseignement% 20sup% c3% a9rieur% 20du% 20qu % c3% a9bec.)
they purposely released the news on a friday night, when they knew it on thursday. why isn't this the front page of the newspapers? children are not that stupid, it is the least of things to demand not to wear a mask at school, the parents are columnists for forcing the children to take their dangerous mask while the children did not feel good with it.
forget the market and everything.
here's the truth: everyone is doing the best they can
i wouldn't have an argument either if you went on to say that lesbian unicorns throw their noses at aliens to steal our brains.
it's the world upside down, i can't believe it. but what world you live in is unbelievable
listen to québécois music.
offenbach, plume, les charbonniers de l'enfer, gilles vigneault, félix leclerc, and the most recent.
listen to quebec series on [tout.tv] ( or télé-quebec
listen to radio-canada, ici-musique
the felix gala, the olives gala
after that, it had to be pretty connected.
the kona video game is also a good way to immerse yourself in quebec culture.
the story. there are tons of documentaries and books.
for me, listening to quebec music is a sure way to stay connected to our culture. finding out about our history is also a good way, personally i really like reading stuff on politics, obviously through books, but even just reading stuff on wikipedia with links to other articles, it can turn out to be a very interesting exercise.
little start with the story, then you will at least understand where we come from and therefore where we go and worse after listening to the music / movie / books ect.
there is a channel called "quebec chain" cest.olusoeur video of hiatoire from quebec, it is a real documentary put on youtube not a youtuber who did that.
i'm going to override what others have already said to give you a suggestion that is good but a little absurd:
listen to the albums of the people of françois pérusse. not only is it funny but in addition they are windows on quebec culture in the years in which they appeared.
i made a post where people suggested a lot of super interesting stuff
[r / quebeclibre, what are your nationalist favorites] (
quebec cinema is excellent.
listen to gerry boulet!
it depends on what you like. find something you like, listen to movies, series, music. read novels, historical books, etc.
do that but take quebec content. in the long run you will learn and create a field of reference for yourself. the more you learn the easier and fun it becomes.
i am half french but i have never lived in france. over the years i keep up to date by listening to stuff like puppets, mozinor, political shows and radio stuff. it gives me an idea of what's going on and i understand the jokes and the references.
in the long run, you discover the things you like and little by little you become familiar with the cultural ecosystem.
tell us what you like and i can advise you on tips.
it mainly goes through general tv
you hate being only 50% quebs? have some respect for both sides pls you can never change this fact
suck legault's cock. it looks popular it's about time
for more "recent" music, i strongly recommend jean leloup, les colocs & les cowboys fringants
thank you so much!!
wow i didn't even know it was happening in quebec this wtf game
is the french dubbing of the game of quality?
i love music, series and comics
generalist tv?
as an area guy, i would add qrbp to the list of recent bands to listen to!
loco locass are a must too !! otherwise, i don't know if you like rap but koriass, sir path and manu militari are superb. avoid montreal rap like the plague for example.
even though this game doesn't seem to weigh well in front of big games, it's one of the best video games i've played in my life.
yes, guy nadon is the narrator. the dubbing of this game is done only by people with an accent which cannot only come from the region.
what kind of music, series and comics?
for comics, i'm not very familiar with what is done in quebec. but i love franco-belgian comics.
\ * generalist channels
simard and mononc serge clock too. for barbarians who like vulgar words.
perfect, it's clear i'm buying this! even if the steam description makes the mistake of saying that the game takes place in "northern canada";)
alternative and indie rock for music, mostly cartoon and humorous series, science fiction comics
belgians are very good at comics
for comics, the market in quebec is smaller and sci-fi level i really do not know what to advise you.
one of the successful quebec comics that can teach you about culture is the "paul" series. on the other hand, it's really grounded novel comics, nothing to do with sci-fi.
for the series, not too much cartoon but i recommend black series, big bear and a rather crazy series called phylactère cola (plus a clip show).
once again, the quebec series are more dramas or comedies but the lack of big budget makes epic productions difficult.
for music you have a lot more choice.
in terms of alternative / indie rock, you have some very good bands: malajube, pierre lapointe, jean leloup, les trois chords, arcade fire ..
lots of great music in quebec, you can googled lists of top songs and discover at your own pace, there is a lot of great music to listen to.
harmonium is a progressive rock band from the 60s and 70s which is, in my opinion, one of the best in our history. they only have three albums, it's worth taking the tour just for your personal culture.
if you find things you like, post them here and we can guide you to similar content or put things in context.
okay, reading the title sounds serious, right? but read ...
> the messages were sent at the request of a service that had to treat a "complex patient who presented with cognitive problems and who was significantly disorganized in the presence of staff of color," said ms. landry. but despite that, we consider that the situation is unjustified and totally unacceptable ”.
tabarnak, they need pabs to watch an elderly alzheimer's man 24 hours a day, and he is violent towards non-whites. what, would you like us to put something else on for someone to get beaten up? or do you rather think you can reason with someone who has alzheimer's?
shame on la presse.
> these shifts were assigned to an area of the hospital free of covid-19, which may have directed racialized workers to the hot area of the hospital.
what a plot! a * mastermind * has been planning an evil plan for several months to eliminate racialized workers by redirecting them to areas where covid-19 would have done the dirty work!
but who is this dr. no? this goldfinger? this hugo drax?
..... a hateful old man suffering from alzheimer's at the end of his life.
yes n.
bin we must thank the press! thanks to them, the message will certainly be seen a lot more and will allow positions to be filled more quickly!
having worked in the health field for two years, i have already seen a similar situation. a patient in a chsld. a former sq policeman who was particularly violent towards women and blacks. me, being a white man, he saw me as "one of his own". i'm not going to repeat the obscenities he shouted when he saw a pab, a black woman, cross the hallway.
there is no "right" solution in a case like this. you do what is possible under the circumstances presented to get everyone home in one piece at the end of the day.
but indeed, this sounds like very crass clickbait. “patient with alzheimer's is violent towards people of color; a caucasian staff member is needed in this particular case” is a longer title, but perhaps a tad more honest.
tabarnak the thread on / r / quebec is amazing. it seems that many commenting who know fuck all about the health system or alzheimer's disease. "if the patient is racist, let him die!" well yes, as if we could punish or make responsible an alzheimer in full delirium. crisse worse it claims to be humanist and progressive after that. i tell myself that there is a gang in there who are so racialist that once they get old and insane there is a chance that they will start insulting minorities with the worst racist insults that exist, i can't wait to see them in this state ...
well done for bringing some common sense into the madhouse.
the point is that the facility gives in to a patient's demands and overrides state regulations. it's obvious for the ethnic group (who would be crazy enough to write "italians only"?), for the color of the skin let's not talk about it (because it's totally arbitrary and we can even less claim to be fair). i can imagine your head if you were refused a job in the public service of quebec on the grounds that the employer will only accept a "métis of muslim faith".
in the general context, it is astounding that no one in the hrd has said to themselves "this is a good shot to have a trial, that". without the fact that racism is making the headlines right now and making the debate in court already more difficult for the employer to win, it would already be cotton. at the moment just with the general context, it is an impossible hill to ascend. the least not white candidate who will have applied similar will have a cause of discrimination won in advance that our taxes will pay. as said, hrd point of view is so level zero that it is even hard to believe.
by the way, the violent alzheimer's man will be medically taken care of when he is shown to be violent. we are already not too much for * reasonable * accommodations in society ... do we want to allow people to choose the ethnicity or the language of the civil servant who takes care of them? (because as i was ironicating at the top, if you allowed that for white people, you couldn't forbid it for others).
i am aware that we are already accommodating in everyday life when the patient is problematic, but we do it with the means at hand. the man does not want a veiled madam, he is referred to a colleague. but if there is no colleague available, that's it or will consult elsewhere.
on the other hand, the hospital would surely have been able to hire the best performers from holywood and dress their employees up as [white-face] (
they're making the headlines with that, when i'm pretty sure some government jobs, whether written in the job posting or not ...
i suppose we probably reached the same level of humanism and compassion there as when christian dubé falsely accused a hairdresser, from val d'or i believe, of having infected a chsld. .
> the point is that the establishment gives in to the requests of a patient
he. a. alzheimer's. you can't reason with this man. and he needs care.
yes, what i'm telling you is that it happens, and we find other solutions. for example, we exchange staff members between two services. however, when this is not possible, he must be satisfied with the available staff. he could refuse to be served by humans to be served only by other lizardmen, the result is that he would be medicated to be more cooperative. this is already how it has always worked.
he needs care and he's going to get it. we will * accommodate * it as much as we can .. and that it is * reasonable *. if he said he would only accept care from busty nurses, that would be the same result. if a nurse offered herself because she thinks she fits the description we would accept because it does the job, but if no one offered herself we would absolutely never ask so as not to be chased by the nurses ( cause we would lose immediately for sure).
nb: if you make an access to information request for the grievances of your local cisss over twenty years, you will sooner or later find cases like this. spoiler alert: employees win and the state pays.
you respond as if the patient sees a black person, gets up, goes to the station and says "i want a white caregiver." no, he sees a black person or a man and he starts screaming and wanting to hit. for having lived it, i know what it is.
> for example, staff members are exchanged between two departments.
you must have the agreement of the staff members in question. when you are assigned to a position, we cannot move you without your agreement. this is why government decrees were needed for the load shedding.
> the result is that it would be medicated to be more cooperative. this is already how it has always worked.
i can assure you that between not doing it on purpose to trigger aggressive attacks and freeze the patient like a bullet, ethically, the first is more acceptable. not to mention that the medication does not always work in cases of neurological disease.
and if you want to know why i'm completely in favor of being able to give advance consent to assisted dying, that's exactly it. if i make it there, please poke me.
what you describe in the second part is a significant portion of the patients of the late louis-h lafontaine hospital. an "intermediate" resource (\ *) for patients whose mental health is not serious enough to be in an even heavier center, but who is a priority problem over other "physical" health issues. the first step is to prove that the patient's need exceeds the capacity of the primary care setting, and then it is transferable. the case described corresponds to dozens of people each year (i'm not talking about his "need", but the concept).
as said, this is the legal limit of reasonable accommodation. we can do our best with the current world, we cannot go against other laws to accommodate. and sometimes, in other circumstances like the cost of the drugs, it makes the patient doomed, because it's a pandora's box: once you get into that, you don't know where it ends . for example, the totally experimental treatment for your stage 4 cancer which costs $ 200,000 per dose, it's a shame but it will never be offered or even mentioned to you, and it is decided in the ethics committee in the same way as this patient will be "frozen like a bullet" to protect staff.
i'm not saying it's ideal, but that's how it is.
(\ *) intermediary from the point of view of the network. from a family perspective, it always seems appalling to go "to a lunatic asylum".
i read you on this subject on r / quebec too ... crime you seem to think that this is the first time that a patient has had dementia and that the hospital is in a state of crisis.
this situation happens every day in all hospitals in america. do you think that doesn't happen in alabama? there are no “white-skinned nurse research” ads anywhere else.
i do not know if you perceive this reality there that it is not normal.
it's like it's done on the sly because all the fuckers in need of indignation jump on this kind of thing.
well, everyone knows that loco locass are ultra-rightist neo-nazis. / s
with celine dion and her anti-semitic past
nordic sweater. quebec. radio-bins. checkmate, nazis!
white man, cultural appropriation (rap), etc.
cancel!
it's time to cancel the famous dictator franco nuovo
smelled of wood smelled of sapiiiinnn
superb album from start to finish.
** he forgets that alberta wants a referendum on equalization. **
well, obviously we must remember that alberta does not "pay" the equalization, that the money comes from the general revenues of ottawa to which quebec contributes.
in fact, if we make a list of the provinces that contribute the most to equalization, quebec comes second after ontario and before alberta, which comes in third.
** if alberta does its referendum and starts pushing for constitutional changes **
there is a principle according to which ottawa has an obligation to launch constitutional negotiations at the legitimate request of a province. when these negotiations begin, all provinces can participate.
it is the perfect time for quebec to make its demands on immigration and others. when we talk about equalization, any change requires the agreement of the 10 provinces.
so quebec would be in a position to get what it wants in exchange for its vote.
alberta could cause a situation that would be to the advantage of quebec.
mbc starts from a scenario where the points raised are inevitable. what if these scenarios would never happen?
> and let us not underestimate the effect of the demographic change of the last quarter of a century, especially among the younger generation.
funny euphemistic formula to talk about the replacement of the population. out, one day will have to stop turning the pot. i do not know if this is an argumentative formula, but when mbc speaks of the finality that quebeckers become a powerless minority within canada, he knows that it is false. quebecers are not calling to become a minority and powerless within canada, they already are. what lies in wait for quebeckers is to become a minority at home in quebec. it is already engaged moreover just to see the definition more and more convoluted of what a quebecer is. in the 1960s, french canadians demonstrated by chanting quebec to quebeckers knowing full well who were quebecers and who were not, whereas today this notion is extremely taboo. the more things go, the more supporters of the quiet elimination of french canadians and their national home will have the leisure to wrap themselves in this new civic nationalist quebec non-identity which means absolutely nothing and it is certainly not the pq. of pspp that will turn the tide.
f
what a year of misery!
interesting but unfortunately, too many people believe that legault is the source of our problems and therefore that quebec is not capable of managing itself.
the problem with those who say that is that the current situation is occurring precisely in a quebec province within canada. the situation for an independent quebec is impossible to assess, but it would certainly be very different.
we must not just look at one side, but also take into account all the political decisions of the last 25 years (even more) which have brought us where we are now. if quebec had become a country in 1995, we would very probably not have lived through the liberal reign of charest / couillard, and legault would probably never have founded the caq.
in short, there are too many unknowns in all of this to say anything about the potential situation of an independent quebec in the face of the pandemic. although for my part, i am convinced that we would be much better off, because the federal government is harming us more than anything else, and especially impoverishing us collectively.
phew. he will offend the durhamists ...
it was never tempted because it would recognize the constitution that we never signed
reject canada, return to new france
well let's go.
we have already recognized the constitution by using the notwithstanding clause.
we saw what it looks like 200 years ago, we are no better than a collection of islands and sugar cane plantation in the west indies in their eyes.
[reject canada, return to nouvelle-france](
it's a joke
i approve, let's invade the american imperialists and take back what is rightfully ours
article and interview with denise bombardier about matzneff:
[
the only denise bombardier i know is the one of our time, the columnist edition of jdm ... my grandmother always defended her as a fierce feminist, but i had never really looked for anything it is about it. i would have to go check what she looked like before the 21st century!
ms. bombardier is too often unfairly criticized.
the feminism debate has changed so much in recent years. that being said, we must not “reduce” bombardier to a feminist, she is more of a great humanist.
she is polarizing anyway
we must make a difference with 3rd generation feminism, the one that confuses the emancipation of women with the emancipation of islam.
4th generation in my opinion.
1) women's rights equal to men's
2) right of women to take possession of their bodies
3) right of women to be superior to men
4th generation: submissive to islam, having their clit cut, and being a member of qs etc.
very good, but the consensus still defines it as 3rd generation
join the host of quebec society, shinji.
i don't catch her.
it would take a 3rd ~~ impact ~~ referendum to settle this once and for all.
it's funny to see them accusing us of "racist" and in the same sentence saying things like "you dont even soeak real french" "kewbek accent sucks" "you speak like rednecks" "if we live you will starve to death ".
this comment is entirely subjective, yet as someone who lives in quebec, i can confirm that it’s not necessarily nice to be told to speak french 24/7, and it’s not about saving the language, because most people speak french anyways. i think it’s just that most people can’t live with others around them speaking a language they may not entirely comprehend. nothing to do with racism, just gotta learn to accept others languages. as a trilingual citizen i can confirm that this does not only apply to english... so please quebec... learn to not be a pussy over other languages.
me neither but i think we can congratulate ourselves for that. (and for our social life, i guess).
[speak white, you racist frog!](
hi it would take a 3rd ~~ impact ~~ referendum to settle this once and for all., i'm dad.
they unfortunately don't appreciate the irony of their cognitive dissonance.
a whole karen that la
i would first like to point out that at the time of submitting this article, the title was changed to * report splashes prolaïcité militants *. we can see the bias of the house!
here is yet another example of the qs method, you know, that of participatory and citizen democracy. well their collective on secularism was dissolved after a debate and a closed vote to then be ostracized by the leaders of the party. why do i have a feeling of déjà vu? the funniest thing inside is lise boivin, the solidarity activist formerly spokesperson for this collective. the poor thing is that she still believes in this party which has just thrown her in the garbage! it even makes the strange and unusual request for third party arbitration. it must be the unionist fiber that stands out because politically it's quite funny. you have to understand that secularists are no longer welcome at qs. they will have been their useful idiots for a time, but now the party has departed from them to join the green valleys of unbridled multiculturalism.
qs will be qs and i am very happy that their internal bickering exposes them in this way.
qs is a marxist anarch. the politburo has made the decision to eliminate any secular movement in this party, and this decision will be difficult to reverse.
now the next thing that will take the edge in this party is their position in favor of the independence of quebec. (even if we already know that qs uses it as a trap for the naive).
> first of all i would like to point out that at the time of submitting this article, the title was changed to
>  
> a report splatters the activists of the oleacism
>  
>. we can see the bias of the house!
the order is placed. we must make an example of dissidents.
moreover, the article comes from the canadian press (it's not as bad as learning what is happening around the corner from the globe and mail in toronto, but still). could it be that the buyer of the dispatch did not like the original title? nice bias.
it makes you think of the jeremy corbyn affair at the labor party of england. in order to get rid of a leader who was too left and populist for their tastes, the party apparatchiks had frankly mounted complaints of bogus anti-semitism against him. i imagine it's a bit the same scenario here, except that instead of getting rid of a leader, they get rid of militants who do not fall in line.
at least when the pq got rid of spq-libre they were fair in their approach. it was: you disembark because you no longer have a place in the future of the party. they did not try to deceive their members and their constituents.
gnd and a few seem to really believe in sovereignty
maybe, but they have no power in the party. in the end, it is the politburo that makes the decisions.
bin so see you, are you telling me that the large north american "multicultural" cities tend to degenerate in sectors with a strong presence of the group that we will not name?
i have my trip! it's all new!
it must be my fault esti.
isn't she exaggerating a little bit, the bombardier? we have reached about thirty murders this year, yes, you have to go back 10 years to have such a deadly year, but it is still nothing compared to the big american cities. baltimore has seen 32 murders [in the last 30 days] ( and baltimore is smaller than montreal. bodymore murderland, indeed!
793 murders in the last 12 months in chicago.
we calm our nerves. there is a problem, and she is not wrong on the merits (notably on how the obsession with the fyftémik bundle undermines proactive approaches) but she exaggerates everything.
and it is certain that valérie plante is exploiting the crisis just to push for legal anti-gun political positions that have nothing to do with the problem, like politicians like her do all the time.
the monthly [swelling] dose ( has arrived!
life in general is a race war, there are just the delusional wokes who make themselves believe that everyone is beautiful and equal.
excerpt from suicide note by mitchell heisman
''a crucial element of the norman victory in 1066 was the repression of the anglo-saxons as a distinct “race”, ethnicity or volk. native anglo-saxon kultur was crushed before it had the chance to produce its own johann gottfried herder. this collective kultur capitulation was an aspect of norman mastery that anglo-saxons never fully overcame. conquest was a literal repression of ‘biological factors’ in the sense of overcoming native values of political-ethnic autonomy and self-preservation. it was not only the political destruction of a distinct anglo-saxon kin-culture, but the destruction of the values of a living faith in that native kin-culture. this was almost inevitable since this was virtually the definition of the victory of the norman inclusive fitness strategy that eleanor searle described as “predatory kinship”. norman political success was contingent upon and founded upon, anglo-saxon political failure. the maintenance of the english caste system began in norman preservation of their kin-caste — succeeding exactly where the anglo-saxons failed. that class institution originated in the will to conserve and perpetuate the norman victory on october 14, 1066 across the generations by preserving themselves as a caste over the anglo-saxons — without end.''
i have a friend who works in maritime transport, it is known that there are certain docks at the port of montreal and near the indian reserves where the police are not allowed to go. if we want to solve the problem of illegal weapons, we should start there.
well yes but if it had titled "slight increase in homicides in montreal" there would have been fewer clicks :(
nah man, this is the start of a civil war. / s
the important thing is that holness only collected a meager 7.3% of the routes. let him show off!
will prosper lost his election as borough mayor of montreal north. good news. looks like police definancing isn't that popular with our black fellow citizens.
soon the cars banned from the island with the white men.
good luck to traders!
i wonder how much he would have had if all the cities of the island of montreal were merged ...
not just that - coderre who was trying to take votes at hotmess - the total of the two is down 50%.
there may be some hope (meager though) in montreal's future francophone
especially our fellow citizens most affected by criminal violence who said no to this madness instigated by a mole of organized crime. unacceptable.
unfortunately, this francophone mass of montreal hardly cares about its own francophonie. it is the same who will elect québec solidaire on the whole of the island in the next elections, between 2-3 rituals aimed at clearing up.
but remember, the great replacement is a myth ....
we must not forget the misogynistic significance of the hijab, which is not a theory but literally written in religious stories.
"promotion of the veil"
because it is sure that a poster that says that there is freedom in wearing the veil will make everyone want to wear a veil.
let's say that it is a term to say the least reprehensible and reappropriated depending on the environment. it would be preferable in such a case to speak of demographic changes or massive immigration, more precise and concise.
and renaud camus the greatest racist conspirator of modern times.
it will not influence the young white provincial girl of french parents, it gives ammunition to muslim men (and some women) wanting to wear the veil on their daughters.
ah, still someone who has never set foot in the arab world.
ah yeah totally organic demographic changes in which the population had a say.
if that was the case, stupid propaganda campaigns like this would not be necessary.
i am literally african of origin ?? all half of my family is muslim ... in fact what even talking about
continue not to understand what i am explaining.
it's just that this is the opinion of a huge part of the population who only have victimized knowledge of the arab worlds.
explain to you that we must bow to popular pressure to "sugar coat" real problems. i didn't agree more.
and where does your expertise come from?
you reduced you to ashes
continue not to understand what i am explaining.
bahahaa
which of the 36 versions of linux is the best?
shit, i have to read this later! i just bought myself a chromebook, installed ubuntu bullseyes and got to install qgis 3.10.14! i'm pretty proud, but hey, it takes a long time to learn!
also, my job laptop has a graphics card and all, win10 and is not good for free win11 .... so clearly i want to go that way to extend the life of my computer
thanks for the text!
no mention of bsds, solaris / illumos, plan9 ... are you a stallmanian propagandist ?!
i just updated my phone to android 12, i'm not mentally ready for another major os update on my pcs as well. then i have to admit that as i get older i don't have so much patience to switch os completely, i just want it to work.
i don't want to know anything about your shit. templeos for life!
yes
my favorite distro is zorin os. it can look like windows or mac depending on your preference. google drive integrates well, it found all the drivers for my thinkpad and the interface is really nice and intuitive. based on ubuntu.
zorin.com
arch linux, ubuntu, red hat !
this is the ultimate goal!
i was going to answer the same thing: p
a distro that is part of ubuntu, with recent device support and security features. it's not bad for small businesses or just starting out.
arch linux for beginners is a very bad idea.
that's kind of what i got out of my basic research ...
the hardest part would seem to find a distro that allows you to access more packages (software) that are equivalent to what you use with windows.
like the adobe or office suite, forget that ....
fak i'm wondering about my options.
qgis, i need version 3.16 or higher up to date
office, meh .. it's vrm for my hotmail, my gmails are uqam exchange mail (although there is a browser version) i would miss excell.
adobe illustrator, lightroom, indesign and bridge ..... i don't know how well i can navigate ...
skepchup for 3d .... no idea if there are altlernartive
spss, or beyond 20 \ 20 ... no idea.
my steams games.
ma geforce 940mx
this is what is blocking me
are there any alternatives to all of this?
the alternatives export to pdf? (i must manage to integrate myself with other professionals too)
i have the crack versions at worst, it installs on win10 under vm?
but ooff, it would save me the purchase of a laptop ... and i would learn.
basically, what i would need is a 20 min zoom meeting to talk about it
i admit 😅
yes, i think vm would be a good idea, but it sure takes hardware resources (ram, core). in any case, that's what i do and there are also people who manage to put the suite office (for example) in "seemless" mode. that is, the application is running on the vm, but it is as if it is a normal application. for games on the other hand, i think there is a problem in vm, because of hardware acceleration or something like that. but if it is, the games are already compatible with a little luck.
for sketchup, there is freecad, it seems to work well and i think once learned it's better than sketchup, but i have stopped learning it for now.
i think that indeed, excel is less replaceable. there is the free excel, but it was less good on windows. but maybe on linux is better.
otherwise, there is nothing preventing you from doing a dual boot and using windows in vm for light use (like for excel) and booting windows for games and having all the resources.
for the adobe suite, i don't know what the deal is, but i heard that they (at adobe) have versions of their software for linux ... but nothing planned for this software for the general public.
if your laptop is on a hard drive (and not on an ssd) it would be worth buying an ssd of sufficient size, it gets cheaper and cheaper and it would boot a lot faster.
on discord? but it is sure that i am not an expert in transition to linux
i did some research and i think it would be easier for me to boot linux with a usb key for a while and see for later. i think this is correct for the discord, i'm not going to take your time while i'm still in the research stage.
anyway, i forgot the password of my bios (i had changed it) and well .... no idea how to get around that to request the boot by usb key
haha... (#not)
edith: i remembered that!
but thanks!!
i don't like any, but for the moment it might be plant.
coderre is a crosseur of the same species as charest, pierre trudeau, chrétien.
plante annoys me, but coderre even more.
balarama...
pourquoi balarama quand on a [bananarama](
no idea.
at the beginning we had ralliement which just vanished.
it wouldn't have bothered me to vote '4th' option but at least to have something serious.
currently i really don't know. coderre has reaffirmed french in montreal that's already it, and he talks about security, at a time when it is being shot at the corner of my street.
plante is very sucks i find and i find his team really weak. his ads that seem to be banging are downright stupid or impractical, like the pink line or the baby box. it's just miserable. nothing was done for the blue line when we bought near by expecting new stations, and then none of the winters when plant was in power the sidewalks were cleared of snow and ice.
a post of mayor / prime minister / president should be someone with an uprightness and not someone who pretends to be an influencer or a starlet. it's not someone who does their business and who is good at what does, it's someone who leads and we want to follow. the story tells us about jean drapeau or camillien houde who led the city in a firm and efficient way and then we saw that tremblay, applebaum, coderre and plante.
i don't even know if bourque was good.
but in short, all that to say it's hard as an election.
i also have the same problem, but i prefer ensemble montreal.
gilbert thibodeau, for the lol.
i hate her but i would tend to vote this plant. a mayor woke or not with no great power anyway on these matters. but as far as municipal prerogatives are concerned, i prefer to have an npd woke in charge rather than a corrupt liberal.
the patriots must stop their noses and vote for coderre.
if the plante woke is re-elected, the spvm risks being disarmed and definanced by 2026. montreal will become a battleground.
coderre, no choice. he is anti-woke and is a better manager. he reaffirmed the primacy of quebec and of french. by comparison, [plante wants to place a street gang mole in montreal-north city hall who wants to define the police.] ( sanction-the-most-serious-seen-his-scandalous-conduct)
fung ho?
i vote for dolarama
why balarama when we have dolarama 🤣
why ?
yark
what about a street gang mole?
ish, coderre is not so much less woke than plant, he is just more hypocritical than she is on these issues. it supports stories of unceded land as much as it does plants.
[deleted]
are you okay there?
we'll enwash the orange cones
comment?
i don't know it, but it's going to wash them.
i think that if you call yourself a quebec nationalist, it is important to fight against the divisive woke ideology of valérie plante. not to mention his anti-car stances.
and then coderre seems to me to be more pragmatic, unifying and he makes the city shine better in the world.
also, his weight loss, at his age in addition it shows a facet of his personality that i admire.
he is running as mayor of the borough, isn't he? let's hope that the citizens of montréal-nord will have the common sense not to elect him. it is clear that for the plant it is more important to fill your grid with bingo woke than to do background checks on your candidates in the boroughs. she's a bitch, but it's still not as bad as the gang of corrupt liberal rats and wretched developers in coderre. between plague and cholera, i chose cholera, the chances of survival are better.
if will ever gets elected, and he tries to screw up the shit in the police department, i hope he will get screwed by his subordinates and the existing police hierarchy. do we still have an ounce of righteousness and courage among our people to get us out of trouble in this kind of situation?
it is less ideological, more pragmatic. the far left doesn't give a damn about the reality on the ground and is ready to do anything to implement its "beautiful utopia".
yeah, ben coderre doesn't place an organized crime mole in montreal-north town hall
yeh he was probably talking about removing the orange cones from a dolarama 😂
coderre is the former minister of immigration and multiculturalism ... ** and you think he's not woke? he's even more woke than plante. **
denis?
if he is able to get to the town hall of montreal-north, i doubt that he will be prevented from causing a mess. but above all, who will check their contacts and communications to avoid corruption?
he is more there to make beautiful gifts to the molsons, the generous patrons of sammy the sweet, with his gigantic concrete slab on the island of sainte-hélène ...
coderre's ideology is coderrism.
i found him so without drawing on it, i don't know if it was just because of the language barrier ... but damn ... hearing him speak it looks like he just wanted to remove the cones and leave the hole there ...
it seems clear to me that he's not as bad as plante. coderre's good old 90s-style multiculturalism seems to me a compromise for which i can vote, at the moment we are in montreal, not in saguenay.
the city hall of montreal north has not much to do with the police, at least that's it. if he messes up, it will be an illustration that there is a cultural problem with the community of north montreal. that it values criminals over honest citizens. it'll give us ammo against the wokes.
coderrism at least does not have the hegemony threatening our civilization.
this is what gives a 1-piece electoral program 🤣
this is the new gimmick of anglo supremacists, use the mohawks to shit on pure wool.
very interesting. it seems to me that this argument was published here in the last days. the author may be with us, who knows!
it is true that it is weird, that it is "mtl not ceded" when it is literally the territory which has had the least contact by the natives of quebec, the anglo-liberal liberals who want mtl to remain in the federation in the case of an independent quebec are those who defend the most this absurdity, it seems to be it is to remove more and more the quebecitude of mtl.
a bit like balarama with his plan to make mtl a bilingual city.
"the canadian charter of 1982 and the courts did not retain this treaty of alliance. it nevertheless provided a vision of the territory where the french settlers rightly occupied the laurentian valley, which seems to confirm the few enclaves of domiciled people. autochthones (the villages of the region of quebec, trois-rivières and montreal). "
in fact, is canada wanting to impose the theory of unceded territory on us? if we consider that quebecers of french-canadian descent would have been conquered, subject to the authority and reorganization of treaties (which happened), then all the territories negotiated by the french (except those of the mohawks) have been invalidated?
"nantel has plenty of good ideas! for example, if radio-canada believes it is relevant to put a warning before an episode of la petite vie which could be offensive, why not also put it before these programs" which promote intersectional theories in which more than 90% of the public does not recognize themselves at all "?"
i love this proposal! warnings before the broadcasts of pénélop mcquade and marie-louise arsenault? absoutely!
i enjoyed his interview with everyone talking about it on his book. i will probably get it in the next few days.
we should almost have a subreddit just to document that and call it something like “the bestiary” or “shit canadians say”.
well, that's a good thing, the more they imagine that we are racist monsters, the more they'll be patient and stay out of quebec. good riddance.
i know that the comment of many is going to be "we without tabarnak" but
seriously i see this kind of thing happening more and more often
on this kind of platform, the hatred of quebec is becoming more and more
several mainsteam and acceptable in the english world.
my god i read the reddit thread and my eyes are bleeding ...
a good example of anglos who shit on quebecers while saying they are so "tolerant".
disgusting
must see the bright side; hopefully they might want to get rid of us! no need for a new referendum! win-win
another angryphone playing victim and moving to another province.
so i clicked on 3 of the links at the top. qq1 show me your worst comment because i see absolutely nothing bad
it exists, it's r / quebecbashing.
you will tell me when you will have created it
...
no way you really said that
do you think we can make hate speech complaints or some hash? tse by being a cup would you be her change something?
if by “this kind of platform” you speak of twitter, i assure you that it is not particularly hatred of quebec. it's just that the entire platform is dedicated to hating "the other".
> me, the hatred of quebec is becoming more and more
>  
> several mainsteams and acceptable in the english world
so much the better, it will eg wake up a couple.
rarely have i seen so many upvoted racist comments on reddit. it must be because it's good racism!
of course i said so. should we thank their crazy neighbor who harasses them, thanks to his action, how many insignificant hipsters in ontario will decide to stay at home rather than go pollute the mile end or the mont royal plateau? what impact will this have on rents for quebec families? we may not realize it, but the mentally retarded who harassed this insignificant couple of twitchans may have done us a great service thanks to the magic of the internet.
honestly, a site like reddit does not care ... twitter is going to ban the world for hate speech against pure wool, but reddit forgets that.
until you have a different skin color you can't complain
i will say it
and most certainly get me down vote or even ban
but the real problem of quebecers is not racism
it's xenophobia
and it's so internalized in the culture that you say stuff like that and you don't even wonder.
of course racism is part of xenophobia but quebecers simply do not like "others"
to say
it's good that they think we're racist so they're gonna stay home is clearly one of the dumbest things i've ever heard hahahaha
but when you ask why quebecers hate foreigners, we'll tell you
"nononon it is the fault of the english there is like 300 years blah blah we are not racist esti"
in the meantime, i was chased and tried to run over in the suburbs, my high school teacher called me mamadou all year round and told the parents of students not to keep up with my better grades than them.
meanwhile people walk in my neighborhood and say in my face to their children that people like me are thieves
and so on.
i'm not even an immigrant i was born here i grew up watching bagpipes and eating shepherd's pie, i have certainly been to the sugar shack more often than you and have been to apples far too often.
unfortunately for me i am black and these people do not like foreigners. no matter how angry you cry injustice and quebec bashing or even anti-quebec terrorism if you want it will change absolutely nothing.
i was talking more on twitter or a complaint to the police or something like that, i don't know she lives or but if she lives here it might be feasible, right?
as long as you don't express yourself as a hysteric who pisses everyone off, we have no reason to ban you.
> of course racism is part of xenophobia but quebecers simply do not like "others"
indeed, i don't like "the others" who come to quebec to anglicize the place, to tell us how we should live and to vote liberal with soviet majorities.
> saying it's good that they think we're racist so they're going to stay home is clearly one of the dumbest things i've ever heard
bin, montreal is taking the path of toronto by gentrification caused among other things by the increase in the number of square heads who will live there because they cannot afford to live in toronto. before they dared not come because they were afraid of the separatists, but now as the threat is less credible they are coming to settle in large numbers. failing to have enough balls to separate from the country i am very happy to see another seven o'clock emerge who will prevent them from coming to piss us off at home.
> in the meantime, i was chased and tried to run over in the suburbs, my high school teacher called me mamadou all year round and told the parents of students not to keep up with me despite my better averages than them .
what you say is deplorable and i hope it will improve in the future. out of curiosity, what part of the tribe is all this happening in?
having lived all my life in montreal i had a very different experience from yours, but it's very interesting to read what you say, if ever you would like to discuss it and say more i would love to learn more about what you thought and what you believe
i will not disclose my address on reddit but i have lived in montreal and adjacent cities such as blainville saint-jérôme etc.
i have also lived in europe and anyone who says racism is worse there so it's okay here stick a finger in the nose.
the thing is, i almost only grew up with white people. my parents left montreal when i was young precisely so that i did not have all uni-cultural friends and that i could integrate into the population.
result: we are forced to sell our house which was located 30 minutes from montreal because we were harassed at home (excrement on the ground, customers of stores who refuse to enter if we stay in it and literally people who come to us. see to tell us that people like us aren't usually here and that it avoids problems)
so i absolutely do not see why quebecers instead of assuming a problem that exists and which they have little say in since they do not experience it. prefer to be offended that they are called racist when in polls 20% of the population considers itself openly racist.
whenever i see people taking offense at the talk of racism in quebec, i have the impression of hearing men tell women that menstruation doesn't hurt. it's such a shame, you will notice that i speak "of quebecers" as if i were not one but honestly over the years the people made me understand that i did not fit the criterion.
the truth is, all this systemic racism stuff just proves that in fact quebec doesn't like different people and cares more about what they look like than victims of racism. by rejecting the concept of racism you are flattering yourself so that you can then say things like that.
- indeed, i don't like "the others" who come to quebec to anglicize the place, tell us how we should live and vote liberal with soviet majorities
without remorse since we have already established that we are not racist
tsé legeault says it.
my dear, it saddens me that you've dealt with so many morons in your life, but all you're telling us is racism, not systemic racism. what legault rightly denies is the existence of systemic racism in quebec. ordinary racism, not only does he recognize it, but he does his best to fight it ([ superbe( //ici.radio-canada.ca/nouvelle/1712077/quebec-legault-racisme-comite-girault-carmant)) ... although one can doubt the capacity of a government to reduce the level of imbecility population. systemic racism, as invented by sociologists, is not the same as racism itself.
systemic racism was coined to describe such phenomena as the redlining of insurance companies in the united states which was helping black people. it's roughly described as racism without a racist. that is to say that following completely objective criteria, such as basing home insurance premiums according to the crime rate of the different postal codes, this caused black neighborhoods to pay exorbitant insurance premiums, or could not buy home insurance altogether. in my opinion, what comes closest to this in canada is the indian law, and again it is questionable because even being clearly discriminatory the indian bands benefit in part because it protects property of their land. this is why they refused when it was proposed to them to abolish it.
this has little to do with what you are describing to us. i'm not offended by people saying that there is racism in quebec, do you think you're the first testimony i read to this effect? before having a cambodian friend i didn't even know that there were racist people against asians, i admit that this one surprised me.
where it becomes offensive is when bad faith activists graft a bundle of unproven concepts such as "this and that privilege" and "disparities = racism" as well as ordinary racism into a portmanteau word that they call "systemic racism" and that they ask to accept it in its totality. no, i don't accept it in its entirety because the well has been poisoned. i find that a shame, moreover, because while the militants are saying anti-racist steer clear of toxic concepts by hiding the specifications that accompany them under the term "systemic", let's say that the conversation is not very productive.
the game is over, we will lose 5% to 10% of nurses when there were already 5% missing. this is what the protection of the vulnerable is worth in the eyes of the nursing order. i can't wait to see the update on ~~ service breakdowns ~~ the reorganization of services and the inevitable call for scapegoats.
and no one in the media reacts.
is covid-19 part of the oiiq exam? the order of c. dubé too? since when?
there is a margin of difference between the employer who gives 0 hours and the order which suspends the permit. we have just made an osmosis between 2 completely different entities.
they were already suspended, what is the point of suspending their license ... if i am forbidden to heat ... taking away my car license will not prevent me from heating any more.
it is more than obvious that all this is deliberate, they want robots, i say it again, françois legault is led by the vision of klaus schwab
perfect.
good deal. they are sources of contagion rather than healing. it is part of the expectations of a person working in the field.
personally, i look forward to my tax credit for service breakdown and lack of care!
i risk waiting a long time on the other hand ...
professional orders are creatures of government. the provincial government can put them under trusteeship whenever they want. all it takes is a call from the minister who tells them "suspend the nurses' license to practice otherwise i am crying out for you" and they will do it. it's still brilliant on their part, it allows them to fire them in a roundabout way that will be more difficult to contest as wrongful dismissal.
they react. they applause. journalists are completely out of whack about covid. you just have to see what they say to each other on twitter, it's a hysteria of total hysteria.
it serves to avoid prosecution for wrongful dismissal. without the license suspension, nurses who were suspended indefinitely would have had recourse against their employer, but by suspending their license, it allows them to be fired because they no longer meet one of the conditions necessary for their employment. it really is a bit of a piggy bank.
it's funny how we are told more about guardian angels lol ...
they can't robotize much yet, but they can pretend that a billion a week is not enough. imagine collecting the money of 8 million quebecers without providing anything in return or even better: that they do not even want to ask for something ....
yes, but will the robots be vaccinated?
unvaccinated people in health care are tested 3x per week, so only they have a clear answer as to whether they have covid or not.
someone who is vaccinated is not tested, and can spread covid as much as an unvaccinated person.
your opinion?
if the vaccine had been shown to be effective against transmission, i would agree, but it's the other way around. it's been more than two months since the director of the cdc (american public health) admitted that the vaccines did not prevent the transmission of the virus. and many studies have subsequently confirmed this: the vaccinated may be a little less likely to be infected, but when they are infected, they transmit the virus almost as much as the unvaccinated ... and in the less often they are symptomatic, so they can pass it on sneakily without knowing that they are sick. and in the end, everyone will probably go through it.
in this context, it does not make sense to suspend the unvaccinated ... especially if they have a previous infection which gives an immunity superior to vaccine immunity.
it should be the same amount of time as it takes to get a family doctor!
nasty vicious blow. brilliant but vicious. on the other hand, the next generation will surely take this into account and change careers. if you're still one call away from under the bus ....
also, i have the impression that not taking a vaccine is a devious form of having a vacation in an ost environment: suspension on the 15th, taking a dose, taking a road trip in quebec, taking the 2nd dose, leaving traveling south in winter, come back next year and re-register. as long as playing dog, as much as it goes in the 2 edges.
we went from narrative * dozens of antivaxes to iss that threaten to collapse our health system * to * there is no problem putting out hundreds of doctors and thousands of nurses *.
in a week.
i still can not believe it. we were even served a calculation in the style * 1 unvaccinated at sis = 4000 surgeries postponed * or something similar. and now, no more problem to ride staff shorts? doctors in tele-medicine in 2020 are better in 2021 because of what? the pandemic is over without our knowing it?
just ..... amazing.
i wonder if they really believe it.
i know there is nothing more cliché than drawing comparisons to 1984, but i think it really applies in this case. winston, a journalist from the external party, is obliged to play the regime's cheerleader on pain of being sent to the gulag? here the gulag would take the form of the excommunication of the sect of the virtuous to be placed in the same basket as the convidiots, antivaxx, and the * terre-platistes * ...
i would bet $ 100 that when they announce that they are investing in robots, anglade will go wild for a decade that it was his idea 😅
they will * vaccinate *
it is wrong that it can spread so much. someone vaccinated with arnm who catches a variant other than delta is much less likely to transmit. the chances are only alike with asstra zeneca + delta and more than 3 months since the 2 dose. the vast majority of the time the viral load is greatly weakened and therefore the chances of transmission. remember that delta is practically absent in certain regions of quebec. pu capable of disinformation or "selective" information on this sub.
it does not prevent, it greatly reduces in almost all scenarios. the only scenario where the transmission is similar is that of the 4 month astra zeneca + vs. delta specifically. in all other scenarios, the odds are reduced.
nurses had to receive all kinds of vaccines to start their careers. i don't see the logic in this one being refused.
i was reading your other post in / r / quebec about the difficulty of correctly quantifying the costs and benefits of containment and other measures in a cost benefit approach. there is an alternative to the cost / benefit approach, it is the risk quantification and management approach. a logical approach to containment and health measures would be to determine the foreseeable consequences of not having any measures (in terms of year-life lost), compare with other normal causes of mortality that one tolerates (road accidents , heart attacks, flu, overdose) and take steps to reduce mortality to an acceptable rate.
essentially you make a risk matrix, we determine a maximum number of year-life lost per year that we are ready to accept without any mitigation and prevention measures (our residual risk). a loss rate from which we reject the risk and do everything in our power to reduce it. between these two rates, we can think in terms of costs / benefits.
these tolerable or non-tolerable death rates can be assessed on the basis of other causes of death.
speaking of doctors, i went around the "doctors twitter md" and, apart from a surgeon who explains by * a leads b * that the lack of personnel causes surgery cancellations, all have nothing to say about the breakages. potentials. on the other hand, my god that what joyce went through was scary!
fortunately, the situation will improve: people in crisis will no longer have drooling nurses, just no nurses at all. a technique also proven after the success story of the chsld hérron. one step forward!
speaking of disinformation, where does your formula for contagion and healing come from? does it hold onto something or is it just a canard? easy shortcuts should be avoided which do not hold on to anything when their result is the load shedding and the breakdown of services which strictly heal no one. especially that there would be a way of averaging if the vaccines delivered immunity and ensure the final end of transmissions, but this is not the case. it is not for nothing that it trumpets a lot less with the data of hospitalizations lately. this is because if vaccines have some efficacy, it is similar to that of the flu vaccine. it's not bad, especially for those more at risk, but we never became foldingo about this vaccine. anyway, it is written in the sky that in six months adequately vaccinated it will mean three doses so we would have to put an end to this stupid psychodrama before it repeats itself perpetually.
it doesn't significantly reduce transmission either. and we can see with cases like singapore, israel or the campuses of some american universities that even very highly vaccinated populations can experience waves of major infections.
in quebec, we get the impression in the data that vaccines effectively protect against infections only because asymptomatic screening is practically abandoned in the vaccinated but continues in the unvaccinated.
additionally, based on vaccine adverse event reporting systems around the world, covid vaccines have a much higher rate of major adverse events than others. it remains relatively low, but proportionally, it is much more frequent than with the others.
i pull that out of memory after reading several research published, rather rigorously, a week ago. i like to get to the bottom of it on both sides of the debate and i was actually surprised at how possible it is still to convey it, but unequivocally, it greatly reduces the odds in almost any scenario. i don't have time to dig into these documents today, but i believe i have a reputation for being fairly rigorous in the arguments. i invite you to read studies on the chances of spread / viral load depending on the vaccination. the reality is quite halfway between those who argue that it "does not prevent transmission at all" and those who think that it prevents it completely.
i can also tell you that it correlates quite strongly with the time since the last vaccine. indicating that one can expect to be asked for regular boosters. we do not yet have "the end" of the fall in the figures, so it is possible that on the transmission side, it becomes absolutely ineffective for all scenarios after a while. 1 year, 2 years, we'll see. it will also depend on whether the delta really becomes dominant throughout quebec or will subside. the vaccine prevents the transmission of the vanilla version quite well.
in order to remain neutral, i will also give you a counter argument, if vaccination blocks the transmission of less dangerous variants but not that of delta, then that allows delta to become dominant, precisely.
i'll trust the numbers of peer-reviewed studies before facebook anecdotes
i want to and we think much the same thing in connection with the vaccine and its present so mixed effect on transmission, but it's your initial statement that bothers me. what rigorous study shows that unvaccinated nurses are sources of contagion rather than cure? it is extremely big as an affirmation. this means that since the start of the pandemic, unvaccinated nurses who a year ago represented 100% of nurses have caused more harm than good. if they infect more than they heal, then it would have been better for us to lay them all off at the start of the pandemic. it's headless and tailless and it's going to take more than a good reputation to streamline this.
the truth is that we lack the necessary key to elucidate this question. we cannot determine to what extent unvaccinated nurses are more vectors of contagion until we know how prevalent the virus is in them compared to their vaccinated colleagues. it is all the more stupid as for the first, this information exists, it has been collected three times a week since april 15th. and yet the government is jealously careful not to reveal these figures. especially since we agree that if it were the least significant, the government would not miss the opportunity to give it to the unvaccinated, so a healthy skepticism is in order. it's a shame because it is this silence that leads to twisted reasoning as it would be better for the vulnerable to have an operating room closed for lack of personnel than an open operating room with unvaccinated nurses draped from head to toe. .
then it's not to piss off, but it's far from the right time. hospitals are already offloading, full of departments until emergencies are out of service as we speak. what benefit can we expect from cutting 5% to 10% of the nursing workforce? how much will we be able to subtract from the approximately 500 daily cases and how will we be able to say that it is due to this massive layoff and not to the well-started shortness of the fourth wave?
with your words here, it is clear that you do not trust either one or the other. you just seem to trust your feelings, what your trippes say.
not at all. i am rather rigorous on the information. you can dig into my comments and you will see that i am defending the facts, on both sides. for example, recently i got down to vote on air quebec to mention that purel everywhere has virtually no impact on covid and that habits have not followed the science on it.
i clearly did not say that vaccination prevents transmission. i said that in almost all scenarios it reduced the viral load significantly and that translated into a lower probability of transmission. i also said that this efficacy dropped markedly after 3-4 months since the 2nd dose, and that it ultimately tends to no longer help against transmission at all, which is worrying because we will not take reminders every 6 month. i also admitted that astra zeneca at present hardly helps against delta transmission, so logically one could say that nurses vaccinated with this one are as problematic as those who i are not at all.
i don't see how i could be more pragmatic on the matter.
you said vaccines greatly reduce (transmission, i guess). the point is, this is not true.
both us and uk studies have found virtually identical viral loads in the vaccinated and unvaccinated, at least the first 5-6 days, which is the best time for the virus to spread when the viral load is the highest. higher, symptoms then appear and people isolate themselves. this led the cdc director to say that vaccines no longer prevent transmission.
there is no evidence that vaccines significantly decrease virus transmission, especially after 3-4 months from vaccination. suddenly, measures such as compulsory vaccination or the vaccination passport have no scientific basis, the unvaccinated do not represent a much greater risk than the vaccinated for others.
i am one of those who thinks that bill 21 has gone too far, so i am sometimes tempted to side with those who criticize it. however, i cannot be on the same side as the people who shout “systemic racism” in this country.
they are cultural parasites who can only destroy and deconstruct everything they come across. even though i don't agree with the government on issues like this, if i have to choose between the caq and the media, i choose the caq and it's not a very difficult decision to make.
i read joyce echaquan's coroner's report evoking the notion of systemic racism, without however being able to delve into the concept, the evidence and the context of the definition. again, no practical demonstration.
to note the opinion of the population divided into two equal parts on this notion, it is necessary to realize that the concept of systemic racism is pure and hard semantics, we are demonstrating it here in quebec without that anyone is able to give it an abstract meaning. it is impossible that so many experts, almost half if it is considered good, have been so indoctrinated with wokism in independent proceedings.
in reality, it is not systemic racism, it is semantic racism, and all the answers are correct.
for now, let us simply condemn the racism suffered by too many aboriginal people.
instead of wanting solutions, the left-wing persists in these nonsense.
worse if that's not it is to give cash to corrupt reserve chiefs, never a political solution, never a real investment, finally it seems that they want the natives to remain in misery to continue their political agenda and win votes.
nothing new in there
drive a big cone of traffic up your ass. thank you and good evening.
the summary of the report is:
[
basically, the coroner seems to say that the racist prejudices of the caregivers led them to believe that the lady was withdrawing from drugs (without having sufficient clue to believe it) and that this hypothesis led them to take medical actions which have harmed his condition. i don't think the question of whether the mistakes of the nurses and the doctor directly led to his death or not is that important. the prejudices of nurses and doctors have resulted in clinical errors, which is not acceptable regardless of the consequences.
but once again, i do not see the purpose of "systemic" racism when it seems to me to be a case of racism at all. the "system" reacted swiftly by sacking the offending nurses as well as the director of the facility, now the attending physician can be expected to be reprimanded as well.
there is indeed a definition of systemic racism. the reason they never want to give it away is because once you know what it is, you know it doesn't apply very much in quebec.
systemic racism is all the social phenomena that place one or more races in a position of inferiority. it is different from more direct racist acts like hate crimes. it includes institutional racism, national supremacist myth, economic conditions, prejudices, etc. yes, it is certain that there is a little in quebec, but compare it with the united states or even simply with the roc and you see immediately that it does not compare. worse, in canada, if there is a group apart from the natives who are victims, it is the quebeckers. but, of course, the people who push the hardest for an admission of guilt on the part of quebec would be the first to deny everything altogether if we showed them that quebec is much more the target than the perpetrator.
i also come to the same conclusion
yes, the system reacted quickly ... once the victim was reduced to hiding his cell to film and share the situation and it went viral. do you think this was the first time this had happened and joyce was the first victim? the community claims to have made numerous complaints. if it weren't for the viral video, the system would still protect the nurse today.
if quebec is to blame, ontarians can feel better. so the roc is doing everything it can to make us feel guilty ... worse the liberal and qs cellars in quebec want a large bunch of victims to vote for them ...
the chalice of a woman with a beard who leaves outraged when legault speaks of the member for jaques cartier who went to squeal in a blm rally to cry that because of law 21, law 96 worse, joyce we are all racists. .
when it cries because "the day should have been for joyce" i just beat it up a bit more.
it hurts so-called leftists who do not understand the importance of preventing employers from hitting their employees out for no good reason. do you think the hospital should have crowned the two nurses out on a simple complaint without any other proof? without a gradation of sanctions or a history of previous complaints about the same nurses? the labor movement has always fought against arbitrary dismissals, among other things because employers used it to get rid of unionists and workers who opposed the bosses.
it is a good thing that the victims are taking responsibility for themselves and that he succeeds in making a difference by providing irrefutable proof of the bad actions of nurses. but you instead of being happy that the lady stood up, do you think we should go back 100 years on labor law because it would be unfair for the victims to take their own situation in hand?
it's no wonder that qs is getting closer and closer to the plq, you are the useful idiots of the neoliberals.
if you find that the system has protected nurses, compare with the american police organizations. a policeman can gun a guy for no reason, filmed from a to z and get away with a lifetime pension for post traumatic shock. this is a system that protects its world to the point of absurdity.
[
now i can't wait to see the sanction that the college of physicians will give to joyce's attending physician ... if there is one caste in quebec that enjoys systemic impunity, it is certainly the physicians.
> this interpretation, which angus reid shared on twitter on wednesday, is based on the votes cast for the bloc québécois in the september 20 poll. because in absolute numbers, the votes cast compared to 2019 have decreased, he said about these data - which are still preliminary.
and there you go. they believe it was correct because quebec did not vote overwhelmingly for the bloc. it is the logic of the thief who believes he did nothing wrong since he was not shot. you have to be deeply immoral to believe that the absence of negative consequences for yourself justifies what you have done and that says a lot about the opponents of laws 21 and 96 in the roc.
an anglo who says that an anglo did nothing wrong when she used her moderator position during the only debate in english to directly attack quebec and its citizens?
what a shock. what a surprise.
he's right: ** the issue should have sparked a much bigger uproar. **
that's nothing, he says openly that law 21 is racist in this tweet:
what a fool this angus reid.
i'm starting to believe it. the reddit sub is as big as my pocket and 80% of the post is on that or french.
as i said yesterday ... it's not mcgill who will defend us and vote bloc ... it's not outremont who will defend the french ...
they are screaming at us. with us.
fools will remain fools.
we can always count on the square heads of ontario to tell quebecers what quebecers think ... not paternalistic at all ... / s
i hope their polls will lose credibility.
truly? i counted on the first page. of the 25 posts, 6 are on the situation of french in quebec or on bill 21. and that is following an event that brought them into the news. that's 24% of the sub for 2 subjects who made the front pages in the last two weeks.
i don't think we're "hysterical." i just think you mind that we talk about it. you would probably prefer that we shut our mouths. let us protect the * canadian unity. * let us * speak white. *
what are we waiting for to regionalize immigration? how many thousands of dollars will you have to pay per month for a simple studio? how many millions for a 4 room property? how many consequences resulting from growing communitarianism (shootings and violence)? how many millions of people assimilated to the english language? how many cultural venues bought back for condos?
there are not 56 solutions: the establishment of a pan-quebec hiring-to-employment program, all in the regions. this is not only an opportunity for montreal to stabilize, but also to enrich the precarious economy of regions lacking manpower. everyone is happy, it's give and take. this is the only way to bring french back to a position of strength in montreal and to satisfy both our economy, and at the same time to integrate newcomers to quebec as much as possible.
it's not just immigration: there is also national and international speculation and i believe that the transfers of tax credits from "apartment blocks" to the condos of alfonso gagliano, former minister of public works, served as a pivot.
legault had tried but the federal liberals said no.
no thanks. keep them in montreal.
it would mean the end of free movement within canada. do you want to have to ask the government for permission before moving?
part of the problem is, of course, artificially low interest rates. they create speculative bubbles.
oh yes? it seemed to me that it only concerned immigration thresholds, a promise dead even before announcing it.
but what are you talking about? we are talking about incentives where newcomers are rolled out the red carpet like nowhere else, with hiring agreements and follow-ups with weekly help to ensure optimal integration. if you want to go on vacation to niagara falls, you are free, but any immigrant would be willing to sacrifice everything to have access to this kind of proposition.
do you think the current proposal is perhaps better? "come here, do your own thing, stay poor, go wherever you want (so to montreal in overpriced accommodation), but at least you will walk freely in canada?"
a little serious.
yeah, not too much in the news because it is at the same time as bill 21 and the immigration thresholds.
a citizen coup they can go where they want.
why did the plc refuse? it seems to me that the management and the hospitality programs fall under the provincial jurisdiction.
and lose all the conditions and privileges obtained by the incentives of the red carpet program, ranging from housing or property at a discount to bonuses?
well then. i would like to see you yourself refuse such conditions.
because it prevents the "freedom" of movement.
oh yes ... the same freedom without the money.
quebec is undergoing a cultural invasion. we have to get out of this mess before we are exterminated by us imperialism.
> i thought we had gone elsewhere in 2021
since 1760, it's always the same damn thing. what happens, quebecers react strongly, the english retreat, things calm down for about thirty years and then they start again. it suffices for them to believe that the quebec people are completely submissive for them to reveal their durhamist intentions.
nice response to the reporter who asked about the quote:
"no, not if you know the rest of it."
quebecers are ... fascinating!
quebec absolutely must wake up and leave this abusive "marriage" with english canada which only despises and insults us.
quebec federalists are like battered women who refuse to leave or file a complaint with the police.
but since there is obviously no police in canada, quebec must come to the realization that this "marriage" will cost it its sanity and perhaps even its future.
that we propose a canadian referendum to reject quebec, i approve anytime!
it was so anti-quebec that even the bozos from / r / canada seem embarrassed and compliment blanchet. so try to make believe that there is no anti-quebec feeling after that ...
* no time: we are in the middle of a pandemic. however, we always have time to talk about bill 21. *
the pandemic is over for us but not for you, part # 431.
so many quebecois prefer equalization before enforcing it, the worst that a lot of them are so called "conservatives", yeah "keep" the bs.
well, i've been around r / canada, and against all odds, yfb is popular everywhere. not ironically, canadians are clamoring for him to rule canada.
like what, the canadian press = / = the people.
this is the story of the last years of the media. doesn't have a grounder
denis coderre, anti-woke candidate, now pro-national (compared to plante) ... the world upside down. i am not complaining. to think he was the federal henchman not so long ago ...
well. to hell with the durhamists.
studying federalism is the best way to become a separatist ... this is what happened to parizeau ...
it was while writing a speech on the subject of federalism on a train headed for banff on behalf of the federal government that parizeau realized that quebec's independence was necessary.
he does it all the same out of pure electoralism.
parizeau, coderre, same stature, same fight.
i agree with your conclusions, but even if coderre told me without laughing that he is a sovereignist, that would not convince me.
something tells me that he does not care and that it is electoralism.
most sovereignists were federalists in the past, myself during part of my adolescence.
but he does it anyway.
if we have to analyze all the motivations of each elected, there would only be the pure-hearted wokes to govern us. we don't give a damn about the motivations as long as it serves us.
he has his reasons, the important thing is that he fulfills his obligations
the patriots were also federalists ... they did not want the independence of quebec, they wanted the independence of canada from great britain.
what a great man he was.
he must turn around in his grave to see where we are.
he called himself a "communist" but is it a nationalist party ?!
i mean, are you a communist to appropriate our electrical infrastructure? pcq it was a box of good idea.
quebec historiography in connection with nationalizations suffers from the survivor bias. hydro-quebec was obviously a stroke of genius. on the other hand, we hear less about the nationalizations of asbestos, iron, the steel industry or shipyards which ended in bitter failures leading to the disengagement of the state. so without launching accusatory tirades reminiscent of those directed at the cuban regime, we can conclude that the lévesque governments were ill-advised in their policy of nationalization.
big capitalists who have money to lose in a change will call everything a communist.
for the american right there are communists in canada / qc because you can go see a doctor for free without paying $ 500 / month in insurance and you don't pay for your insulin 1000% more than you should (which big pharma charges people in the usa)
to hear them talk about public health in canada, we are armed revolutionary bearded men who live in the forest like che guevara back in the days.
i have never been neither a federalist nor a sovereignist. personally right now i would never vote bloc because of the four islamophobic mps from the last campaign who were spreading hateful lies about muslims on social media and the way yfb just brushed it off with an apology that isn't. not.
if the same type of lies had been told by anglos on the qc we would have pulled our hair out, scalp included and not trivialized it like yfb just to make it talk as little as possible as yfb does pcq it was too late to replace its candidates and did not want to lose its 4 seats.
rené lévesque would never have accepted a false / hate speech in his training for his political gain.
a leader like him i would vote tomorrow morning for without hesitation. we have empty shells of a politician compared to him in 2021.
i believe that rené would not have sided with the 4 moral refuse 4chan / qanon style which sits under the banner of the bloc at the moment.
a real man of principles who really dreamed of a country
i imagine these industries slashed it along with the rest of the rust belt in the usa. victim of chinese free trade and cheap labor? the difference being that it was the state that paid the price.
why they nationalized dying industries that would be my question.
not being a party to the decisions of the time, i can only speculate, but something tells me that we suffered from a collective union-leftist delirium. we thought we could do better than the wicked private companies, in addition wicked private american companies that eat french canadians with evil english at their head. we still have bursts of this delirium nowadays with the mirage pharma quebec. as if the government having absolutely no expertise in pharmaceuticals, the government which failed in all its responsibilities could compete with the giants of the field in the generic market because developing new molecules has forgotten that.
the loser of the debate is everyone who listened to it.
but what does antoine robitaille smoke?
make you push a column and ask for a democracy which is less of the shit than politicians with zingers in cane!
do you think trudeau won the debate?
he certainly hasn't lost it.
in my opinion he lost.
o'toole looked significantly worse, considering he can make gains in quebec he looked completely lost
o'toole was no better or less worse. there is only one loser: jagmeet singh.
“his community of mental reference is first of all afghan. it is only in this way that we can understand this astonishing“ us ”.
it's amazing, knowing that ms. monsef has been in canada since the age of 11. why is it locked in its origins?
but, in fact, canada practices extreme multiculturalism. it pushes individuals not to define themselves as citizens belonging to canada as a whole, but as ethnic and cultural quotas under the umbrella of diversity.
and that is ms. monsef's role in the federal cabinet.
she is not present there for her particular skills, much less for her judgment, obviously, but as an ethno-religious quota. "
the only reason why she is a minister, she is there by what she fills two cotas ... she has no business there at all but trudeau, instead of the world who know what they are doing, whatever gender or ethnicity, she is there because she is an afghan woman. period.
what she had to say and what she had to do there, there is no one who knows ... it's a military question and foreign affairs, the minister of transgender and goat fodder has no screeching words to say ... but in addition she chose "nos freres" as words ...
chalice.
[deleted]
it's not everyone who has the mbc mentality or some quebecers who find multiculturalism a bad thing.
the best example is the uk where there are scottish people from wales, english people and people in northern ireland who have cultural affiliations in a political bloc.
we can understand them from the history of quebec and the mentality of the people who still live on the plains of abraham and have not yet had the information that the war is over and generals montcalm and wolfe are dead.
but unlike this type of article / line of thought it is possible to be part of a collective while maintaining a cultural distinction.
i am giving you the case of a certain province within a certain confederation that we call a distinct society .... that is multiculturalism.
those who are afraid of it is because their openness to the world is as big as a box of matches and are insecure about anything that is not like them.
no, a quota of equity (woman) and ethnic (afghan immigrant).
scotland and quebec are 2 nations that want to separate from the countries with which they are linked.
quite frankly, a country that has suffered from a thirty-year civil war and whose peace is ensured only by walls 18 feet in the air is not exactly a good example of serene cohabitation. on the contrary, it tends to demonstrate the practically insurmountable challenges of multinational cohabitation.
besides, we shouldn't be under any illusions, the concept of a distinct society, of a quebec nation or whatever is antithetical to [canadian multiculturalism] ( laws / c-18.7 / page-1.html). only amerindians have the right to their national identity. for all others, our state doctrine indicates verbatim that all foreigners must be free to maintain, enhance and share their cultural heritage, that this dynamic is a fundamental characteristic of canadian identity and heritage and constitutes a resource. invaluable for the future of the country. maryam monsef is the perfect example of this being part of the * canadian collective * while remaining in love with her brothers the taliban.
well yes, so that is to say ok for a canadian minister to identify herself first with the taliban?
[deleted]
i share the same opinion!
disarming the police should help / s
the enslavement of society continues. import the third world, become the third world.
yes, i'm sure it's a problem that can be dealt with more violently by the state.
in addition to trudeau's law which arbitrarily makes some long guns illegal because of their names and potato cannons, we're going to be safe!
you're right, state violence is more serious than gang violence
state violence will amplify gang violence and create an “us versus them” attitude that will strengthen the gang itself. it's not normal that if the health world needs to be part of a gang, that for them it is the best thing to do. they have to find the root of the problem first if they really want to eliminate the problem.
the police will be very happy to have the overime.
false dichotomy. you can walk and chew gum at the same time.
sorry but the street gangs shooting each other, no mercy for that.
it's not a matter of pity. and yes, you can make the problem worse the same time you try to fix it. we can even turn it into a small war that we will live with for years to come.
soon "our brothers, the street gangs"? i understand that we can tackle the problem in different ways, but letting imbeciles obtain weapons as they wish is unacceptable. that's probably what the anti-gang squads will do. a guy with a gun who sells pot annoys him more than an unarmed guy who sells pot.
and the source is quebec horizon current is the conservative party? justin trudeau lives for free in the head of michel vaudreuil and the newspaper rag which he links to conspiracies on a daily basis.
andrew scheer paid tuition fees even to his party's caisse and the party let her give up her place as leader quietly without causing too much scandal.
whoever is going to say that the whole left is corrupt or that only the right is corrupt is an impartial fanatic.
they are all corrupt the political class as a whole. it is almost a prerequisite to be elected.
at the stake
asti that all these white heads i hate that burst. the worst generation ever.
on the other hand, if the ccp says false, it will be known or they will end up on trial for libel (or not).
the left as well as the right are not worth so much shit as much as to me.
if your government is smaller and less bureaucratic, there is less room for cancer to grow.
the documents in question are public and they provide the link.
friendly reminder, you will grow old, and your head will turn white, and young people who know nothing will accuse us of all the evils.
ultimately it's probably exactly because these people said to themselves of their parents and their grandparents "the worst generation ever, we don't owe anyone anything, peace and love, we're going to change the world". gave what it gave.
exactly
no because at this age i am going to tell myself that it is all about my business and that it is up to the young people to decide. will do whatever they want. i'm not talking about what they accomplished they could have been the best generation.
boomers like her are the same kind of boomer caliss you see parked outside the entrance to every grocery store waiting for their wives to come back. they harm everyone, but the land belongs to them.
100% agree
oh no! not in front of the grocery store! all must die !!!!!
> it's all about my business and it's up to the young people to decide. will do whatever they want.
exactly, word for word, the attitude of the boomer generation.
if the boomers looked like it wouldn't have one in ottawa and quebec. without cheker ye has a minimum of 50 out of 125 to sth. what are you still crying to decide for the other generations.
ahah your frozen if you think the boomers are ready to settle down ...
ok
the more we bring blokes to montreal, the more it will happen. import alberta, become alberta.
> the four volunteers on site were of armenian, russian, ukrainian and georgian origin. they allege that the individual would have lost his temper when he heard their accents.
immigrants who speak french and vote bloc? the horror!
surely an ontario woke, albertans are much nicer to us.
surely racists
are not welcome.
we don't have to like them or their posters.
i'm albertan and you're right;)
> this is not the first time that the public broadcaster has treated its most qualified and competent reference figures in this way.
normand lester, anyone?
to follow up on this article
"hypersensitive, who manage to impose the tyranny of feeling and make impossible the legitimate exercise of authority"
i don't know what it's about, but i think i don't care
> richard martineau is not wrong to call them the little rabbits.
> listen to mathieu bock-côté's column at the microphone of richard martineau on qub radio:
my daily confirmation that guy debord was a prophet.
in the meantime, let's not forget the famous diction * when you want to kill your dog, you say he has rabies. * someone in the upper echelons wanted to pack ms. nadeau with an anonymous accusation and not the anonymous accusation which forced the upper echelons to act. the reverse would be the high-ranking officers who submit to the trainees and that borders on fantasy. mbc was talking about the reversal of responsibilities, but i believe that here we are dealing with a reversal of casus belli.
call me back?
it is a way of trivializing harassment at work. you have to get on all fours and take it like a real tough 'because it has always been like that'.
there are always two sides to a medal i would love to hear what she said and how she treated the staff.
when you dare to denounce you are a 'hypersensitive'
he wrote "le livre noir du canada anglais" and radio-canada kicked him out for it.
has he trivialized harassment?
no luck, there is even "black" in the title.
we quickly jump to conclusions with just one version. she mentions working 'intensely' sometimes' and having people with 'less experience' on the weekends.
i'm not saying that rc's management are white as snow and that it didn't do their business to pack it down.
still, there are always two sides to a medal and i would be curious to know how she treated her staff. the world has changed a lot in the last 33 years and everyone has the right to earn a living with a minimum of respect at work.
we don't have the other version only his.
you're right about that, but we are far from trivializing harassment
when we are going to have two versions we will see. she might be right it might be a dirty move from rc management.
she may also have treated the evening / weekend staff like shit for years until someone decided that enough was enough and reported.
it is very good to politicize the environment, enough to die faster than expected from climate change. at least we won't waste time knowing if we'll really get there: no, but at least we can dress up as a drag queen while waiting.
[deleted]
it is also gay pride week in montreal which will end with a parade without any sanitary measures announced on the 15th. a perfect occasion for a little gaslighting at the end of the week with a second demonstration ....
an article with more images than text… i really feel informed about the “scourge” of drag queens anyway!
but it is the false indians who cross the government who must stop.
\ * \ * \ * update: the federal government is trying to remove the evidence \ * \ * \ *
[
the site: [ marge( -164193638593)
i don't know what to tell you if you can't read.
"please ensure that you register for the workshops using your government of canada email address."
as for the tweet, you're right. the trudeau government did away with it. they are trying to remove the evidence, but they have not succeeded.
the article has been updated:
* nothing exists! *
[  
i like the mention that the government is “pushing” public servants. this article is well anchored in reality ...
one week? wasn't june the month of pride?
[
i don't know why it's august instead of june.
pt that the week existed before the month and that they decided to keep it. in any case, that makes five weeks of pride a year.
the wolves are in the sheepfold: p history nebulous since one speaks of aggression in * gray zone * of which the presumed victims refuse to lodge a complaint. without throwing stones at qs and accusing the party of being a benchmark of rapists, it still shows the other side of the coin of theirs who want to appear whiter than white, the false allies to use the words of the ladies involved. after [the veiled hate crime threats from eve torres] ( , that gives the portrait of the moralizers with two balls which agglutinate in this party.
"a group of women" ... crisse the guy seems to have "scored" a lot more often than the average ...
another victim of the evil white patriarchy?
fun fact that the latest allegations in the last few months have been almost exclusively male spokespersons for intersectional feminism.
as i have always said, there are only manipulative or manipulated woke activists, nothing in between.
many predators have evolved to camouflage themselves in the landscape of their prey.
but hey it is the camp of good and purity! / s
i have a question for the wokes:
is it islamophobic to call them islamist mardes or is it sexite what they did?
worse, which of the two wins?
it doesn't make the narrative of violent white fake the subject will end up in the bag of chips
the doctor would normally have refused their request, unless he himself was part of an islamist network.
a title of the most objective ...
there is no virginity test.
no. they will tell you that it is an important cultural practice to keep.
what troubles me in this story is especially that quebecers hate this culture not only on this aspect but all the rest as well, otherwise you would see that the people in this jurisdiction are not all like that, are you ready to protect or lowered?
source?
anyone can check this
that doesn't stop charlatans and extremists from doing it.
no, they will close their eyes, cover their ears and sing loudly as they run away and tomorrow they will pretend not to remember.
a doctor cannot force someone to be examined against their will, let alone a patient hostage.
it's not the details the problem is mainly the lack of support that muslim and christian women have from our catholic jurisdiction which rejects both the good aspects and the bad. muslims who criticize on all aspects even the good ones.
[“so, doctor, can you check my daughter's virginity? can you tell me if she is still a virgin?” no, we cannot. there is no physical sign that indicates the virginity of a woman: in fact, no physical examination will be able to evaluate the virginity of a human being, man or woman. “what about the hymen, doctor?” the hymen is an anatomical part, an elastic membrane in the vaginal canal. it is not a valuable nor scientific sign of virginity: it is sufficiently elastic to be penetrated without breaking, but fragile to be lacerated by activities other than sexual interactions.](
the charlatans and extremists have always rejected both good and bad aspects and speak of this jurisdiction only when something tragic happens and also treated them as less than nothing like all these extremists and charlatans themselves do too, it is not overnight that quebecers will learn about this jurisdiction in large numbers to protect vulnerable people.
i would even be surprised if quebecers greet muslim women with respect in large numbers, but it would be a hell of a good start and a big step forward and the greatest gift for these very vulnerable people. 💕
i always favor cultural practice!
if he respects the law
so they must have "midwives" to do the exam.
yeah i think everyone knows that
you will know that you are the only one here to say that a true muslim is also a fundamentalist.
lé pove piti muslim 💕
how are they more vulnerable?
eh?
this is the advantage of putting individuals in stereotypical boxes. an asian in quebec? it is 100% clear that he speaks chinese! blacks? they are poor! quebeckers? to put with the whites! muslims? oppressed by law 21!
i would so much like to have this luxury of categorizing individuals according to cultural stereotypes, life would be very easy for me.
so for you they are all crazy?
kk
the truth will shock you as will your disgust. good luck haters.
this kind of things ? otherwise i don't know, you?
1) there are doctors who do not respect the law.
2) there are midwives who specialize in this examination in the muslim community
you know what i write is what i said. the voices you hear telling you that i said something else, it's not true.
one day we are "phobes", the other "haters", phew, your life as victims is not easy!
vulnerable to virginity tests? to the stigma?
you say that as if you knew something, as if it was known that doctors broke laws on a daily basis ... out of 10,000 of them, there must be only one who would accept an assessment under such conditions , so as much to say that it takes a very organized islamist network, which is not at all the case of these two brothers who literally kidnapped their own sister in a rather disorganized way. this kind of network normally operates in the shadows without making noise.
yeah.
her brothers are muslims but she? did you think about it before you wrote muslim in the title?
we in canada have services and contracts and certificates which are subject to laws, in islamic jurisdiction everything has not yet been codified by king ben salman, codification is also a word that emphasizes the law, the type the strongest law there is the law on inheritance (which is defrauded in large numbers by donations that are not channeled / given back), you imagine you get jailed for having sold / donated or asking for an inheritance ?, this is the kind of thing that happens there too and that's not all, here in canada have rights but it is not the case for all places in the world, basically the lack of codification gives the freedom to use contracts, certificates and all this mess without impunity. it is also for its reasons that territories are dangerous and not just anyone can move around as they wish.
> this kind of network normally operates in the shadows without making any noise.
indeed, it may be known and also the majority of the girls who undergo this analysis are still in their environment of submission, which was not the case with this girl.
> as if it was known that doctors broke laws on a daily basis
sadly, yes, they figure it’s better that it’s them doing that than the girl undergoes the throes of an amateur examiner / surgeon.
> a suspect described as [...] male, with dark skin is wanted [...] by the authorities.
tell us something we don't know.
i really have no sympathy for the catholic church.
may they all be burnt!
rrrrrrrrrrr.....rrrŕrrrrrrrr......rŕrrŕrrrrraaaaaaa......rrrqaaaqacccccccciiiiiiiisssssttttttttttteeeeeee!!!
not having sympathy for an organization does not give you the right to burn these buildings and act with violence.
yes, the catholic church with clean hands and never inflicted harm on anyone.
we must destroy the church, it is an institution which exists only to enrich the bishops and to spread lies. esti of murderous and mafiotic organism.
i never said the church was care bears. on the contrary, the church has often been corrupt or wicked in its actions. but to blame a pastor who tries to improve his parish with his faith and to burn or vandalize his church for actions he did not do. it's disgusting.
without the church that encouraged our ancestors to have children, discouraged emigration, and considered the language the "guardian of the faith," french would have disappeared in north america.
"mean in his actions."
there we start with the minimization of his crimes. in my opinion, the catholic church is a terrorist and genocidal body such as the nazi party. there were "good germans" at that time as well.
while a dozen priests are good guys, that doesn't excuse all the rest of the kids, and an organization that routinely suppresses reports of abuse. i do not even mention his historical crimes against all the indigenous peoples of the americas, the inquisition, etc ...
i understand, language is so important that it justifies years of oppression, abuse, corruption. i believe that you are not a woman with 12 children because mr. le curé says that contraception is a sin, or you do not risk becoming one.
the church has done terrible things. but it is not by burning its buildings that you will solve this problem.
you're right, we're not going to fix anything by doing this.
however, the world is enraged, and in my opinion, burning churches is justified. he even makes the pope refuse to apologize for the previous crimes is sufficient cause.
we're tired. if the church doesn't close its doors, we'll do it.
he apologized and all the dioceses provided all the documents on the residential schools while it was the federal government that created them, the church only took charge of them because it was they who took care of education in the time. blame the catholic church when the federal government created them and the majority of residential schools were protestant. looks like some people want to put all the blame on them.
oh wow! i'm sorry, it's true that the church did not benefit from any of this and they are the real victims.
believe me too, the federal government is rotten as is the church. there i agree.
i never said the church was a victim. but that the fault is put on them alone is wrong. several of them tried to assimilate the natives.
i am against the vaccine passport, but indeed, the nazification of speech must stop.
the holocaust literally began with segregation, propaganda, dehumanization and the gradual withdrawal of their rights by a demagogic and autocratic populist government that scorned democracy and claimed to protect its people from an intangible threat.
but to mbc and his minions, the rebellious aren't even allowed to speak until they're all cremated it sounds.
instead of taking ownership and speaking on behalf of the jews on this subject, i suggest going and asking the hasidic jews who fled the holocaust what they think of the current climate and you will see which side they are on.
mbc may well be embarked on the crusade against the woke years late, he himself is one of the gurus of the woke covidians aka the woke 2.0
no reference to the 2 favorite phrases (for more than 10 years) of politicians and artists that mbc meets in france:
* * the darkest hours in our history *
* * sounds of boots *
on the other hand, the * no teeth * which sums up to one word and reuses the argument, it is not correct.
we understood mr. bfm ....
it's strange, in the article mbc speaks by saying "you" and "we" and i don't feel zero concerned. who is he talking to?
another tea towel signed bock-côté.
the problem is that although it is far from the holocaust, the french-style vaccination passport, for example, is arguably the most serious example of institutional discrimination since the war. much more serious and sanctioned by force, contrary to the various imaginary "systemisms" of our friends of the new faith.
in addition to providing no epidemiological benefit, it implicitly accuses a large part of the population of embodying the problem of covid.
however, the covid is a virus. you cannot defeat a virus by repression. only by pharmaceutical means, including vaccines, but not just vaccines.
yeah, being put in camps and exterminated or being told you don't come to mcbouette without a vaccine, it's all the same. / s
no but, and what else? no, they won't go after and exterminate unvaccinated people.
nah man, in my opinion the nazis came to power and said, "we are going to wage war on the whole world, torture people and carry out genocide!" and everyone applauded.
believes that the world lacks many things, but not ignorance.
[deleted]
i think you're putting on a little too much as usual.
on the pandemic, mbc is moderate, as much in one direction as in the other. he follows the laws, but does not refrain from criticizing them and showing his fed up, even underlining the collective paranoia. so we are far from a covidian "guru" like some members of a sub.
as for the comparison with the holocaust, i hear your connection, but we are frankly very far from this delirium. maybe you will be right one day, but right now the comparison is inappropriate.
pretending not to understand when someone is speaking normally and simply is not a mark of intelligence.
to those who are concerned
reading a bit about history would do you good. the death camps did not happen overnight, it was a continual progression. the current climate is practically identical to that in the first years, and unlike some i do not believe that it is necessary to arrive at the camps to have a problem with that.
sacrament...
it slips, it slips!
thank you
it is true that it is probably the least extremist on the covid of the québécor team indeed.
as for bringing together, don't forget that we are talking about a crowd, crowds are stupid and people have very few cultural references or aptitude for subtlety.
no, they won't go after and exterminate unvaccinated people.
the world is stupid, nothing new
show me where i said that
you literally answer this: "i don't think it is necessary to get to the camps to have a problem with that"
"they won't make the vaccine mandatory, it's a conspiracy theory."
"they will not impose a 2nd lockdown."
"the border is just closed for a month, nothing to worry about."
"it's just 3 weeks, why are you bitching."
and yet you criticize mbc for denouncing the comparison with the nazis.
you're really inconsistent with morning you know.
it happens to me, i come back from work and i am tired. what i understood is that people are shouting at nazism because of the vaccination passport. mbc denounces this. and you say he is wrong because nazism started like that with the jews. what am i not understanding?
don't you understand nazism was a problem even before they had camps
i also understand that hitler was a vegetarian, and i do not believe that vegetarians are potential hitlerites.
> the management of the canadian historical society (sch), which claims to represent 650 professional historians in canada, has just endorsed a delusional claim that “the long history of violence and dispossession of indigenous peoples” fully justifies the use of the word “genocide” to characterize the treatment they received (steven high, “the word“ genocide ”is justified,” le devoir, july 2, 2021).
phew! i had not seen him pass that one! we are really in a period of rhetorical escalation.
the word "genocide" does not apply at all to the treatment that has been done to them. you can mistreat a people without qualifying as "genocide". the grand dérangement is not a genocide (rather an ethnic cleansing by forced displacement of population).
at the beginning, there was talk of a policy of forced assimilation. but that was not enough, we chose to speak of "cultural genocide" instead. and now they want to convince us to speak of "genocide" like the shoah or the armenian genocide? this is raging madness.
> nearly 150,000 young métis, inuit and other first nations peoples attended residential schools from 1867 to 2000. of these, the commission noted that approximately 3,200 deaths occurred there from 1921 to 1965. historical research that she has shown that, from world war ii to 1965, the death rate in residential schools was comparable to the canadian average for young people aged 5 to 14, a highly probable result of the inoculation of the vaccines which took place. carried out in residential schools as in other canadian schools.
>  
> for the previous period, from 1921 to 1950, the residential school mortality rate was more than double the canadian average, again for young people aged 5 to 14. this rate averages about four students per year per 1,000 youth attending residential schools. their deaths were mostly attributable to tuberculosis, according to the commission's research. we are far from a physical genocide of aboriginal youth.
very interesting information. so the residential school death rate was double the national average from 1921 to 1950 but after world war ii it was the same as the national average. it partially answers a question i had on the subject. but that leaves the pre-1921 death rate hanging in the air, but i imagine the records aren't good enough to estimate the whole thing back then.
ironically, there is a holocaust museum in ottawa and neither the first nations of america or tasmania, nor the armenians etc. are represented there (because only religious sacrifices are there). this museum should be renamed the musée des génocides and have an open outlook.
this article self-destructs by citing the united nations definition which is exactly in line with the use of the word genocide.
"kill the indian and save the man"
i believe that the blow of the blankets infected with smallpox is much closer to the genocide than the residential schools.
the archives are on the contrary of excellent quality for the time among all that was written at the time we have notably dr. peter bryce who wrote a long letter to the pm of the time.
source: [
\> some whites knew. this was particularly the case with dr. peter bryce.
dr. bryce raised the issue of the abuse aboriginal children were subjected to in residential schools, he spoke of the deaths… and the canadian federal authorities have completely ignored it.
\> he discovers a situation where the death rate in schools is 25%. if you follow the children for three years, this rate increases to 48%
be honest with yourself, if we had such an institution in canadian history that targeted quebecers and we discovered a death rate of nearly 50% over three years of the population who frequent them we would speak of genocide and this with good reason. moreover, if we are interested in international law which judges this kind of crime, the definition is clear, canada and the catholic church are responsible for a genocide.
"the great inconvenience"?
yes, in fact it is the only clearly genocidal act committed (or planned, because we are not sure that it really took place) in north america.
and here, the british army is responsible (jeffery amherst), not the french settlers or the catholic church.
at the same time, isn't genocide defined according to a certain threshold?
the source you provide does not say anything about the quality of the archives of the time. even when reading more, the doctor you mention himself mentions that the school reports are grossly deficient:
[bryce noted that the lack of certainty about the exact number of deaths was, in part, due to the official reports submitted by school principals and "defective way in which the returns had been made."](
the deportation of the acadians.
ok but this is just a matter of sémentique. it is not because we have incomplete reports on this particular fact that it does not mean that there were not people who wrote about the amerindian genocide. you have to stop thinking that it happened a long time ago. my friend's father has been abused by clerics in this institution, and i'm a zoomer of proofs, writings of artefacts, you have some, if for you archives it is a priest who writes how he raped and beat children sorry but you won't find any.
i never said that we did not know that there were major problems: lack of food, buildings conducive to disease, bad practices, abuse, etc ...
i have spoken in the context of estimating death rates, the archives allow these to be estimated from 1921 onwards, but the archives are too incomplete for reliable estimates to be made in previous years.
wasn't the decline of the pq and the postponement of sovereignty partly because of him?
> the mayor of montreal, ms. valérie plante, awarded the honorary title of honorary citizen of the city of montreal to mr. lucien bouchard.
between neoliberal bourgeois federalists, they understand each other
this asshole that cut family subsidies, destroyed the quebec government apparatus and was the first to divest in education and health. he set the table for charest and couillard.
the economic right has always hated education, it prevents the exploitation of the poor.
it was time
phew, the worst part is that he is still popular with pro-independence boomers (like my mother-in-law for example). at the same time, i understand that the pq went looking for him, he's the kind of guy you'd rather see sitting next to you rather than in front of you on a negotiating table.
another "pearl" of denise "d-bomb" bombardier.
> "the strong mouths, those who flout our collective memory, who falsely rewrite our history and disdain our present must know that their fight is not ours"
did i miss an episode or someone important in quebec would have challenged the history of quebec, or even would have rewritten it as it is currently taught in our schools? or is it yet another victimizing chronicle based on imaginary enemies who threaten the integrity of quebec from the height of their * power *? because worded like that, it sounds like someone specific did something specific, but we just "forgot" to say who and what.
it has nothing to do with it, but in [this article] ( also published in the journal on the rise of the far-right in quebec, we say "* 2020 was the most active year of the far-right with regard to crimes and protests in quebec." the pandemic has exacerbated the problem however, even once the pandemic is over, the hold of conspiracy theory on these individuals is going to be difficult to break. \ [... \] some people in these groups live with mental problems. but * ** * they all have at least one thing in common: the impression of living a persistent injustice *** \ * ", concludes martin geoffroy"
> did i miss an episode where someone important in quebec would have challenged quebec's history, or even rewrote it as it is currently being taught in our schools? or is it yet another victimizing chronicle based on imaginary enemies?
the wokes who cry "colonialism" and the other inbeciles of the roc like attaran ... qs and the others who see racism and shit everywhere ... the immigrants who are unable to integrate and who we shit on it for the decisions we make at home, for us ...
chalice in which hole are you hiding? i am not even "on the right" but sacrament, you have to be blind crisscrossed or sold in tabarnac to imagine that everything is ok worse that some groups have not a creak of problem with quebec and the quebecois.
it's an easy strategy, we hallucinate an attack on quebec, a word that is simultaneously invented and "non-negotiable" in the same article. then you hope that your audience will agree with you not to sound pacifist and to endanger the nation by inaction.
just see the responses you have already received to see how it works.
"i'm not even 'on the right'" (is clearly on the cultural right)
"cry 'colonialism'"
"attaran-type roc idiots ... qs"
"racism and shit everywhere"
"immigrants who are unable to integrate and who shit on us"
"in what hole are you hiding?"
"must be blind in criss or sold in tabarnac"
you see how he's infected with woke memes, he thinks he's under attack, they hear a lot of bullshit in his feed and they think it's true opinion the world has. unable to accept any criticism or even tolerate the slightest suggestion that there is a problem.
ok, from the banal critical world. i don't want to break your heart, but the banal world on twitter and facebook shits against absolutely everything, from celine dion to the mccord museum through bitcoin and the possible colonization of mars one day not to mention mayor plante. we do not see all these people going to bawl just because the two of spades are posting very sad messages. you cannot with the same hand write pafin comments on immigrants and natives and with the other go into tears if someone criticizes quebec.
emphasis on "*** important ***" world. i'm okay with attaran being a college professor, but who knew him before that? do you know which university professor in ottawa besides him? what power does he have to change quebec society exactly? is it so bad if a teacher somewhere thinks we're pockets? i mean, have you ever experienced rejection before? has ever a girl (guy) turned you down because you weren't hot enough for her (him)? what have you done ? burned his mailbox?
"chalice" must be less fragile.
i am neither sold nor blind. you are snowflake to the max if the slightest criticism makes you flinch. there will always be people to criticize you in life. the only thing that matters is whether it's justified - what do we do? - or not: we don't care.
flouting collective memory is strong language, you really have to have publicly insulted memory with a real impact, like you are president, you deny a genocide and you refuse reparation while you are in the guilty camp. not some abdoul who lives in toronto. that is not to scoff, it is a nobody who complains. to rewrite history, to do it for real, you have to succeed in changing the history books. writing a column like bock-côté which says that north america did not exist before the arrival of its ancestors is not enough, it does not rewrite. to rewrite, you have to succeed in changing the school books which are the collective memory. not seen that as far as i'm concerned. in short, very scary big words to say "there are people who don't like us". no shit, sherlock?
i liked the
> i am not even "on the right" but
to then immediately fall into hyperbole and free personal attacks.
> to then immediately fall into hyperbole and free personal attacks.
what "free personal attacks" ??
when you bend your head in the sand to ignore the bullshit that is organized to not hurt the poor little minority group ... there are two reasons, blindness or bullshit.
understand me well, on an individual level i have no problem with anyone ... but ordeal to pretend that blacks are not more likely to join street gangs, and arabs are not more likely to do so explode worse completely ignore it worse pretend it doesn't exist and it's racism worse blah blah blah ... you have to be reasonable somewhere and sort out the screeching problems ...
we get pissed off by anyone, and anyone who collects political or social capital with that. worse must not say a screeching word because monsieur is a gay tamil transgender oppressed in a wheelchair with "life" ... chalice ...
when you have a group that shouts at "colonialism" worse at "racism" and worse at "systemic racism" you have cellars who want to rewrite history to make it fit in their utopian imaginary world of the crt and or everyone gets in each other's ass in public and everyone finds it beautiful "love"
it's the same thing with the extreme right, but the point of the discussion is the guaugauche woke who wants to rewrite history to tell us that we are the bad guys because of the color of our skin. we should shut our eyes.
100% right!
two loneliness, two peoples caught in a marriage that frustrates both ... worse we stay together because, on both sides, we are afraid, we have no balls.
we are afraid that independence will lower the stock market, we are afraid of losing our federal old age pension, we are afraid of repaying our share of the debt ...
english canada is also afraid, afraid of having to show a passport to go from ottawa to moncton, fear that quebec will become a success without canada ** but above all afraid of losing its grip on quebec. **
there is this thought in canada, thought often unconscious but always real, that quebecers lost the war of the conquest and that, according to them, quebec ** belongs to canada. **
the independence of quebec would amount to canceling the "victory" of the english on the plains of abraham and this is inconceivable for many english speakers in canada.
lots of things. the flag they stole from us, the national anthem they stole from us, the surname they stole from us, the poutine they stole from us, their constitution that they imposed on us, etc. .
they are also afraid of a balkanization of the country. without quebec, the atlantic and / or western provinces have no reason not to join the united states.
i therefore propose that we remedy the semantic ambiguity of the word "canada" by separating, declaring the province of quebec defunct, and by creating the new country of canada. it would probably allay their fears.
english canada is as much rooted in quebec as any other province. no one talks about quebec among the english and are convinced that quebecers hate them and here we hate them because we think we hate them.
or to form their own country.
if the maritime provinces unite, their populations together would amount to at least 2.3 million people but with enough natural resources and enough land to run a good economy.
but you are surely right, it is possible that canada will not survive a separation from quebec for long.
moreover, it is not said that this would be to our advantage.
small confidence, i have always found the name of quebec quite silly. ultimately, it stems from the british province of quebec nomenclature which itself takes its name from quebec city. a country named after its capital seriously lacks imagination. and yet as you point out so well, this country already has a name and it is canada. so why not the republic of canada for us and viceroyalty of canada for our neighbors.
there are many possibilities to claim an own identity, distinct from the chimera that has been imposed on us. there is probably no desire for that, though.
even if legault is not doing anything really well, the other parties are in complete disarray. the plq only receives support from those who vote for dead pigs, the pq fails to ignite voters, qs is only interesting to scare other parties and the pcq is still unknown to the majority of people. legault does not win because he is good, he wins by default.
the surprise is the pcq, although i expected it. but i know several who told me it would never make more than 2%. obviously, it remains to be seen whether this support will continue or increase by the election in 2022, or rather decrease. nevertheless, it is a successful arrival for duhaime at the head of the pcq.
the caq is discouraging to see them always so high, but at the same time our democracy is sick because our traditional media are hand in hand with the government ... legault is the messiah of the boomers. its nationalist facade continues to crack.
the pq continues to lag behind and it is a shame, even if the party still remains second among francophones (tied with qs this time). the caq really occupies all the space among the francos.
for the plq, it remains catastrophic for them, with figures like that, they continue to be relegated to the island of montreal where the anglophone and allophone vote keeps them alive.
for qs, it is especially among young people that they do well, which is worrying. the fact remains that the party is on the verge of implosion with its many contradictions.
the pq 4em at 12% and the pcq at 6%.
i predict the pcq will overtake the pq before 2022.
the fiasco announced for pspp is on its way, bravo to the members of the pq for having chosen as leader the one who will finish the party of rené levesque, as easily foreseen by many.
given that the pq really has himself to blame .. what a waste, i wish him a quick and painless death.
at least qs and the plq are not doing much better even if that means that the caq is still throne ...
quel shit show..
the pq must relieve a lot of people with its ** "dictatural" ** concervatism-progressive ** flavor **. to be clearer, i have nothing special against bill 101 in cegep (i mean it doesn't bother me, but i can't take for that). to protect french, we seem to want to be in favor of ** individual freedom ** restrictions.
i respect the pq and i agree that we must take measures to standardize the french use on its own territory, but honestly that could mean that i spend another year not voting ...
[edit: when it's made that you find normal and justify restricting ** individual freedoms ** which are ** "freedom of choice" ** by adults who are already french-speaking here, wow! we are no longer talking about display there! worrisome for the rest ...]
the pcq has never looked so good!
the plq has its figures because 55% of non-french speakers still vote for them. they are guaranteed a minimum of 20 county ...
anglade is terrible, i imagine they are already preparing his succession.
qs should settle in as opposition to the caq since the path is free, it should be able to exceed 15% and settle around 20%. they have time left but their stagnation is worrying. at least they totally dominate in the 18-34 age group so every day brings more qs voters.
pspp is the announced fiasco, it is at 4% in the popularity rating, it is catastrophic. i don't see any way for the pq to go up, in fact it keeps going down .. it's really the end.
so yes, legault has no real opposition but at the same time, the pq and the plq had the chance to elect a leader knowing that legault was in the 40-50%, it was not the time to play safe. they have only themselves to blame.
duhaime should go full late and occupy the media space, if i were him i would make a trump and i would say whatever comes to my mind to anger the journalists and the wokes. it has great growth potential but it has to go all in.
it doesn't hurt either. unfortunately for him, the pandemic is likely to hurt, because let's say that some measures although necessary did not really delight the electorate. however, unless there is a major turnaround, there is a good chance he will serve a second term. in addition, we cannot take away from him that he is still capable of having the voting intentions of almost half of quebecers, which is quite impressive.
the pcq overtakes the green party, which is miraculous considering duhaime's prognosis and semi-disastrous interview to everyone's talking about it.
for the pcq, being unknown is a major asset.
> for qs, it is especially among young people that they do well, which is worrying. the fact remains that the party is on the verge of implosion with its many contradictions.
the young people have spent their last 10-15 years in a systemic racism awareness system, white privilege, relativity of everything, free of everything, ecr course and lots of other stuff that happens. align excessively well with qs customers.
if a young person does not vote qs, it is not because he thought hard about it: he did not listen to the unionized teacher before in class and dropped out of secondary 3 ....
also, i can't blame them: hard to explain that "free shit" has to be paid for by someone when corporate bs is stronger than ever.
often a good poll encourages people to join a party, it took a long time for qs to reach 6-7% .. but hey a poll is not an election and duhaime has time to drop the solid ball. . i will not vote for them and their ideas do not really agree with me but i like the diversity of its parties and points of view.
for qs it's a question of progression, i don't think the party is going to implode, they are ahead of what everyone expected, the moment they become mainstream and more centrist and aim for the 20% and more or remain stuck on their extreme positions and remains below 15%. if ever qs were to lose votes and seats it would shatter their ever-growing party image. the plq is starting to make them compete on the woke front so it’s going to be interesting to follow.
it's still weird to note that 5 parties can now claim to elect a deputy but at the same time a single party with almost 50% of the popular vote .. it will make some really hot races in several counties where every% counts.
i believe that the measures implemented against the third wave in quebec do not pass among many, and that is why the pcq is rising in the region.
but what planet do you live on? pspp is an amazing chef, haven't you seen him at tlmep? his interventions are always relevant and he has a good chance of getting people from the caq and qs on board. so give him time to make himself known!
yeah i think the pq is wasting a bit of its time on small battles that will have little results and anger part of the electorate to please a base already acquired.
without independence, law 101 at cegep is useless .. it saves us a few months in a war that we lose quickly.
post 1917 .. before they were in power. and again it is to assume that the national union was not the pcq under another name.
the caq was able to cannibalize the pq and the plq at the same time. business-oriented nationalists.
the conservatives in quebec is not surprising, in a corner where 95% of the people are white and 97% are francophone, the fear of immigrants is a good electoral argument and "social conservatism" is still selling well.
the plq continues to be the party of anglophones in love with canada.
qs is the party of the revolution that attracts young people and those who really do not have much to lose by throwing the system in the trash. they don't need a plan, they just want a revolution.
the pq has a lot of work to do in the absence of an independentist option as the caq occupies the territory of nationalism.
the question is the bloc in ottawa, who will they support during the elections in quebec?
** regarding pspp; ** it remains the test of debates, it could well shine a lot more than we think.
**the debates:**
manon massé performs poorly for the general public except for her supporters. her achilles heel is if others push her to explain her theories on systemic racism and race theory ... the more she talks about her policies, the more disconnected she is from the people.
duhaime will either look like a berserk or he will seduce with his populism. we risk seeing a much more moderate duhaime during the elections otherwise he will scare many voters.
legault is going to have the most misery as he will be attacked from all sides and he sometimes says bullshit when he improvises. but on the other hand, it gives him an honest air of a guy who tries his best, like a "good father" and quebecers respond well to that.
anglade is going to have a pathetic performance, she is going to appear hostile and angry. it's not his sense of humor that suffocates him.
saint-pierre plamondon could be the big surprise of the debates, he is extremely intelligent and he risks "sticking" as much legault as the others to the foot of the wall. he will dominate others intellectually. not enough to win the election but enough to make a good impression and increase one's vote.
i'm an anglophone that actually thoughtlegault was decent back when couillard was saying 75$ for groceries.
then the pandemic hit. then the fuckint curfew de marde. then the fucking loyer de 500$. and i was like: holy shit. he doesn't get it.
back to the drawing board for a sovereign such as my self.
the popularity rating of pspp is very normal considering that it is relatively new to the political scene. he will shine in the debates, i'm not worried :)
duhaime does adopt half measures. he assumes very badly his past actions unlike trump who would make it almost a spectacle.
it's all well and good but without offense to the green party it's not much to have more voting intentions than them, especially since there are qs who must collect the major part of the "green" electorate, because they have a chance to have a substantial number of deputies.
for qs, i was partly referring to their hot potato from the decolonial anti-racist collective which divides within the party. their multiculturalist and independence position will always be in perpetual contradiction.
and it is all well and good to please young people, they are also the ones who vote the least.
also because of the trash radios
pspp is a thoroughbred politician, he would be a good recruit in a pq with 35 deputies ... as leader of a party which is dying it is a disaster.
he is totally unknown and has little charisma, during the race i said exactly that he was going to put the pq around 10-12% ..
its own coast is disastrous at 4%.
what planet do you live on? are you going to wait until the last minute to understand what a bad choice it was to appoint pspp chief?
given that i think the pq deserves what will happen to them.
personally, i just think it's unnecessary. i want to say throw me tomatoes if you want, but we ** "forbid" ** things when we can no longer ** "convince" **. that is to say, give reasons to focus on french and people will focus on french ... be convincing.
i would say that the pq lacks creativity there, despite the setbacks of the caq and that some of their decisions seem counter-nationalist, if their reform of bill 101 is solid i would go so far as to say that it is possible that the caq be ** a fairly reasonable deal with the devil for now. **
*** [edit: convincing people is the essence of democracy, not prohibition. basically, we discuss, to convince ourselves. then come the compromises.] ***
the bloc will go with the majority.
the only reason that duhaime can be scary is if a tv is said to be scary.
but no way that legault scores strong at mtl ... there is only 1 elected or 2
it was also said that jean-françois lisée was good at debate, but that did not help the pq to go up in the last campaign.
honestly, i'm not sure what more the pq could do right now to stand out. i find that they do a very good job personally, but it does not seem to percolate in general public opinion ... it is certain that the pandemic context does not help, but all the same.
which party do you prefer? which chef would you have preferred? guy nantel? he would have dismissed more people than anything else. pspp was the most nationalist of the 4 and his rhetoric has not changed.
i am of the opinion that it is completely contradictory to punish quebeckers by restricting their access to studies in english when anglophones remain with the luxury of choice. it's grossly inconsistent, then it complains about legault's dictatorship ...
ben pspp i find it ok, personally i would have much preferred nantel as a spearhead.
however, i think it could turn out because of the federal government; there does not seem to be a way to dislodge trudeau, and then considering that his policies are major vectors of anglicization and current very to the left, the pq could again become an interesting option for those who have full the ass of the liberals. federal.
i believe that there will be federal elections before the provincial ones, and then we do not really know what will happen in the west. if trudeau returns as a minority but with two sovereignist parties on both sides, we could finally see movement at the federal level.
honestly if the caq sees that the nationalist option encroaches on federalism, among other things via a movement in the west, the party could just as well embark on the waltz.
to have.
we are not in an election period. as soon as the partisan debate resumes, i am confident that the pq will return to 15-20% of the vote. until then, i find it good pspp.
the pq needed a radical rebranding if it had any chance of survival.
he had to totally reinvent his way of doing and presenting himself and change his speech completely.
the establishment and the old membership had a tool in nantel to make it happen. they decided to name pspp and continue doing the same or almost the same thing.
pspp can speak what it wants, no one in quebec is listening. in the minds of the world the pq is exactly the same old dying party talking about the same things as under lisée.
gaudrealt would surely have been even worse.
i am convinced that pspp wants to make quebec independent, i have nothing against him personally, but he is not the leader that the pq should have at this time.
i think it's over. nothing can raise pspp before 2022 and the pq will be wiped off the map.
we could have tried nantel and a spectacular all-in and risked that it would work or at worst get picked up exactly where it is at the moment. at least we had a chance with nantel but the pq got scared and took refuge in their old slippers to die in silence.
we lose two more years minimum plus another big defeat for the sovereignist movement.
loll! surprised? we are conquered and we will continue to be said no, as long as we stay in the empire
hem. that ignores the special covid envelope which numbers in the billions.
quebec has it in the ass thanks to the provincial liberal party. we may have forgotten how charest went out of his way for increases in a context of crisis before passing it all on to medical specialists, but ottawa has not forgotten that they were screwed - quebec had asked this to compensate for the aging of the population and for infrastructure in the context of the economic crisis and when it was finally granted the provincial government:
\ - put a special law for health workers instead of negotiating to save money despite the promise to invest
\ - invests most of the money in the pockets of medical specialists
\ - makes direct cuts in establishments
morality, medical specialists paid 50% more delivered 33% less medical procedures.
yeah.
in other words, via our provincial liberal friends in the federal conservative government: "thank you for the money, it will help our re-election and not quebeckers at all, and fight with the roc which will want the same thing".
hard to be surprised that the simple request for an extension without specific and public commitments does not pass. thank you jean, philippe and gaétan!
we finally have data for two subsequent years for the spring, and i believe the time for conclusions has come.
in 2020, we confined in march and april, and we started to deconfin at the end of april.
in 2021, we were confined this winter and we started to deconfin in february and march, to tighten the rules in april.
despite this difference in approach, we see a synchronicity between the waves of spring 2020 and spring 2021: it started to rise at the same time, and it is leveling off at the same time.
the conclusion is clear: the virus is seasonal. seasonal factors determine the shape of the epidemic curves. maybe our measurements have an influence on the amplitude of the waves, but not on their shape, when they start to appear, when they die out.
believing that the waves are due to the measures and the relaxation of the population comes down essentially to a shamanic belief that one can control natural factors by rites and sacrifices. we are not in control of the virus, we never have been.
the government says the opposite because governments like to take credit when things are going well and blame scapegoats when things are bad. that's all. this is why they insist that it is their measures that protect us, even when there is no scientific evidence for the claim. this is why when things go badly they look for scapegoats and tell the world to hate them, these "young people who are in the dark", these "anti-masks who do not respect the instructions". governments do the same thing with each election with the economy and everyone realizes it, when the economy is doing well "it's thanks to our management!" when she goes badly "it is because of external factors!".
why have we forgotten what we knew yesterday?
covid-19 is seasonal, as we already knew, like all viruses. it's always like that, but some refuse to believe it and prefer to break sugar on the population.
we're going to have a great summer!
next winter will be less beautiful, however.
but the variants that attach you under 60 years of age!
another proof that numbers alone are being made to say anything. ;)
if you flip a coin and have two tails, it's a bad idea to believe that it will be tails every time.
people need to feel in control, or at least to feel protected by someone in control. maybe that's why religions and gods exist. accepting our helplessness is beyond the ability of some. so, many desperately want to believe that if they practice the right rituals and sacrifice enough, they can control covid, and when that doesn't work, they seek to blame someone else for undermining their efforts.
i don't mean to say that the measurements are unnecessary, but their effectiveness is limited, anyone who has looked at the data for a year can only draw this conclusion.
with the vaccination and natural immunity, i believe it will be no worse than any other. instead of having hospitals full of flu, we are going to have hospitals full of covids for whom covid will not be much more dangerous than the flu today, because they will have developed an immunity that will reduce the severity of the disease. in short, the same thing that happened with the spanish flu.
the only question is if we will be able to let go of fear and start living again, or if the media will continue to frighten us every day with the number of daily hospital patients.
i know you're sarcastic, but we can answer this statement with this graphic:
[
to be frank, if i calculate an estimate of the risk of hospitalizations for those under the age of 60, there has indeed been an increase since february, but in absolute terms, it is not dramatic.
these are figures analyzed in context, not figures alone, i do not make them say anything, but the truth.
it's not a toss up here, it's not a 50% probability. there are 365 days a year, and we had 3 waves in a year, which means a wave start per 121 days, and a wave top per 121 days. the probability that the third wave in spring 2021 is perfectly synchronized, beginning and end, with the first wave in spring 2020 if we assume that there is not a dominant seasonal factor is therefore around 1%. even if we consider a range of 5 days rather than a single day, the probability that it is due to chance would be 5%.
by this logic, one could estimate that there is a 95 +% chance that the virus is seasonal and that the seasonal factor is the dominant factor dictating the beginnings and ends of waves. in general, the rule for concluding in favor of a hypothesis is greater than 95% certainty. so we would be there.
and this is without considering the reality of last summer when the measures were practically abandoned and no waves appeared until september.
it is at a time like ours that we realize the relevance of religions throughout history.
the human is not helpless, we make him feel like he is instead
covid19 mutations spread at a faster rate than vaccination. it is likely that the immunity conferred by the vaccines could be zero by the end of september, so as to revaccinate the population with an updated vaccine as is done every year for influenza. at this time, everyone is mistaken about the result of the vaccination, because even though almost 30% have been vaccinated, there is not 2% of this population actually immunized by the vaccines because of the need for the second dose, ideally scheduled 30 days after the administration of the first, but in fact postponed by 4 months, which is far too long. this vaccination campaign is a fight against the clock that we are losing, when the vaccine was the only way out that we were waiting for.
from what i had read, since it is a respiratory disease it will probably remain more problematic for older people than the flu, but as you mentioned it will not be as problematic in general because of the immunity developed naturally or using the vaccine. having said that, i hope that by the time the vaccines are given to everyone that they will still provide> 60% immunity. i think we all miss normal life.
if rigorous analysis had taken place, i believe very well that we could have had an idea of the sources of bias that influenced the data or perhaps a comment on the sample a little weak and not two graphs and paf ! a conclusion that came out of nowhere.
edit: analyzing numbers in context is not just taking numbers and putting them under tables with excel. it is a discipline which requires a lot more qualifications than you seem to demonstrate.
immunization data are not precise enough to make certain conjectures about the effect of delaying doses. however, it seems that even a single injection can build partial immunity which reduces the chances of infection and the severity of infection when it occurs. whether it is better to vaccinate a larger number of people once or to vaccinate a smaller number twice is still open, but the answer is not simple.
moreover, i thought about it recently, and i wonder if we should not open the vaccination to everyone after having vaccinated the most at risk if the goal is to tame the epidemic. the population tends to regroup by age groups, when we vaccinate only the elderly, that means that the proportion of people vaccinated and immunized in many communities stratified by age is very low, and therefore it still allows waves. if we had vaccinated 25% of the population randomly, it is possible that this would have helped more to control the epidemic.
sources of bias? these are public data on hospitalizations. there is no more complete data than that, and i used hospitalizations because they are more robust data and less subject to variations in screening strategy than cases, and less sensitive than mortality which is falling. free after vaccination of populations at risk.
it's true that i'm looking at quebec and ontario only, i could look at others, i think we would see the same results, but when we contextualize the data and keep in mind the different actions of 2020 and 2021, the conclusion does not come out of nowhere but is self-evident. the temporal synchronicity of the spring waves regardless of whether one confined or deconfined in february and march is evident and undeniable.
i know people who subscribe to the myth of epidemic control by measures are going to be resistant to the conclusion. it's hard to admit being wrong, but at least i'm sowing the seed of doubt that will grow and prevail over time.
i am of the opinion to promote complete immunity with two doses on the populations most at risk. if we take a rough picture of immunity, those less at risk have less than a one in two chance of contracting the virus while those most at risk have more than a one in two chance. regarding the inter-dose delay, the only evidence we have is that of pharmaceuticals during tests which recommended 30 days. the best thing to do is to respect the prescription.
> sources of bias? these are public data on hospitalizations. there is no more complete data than that, and i used hospitalizations because they are more robust data and less subject to variations in screening strategy than cases, and less sensitive than mortality which is falling. free after vaccination of populations at risk.
hope this is a joke! let me give you some examples of a source of bias present. first, i have never seen a scientist worthy of the name establish a correlation with 2 data (year 2020, year 2021). it takes a lot more before we can conclude anything. second, the sample size is small. two provinces is still clearly insufficient. in addition, the crisis in the chsld in 2020 and the start of vaccination in 2021 are two events which had an impact on the data and which, by the same token, constitute sources of bias. in short, what i see in two graphs is at best a coincidence at worst of anything big.
also, 2021 isn't even over and the two curves barely overlap (a big two months). worse, the beautiful little descent that we see on the red curve in march 2021 could only be a temporary variation and not a trend.
> i am of the opinion to promote complete immunity with two doses on the populations most at risk
except that "most at risk" changes with the variants ... it's a lot younger than the 314 year olds of the first wave ...
also i'm 35, i wish i could get the vaccine before 2077. the less stupid age group who wants the vaccine at 95% is the ones who can't get it because of age.
if we continue to vaccinate the old people who are vaccinated at 50% (not able to go to the pharmacy, not able to use the internet, take 6 walks and pound the female dog because of the media talking about astrazeneca. ..) we will not have collective immunity.
as it is the 60s and up one seems to think that they can delay everyone by not going to be vaccinated, the centers are open and they do not go there. what's it like to keep everyone waiting if they can't even swarm their asses to get their first dose?
michel louvin is screeching to death, worse "* in a good mood" * has been on tv for 30 years ... so you won't miss a thing by going for your vaccine.
this is not just two data, it is data for each day of two years. it is not only the synchronicity of the spring waves that strike, it is also the fact that there were no waves in summer despite an almost total absence of containment measures, and the fact that the predictions of public health on an upsurge of the epidemic during the deconfinement of may have crashed monumental. we have limited data at the moment because the crisis is recent, but the data we have are clear as to the thesis that best explains them: seasonality.
moreover, we cannot ignore the seasonality of other respiratory viruses either, because covid-19 is not the only virus of its family in circulation, and the other viruses are also seasonal, showing the same kind of seasonal fluctuations.
> in addition, the crisis in the chsld in 2020
the crisis in chslds in 2020 does not change much on hospitalizations because people in chslds are rarely taken to hospital, they are already in a hospital setting in chslds.
> the start of vaccination in 2021
it changes the amplitude of the wave, but it doesn't change the trends.
> in short, what i see in two graphs is at best a coincidence at worst of anything bad.
i understand, you are not yet ready to accept the reality that your beliefs in controlling the epidemic through public health measures are wrong. you are in a situation of cognitive dissonance, which you resolve by attacking my analysis to justify ignoring it.
it will come, i trust. but in the meantime, as long as you have no other argument than derogatory words ("rubbish", "out of nowhere", etc ...) or incredible assertions ("it's just a big coincidence! "), i don't think we have much to gain by discussing together.
reluctance to vaccine is certainly not the biggest limiting factor for vaccine distribution ... look in the us where any adult can get the vaccine because they have the capacity. that's the benefit of being the biggest super power in the world, hoping that once demand reduces in the us we will have the capacity. i know several people ~ 60 years old who may have had their first dose recently and have to wait until august for their second.
it's frustrating when you think that we have followed the sanitary measures compared to our neighbors to the south, and we are the ones who get shagged at the end of the line.
indeed, because i discuss with someone who is convinced to know what he is talking about and who shares so-called facts while flouting any principles of scientific rigor.
> the virus is seasonal!
i would just like to remind him that establishing such correlations rigorously is not within everyone's reach and that when in doubt, it is better to abstain at the risk of misinforming many people.
> the hesitation on the vaccine is certainly not the biggest limiting factor for the distribution of the vaccine ...
on the other hand when we remain blocked at 60+ and there is plenty of room but nobody goes ... we have the vaccines ... it seems that someone is waiting for the 60+ to decide to go before opening this more people ... as if they waited a long time going there.
what "fact" have i shared that is wrong?
* do you question the data i am presenting? (if so, i invite you to go and extract them yourself to confirm)
* do you question that viral respiratory infections are commonly seasonal?
* do you question my characterization of containment and deconfinement trends in spring and summer?
the idea that "science" is a sort of mystical power which is only available to a few priests in contact with the absolute is completely wrong. science is an analytical process within the grasp of many people, as long as they have knowledge and skills in statistics. it is the arguments that count in science, not the individuals who make the arguments.
you can refuse to believe my analysis because it lacks data over several years and in several countries, but i do not believe that you can in good faith deny that the data are much more compatible with the seasonal thesis than with others. theses, you are reduced to pretending that this is only a "coincidence", which in itself is an admission that, yes, the data suggests that my thesis is correct.
i'm not misinforming anyone. i inform. that you don't like the truthful information that i am circulating belongs to you.
> the idea that "science" is a sort of mystical power which is only available to a few priests in contact with the absolute is completely wrong. science is an analytical process within the grasp of many people, as long as they have knowledge and skills in statistics. it is the arguments that count in science, not the individuals who make the arguments.
absolutely right! however, from what i can see, it is there "as long as they have knowledge and skills in statistics" that the shoe pinches in our case. i don't have the skills to accurately extract the data and analyze it, but i can see when someone claims to have it.
> do you question that viral respiratory infections are commonly seasonal?
not at all, the key word being fluent and not necessarily. i also know that we have far too little data and that it is far too early to know for the covid
> you can refuse to believe my analysis because there is a lack of data for several years and in several countries,
well yes i will continue to deny because such things are essential to draw a serious conclusion. also, science does not care about good faith.
> do you question my characterization of containment and deconfinement trends in spring and summer?
yes because it is not a trend. how do you want to establish a trend when we have lived through a summer and a spring and a half of pandemic?
> yes, the data suggests that my thesis is correct.
is it common to confirm or refute your thesis in the midst of data collection? we usually wait until the end, don't we?
> you are not yet ready to accept the reality that your beliefs in controlling the epidemic through public health measures are wrong.
bring back to the straight path the poor lost sheep that i am!
> the crisis in chslds in 2020 does not change much on hospitalizations because people in chslds are rarely taken to hospital, they are already in hospitals in chslds.
it did not only affect the chsld but also the rpas and ris who sent their serious cases to the hospital, thus counting for hospitalizations.
> absolutely true! however, from what i can see, it is there "as long as they have knowledge and skills in statistics" that the shoe pinches in our case. i don't have the skills to accurately extract the data and analyze it, but i can see when someone claims to have it.
if you don't have the skills to analyze and judge data ... why do you think you have the skills to analyze an analysis and judge it to be deficient?
> yes because it is not a trend. how do you want to establish a trend when we have lived through a summer and a spring and a half of pandemic?
why not? when you are in an emergency, you act on what the data seems to indicate even if the data is too fragmentary to say anything with 99.9999% certainty. that's what i do. all the trends we see in the northern hemisphere suggest that the virus is seasonal, whether it is the absence of an epidemic resurgence in summer 2020 despite the abandonment of containment measures, the epidemic resumption in autumn, the coinciding winter peak with the winter solstice and now the almost perfect synchronicity between the spring 2020 wave and the spring 2021 wave.
maybe you would like more data, but when you have to make a judgment there, not in 10 years, you have to go with the balance of probabilities, and this one right now leans heavily towards the seasonal thesis.
the alternative thesis, that the epidemic is controlled by measures and people's buy-in to it, has been used to lay a bunch of predictions that have been contradicted by the facts. let us note for example the public health of quebec which predicted last may 150 deaths per day in july 2020 if we relaxed the measures, we practically all abandoned them and we had 1 death per day in july 2020. or the most recent prediction in ontario assuming the rise would continue until early june without strict containment, and cases are seen to stagnate less than a week later before recent measures could have an effect.
on the other side, [3 weeks ago] ( )&context= , based on the seasonal thesis, that we would see the ridge in mid-april or end of april. this week, i reacted to the prediction of 18,000 cases in ontario by saying that if we didn't see a spike in the ontario data at the time of writing my review, [i wouldn't be surprised to see one appear. before the end of the week] ( based on what happened over the past year.
my predictions based on the seasonal thesis seem to have been validated. if the epidemic picks up again next week, i'm fine with doing a mea culpa, but for now my predictions have been more true than the official predictions, so i won't hesitate to mention it.
> is it common to confirm or refute your thesis in the midst of data collection? we usually wait until the end, don't we?
sometimes you can't wait, and then it's reasonable to say "with the data we have, the most likely thesis is this".
"send nudes"
with a poster of the lord's samurai behind.
who is that?
?????
when i take pictures of my seed, everyone calls me perverts. but she is applauded.
yeah. it was in a podcast
[this is the new flagship figure of the women's liberation movement] ( -not-by-social-networks - helene-boudreau).
he needs a burqa to get this title
did she say that or are you riding a straw man?
that i would like it to be the fruit of my imagination, but unfortunately that seems to be [the opinion of many] ( support-for-the-student-continued-by-uqam.php). after the right to vote and pay equity we have the right to nudity, pornography and prostitution!
a straw man ... maybe for sure. i was rather in the absurd because indeed, this situation is absurd.
the young woman had received a lawsuit not by a naked photo, but a naked photo with the logo of uqam. for having worked in advertising, companies are very crazy about their image and their logo. so situations like that i saw a hundred.
it is in no way an attack on the freedom of women. she can indeed undress as she wants. i'll even slip him $ 20 for his service.
> according to ms. fortin, the university's lawsuit against her student harms all sex workers, women and * queer * people in general.
* an employee of the national bank of canada, who posed topless under the "bnc" logo, has managed to solve all the problems in the world of sex workers, women and queer people. *
edit: uqam should allow * to * * naked * days more often in support of sex workers and for all other good reasons
[
the same speeches copied, pasted and translated on google translate as with blm, i like how they found a connection with men but not with the fact that "racialized" men are overrepresented in these murders.
"we only use criminal statistics on race / gender that go with our political agenda"
* "we are tired of being raped, assaulted, killed and abused and being at the bottom of the list when * *** budgets *** * come out" *
* \ [... \] but the government committee on domestic violence must set up a * *** team dedicated *** * to domestic violence, she pleads. *
* “faced with a particularly disappointing * *** budget *** * last week, we called on the government with specific requests. \ [… \] the government cannot deprive itself of * *** our expertise *** * »*
* according to our information, discussions are underway between quebec and women's accommodation organizations to * *** increase their budget ****. *
the force of the war. any idea that cannot materialize in subsidies is aborted. not for nothing that no one mentions the concept of the death penalty for violent husbands or something similar ....
can someone explain to me how walking around with a sign is going to keep the guy from hitting his wife? donating or volunteering at the buoy should be more productive right? i do not know maybe me who does not understand.
the rationalism of the speech is * irrational * since domestic violence is not a conscious evil. if so, the man who beats his wife may just be protesting. no one was fully aware that he was beating his wife, except perhaps amir attaran himself if the accused were capable of honesty - a bit like the famous * i'm not racist but ... * who possibly adheres to the blm movement.
men are creatures made for war and are brutal and less social in nature. in a world where this function is less and less useful, it is necessary, in the same way that society decided to start a conversation about the emancipation of women in the 20th century, that we start a discussion about the new place. men in the future, which is not very accommodating towards the masculine character, so that functions such brutality are not diverted by other ways, or domestic violence here in this case.
these are big issues that need more than government advisory commissions, domestic violence being just one symptom of the societal lens among others. in quebec, the challenge is great since masculinity has been castrated for too long to promote submission, which has also greatly affected femininity, which is more masculinized in quebec than elsewhere.
no need to demonstrate against domestic violence, it amounts to demonstrating against "crime".
we must demonstrate against the government rules that generate this kind of crime: confinement.
okay, i really don't want to use this low-end ethnicity argument as if it were inevitable. no matter where the damage is done, it is always a set of universal conditions met.
these same ones who will defend the "progressive" laws which leave the rapist / abuser free.
this world does not care about the victims, it is still the political agenda.
the message is implicit "watch the effects of the lockdown" to the authorities. obviously the aggressor will not respond to the demonstrators with "ok thank you, i did not know".
it's funny, the vast majority of men don't beat their wives even though they are all going through it.
it's funny, i know a lot of men who are confined and who don't beat their wives.
it is multifactorial. domestic violence was not born out of the latest pandemic. in my opinion, the demonstration serves to show the government the effects of the lockdown.
> low end
> factual
that will man?
> it is always a set of universal conditions met.
be careful, it is by thinking like this that we slide towards intersectionality.
i no longer agree with all the government's decisions, but if we remove all the measures overnight. the demonstrators will be the first to say that the government has done nothing ... i confine or not i beat the women, i say that the same.
it's the same thing with the whole "asian lives matter" affair for a few weeks ... there are demonstrations ... there are posts on [reddit] ( r / montreal / comments / mgg4gh / sentiment_d isolation_pour_les_asiants_% c3% a0_mtl /) like what asians are afraid to go outside ... i saw another post or so it was an asian who said that cayenne pepper and taser were found there it doesn't matter that it's illegal ... because he shits in his panties at the idea of going outside ...
but uh ... where are the 315 million asians who get stolen every day in montreal? ok there are people who like them a little less because of the virus but ... what is the reason for the hysteria? did you miss something that happened in brossard?
the case with violence against women, ok there are 8 dead in quebec ... but to hear them it seems that all men kill at least 3 women a day ... and they also talk about psychological violence. .. what both genders are able to do ... they talk about "helping men" but helping them just by being "violent ..." not by being mentally fucked up them too ... there's not a crack of cenne going there, but we have to give more to the other side? eh?
but what is the relationship of mixing causes and consequences here? these men are doing this because the circumstances are right, not because the pandemic results in violence.
so, according to your anecdotal intervention, there is no link between the confinement rules and the increases in domestic violence. cool.
i thought this sub was one of the last bastions of logical judgment but i made a mistake, we find the same clowns as in / quebec
if you're trying to tell me the point is factual, so i'm wrong, then we're not done.
can you explain to me?
it depends on whether you assume that the protesters are activists. in either case, it still happened.
yes, the circumstances are more "propitious" and that must precisely stop there as reasoning. the root cause of domestic violence is turpitude. it's not normal. worse, it is precisely the underlying discourse: that all men are like that and that those who do not are just afraid of the consequences. that masculinity, virility inevitably leads to abusive behavior.
yeah, that's what i said, not a dishonest twist of what i said, no sir! / s
blaming confinement for domestic violence is silly. it is interpreted in these ways:
1. it's normal for a man to want to beat his wife, it's just that in normal times he has distractions.
2. it is normal for confinement to make a man want to beat his wife.
the two positions are not even worth discussing. there has been an exacerbation of domestic violence since confinement, yes, but it's a correlation, not a cause. the cause here is that already abusive individuals are now in contact with their potential victim for longer. and that's all.
this is exactly why i hate these "awareness campaigns." they make believe that all men are problematic and that they need to be educated or controlled. no, men who are problematic are a tiny minority and they don't care what you have to say.
even if you don't agree with other people's opinions. i invite you not to call someone a clown, that would harm the debate.
it's not bad
you're right. have a good evening!
good evening to you too.
ah i made a mistake in the title of this great news ... sorry to have spoiled the moment a little
it's nothing new, the world has always been like that and you just see it more often thanks to the internet.
a clever mix.
the internet age has made it possible for anyone to have a voice. the good as well as the less good, like the dangerous fool who prefers to risk the lives of others rather than not going to the spa.
most people are benevolent. they want to live a peaceful life and try to help others when they can. but we focus on public danger, the asshole, the idiot, the racist, the violent, etc.
also, the media are unfortunately rated by popularity. the more clicks and views you have, the more money you make. what sells? shock. the astonishment. the surprise. disgust. the big emotions, often negative, sell. add to your media "alternative ideas", that is to say, belligerent, provocative and sure of themselves ... and you have a solid formula.
we also have a generation shock. boomers, gen x, gen y, millennials ... all these beautiful people have different ideas, different visions of the world.
[i'm misinformed, the media are ... right right!] (
journalists and the "cultural elite" in general function as a caste who mistake the population for the mentally retarded.
on twitter we can see this disconnection phenomenon where the value of an opinion depends on the blue checkmark or the number of subscribers. or we give each other high five between "stars" but none of them ever dares to go against the tide for fear of being rejected from the club.
we shit on the world, racists, aggressors, imbeciles, covidiots, poor good-for-nothing.
this world has not changed, it's the same world i saw in the 80s, it's just that now this world writes what he thinks on the internet and makes him laugh at him.
everyone thinks they're smarter than everyone else and everyone thinks they're special.
we are in a time of confusion. people are morally exhausted and divisions are everywhere. it's easier to take your hole and let the train pass.
i decided a week ago to delete facebook, twitter and instagram. i was no longer able to see everyone's hate on social media. i just had the quietest week of my life and have had so much more time to invest elsewhere in projects that are close to my heart. i do not regret my choice at all. it's crazy how negative social media is these days. it only burns your morale before the day has even started.
what journalists are you talking about ... those who ask questions to legault throws soft, easy-to-hit balls at him.
shut off the media if it eats you up from the inside. it is hardly possible in 2021 to have journalism that does not lean to one side or the other politically.
> i would like to end by saying hello to the family who were doing their grocery shopping together this weekend. the father, the mother, accompanied by the three children. when i look at this kind of behavior, i wonder what is most lacking in our society. is it an education problem or are there slaps that get lost?
what's your point on this?
unfortunately no. before the fool gave his opinion and his social environment laughed at him. then he took his hole and followed the conditions. today, this fool gives his opinion and abandons his social environment for one who shares his opinion.
we sometimes call it "safe space".
a bit like the era of terror following the french revolution. we kill ourselves with our new driving conditions.
ah! thank you for plugging this incredible song full of truth <3
indeed. discussing with the artiiiiiiiiists never gives much positive and has been for several years. guy a lepage is probably one of the best examples of blindness through narcissism.
but i would like to believe that artists were close to the people before twitter.
rather irrelevant questions.
-why do you want to maintain the curfew?
-bah! the variants!
i understand that we need to confirm what we already know. but the meaning of questions does not fly high.
it would have been much more interesting and concrete to ask for details on next steps and actions if conditions worsen in some of our sectors.
> ** it was never ** possible to have journalism that does not lean to one side or the other politically
* i corrected this for you.
also, speaking of journalist, i have two passions in life, which helps me get through the pandemic a bit.
my two passions are computer science and mechanics.
i'm still waiting to see a journalist knowledgeable in these two areas.
so, when i hear a journalist talking about anything, i remember those famous reports from french journalists who talk about visiting quebec, montreal, toronto, niagara falls and vancouver in the same day and spending the night in a teepees and eat caribou for lunch.
the big lack of responsibility of the father and the mother.
instead of having a parent with the kids in the car, they all go grocery shopping together. this kind of behavior increases the risk of spreading and it is sheer irresponsibility.
safe spaces have become bigger, before it was with your friends, the millions of anonymous users on the internet.
i knew the front, and at the time i was more conspiratorial taking place and according to his baguette and the stupidity of the receivers, there were some who became high-ranking.
we remember the [jones sect] ( [roch “moïse” thériault] ( ariault), and many others full of mardes who managed to convince the less brilliant of the worst things.
i find that from a general point of view, thanks to the internet we are more able to seek information and compare it with other information.
of course there is always a bozo to pull the cover off his edge and followers who don't want the inconsistency of multiple voices.
don't think ... people haven't changed, the internet is just new and exacerbating these phenomena.
we are so early in the mass internet media phenomenon that it is difficult to say where it will lead.
but it looks bad .. it seems to divide our society like never before.
hahahaha!
indeed! many french people believe that montreal is the only city in quebec and that we all live in small villages in wooden houses.
i'm pretty good at science, psychology and computer science. i plan to resume my studies after my convalescence and specialize in the development of ai.
but the bullshit about ai often reaches beyond arbidity. most people who take a negative view of ai often use sci-fi movies as a benchmark. then an sf movie always shits about logic.
> instead of having a parent with the children in the car,
or at home!
if your friends and family were a safe space, you really have a problem with honesty in your circle. i'd rather have people tell me i'm wrong than have people flatter me the wrong way.
when i watch scientific lectures on phenomena in quantum physics, there is rarely a consensus. i think it's going to take several decades to get to one on social media.
> french
i have acquaintances from france who came here a few years ago and their children wanted to see real indians. we went to a reproduction of a native american village in the matawinie region.
a real reproduction of a village before the colonies, animated by real amerindians, we stayed until closing time where we could see all the "indians" returning to their homes in a pickup. a great experience for young french people. we also went to see the trains at the saint-constant museum, they were much more impressed by real working steam locomotives.
as long as no one has received a second dose, i count 0 quebecers vaccinated.
[deleted]
the third wave was scheduled for january ... then february ... then march ... and now it's april. the so-called experts are just guessing.
the guy is finally quite entertaining. i also suggest that you consult his [twitter account] (
> how backwards is quebec?
> so backwards that the minister for fighting racism is a white guy.
biiiiiiin yes, pi y is surely not the last
okay, i went on twitter and reported his nonsense as discrimination.
the sacrosanct globalizing ideology of neoliberalism at work, imposed by the defenders of the unique virtue, more often than not for the benefit of their candid ignorance, albeit for this professor of a law school fattened at the expense of the state, i believe that one is in "right" to suspect a knowledge of the cause.
what a sad time we live in, to say that all this could have been settled 25 years ago (even better 40 years ago), but today the nations that defend their borders are accused of xenophobia! we wonder why again! no hope with the current foolish youth who strive to defend juvenile, even childish causes instead of putting an end to those which have endured for ages and which continue to fatten the elites of this world.
long live capitalism! long live globalism! in short, long live neoliberalism!
ironically, it is he who is racist towards quebecers with all his insults and his constant smear campaign.
dude middle east / asia is 1000x times more racist than the most racist white country of 2021.
nice gang of hypocrites the "racialized" woke.
the funniest thing i've seen is that he says he can't be racist against quebecers since being quebecois isn't a race! lol. the same as what islamophobes (the real ones) say about islam.
less backwards than any other provinces who doesn’t have any minister for fighting against it tho
and presto, twitter account reported! hoping that i'm not the only one to do that, it's really unacceptable the words that this gas comes out
unfortunately lol
[deleted]
i think the difference here is between racism and xenophobia but yeah same same
sorry but i take it personally because i am an immigrant, you do not understand at what points outside the west just the fsit to mention the word "racist" and you make fun of "fag" and "if you are racist then why you come dear us? " in your face by your friends / colleges / that's the norm.
the world is pissed off by the "woke" movement in the third world to such an extent that they have never even heard of it, there is no "commission on racism" that does not exist.
but it's so easy to immigrate and criticize the host country and be blind to your country of birth.
this is one of the reasons i recommend to be informed about other countries.
an algerian calls you a racist because of law 21? well you answer him that in his country it is forbidden for a non-muslim to become the president of the country.
an indian? ask him about the situation of their wives and the abuse of muslims in kashmir.
brazilian? ask him about the situation of the blacks in the favelas or the murder of the natives in the amazon to steal their land.
there is an attempt by the media and also by certain anglo-canadian (opportunist) or left-wing (white and minorities) groups who seek to change quebec mainly to depose french-canadians to give way to a more "canadian" model, i tell you. in a short time the world will be talking about modifying the quebec flag, they did it with that of montreal, which is a vision of the quebec of tomorrow.
> this is one of the reasons i recommend to be informed about other countries.
and that's why the international content in the usual news sources (big-circulation newspapers, radio, tv) is so weak and nonexistent: a minimum level of content is enough to break a lot of narrative threads built over the years. time.
[deleted]
[deleted]
even this is not enough, because many times it is not even in the news, as i said the world does not even talk about racism in the third world, it is not at stake.
me i know because i lived that and i like geopolitics, if not forget, even the news of the black slaves sold in libya you remember? it appeared and 2 days later the world forgot and who knows if it always happens or not, another subject that the media will never talk about, racism against blacks in arab countries, as well as racism against black by the natives in north america, he had more black slaves in 1864 in the cheerokee nation than in all of french canadian history.
the very idea of "systemic racism" is to judge a nation for the actions of an individual, it's the same thing that's why if you treat quebec as a racist you have to say "ah yeah where are you from? " worse, it says canada well also i have a lot of examples.
> i do not judge you by your country of origin, or by your skin color, but by your actions and your ideas.
the problem is, if you call a black asshole, it turns into racism. a black pisses you off, by his actions not his skin color, and you squeal one. it is an automatic hate crime.
it's as if they are being put aside as if there has to be a law that if you talk to a black or a transgender or whatever you have to shut your mouth even if it's a cellar.
but they are proud of their country / origins, their pride for that is my pride as a quebecois, so to call my nation a racist when theirs is even worse would be a huge hypocrisy.
[deleted]
no, but their association with a country / nation with more racism than our racist makes them "racists".
you have to use their logic of "if you voted to trump your a racist".
this is how they will be silent.
[deleted]
what is your question?
what excuse was invoked?
there is an existing joint use request (duc) contract that exists between bell, hq and other pole wire distributor companies.
this contract handles that, requests must be answered quickly, i worked on comics in the late 90's and early 2000.
in short, the turd that bell's fault ... unless of course the contract no longer exists.
for more info: 
quite honestly it leaves me neither cold nor hot. first of all, motions are strictly useless, they are ineffective political theater. then, it is to the federal government that bell and the telecommunications cartel are subject. it's like the banks, the federal government will never intervene to embarrass its good friends. with where the pq is at the moment, he should aim for something that is more within his grasp.
caqa
the words "bell canada".
my father worked for hq for 35 years. he keeps harping on our ears about bell's delaying tactics and those who ask them to use their posts to pay for their replacement. the government should have nationalized their poles when it nationalized the electricity companies. the problem, bell is a federally chartered company, and therefore difficult to dispossess by the government of quebec ... another demonstration that independence is necessary for our collective interest.
your majesty, please unscrew.
go tell that to the [monarchist league of canada] ( ... it's not the quebecers that you have to convince ...
the trouble is that without the gg, the queen there is no head of state, the prime minister being only a member of parliament like the others.
we must not imagine that if canada had a president that it would cost less ...
who are these bozos, the monarchy is more fashionable since 1789
there are many democracies that have neither president nor king. the head of state is the head of the assembly.
if you think of germany and mrs merkel, many people do not know that germany has a president and that his name is [** frank-walter steinmeier **] ( //en.wikipedia. org / wiki / frank-walter_steinmeier) **. **
like the gg in canada, the german president is a mostly honorary position and he fulfills the same functions as our gg.
it validates the laws, appoints the chancellor (merkel) and the ministers under the advice of the chancellor and can declare the state of defense in the event of war.
you have to really like tataouinage to be offended by this ad ...
mbc quotes lisée ( but lisée does not cite its source, it links to an article in the globe and mail which does not has nothing to do with his quote.
searching for lisée's quote, it looks like he made a translated copy of our dear ezra levant from rebel news:
 at 7:30
it is either a flagrant lack of rigor on the part of mbc and lisée, or they purposely seek to hide their source. (mbc cites lisée, lisée cites nobody, blanchet cites jdm / ravary, ravary cites nobody).
i don't give a damn about alghabra. what sickens me the most about this story is that blanchet, lisée and mbc shame the sovereignist movement by using far-right zionist propaganda (levant and rebel) to supposedly defend the interests of quebec.
very interesting
symbol of stolen land
fascist flag
so go back to europe as a colonizer.
[non.](
pardon?
as a college student who just finished this course, ish. we are in the west, we live in a western society. we must understand where our values come from and also what differentiates us from oriental cultures. for that, we have to know our history.
how to make your students cosmopolitan and unaware of their origins 101 🙄
but let's see...
why not review general history courses in their entirety?
from primary to cegep.
i have a little idea of what civilization it will be and how we are going to make them look like very tolerant people. tabarnak i can't take it anymore
in this video, jj analyzes [an advertisement] ( produced by tourism canada that he rightly describes as canadian propaganda. this is canada nice is indeed aggressively canadian to the point of derision which jj does not notice given that french and quebec escapes him. we will understand not to have pushed further given the poverty and the crass banality of everything in french in what we are described as a song. joual, chiac, fasten your toque, the [gay] pride in our villages, the cup, the poutine after the bars. that's all we found to say in french. we also talk about great french side by side, but that's just stupid. this is a bad translation from english from coast to coast. from coast to coast, a mari usque ad mare, it should be controlled by a federal body! but no, from the writing to the interpretation through the editing and the final green light, we did not raise this rather embarrassing shell. ah yes, and the "genial in french" comes out of a scottish bagpipe which is very appropriate. the worst part is that quebec seems to be represented by [moman and popa de la p'tite vie] ( rendered it is simply bad faith.
despite everything, it would still not be true canadian propaganda without the increasingly pernicious obsession with diversity. in small doses it can be nice, but with this video tourism canada is heading dangerously in the territory of [the canadian evening of elvis graton ii] (
you have to see [the plan which takes up the valse du draveur] ( to give us a log driver accompanied on the river by a veiled muslim, a turbaned sikh and three various individuals and undetermined. very loud, that's really a lot of propaganda for one plan.
another marie [maple syrup, stanley cup parade & gay pride parade] ( note the maple leaf in the colors of homosexuality, the transgender flag, the women with shaggy tops, the black cowboy of village people and the moron walking around in his underwear. i believe that no satirist could have done better.
this shot shows us [another unspecified character] ( here a chef taking his cod gratin out of the oven. i don't want to piss off, but if we're talking about cod in canada, let's have the decency of plugging newfoundland, not a guy whose culture has obviously produced something much better than cod au gratin!
the song concludes with a rap worthy of donkey kong 64 and [this shot] ( or our diverse ensemble poses for the final shot. once again it is to make falardeau blush with jealousy not to have been so rude during his lifetime. an asian, a red-haired cuckold on the back of a moose, a beaver with glasses, a black lumberjack and a veiled woman. phew, but it's just that canada is oozing out folks!
if there was yet another proof, here it is, canada is not the national home of french canadians.
> another marrie maple syrup, stanley cup parade and gay pride parade
>. note the maple leaf in the colors of homosexuality, the transgender flag, the women with shaggy tops, the black cowboy of village people and the moron walking around in his underwear. i believe that no satirist could have done better.
don't forget the women (or whatever, i still don't mean the wrong pronoun) with the hair on the arms, as if it was so necessary in the animation, i imagine that it shows the beautiful inclusiveness of the fabulous canadian people so polite and very kind.
this video describes quite well what i think of canada; mediocre country which does not have much to offer on the cultural side or otherwise.
if they really wanted to make tourism in canada enticing, they should have made a video on the canadian rockies, banff, the gaspé, lower st. lawrence, the big cities, etc. etc. canada is so rich in landscapes and nature but i expect nothing more from the canadian government which is politically correct (* except for francophones and 1st nations, shhh *) to the bottom of my soul.
edit: ok finally you already talked about * shaggy esselles *, tokébec here, we say frying pan around the arms' sti, not * shaggy esselles. *
why did you have to tackle dk rap?
here we will stop at nothing even if it means shaking the columns of the temple!
yeah hey, it's mostly an intro video for those who don't know this music. i have always listened to trad and i love it!
let's resist cultural decadence, learn to dance the rigodon. ✊
it's not fair in france, it's the same here. possibly worse even because with us the program of these sessions speaks only of their rights and not of their responsibilities.
worse here? hard to believe.
at least that's won. no to censorship!
phew, what a blunder. especially since we agree that the prime minister's reading suggestions are not exactly the complete work of lionel groulx!
okay?
and why?
maybe he meant "speak white"
english canada gradually gains by making us believe that what is happening is normal. by dint of calling us racist, i think it ends up entering us into the subconscious that defending our culture is racist.
> we are constantly invited to open up to the other, without understanding that it is often the other who does not want to open up to us.
could that change?
i detect a lot of weariness towards what quebec represents for those who are not interested in it and who do not hear our best sounds of bells. it is a vicious circle that is difficult to break. we will often respond to these resistances with legislation, but they do not arouse the passions that we would like them to awaken. they too often exacerbate a fed-up that reverberates in other echo chambers to manifest itself in the opposition. it's a shame that we come together so often in situations where it would be up to us to apologize for defending ourselves.
however, i have seen openings: through authentic exchanges, in front of a few rare local productions, in the face of some of our values and attitudes, with regard to our resistance to americanism ... i wonder if it is too naive to believe that it is by building bridges that our guests will open up to us. it does not seem that it is vital that we choose to become quebecois other than by twisting our arms.
the imagination would be a field so much more fertile than politics ...
are you going to transfer this reddit to r / quebec la?
sacrament that you are sticked to french
here in quebec, no one is accountable to the wokist mentality as chewed up by the roc: quebecers were and remain more than ever among the true original protesters of the wasp order, among the very first wokes in the authentic sense. . it is a people who have always spontaneously sided with the other minority peoples of america and the west and who without too much exaggeration or recklessness have a favorable prejudice to so many interesting sides of what is gypsy. , black, chicano, latino, cajun, and so on. there were authentic fascists in quebec as everywhere, as among the black peoples in the first place (duvalier it seems to me that it is in the same family as mussolini, papadopolos and many others) but these quebec fascists like lionel groulx and adrien arcand remained isolated individuals, with enough groupies to fill a brewery but never more, without connection between them, without hold on the collective unconscious: moreover all these quebec fascists had become so by anti-canadian racism. french and by seeking a foreign model capable of obliterating this national character that they did not like, most often because of the non-recognition by their people of their real or imagined talent or authority: trudeau père began by being one himself. when an anglo-canadian comes out with this kind of argument drawn from this woke ideology which does not even hold among black americans as it is artificially imposed by the forces of californian transhumanist snobbery and which is a final attempt to recover the civil rights movement which in fact is in its last death spasms, quebec must treat them as mentally ill people made cyber dependent by the absence of loved ones in their lives elsewhere than on social networks.
i totally agree with you, but it seems to me that reality is getting in the way of your vision. the flat reality is that everyone in the western world has relocated a good part of their cultural production to the united states (in the same way that our factories have been relocated to china) and that, therefore, it is extremely difficult to compete with them in this regard. first of all by the size of the financial means at their disposal. money attracts talent, which attracts more money, and so on. the only way out is to close the borders partially or totally in one way or another, which risks being a very unpopular policy. we made the mistake of believing that all we imported from the united states was entertainment. false. we import a deeply insane worldview too.
well, why not?
english is as ugly as a dog's ass. have you ever heard a child from anglo? do you want this for the local youth? the stake is real.
i find it hard to imagine a return to, say, a quota system to block the importation of the american mentality. but it is true that we have a serious broadcasting problem to resolve. when it becomes clear that it requires a personal initiative to be exposed to quebec content and that you have to go to reddit to know what to listen to, it is a sign that we have a long way to go.
since big productions with big budgets come from elsewhere, it would probably be better to bet on other more local forces. i think there are still people who feel the need to stay connected to their environment, who appreciate the distance that our linguistic situation gives us and who have authentic perspectives to share. we should be able to go a long way with small budgets and deep, entertaining and accessible content. i allow myself to dream ...
finally, there is also that the media landscape today includes a whole lot of small communities. he has tiktokers that are more recognizable to me than movie stars. it is not because a realization will be made with large deployments that it will take more place in our lives. i even think i perceive a desire to escape from the hollywood asylum. as long as we are thirsty for common sense and belonging, there will always be room for alternatives to the noise and fury of cultural enterprises.
there is an interesting trail to follow which is next to the stalking ...
anglo children are awake for a short time compared to franco.
and a speech in english has 100 times more impact in english than in french.
like any music or movie.
the death star ... 🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣 the death star
bouaaahahaha in fact the children of square heads attend their stalino-canadian-anti-white re-education sessions at school without flinching more than their miserable parentage, my poor elvis.
the other stupid colonized osti with his star wars as a cultural referent pffhah! it has become so downright shit as a series in addition, it must be said that without the audio-visual cachet there was not much at the base.
i could give you as many examples as the number a pie has of decimal.
the french language has no impact vs english.
what do we care about the impact. first of what impact are you talking about? financial? nothing to shit. cultural ? nothing to shit about anglo-saxon barbarism. in normal countries, the right is patriotic, here in quebec, the right is even more ethnomasochistic than the most extremist wokes.
ok it's beautiful tayeule the illiterate catamite, go back to stupefy yourself on netflix
its ok i leave you to your r / quebec 2.0 i am out
excellent decision, but these dogs will find another subject to shit.
i really liked this collection. it's been over 10 years since i read it and i still remember some tips:
* * your newspaper ostie * to describe his amazement when his letters are not withheld at le devoir.
* the french foodie praising poutine and the reaction of * sushi suckers *.
* call someone a donut, get a dozen in the mail, and try their hand at calling someone a lobster.
* * women in gold *.
the left loses the center
> moreover, ms. dubé deplores that this teaching program seems to have been carved from scratch "by politics", which is "incompatible" with the rigorous approach normally put forward when creating teaching programs. , she says.
so she should be happy to withdraw from the ecr course, right? oh wait, she loves education to be "politically carved out of pieces" but only when her politics decide.
"teacher sabrina jafralie, known for having advocated censorship of books containing the word 'nigger', also sees the abolition of this course as a nationalist victory."
ecr must be deleted
the * bugs * mute for 18 months reactivate when ** their ** little world is jostled. take a good look at the post-pandemic world: it's only just beginning to emerge from the earth and some already have microphones and cameras immediately.
well no, it's not politics to say that there are more than two sexes or that islam is a religion of peace. it is the truth ... because it is i who say it.
/s
current federalism is just shoveling ahead. the problems are known, the solutions exist on both sides, but the political class chooses the status quo, which actually benefits a handful.
nothing prevents the federal government from fighting body and soul to promote and demand french across the country, from requiring the provinces to fund french-language educational institutions across the country equal to what we are doing here with our so oppressed minority, etc. nothing prevents ottawa except the people who sit there, for whom it just doesn't matter.
and nothing prevents quebec from leaving and doing its business. we are caught in a small gutter between two possible histories where we vegetate while flattering our ego with fine speeches and great laws that will protect us, without however wanting to leave this debilitating well and really choose a path of history.
i think bock-côté is right. that legault would have the political capital to achieve independence. in a way it seems to me that most quebecers just expect a "chef" to decide for them. a minority get bogged down in endless intellectual debates, yet the majority of the people would most likely follow independence if that was what was decided. besides, the beginning of legault's speech yesterday smacked strongly of bourrassa.
> i am convinced that quebecers do not want us to go back to where we were before the pandemic. they want us to consolidate the advances we have made. they want us to fix what is broken, to renovate what is worn and above all, to seize the exceptional opportunities that present themselves before us.
> in my 2018 opening speech, i said that our adversary was fear. the fear of change, the fear of failure.
> after everything we've managed to do, i think the fear is largely gone.
but the danger that awaits us now is the temptation to stand still, resignation and inaction.
> i am convinced that if we put aside this temptation and put ourselves into action, nothing can stop quebec.
> to paraphrase president kennedy, instead of asking ourselves what quebec can do for us, let's ask ourselves what we can do for quebec. and, by adding the goodwill of 8,600,000 quebecers, we can do a lot!
> the battle of our lives, this long battle that we have fought against the virus, is not yet over. we will have to remain vigilant, and exercise caution and foresight. but i am more confident than ever since the start of the pandemic that the worst is behind us.
> and i am convinced that it is time for quebec to project itself into the future.
it can be interpreted in different ways. only time will tell.
a caisse populaire manager in a health emergency will become a caisse populaire manager again after the pandemic. it is written in the sky which subjects will come back and how the caq will break its teeth. we have serious short-sightedness in the media. as worse as qanon who deified trump.
possible.
or la la, how stupid. it wants to play the white knight defender of the poor amerindians, but it is scheming in isolation from their ivory tower. we can see that the intention behind this umpteenth rudeness is the national dynamiting and not the advancement of the amerindians.
hahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha
hahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha hahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha
[deleted]
the last fad i heard from qs voters: "first nations are multiculturalists"
🤭
hey, i don't like wasting money but i'm 100% ok to pay for that, we are already paying for budgets 3 ~ 4x too large for the education systems in indigenous communities which allow us to have a primary and secondary education largely in their languages. like french in north america, indigenous languages are a very fragile cultural wealth and must be protected. apart from the friends in ottawa, we have nothing to gain from the disappearance of these languages and from "english for all", and without the efforts of the last decades to preserve their languages, most young people would be able to speak english in communities in the north.
lmao they are literally the most ethno-nationalist people on the american continent.
i remember his comedy shows when i was little. it was funny and still very smart.
it pains me that he passed away. my sympathies to his family and loved ones.
throughout all of this, let's always remember: jeffrey epstein didn't kill himself.
where is the link to the 3tb archive?
there is no information in this article!
for 3 terabyte you would expect more details than
"former formula 1 champion jacques villeneuve owned companies and trusts in tax havens even before he started his career in formula 1, reveal the pandora papers. mr. villeneuve did not respond to inquiries. radio-canada questions because it is currently in dispute with revenu québec. more details will be revealed on the enquête program, thursday at 9 p.m. on ici télé. "
does he really think i'm going to go buy a tv just to see a story?
i feel that there are some who will be killed by 4 bullets in the back.
what i remember is that there are 0 names of us politicians
at first glance, it looks like the current western government apparatus has been redacted. nothing newer in the west other than tony blair?
i see jacques villeneuve, shakira or criminals on the run but it does not control anything. even the very bad trump is missing ...
it’s more corrupt here, look at all the articles on the “corrupt of the trump” finally it’s just nonsense like “he asked the secret service to investigate the son of biden, here were always in the 80s with the mafia which deposits cash bags to our liberal politicians.
> however, according to several documents that i have been able to consult in the archives of the foreign office in london, two of the judges who took part in the fateful decision of september 1981 - chief justice bora laskin and his colleague willard estey - had secret contacts with the federal and british governments. they transmitted information in real time that needed to be kept confidential in order to help trudeau.
it is very serious if it is true. it could overturn the decision and force another judgment to be held.
it would be more appropriate for the old to be inspiring role models for the young.
there has never been a more egocentric generation than the baby boomers.
who is raising these young people, exactly?
denise "d-bomb" bomber splashes with another steaming dung.
for those who haven't understood what she is saying:
she says that instead of listening to people who have the experience and the education to know what, we turn to influencers from youtube, facebook, twitter, instagram to build our opinions.
the problem is that these influencers are generally thick ones who speak through their hats, so that by listening to them, we too become thick without realizing it.
"the culture of me" bill you're 40 years old. even the old is that.
denise bomber ... sometimes she's good, sometimes she rambles. this time, she rambles.
it's true. sometimes she's hit the nail on the head.
this one is in the wall.
quebec must continue to assert itself under the bloc in the house of commons, and by increasing its autonomy under the caq. this should allow other salvos against quebec, enough to raise the dissatisfaction of quebeckers from all walks of life.
in any case we support you from france, the reactions of the anglo seem so childish and silly from here. i watched the leaders' debate in english, and seeing the amount of completely biased attacks against quebec and its “discriminatory laws”, on the part of the journalist in addition, i hallucinated. the anglo are doing autodafés on the express order of a few indigenous representatives, but while quebecers have a strict vision of secularism, oh no eh! it is bullshit. you are right to object.
it will turn into a wet mess if the conservatives win. it will get worse if trudeau has his majority government. more precisely, separatism in quebec is always based on contempt and abuse of the roc. with a centralizing and contemptuous liberal government, things will go in that direction. even more if it is a minority government with a large proportion of npd seats because they will give the francophobes nananes in singh to keep power.
obtain better control of our financial system and ensure that it works in our favor, in favor of all quebecers
and suppose we don't just want to watch the train go by and want to get involved. do you have any idea what would have the most impact? it itches me, i want to move, but i am not in any political network, i am not a partisan and i do not know anything about activism or political organization on the ground.
voting is not enough.
it's delusional indeed ...
i did not know that france had covered this assault.
volunteering for the bloc
mathieu bock-côté regularly speaks on cnews, one of the three big french non-stop news channels, i heard about the autodafe through that.
not sure it's really useful. there are only a few days left before the election and after, what do you want to do? isn't the fight going better from quebec, versus the resistance in ottawa?
from what we have seen over the past few days, the front is in ottawa.
do you think that we could see again a pro-independence coalition similar to the initial pq, or to the rin, reborn? as long as the vote is fragmented, it will not pass.
no idea, there's still a long way to go
with this column, patrick lagacé plunges fully into these contradictions. see when he denounces the hypothetical shortcut between o'toole and the misogynistic anti-abortion crackpots that infiltrate his party. the crude shortcut isn't between o'toole and his supporters' beliefs, it's between pro life and misogynistic crackpots. it is literally the same shortcut that leads canadians to denounce secular bloc supporters as racist and xenophobic crackpots. so we must be consistent, we will not stop the race for hysterical indignation if we ourselves participate.
it does not improve when he embarks on the case of annamie paul. the * condescension of hyperprogressists *? i don't want to piss off, but condescension and a feeling of moral superiority are patrick lagacé's bread and butter. we are talking about a guy who was on the verge of calling to let his fellow citizens die like dogs because they do not adhere to his so-called educated conclusions. it is fine to denounce the almost religious fervor of the leader of the greens, look at yourself in the mirror patrick because usually it is you who takes pleasure in playing the inquisitor of good and evil.
moreover, and i am convinced of it, we can therefore add his name to the long list of those who will tear their shirts off on this story only to sweep the national question under the carpet. in any case, the box likes it more or less and it is much easier to publish * if the school was important (3 798) * or i do not really know another paper in which he will position himself reluctantly against the fact to let his fellow citizens die.
objection your honor !!!!
we will not be able to agree, we have borne allegiance to the king of france and you to the british queen.
you did not conquer us by war but by treaty, otherwise we would no longer be of this world.
and this is how quebec became secular and preserved its "french" language.
he rebuked annamie paul, this highly contemptuous and contemptible person.
at this rate, the ardent quebecois federalists will be converted to sovereignty in time to say so.
the host's question was stupid and ill-conceived. all parties / candidates have their problem / skeleton in the closet.
that of the bloc is its islamophobic caucus with these 4 beautiful open-minded people who would never dare to diffuse the slightest false racist exaggeration on a particular religious / ethnic group (i am obviously sacastic).
members of parliament who represent quebec constituencies and sit in the communes.
this is where the challenger had to be from the other parties, it is the only achilles heel that i can find.
she missed out on the hunt and the result is perfect for the bloc.
yfb is the winner of the debate thanks to the host and is not publicly challenged for its tolerance of racism in its ranks. compared to the moral standard he demands of others, he has given them the equivalent of a pichnotte on the hand.
hes laughing all the way to the bank. he's smart and a very good politician, i tip my hat to him (no sarcasm).
double hypocritical standard when racism is directed by bloc candidates towards muslims and when it is directed by the debate leader towards quebec.
one weight, two measures.
the host gave the same caliber of excuse that these deputies gave the last election (ie a bogus explanation which is not one).
i am still waiting for a real apology from both camps for their words which 'bashent' an ethnic group in particular.
i see a blue wave filling up with deputies in qc for the bloc so what happened to the debate could not have been better for yfb.
totally agree.
patrick lagacé reacts like an arsonist firefighter when his "club" decides to start the fires where he lives instead of the toothless ghetto at the bottom of the city.
beautiful essay of the media world which tries to recruit a population that it has maintained in fear for 18 months. the anglos will not cause any death or hospitalization in our "breathless" health system, the only metric that has been sunk in the throats of the population and which will act as a focal point on voting day.
we have not pledged allegiance to anyone. even if it was, we were betrayed. i certainly do not belong to the french monarchical league which today has absolutely nothing in common with me.
it will not arrive. they reap political gains, fill up with virtue and then we move on. if there was truth in what you say, we would already be sovereign. contempt does not date from yesterday.
i was talking about the start in new france not today because i know that we have abandoned us.
you still see the defeat of 1995 as a very bitter sovereignist. things change. most of the people i know who voted caq are now asking for separation. we must stop asking the french speaker for revenge who dared to vote "no" in 1995, otherwise we will never be free.
we live in a time when the elector's memory is 3 weeks. we are already starting to forget the journalist's name. in a week we will have forgotten the words and in 2, that there had been a debate.
we don't have enough memory to stop the perpetual health emergency, so the country's history ...
i'm not asking anyone for anything. i see. and note, often, that disturbs. a large part of canada's political stability depends on _not_ discussing constitutional issues. search for "abeyances".
whether i am a federalist or a sovereignist does not change anything in the scheming of 95 and does not change that parizeau was (awkwardly perhaps) right. i don't want to punish anyone.
ahhh the wokes, they still haven't figured it out. it took a madwoman to literally sow the fertilizer of censorship so that we could finally question the first nations on the issue, who unequivocally condemn the auto-da-fe act by seeing it as an act of provocation.
the wokes, victims of their success.
it's not the woke, the problem is the “savior”. there are plenty of things you want at bipoc when we never asked for that. it's the flavors that exaggerate 😂😂😂
[deleted]
are you going to whine again?
now that we have confirmed that it will never go away, can we stop treating it as a pandemic and end the grotesque measures?
>several leading health experts, including white house chief medical advisor dr. anthony fauci and stephane bancel, ceo of covid vaccine maker moderna, have warned that the world will have to live with covid forever, much like influenza.
whoops. we forgot to circulate this info to our media? 🤡
we follow the science but only that which makes our business in quebec? 🤡
everything to avoid saying * endemic * ....
it's time to stop the bullshit!
so i will have to continue to wear my anti-covid suit for eternity. :(
they have said that you have to learn to live with it. what they haven't mentioned ... living with the virus includes all measures.
the passport came in and it's life now.
i have the solution :
mbc makes a good diagnosis.
for trudeau and the liberals, "to be a canadian is to be a liberal and to be a liberal is to be a canadian". trudeau's favorite formula is to say that the ideas and behaviors he does not approve of "have no place in canada". i also agree that the best outcome of the election would be a minority conservative where they would be able to survive with the support of the bloc.
as to why the liberals went into election so disorganized ... i believe they believed they could ride the popularity of governments because of the patriotism generated by the covid crisis, and also because they fear an epidemic resumption in september that would make them look bad, the people who claim that vaccines will end the epidemic in canada. however, in fact, the canadian government has signed supply contracts for vaccines until 2024, with options to extend them, and enough to vaccinate the entire canadian population each year.
this suggests that, despite trudeau's promises, the federal government is banking on:
1. vaccination will not produce herd immunity
2. vaccine immunity worsens within months, requiring regular re-vaccination
and he is betting billions of dollars on those eventualities. the words are inconsistent with the actions, and liberal supporters become hysterically angry when called back. we already see the liberal mods of r / canadapolitics cleaning up anyone who contradicts the liberal narrative too effectively, we can see the panic that sets in.
the best scenario is that the bloc can chip away at the advance of the plc in quebec, the only province where the party is ahead, to end up with a minority conservative government.
the worst scenario: a new element brings the plc back to a majority situation
so much the better.
i hate the conservatives and their politicians who want to turn society back 150 years.
but between them and trudeau, i believe they win by default.
except that the bloc more often supports the liberals than the conservatives. i will never understand this illusion that quebeckers have that the bloc and the ccp are natural allies, but this is not really the case.
from a truly conservative point of view, it is hard to see the difference between the conservative party and the liberal party. just the other day, i saw an ad from o'toole who was at pride celebrating “sexual diversity”.
[ outre( 150 years ago, really?
the ccp is roughly center-right economically, center-left socially.
the conservatives are less centralizing than the liberals and are more open to listening to quebec's demands for autonomy. and if they are in the minority, they will not be able to act in the social field without compromise with a progressive party or with the liberals.
do not.
sorry, but this is absolutely wrong.
if we come back to our stephen "erections" harper, he has twice tried to reopen the abortion debate. which has been law in canada since 1988.
once with his law which would cause an individual who kills a pregnant woman to be charged with double murder (therefore, the fetus is a life according to the law, etc) and another time with his 4th trio deputy, stephen woodworth, who tried to reopen the debate directly.
that is if we ignore the fact that the conservatives are actively working against any climate regulation, when they choose not to ignore it outright.
[
[
we must not kid ourselves here. conservatives are anti-social progress and anti-evolution.
😂 "socially left center". the leader may be socially central, but much of the rest of the pack is clearly conservative on this point.
62 voted against the ban on conversions of lgbt therapies (thus more than half of the caucus), they tried to reopen the debate on abortion and voted in majority for the motion in question just before the end of the session parliament, about fifteen conservative candidates openly question climate change and the importance of tackling it, etc.
translation: nothing will ever happen in the house of commons and we will have to go back to the polls in 2 years again. i pray that if a conservative government is to be elected, that it will have a majority.
i do not see what is conservative in not conserving the environment. it is not a conservative position. it is more of progressivism; the logic of the infinite development of an increasingly destructive modernity. note, on climate issues, nobody does anything sincere, because there are too many big business interests that have their hands in the pockets of the political class. in terms of the environment, it is almost desirable to go back 150 years, before the damn tanks, and oil, overconsumption, and the paradigm of infinite growth that is promoted by each party, from "right" to from the left. you can vote for the ndp if you want, but even they will tell you that we have to grow the economy, and inevitably, that means messing up our resources and the world that nature has left us and that a true conservative would like to protect against change. other than that they just stick around on dirty environmental taxes and rates, but they agree that he has to be fucked up.
the issue of abortion is a bit of a false issue that we use to bash the ccp. it is a bit of the kind of workhorse that the media allied with the plq choose to give the impression of a real difference. nothing and no one in canada can ban abortion, at least until the demographics of canada change dramatically in several decades, because of leftist immigration policies. o'toole is no more going to allow his party to tackle it than sheer, who was unable even to say that he personally didn't like the idea, even though his party wouldn't do anything against it. they know that there is nothing to do because even within their party, the general opinion is that it is an acquired right, even a fundamental one.
there may be a few fellows in the depths of alberta who will try to surreptitiously pass legislation to make it a little less available to the goodwomen who live in the depths of the woods and who don't want to have to drive. an hour to go get sucked off the offspring. as soon as it becomes known, it will cause a scandal and o'toole will have to exclude the type from the party, remind canadians that his party is not going to come back on abortion, blah blah blah, commitment to women and equality.
for the rest, the ccp openly celebrates pride, talks about equality, and is pro mass immigration. i don't know which party for you is the perfect example of "social progress" and "evolution", but if that is not an example ... the ccp is not much more conservative than it is. 'much of the american democratic party.
may be. it has to come down to a question of what they post. they advertise themselves as center-left, while dragging out evangelical albertans. i agree that it's a bit of a schizophrenic party, which no longer really knows what it keeps, but not from there to saying that they "want to take us back 150 years 😠 !!!!!"
in the end, everyone finds noon at their door: the conservative will look favorably on the ccp while the liberal will do the same for the plc. everyone preaches for their parish. political parties are not just one-dimensional entities, they are several things at the same time.
yes. i am going to vote for whoever is better able to dethrone the plc in my riding. the ccp or the bloc, like. i don't care even if we agree that they are quite different parties. at least the ccp is pretending to support more power for qc, so it's a win-win.
> a group considered by canada to be a terrorist entity.
recognized as "brothers" by the canadian government through its federal minister of gender equality.
he's clearly on the csis payroll (and probably the watchlist as well) so they'll let him spout his nonsense without pissing him off.
by letting him say his bullshit in public, he will attract to him the little budding terrorists who are stupid enough to fall into the trap and they will be watched by the secret services. the government's strategy is not stupid. with as an additional bonus the promotion of radical islam in quebec, which is a destabilizing factor in society, which is in line with canadian interests.
it is unfortunate that a sympathizer to a terrorist organization is listened to and given importance to this point.
the spokesperson for the demonstration against bill 21 ...
we can see what is behind the accusations of "racism".
with the uqam building just behind, a sacred coincidence.
he will be able to enter his home 😊
> the president of the "quebec committee against islamophobia"
when i hear that "it's just a minority" when we talk about religious fuckées worse than it's islamophobic to criticize their religion ...
tse when "it's just a minority" controlling afghanistan, iran, iraq, syria, palestine, saudi arabia, pakistan etc ... you still "just a minority "??? is she or the chalice of supposed majority who are not stupid?
to say that charkaoui has long been supported by the useful idiots of the quebec and canadian left ...
another montreal imam celebrates the taliban victory:
[
what are we still doing in this serious country ...
a jar of honey, what.
anglos and immigrants voted 99% no in 1995 ...
fat, lette, and bearded version. to each his own i imagine.
cool ! thank you !
we have a giant apple tree. we had to make 30-35 liters of compote to date + some pies and crumbles. we simply freeze the compote.
ah nice to see that you are able to post something other than conspiracies :)
i thank america every day for granting us tomatoes. i always eat it, all the time, everywhere. i have so many that i end up with stocks that end up rotting, so i make canned candied tomatoes, to avoid losses, which i take out very often for sauces.
it's worth it! is that a lot of maintenance?
j't'un compotiste!
should be watered to keep the apples beautiful. this year we didn't, but the apples are still very beautiful (our best year in 6 years).
i learned this year that you have to prune it in winter. finally, half the apples fall to the ground before we can pick them, feck we have to scrape them.
it's not so much work.
i too would have to prune my apple tree, but i'm a little scared because it was damaged by the stained woodpeckers, so i thought i would let it regenerate before pruning it.
nature always takes care of itself! an autonomous factory.
wait, this has to be taken out of context.
\ * will read the article \ *
that was a cultural reference that you could have missed, mrs. monsef.
first reaction, let's see, it doesn't look good!
second reaction, wait, islamists and taliban alike often refer to their co-religionists as "brothers" and "sisters" so maybe she tries to speak their language in the scant hope that they will listen and exercise restraint.
third reaction, yeah, i'm not sure the taliban will consider a woman without a veil as their muslim "sister" but rather as an apostate.
conclusion: blunder by the minister, no matter how you look at the situation.
speak as an afghan muslim first.
and maybe as canada's minister for women afterwards. not sure yet.
damn, a minister. flee the cities, with rulers like her safety will become a distant memory
liberals will still be at 30% regardless
that is inclusive!
/s
the minister of women and more! the masks are falling!
[
political suicide
shout out to my soldier friends who got mentally ill or that their best buddies died for it.
we brothers who have been slaughtered for 20 years?
* our brothers the taliban and our brothers, the separatist terrorists in india! *
but what world do they live in ?!
wrong translation from farsi where it is common to call men his "brothers." it is similar to the "slanted eyes" about which the english flipped. basically, there is the linguistic context that is missing.
in my opinion nostradamus must have reversed the last two figures of 2012.
it was an additional written statement. it doesn't come out of nowhere.
she should probably take her advice from valérie plante
security, lol
how long has she been here? she should know what to call them so as not to shudder the non-muslim majority of either country bout d'viarge!
shit, don't say that. he's going to have people saying that nostradamus is going to come back and be a member of trump's cabinet, along with jfk jr.
> “from the start of 2020, i recognized the phenomenon of systemic racism, only to realize that it has become a political accessory, a political stun word that we use to characterize each other. the kind of word that the ndp and the liberals have systematically used to try to impose a bad conscience on quebecers, who are nevertheless and probably, not only the most welcoming nation on the continent, but moreover, the one with the best. historic relations with first nations, ”he added.
wow, he told the truth. expect editorials denouncing him as a nazi monster.
baby majority block
this law should have been abolished 50 years ago.
* very racist! *
he knew that systemic racism has only existed since 2020. i hope it's not a source of pride.
pcq as soon as you recognize it. you know it's been here before 2020 .. rip
failing to portray him as a sexual assailant
let's see what the head of the pq, pspp, has to say about it:
[deleted]
ah not the bullshit of the other reddit here
what debate does it come from?
they went to the supreme court so your religion wouldn't allow you to have privileges over others. the english said "well we own you so you'll do what we say."
fuck, there are just two subreddit for the beautiful province that i know.
no idea, but a google search for #mbcvspspp gives a link to a 2016 debate over two hours long on the pspp facebook page.
it follows this tweet:
and there is this:
[deleted]
find
it's only a right in the aberrant way the english interpret it. when your religion gives you immunity from the law which others would not have, it becomes a privilege. i don't really give a fuck what the occupying hostile force thinks.
[deleted]
the law is secular and tremendous efforts were undertaken to extirpate religion from all aspects of legal and political life in quebec. i'm opposed to gun control. and yes, we are an occupied, subjugated nation. people are just in denial about it.
[deleted]
right, secularism is christianity. and black is white and up is down.
fuck your blackwhite bullshit.
[deleted]
more anti-province, but the only other province that cares about its powers is alberta.
he is right ottawa does not leave the provinces free of their budgets to invest, it is not only completely anti québec but it is also contrary to the definition of the confederations of respected the sovereignties of the provinces.
in addition, a pc deputy opposed to confinement was expelled from her party, presented herself as independent and was elected by a spectacular margin.
[
we may be able to drop the vaccine passport in the fall of 2022!
hmm how opposed are they to the health passport?
>as for his views on vaccine passports, how to handle a potential fourth wave and deal with rising covid-19 cases in neighbouring new brunswick, houston said he would look to strang and his team for guidance before making decisions. "it's not a decision i'm qualified to make. i need input from the experts."
it gives hope in humanity.
it's terrifying. the people will have to get rid of this whole clique of globalist leaders. this is the only real solution.
i love his pin !!
it's been just 18 months since we said it, but ok
elected by the people, and they want more.
me, this is the [update] ( that i love!
i find it fitting that an unelected civil servant so openly displays his political allegiances while exercising so much control over the population!
/s
what is the logo? qanon?
meaning of the pin.
agenda 2030
thank you! wow it's much worse than i thought ...
money does not reveal additional resources. if you have 100 doctors who are already working full time, even if you doubled the amount to buy doctor's services, if you don't have an additional doctor to hire and the current doctors cannot / do not want to work any more, your money is useless.
what is needed is to increase resources, either by training many more physicians, or by reducing the regulations which reserve medical acts only for physicians while allowing other health professionals to perform medical acts ( pharmacists, nurses, etc ...) which would relieve doctors of several acts, reserving their jurisdiction for acts for which they are really necessary.
in addition, there is the issue of family physicians. most of the work of family physicians in the quebec system is to redirect patients to specialists. in some other countries, people have direct access to specialists, so they need a lot, a lot less gps / family doctors / gps.
the problem is that to do so would run up against all kinds of corporate interests that do not want to lose the status that the current system gives them. family physicians do not want to have to retrain because suddenly people no longer need to see them to see a specialist. doctors in general would fear losing their social status if nurses and pharmacists could render medical services independently. and the ministry of health and its managers would not like to complicate the system by increasing the number of independent players.
the problem with the health care system is that it is structured for the people of the 1970s.
population 65 and over 2021 = around 20%
population 65 and over 1970 = around 7.5%
obesity rate 2021 = around 27%
obesity rate 1970 = around 10%
universal access to the 2021 system = yes
universal access to the 1970 system = yes
our population is old and in poor health. we have to change that. we could do like the japanese who condition the free system on the bmi. it would be a bit drastic.
the system is just not designed for 2021, no matter how many billions you add.
the decision-makers, who put their pockets in their pockets to manage everything badly, make the modernization projects fail (4+ billion dollars spent in its, whereas it was supposed to take a few hundred million originally , to end in failure ... long live the management by committee!) and who systematically block the possibilities for improvement and refuse to change their obsolete ways of doing 50 years ago.
also the many obstacles (still coming from the bureaucracy) for skilled immigrants to work in the system and increase the workforce.
meanwhile, nurses, orderlies and other people in the field are struggling with crappy working conditions, insane hours, no flexibility or mobility, and they find themselves with special laws and pretexts. xyz emergency and seizures to force them to continue like this more or less whenever they want to put pressure on it to change.
say 80-90% of the pencil pushers out, redistribute their wages and give what they need to health workers (like ... those who do the job of treating people), and see what point that will change.
wherever you read that nurses make big money, i'm curious, usually it's the other way around but hey i could be wrong.
otherwise, quebec is the province with the weirdest health system.
we are the one who receives the most in federal transfers and we put a large part of it in health (we are obliged to put the federal transfer in the sector decided by the federal government).
according to some, this is not enough to sustain our health care system let alone to make it as efficient as it should be.
the federal government is aware of that (or not, it depends on the opinions), by the fact that we are also the province which receives the most in “non-compulsory transfer” (in english it is “non-comitable fund”), basically these transfers that the federal government makes to a province for a certain purpose, but the province is not obliged to respect the federal request and can do whatever it wants with that money. the last 6 billion that the federal government gave to the caq for their daycare program is part of it, legault is not obliged to put it in daycare centers.
i think you can see the portrait already, we don't spend all the time on bargains.
it is true that many doctors are expensive countries but not all, what is interesting is that in the rest of canada people think that doctors should be paid more, in quebec not. it is due to the former governments of the plq which jacked the salaries of medical specialists. family physicians are considered too can pay for the workload they have.
to put it in perspective, qs had calculated that by cutting in the salary increases made by the plq, there could pay for 95% of the dental care system that wanted created. that would mean that we have the equivalent of an aspect of a complete health system just put in salaries. this money, already paid for by transfers and provincial taxes, is a large sum to increase the salaries of a minority of physicians.
many public medical specialists are paid extremely dearly.
if you want to check
 (ye long en ta ste document la, we catch after the 1st page)
note: i know that this marks that 19 general practitioners (family physicians) we charge 1m + to the ramq that sounds bcp but must be remembered that there are 55,000 + \ - professionals covered by the ramq and that inside there is 'has 10,000+ \ - family physicians. they are 1/5 of the system, so it is a small minority that charges as much. also, according to the fmoq (federation of general practitioners of qc), to get there, the doctors must see a lot of patients, they charge no more than the others, the federation estimate that these doctors work about 80h + week. (source, jdm and document de la ramq).
we have more nurses in qc than england as a whole, but yet they still face immense workloads in the public system, whatever the reason, it reduces their efficiency and productivity.
we also have a big shortage of family doctors, as i said above, 10k for 8.5m. that's 1 doctors for 850 patients, it's huge. quebec has a good rate of immigrants who have diplomas that are not recognized here.
>
in 2016-2017, 3,661 requests were made by graduates outside quebec to join a professional order. of the batch, around 2,300 people were invited to follow a training course or take part in an additional course. according to the average for the last few years, a third of these applicants will eventually drop out or fail.
(to have to)
on the one hand there is an overloaded staff and on the other a too small labor force which cannot benefit from the fastest and most economical addition of workers.
one of the many reforms has also removed the possibility for institutions and public associations to assert their opinions in the health system. as a result, information and requests are not made from the bottom up (eg requests from associations and public institutions to the government) but from top to bottom, the government ignoring the recommendations and requests of the sector.
and for the big end, the management of our funding. we changed the drug insurance plan in 97 for a hybrid private / public system. a lot of data indicates that the result is that we spend too much on drug insurance and that our drugs are too expensive.
from 1988 to 2012
the private sector at sight its financing to increase from 29% to 40%. so 40% of the private sector is funded by the provincial government, whether it comes from our taxes or from the federal transfer.
from 1975 to 2012
hospital service spending fell 17.3%. this is due to the integration of techniques from the private business world (lean sigma) to save money but increase productivity.
we spend heavily on drugs, it is our biggest expense in the private sector. this is due to the hybrid insurance that i mentioned earlier. a report by iris in 2012 (from which i take many of my information) before that has to say on this subject:
“in this regard, the type of spending that has increased the most among public spending is on drugs, as was also the case for private spending. in quebec as elsewhere, drug prices are regulated. however, rather than using this regulatory capacity to reduce cost, the government has gone further to ensure a “favorable investment climate” for the pharmaceutical company through policies such as the rule. 15 years or reimbursement of inflated prices for drugs22. "
our response in health for two decades now has been to demand more and more from transfers and taxes. it is extremely counterproductive, we have a health care system that must meet the demands of a growing and aging population but which is putting resources in the wrong place. in the end, we just enrich the private sector, pharmaceutical companies and medical specialists.
quebec's health system suffers from big cuts, lack of manpower, exodus from the public sector and above all poor (almost deliberate) management of funding.
finally, i leave the conclusion of the report made by iris.
>
observers generally agree on the idea that there is no such thing as underfunding in health and that the current system could better accomplish its mission if it modifies its functioning without necessarily receiving additional resources. the proposals formulated by study groups appointed by governments for some fifteen years put forward ideas that go against what has been taught by the evolution of the costs of the health system since the beginning of the 1980s. for example, the ménard report on the "sustainability of the health and social services system" which proposed in 2005 to increase the role of the private sector.
we have seen that health care spending is not growing as fast as some claim. private spending is the fastest growing, while almost entirely public spending - spending on doctors' salaries and running hospitals - has seen its share decline since 1971.
if the concern is to guarantee the sustainability of health costs, the priority should be to manage drug costs more closely, the category that has increased the most in health expenditure, but also to put an end to the experiments of direct privatization (eg the use of public-private partnerships, the opening of private clinics), the costs of which turn out to be higher, or even the importation of management mecha- nisms from the company within the system (eg activity-based financing) which also tends to generate an increase in costs.
the decentralization and democratization of the health and social services system in quebec have never been successfully accomplished in the past. these goals have been largely abandoned over the years. however, it still appears today that these are necessary steps for the establishment of a system capable of properly identifying the needs of the populations and of properly allocating the resources aimed at meeting these needs.
it's the little old people. i'm not even kidding. our system is crumbling under the alzheimer's pile. take that off and the problem is resolved with a snap of your fingers.
i worked for a long time in hospitals before the army. and when mailloux suggests that a woman's milieu doesn't work, well, it's not wrong 😉
too many executives, too many unions when the pabs cannot be increased because their increases bring them closer to nurses' salaries. it's typical of a woman to be jealous.
i speak in general that women are not a homogeneous group. i got off this job because of it all. my beautiful sisters the same.
i don't know too much about it but let's say that with the last decades, i expected that a former minister, a former deputy minister or a retired senior official would publish a book on this and which acts like a kind of punch.
there was * condemned to suicide * who spoke about the cnesst but it was as an applicant and not as an organization.
it's a little weird: 40% of the budget and no one to go out to say how it's going. either everything is fine and there is nothing to say, or enap is a form of airtight blue blood.
2 things i know is
1. federal health transfers are no longer honored. jurisdiction was shared, where the federal government pledged to pay half the bill, but the federal government for a long time no longer gives a sufficient share, which has created a decline in the growth of infrastructure and health personnel. however, while the population has grown, health workers have not grown as fast as expected. now that the pandemic is striking, we are short of staff and we are eating infra. the shortcomings of the past strike us.
2. people study health and seek prestigious diplomas but do not stay in quebec to practice. this is especially true for mcgill graduates who, being english-speaking, find a position in the united states rather than staying in quebec because it pays almost four times. we train people at the expense of our taxes but they give nothing back to the population.
in the army, if the army trains you, you have to work for a certain number of years for the army precisely to reimburse the cost of studies in value (while being paid in addition). i do not see why we still allow people to study with public funds without having an agreement with them so that they work in the public at least a few years before being able to leave.
you would pay them fair and square but there are limits to what a public system can pay vs a private system.
but hey, we allow them the butter and the money of the butter and we pick ourselves up, good and happy loser.
at the risk of being downvoted, i will tell you what does not work in quebec in my opinion: the nationalization of the health system coupled with the unions.
it means that the government machine already not very fast usually (infinite funds, service imposed on taxpayers, monopoly) already does not help. add to that too powerful unions with so many resources that they can lead a year round crusade against management. management has no power and therefore no interest. their boss changes every 4 years (elections) and the employees are caught in such a big machine that they end up jaded. add to that the fact that there is no healthy competition so the level of service can remain mediocre and r&d to a minimum.
finally, health is so central to political debates that it has become a tool for getting re-elected. so why fix something now when we can promise to do it in our next term .. :)
solution in my opinion: 2-speed system with the possibility of having private insurance for our care. there's nothing like healthy competition to stretch the world out!
the system is not underfunded, it is just very inefficient. why? because it is a public monopoly, and there is no competition.
in quebec, we have the unfortunate habit of confusing universal access to health care with a public monopoly in the provision of care. it is a real socialist dogma promoted by the unions.
it is different in most western countries (france, germany, switzerland, etc.). we could very well have public and private hospitals accessible to all (the state would foot the bill). care would be faster, of better quality and often less expensive for taxpayers.
20 years from plq
medicines are very expensive
the nurse who makes $ 100,000 has done mandatory overtime, she still isn't doing it for free. she has no choice. she might just want to earn her regular salary. $ 100,000 under these conditions is still too little.
if it didn't take a ridiculous r rating that goes well beyond the statistically reliable range of the formula to get into medicine, we could have more trained doctors. they are amply evaluated and tested during their university training.
i have the gift of being big
100k nurses have to be looked for up in the hierarchy.
and then what? so much the better, i like to see big salaries paid to nurses rather than doctors these days.
the * little old ones * have paid taxes all their lives for access to accessible health care and this is clearly not the case. the government is just terrible at handling anything to the public.
i had heard (source: doc mailloux) that the most costly disease for the health system (and i imagine for a bunch of other resources too, including the police) is schizophrenia and that we has great efforts to make to better control schizophrenics who are refractory to their treatment.
mailloux has always maintained that men move up the hierarchy faster in nursing.
why is he leaving because the conditions are terrible in quebec?
what does a competition for people with heart failure give? the death of the patient.
i think you are confusing the cause and the consequence. it is not because it takes a high r rating that there are few students, it is because there are few places in the programs that a high r rating is required to be able to access them.
hey y'a l'doua, y'est meranicien
ben, all homeless are either schizophrenic, bipolar & co.
maybe the men go up to posts. but in truth those who decide it is the unions. the organization chart of the fiq says it smells of estrogen
well why are they a shit? the salary is less and the money is not there as expected.
clearly you have no idea what healthy competition is. your heart failure will be able to choose if he wants to go to the public or private system for his care… unless you want to say that the health system is like heart failure, there, i can't contradict you haha
the r score is also a problem since it does not make it possible to identify profiles other than ultra-performers, which means that doctors are trained whose aim is to close a file as quickly as possible and practice like a factory. training is highly contingent for the simple good reason of keeping salaries high. it is a kind of mafia that must stop, so yes reform on acts, non-standard privileges, increase places, lower the r rating by diversifying profiles but high requirements, resume the $ 50k increase in the plq and toughen up the tone against the federation of medical specialists.
this little space is an artificial shortage.
nurses have been complaining for 30 years that the conditions suck and we just increase the salary. if you think it's the salary you got it all wrong.
the money is there. the health system receives massive amounts of cash
is the us system the benchmark?
absolutely
well, it's not just the salaries. since there are too few funds, the equipment is less, the personnel is less and we force the world to make several shifts of suites because of its lack of people.
when the chief quebec wokeist meets canadian wokeism, there are sparkles.
in fact, the defense of the french language is a form of crypto-nazism because whites are overrepresented among those who can speak this language in canada.
moreover, it is an inherently transphobic and heteronormative language given that all words have a gender and the masculine prevails over the feminine.
i invite all francophones to speak an inclusive language (like english) and to mutilate themselves to atone for their ethnolinguistic sins.
it's a show with brainless women like there are in all countries. as if we were reading the allô police newspaper and we were surprised afterwards that there was no substance.
he makes me laugh lagacé with his false outrage. he goes to look for an hour-long emptying show with women who all have 10k of botox in their faces and he takes offense at their brains, which are half-working.
i don't know which one is worse the 4 english-speaking hens or lagacé false outrage.
pretty ordinary as a woman's comment, but everyone looks up to the fact that she hits her kids?
> refusing to discuss, the latter adds instead, in front of witnesses: "this lady thinks she is at home and hits her children".
and the verdict of the judge:
> "to refer to the laws of quebec and to imply that madam was not at home in quebec, it was marked with contempt, disrespectful, hurtful, humiliating and degrading", ruled the judge.
we play on words. the woman seems to have insinuated that in her home country children are raised by hitting them (no idea if this is true). but the judge interprets her words as if she had said that she is not welcome in quebec, that she is "not at home".
that is exactly why i am against the federal bill to make hate speech illegal. to some extent, hate speech can be easily demarcated, but there are always interpretations that can go a long way. especially in a contemporary society like ours where everyone feels insulted for anything. it will end that we will drag everyone to court for misunderstandings.
also :
> \ [the complainant is considered to have genuinely felt “insulted and humiliated” in addition to going through a period of stress \ [... \].
really sorry miss for having "insulted and humiliated" you while beating your child in front of his friends
well, apparently, according to u / redalastor, to assert that making a connection between an observed behavior of an individual and his culture (like informing a japanese tourist taking off his shoes when entering a church that he did not no need to do this as places of worship do not require it here or suggest that a man who commits an honor killing against his daughter because she refuses to wear the veil might be pressured to act by cultural or religious norms country or community of origin) or that talking about cultural difference is not racism is in itself racism that deserves a ban.
as presented in the article, the sentence is absurd. if you see a woman who comes from a culture where we know that corporal punishment is common (more than 80% of moroccan children are subject to it according to unicef) hit her child and you tell her that it is not is not tolerated in quebec, i don't think it deserves legal sanction at all.
on the other hand, apparently, the woman put together a web of lies talking about huge slaps and slaps for all to see, and the rest of the witnesses said that is not true. she therefore seems to have mounted one boat against the other because she was nourished by prejudices that colored her perception of the facts (and that is the most optimistic thesis). in this case, it can be justified, but not just the commentary, but everything that surrounds it.
so better to look away than to intervene and be stuck with the adrenaline that makes you say anything ...
all this barely three months after the tabling of the report of the laurent commission ... do i recall that there was a question of a "collective failure to accompany and support families to prevent child abuse"?
racist remarks have not been mentioned in the article once ... okay let's keep screeching stealing from children.
anyway spanking is legal from 2 to 12 years old kind. by law, spanking is at the parent's discretion. but hit an animal and the police will disembark right away.
mailloux says it so well. we don't love our children enough.
absolutely ridiculous ...
we need a real “1st amendment”.
so much stupid stuff in this story. first of all, north africans are often far too permissive with their children, especially boys. the little prince complex is very present so it's clearly not "like in their country". two, slapping your child is not really a case of dpj, personally i do not do it but if someone does it i really will not judge, i know kids who would have needed a good slap once sometimes. third, the lady is crazy but $ 7,500 for racist remarks ?? for defamation or something similar ok i understand, she sent him the dpj, but for racist remarks given what she said it's a bit stupid.
ahhh ... saint-jérôme at its best !!
the human rights commission is a freedom-killing and parasitic organization that should be abolished as quickly as possible.
the mike ward case has already demonstrated this.
if the judge determined that ms. martin's version did not hold up, it would surprise me that the other lady had abused her child, especially after the investigation of the dpj which does not seem to have been fruitful.
i found the amount of compensation high for a simple insult. the way it stands, it sounds more like a libel suit + derogatory comment to me.
wait, i don't think she was beating her children:
> while the mother of moroccan origin intervened with her offspring, sweeping the cereals with her hand, once out of the vehicle, france martin instead claimed that she had punched her boy's stomach in addition to slap him.
the article is a bit hazy.
she did not beat her children.
but your agenda goes better assuming yes, so you can stick with that perception if you want
so compensation and interest for defamation, it's not bad the constant that i get from it
i don't really see the connection considering that the lady was not abusing her children and it's just a situation of a lady with racist prejudices who thinks that browns = child beaters
how can she continue to "squeal volleys" at her children if she already hasn't?
\ * breasts-jerome
it is not because the dpj saw nothing that nothing happened. it often happens that the interveners have both eyes in the same hole. we don't know what happened, but at first glance, if the facts are such as what the accused told me, i consider that there would have been no fault on her part. if the accused sincerely believed, but mistakenly, that the lady was hitting her children, i would not consider that to be a fault either. the only case where the accused would be at fault in my opinion is if it can be shown that she acted in bad faith.
yes, it remains to be seen who is right. but it all started with these words from the woman:
> we are in quebec here, we do not hit our children, i will call the dpj.
fack, either she was racist and she completely exaggerated the mother's gesture, or the mother did not admit that she had touched her son
pretty sure it's a libel lawsuit than anything else
you were there, you know it better than everyone!
sure.
to avoid paying $ 7,500, i will refrain from adding to my comment.
without looking into the case of the lady in question, it is clear that child abuse is more common among brown people, to use your expression. at the very least, it is [what is reflected in the reports to the dpj] ( . unfortunately, the main interested party brushed aside this reality by invoking racism, which is contradictory to her subsequent conclusions.
well, if you know better than them what happened, you should inform the dpj.
all kidding aside, the argument that the dpj may be wrong amounts to saying that they are. the only legitimacy of the evidence is based on the case of the dpj which can always be questioned until it proves the contrary.
or the mother's gesture was stiff, but not abusive and the witness perceived badly, i don't know.
that's what it sounds like, yes. sensationalist title? should go see the judgment.
go read the summary of the judgment and let me know.
you can read the judgment for yourself and see that the defendant was in the field
but you shouldn't ask too much
that's no reason to accuse someone of child abuse
it's like every time i see a white guy walk into the college pavilion, i call 911 to say there's a shooter just arrived.
such behavior is called racist prejudice, but i know on this sub it's okay to be racist so hey my comment is going to go wrong.
a little hard to confuse a hand sweep with a punch to the stomach in my opinion
i flew over. the article keeps portions of the judgment to satisfy its sensationalist base.
let's say a headline like * mother's defamation lawsuit * is a lot less impactful than * a mother sentenced for racist speech. *
if that happens, ms. martin, the defendant, could in turn sue the journal de montréal for defamation, the height of irony.
do you have a connection?
indeed, and i would never encourage malicious denunciations, but people are not fooled and they make connections. obviously, you are able to see that when a massacre occurs in a school it evokes a certain type of aggressor and it is not a haitian taxi driver or a lebanese restaurant owner. either, and i do not believe that it is a racist prejudice on your part, it is the state of the facts. so if it's not a crime of lese majesté to have a little idea of who shoots schools, i can't see why this would be the case with other types of crimes, especially when it comes to child abuse.
> if that happens, ms. martin, the defendant, could in turn sue the journal de montréal for defamation, the height of irony.
that's good, she could get her seven thousand dollars back. emotional damage as long as you're at it:
“everyone thinks i am a racist and i am insulted and attacked on social media across quebec. however, i am not a racist, i often prepare the tagine for ricardo! ” ms. martin said during the hearing.
of course, right here: 
the problem arises when you act on your prejudices.
you want to have all the prejudices you want in your head, be my guest, but if you start insulting people because of their skin color or accusing them of baseless crimes, this is where you get past them. bounds er that the other party has the right to sue you.
read this thread. your sub is so obsessed with brun = bad that everyone immediately assumes that the lady has actually beaten her children.
the only one who saw and understood that it is in fact the master lady who is stamped, it is because i made her read the judgment. go lower, you'll see.
the others refuse to read the judgment because it would force them to concede that the moroccan lady here had nothing to come close to, which as mentioned above goes against the ethics of this sub.
you're right, the judgment shows very well that the woman's version does not make sense and ms. safi's version is supported by witnesses.
after reading this, the woman strikes me as a racist and hysterical karen:
> she sees madame martin arriving and approaches her to tell her about the events of the morning. when she is about two (2) meters from madame martin and she approaches her saying "madame", she refuses to listen to her and starts shouting: "do not approach me, i'll call the police ". she hears him say to the parents who witness the scene: “this lady thinks she is at home and hits her children. ".
jdq article esti shit
🖤
i think you are falling into generalizations. all opinions are welcome on this sub reddit including yours. then really if we were animated by the formula of brown = bad, something tells me that the submissions would look more like those which abound on r / montreal.
it’s nice! glad to see that you are humble enough to reverse your judgment. it's really not everyone who could have so well done and respect
fuck quebecor, we agree
> custom would have me say: i respect the ombudsman's opinion, but i do not share it. however, i do not share it and i do not respect it either.
solid. very happy with the response of stéphan bureau who remains one of the few drinking hosts of the first channel.
well said
i want to carry her children
damnnnnnn !!
the last journalist.
[
i'm sure his answer pissed off penélop mcquade who was also against the controversial scientist's interview.
yes because, didier raoult, whether you like it or not, is an infectuologist who has published the largest number of studies on coronaviruses. he actually crashed royally on covid19, but this does not make him less expert than richard martineau, françois legault, éric duhaime, maxime bernier or guy a lepage.
i found stéphan bureau's questions excellent. very serious, he showed no bias. moreover, he did not at all spare prof. raoult on his past statements.
i am delighted with the cbc's support for stéphan bureau's position. otherwise it would be journalistically unacceptable.
please, stop this censorship of controversies.
about transphobic!
/s
phew, pénélope mcquade the archetypal canadian radio with the karen cup as a bonus! nah, really if that pisses her off, it shows the correctness of stéphan bureau's approach. it is not this kind of head of linnet who dox and intimidates onlookers in his pseudo egocentric documentary on bullying which will be the arbiter of morals.
i very much doubt that mcquade intended or feels involved in this event to any degree higher than a 5 second opinion. otherwise, that would mean a little that his attacker, gilbert rozon, acquitted on all charges, impacts less than the opinions of a researcher from france.
but with the quebec media tribe, you never know ...
mcquade is literally impacted by everything. she was the first to take offense at the interview when stéphan bureau was on his show to announce it.
health :
1- in my opinion, the peoples who will survive the climatic upheavals of the end of the 21st / 22nd century will be the peoples who have given themselves a state. as long as quebecers refuse to assimilate into the english canadian people, i doubt that ottawa will defend our interests in the upheavals that are to come. obviously, independence does not guarantee our survival from this perspective, but it at least gives us the chance to give it a go rather than having our adversaries use our resources against us.
2- put an end to the government of judges and its policy of soft assimilation of quebec. you can refer to frédéric bastien and his book "the battle of london" for the explanation of what the government of judges is and the problems it causes. the federal official languages law and its symmetrical treatment of francophone minorities in the roc and anglophones in quebec mean that we cannot defend francophones in the roc without weakening our position in quebec. once independent, our policy would be to give the same rights to anglo-québécois as those that franco-canadians receive in the field (which means not really much, but that's the choice of canadians ...).
people often make the mistake of believing that independence would be the end of montreal from an economic point of view. yes, in the short term, the impact would certainly be negative given the foreseeable emigration of the english. on the other hand, in the long term, it could be excellent: money follows political power, not the other way around. if montreal has lost its influence, it is because montreal's anglo elite collapsed after the first world war and was overtaken by that of toronto (see the canadian establishment, volume 3 by peter c newman). by becoming independent, we can recreate a ruling elite in montreal that would have its preserve. obviously, there is nothing guaranteed, it will take a lot of sweat, but at least it is possible.
3- strengthening the national character through adversity. i am not one of those separatists who believe that from the day after independence everything will be green and beautiful and that we will be immediately richer in the best of all possible worlds. it may be hard at first, there will be a lot of uncertainties, and yes possibly also financial consequences.
i think it's a good thing to take off the safety harness and set off on our own. why ? unfortunately, our people are inhabited by certain defects. we despise the masculine, we do not value effort and work, we are more and more individualists. i believe that by removing the batting and by eating a little mustard, it could greatly reduce these bad tendencies by encouraging effort, resourcefulness and solidarity.
like everywhere else in the west, we are stuck in a situation where the narrative that told us where we came from and where we should go is crumbling. it seems to me that independence has the potential to be a good way to regenerate this narrative framework (as far as quebecers are concerned at least) and to release the creative energy that comes with it. especially since we are lucky to be one of the places in the world where it would be the easiest to try to achieve net 0 ghg emissions while maintaining a decent standard of living. it's a two-for-one to make a strong narrative. but this kind of project requires the economic means of a complete state, not of a half state. legislatively, most of the levers are in our hands, but the spending power is in ottawa, and they are not interested in them.
personally, i am not an independentist at all costs. if there were a way to come to an understanding and to respect each other between us and the people of the roc, i would not be an independentist. but i am forced to note that no, there is no way to get along while remaining ourselves. they are ready to tolerate our existence, as long as we think like them and talk like them. tolerance is not enough for me, if it was about respect and camaraderie, it would already be better.
i will answer you with a question:
"can you name for me a single country which made its independence between the beginning of the 20th ** ^ (th) ** ** century and now and which regrets it and which would like to become again a province or a colony?" **
example of countries which became independent during the twentieth century: (very partial list)
* norway (1905) union with sweden
* germany (east-west reunification, 1990)
* ireland (1931) of the united kingdom
* latvia (1990) of the soviet union
* lithuania (1918)
* slovakia (1993)
* finland (1918)
* australia (1931)
* egypt (1922)
**and**
* ** canada (1931) ** statu of westminster conferring full independence on canada.
** why is independence good for canada, norway, ireland, finland and over 100 other countries which all achieved independence during the 20th century but would not be good for quebec????**
if one excludes india because of its disproportionate population, the average population of the states which made their independence during the last 120 years is, today, of 5.3 million people, just a little more than half of the population. of quebec.
it should also be understood that apart from norwegian oil, most of the new states in the world do not even have half of quebec's natural resources.
** if it's good for others, it's good for quebec too. **
we must have a state because we are a people. the demi-estates make half-men.
there are historical, political, cultural and economic reasons.
we pay for dozens of duplicate services (health canada / health quebec, transport canada / transport quebec, revenue canada / revenu quebec, etc ...)
basically when someone invades your country in general it is to come and steal your resources.
do you want to give your allegiance to the queen of england?
it is one of the highest insults to be obliged to do so since it is they who historically stole our lands, burnt our houses, raped our women, and still continue to despise us today with the assimilation of francophones. , as if canada were truly a "bilingual" country.
either we remain a minority in canada and die slowly,
or we become the majority at home, in our country, quebec.
please specify your melanin level ...
1. speak french in america
2. ensure the sustainability of our culture for our ancestors and our children
3. control our finances and strategic resources at 100%
4. piss off lord durham and their planned assimilation
5. stability and peace with the first nations
6. act for climate change
easy
1 - canada and quebec are more than 50 departments in duplicate. that said, you risk paying a lot less in taxes. less government is cheaper.
2 - all the traffic that passes on the river, we get virtually no profit, while the right of way alone would bring in an impressive amount of revenue to the state (which would make you pay less in taxes).
3 - note that toronto, a city that is half the age of montreal, is made almost twice the size. ask yourself the question for real; the canadian federation when it has money, it invests it where? it's the same problem with the davie shipyard, or a host of other things.
there are plenty of other reasons.
and then it is not always a question of being centered on quebec. yes, i believe that sovereignty would allow quebec to free itself much more, but also i believe that the federal government in itself is a burden for all canadians. notes that among the big cities of canada, the inaction of the federal government in recent years in terms of real estate has meant that the people are practically expropriated from their homes.
the canadian government can also be used for totalitarian purposes such as imposing the pipeline that the people of quebec categorically refuse. whether you are personally for or against this subject is not particularly important; what must be considered here is that a clear majority would be ignored on the pretext that it is not legitimate on its territory according to a government to which we have never officially adhered.
honestly, if we could have a strong wexit + bloc which would lead to the end of the federation, it would be beneficial for all.
good fences make good neighbours.
the advantages of being independent! self-determination may be less attractive than magic money, but it's like ending up coming out of your mother's basement and becoming an adult, the advantage is to become responsible instead of being under guardianship, but i understand that it may seem to be a disadvantage for some ... (i would also be for a real federation of current provinces, but let's start by recognizing that our dear dominion is anything but!)
i'm gonna keep this short because i just got up and want to get ready for the job.
1. full control over our constitution, laws, budget and immigration. no more undue interference from another people who are hostile to us. i do not include everything in this point, such as control over our military decisions and over our decisions in relation to the international community.
2. due to the withdrawal of this interference, a very effective brake on assimilation and therefore a much better protection of our culture, not to say that the main threat to it would be eliminated. without the influence of the federal government and the other provinces, the english of montreal would be unable to continue their campaign of culture killer effectively.
3. i have already mentioned the budget, but many people see equalization and believe that quebec wins in the canadian economy. [the reality is different.] ( equalization gives us some relief, but a large part of the federal taxes paid by quebecers disappear in federal programs and contracts which they do not benefit from. it is also well known that despite the cries of alarm from the english proclaiming loud and clear that quebecers are too inferior to manage an economy and that they need good english to supervise them, if quebec had been separated in 1980 or 1995, [this one would now be in a better position than at those times.] ( independant-bernard-landry-etude.shtml)
there have been a lot of reasons but in 2021 there is only one that really matters.
** leave the adrift ship before it sinks and takes us with it. **
canada is over.
1. no more provincial-federal quarrels, we will be able to do what we want without having to ask permission from anyone and without having to beg for money from another level of government ... and without politicians being able to come together. scroll blaming the other tier.
2. constitutional unblocking. the monarchy? we get rid of it the first year. do we want to review the courts, have a president, experiment a little with the structures of our democracy? we will be able, we will no longer be locked into a constitution that was created knowingly to be so difficult to change that it will still be the same in 1000 years.
3. we will finally have a sovereign state that we never had.
you mean you're canadian, or if you say you're a quebecer and a federalist, it's a bit of nonsense, at least say you're a provincialist or a submissive.
for me it's not a question of advantages, what's the point of having a country? it is to give the people their autonomy to have their home in this world.
either you give me my country or else between canada and having a world without any country is the same thing, i find it cave to have a country without an identity, as a minority among others we will always be in conflict with the rock and the liberals, as they have been since confederation.
after the advantages change over time, as the stakes also change, the main argument is autonomy, which is the same for all nations of the world.
in my opinion, the main reason for establishing independence is to ensure the cultural survival of the people of quebec.
canadian bilingualism is an illusion (as we saw with the recent appointment of mary simon as canada's “head of state”) and french is dying outside quebec.
soon, it will be quebec's turn if nothing is done. cause no. 1 of the cultural genocide of french canadians is massive immigration. canada has the highest immigration thresholds in the west.
a historical fact that i find particularly striking: when manitoba became a province (1870), francophones were in the majority. today, french is the 4th most important language, after english, german and tagalog (a filipino dialect) !!
mainly to create a quebec cultural enclave in north america and self-determination.
the rest is no guarantee and as a small player, we will surely often lose in the exchange, but that is the price of independence. and as an independent, neighboring countries will not hesitate to openly interfere in our policies.
we risk monetary and political instability, we could even end up being politically dominated by a foreign country if we play our cards badly.
but it can also go very well if the population is ready to take their own politics seriously and not let themselves be bought off or fill their heads with lies by the internet.
in all fairness, people weak and stupid enough to identify with canada are more likely to cringe elsewhere and never come back, nothing else matters.
i embark on the train that says that canada is adrift but do not make me believe that economically it will be better.
because the liberal party of canada has been indebted to us since 1973 (since the "bank deregulation"), not to mention justin who stepped on the public debt accelerator because of his pcu. the public bank of canada is at the mercy of the global private banks, which push on their neoliberal globalist project. canada is not "economically sovereign". this is used to create sovereignty: regain control of our economy, as before 1973 ...
so you're a big pathetic cuckold who loves to be insulted, humiliated and who asks for more ...
i have always been for independence but i admit that with the leaders we have now, that does not make me want and i have the impression that being inside canada protects us in some way. sort of the potential abuses of power that legault might want to put in place. ideally, we should have taken action when ti-poil was still there. today i have very little hope in this project unfortunately :(
in my current case: wokism.
many of the great independentist political figures of the last century were initially federalists. to name a few: parizeau, lévesque, bouchard, landry, chaput, barbeau ...
it is something very common. they were not pro-independence at all costs either, but they understood that federalism in its current state was leading nowhere. parizeau considered that canada could simply never be reformed in order to fully accommodate quebec. in short, being a sovereignist is also accepting a nostalgia for a country that could certainly have been, but which will never be (the canadian federation dreamed of by quebec federalists).
thank you so much ! very good points and i appreciate that you took the trouble to display your argument without judgment and with respect. <3
> thank you very much! personally, although it is interesting, comparing the political situation of quebec with that of other countries is relatively obsolete in the sense that our cultural legacy is very different and generally, canada and quebec have historically made coccessions and compromises to got along. it's not perfect and there are certainly things to address / improve in the future. but canadas is a very big country, and a beautiful country. i think a lot of quebecers forget it sometimes.
[deleted]
lolllllll has less tax. the machine is hungry and that will not change anything.
i can get behind that.
i am canadian, quebecois and federalist. there is nothing difficult to understand haha.
no, i am simply an educated person who is sometimes ashamed of quebecois who are closed-minded, unilingual, and centered on themselves, like you. that being said, the other comments prove that there are other educated quebecers like me who know how to answer a legitimate question with decency.
it's nice. once i had made another post more focused on the economic reasons for independence, here is the link.
[
listen, we were already canadians during the conquest. so no stress with that, you will always be canadian. what will change is the political regime.
> quebecois and federalist
it's antonyms, you are provincialist or submissive.
> who is sometimes ashamed of quebecers who are closed-minded, unilingual, and self-centered
you have just described 100% of anglos on this earth ...
i don't know if you do in english canada, the english of great britain, the united states, the australians or all the people who speak english as 2nd or 3rd language in the world? are all these people closed-minded, unilingual and self-centered?
please avoid posting such things on the sub. we already have enough of the bozos who accuse us of literally being hitler, we don't need to be accused of organizing additional brigades.
and in defense of / r / quebec mods (and all reddit mods in general), moderators are human beings too. we're not constantly on reddit watching our subs and reading all the posts to nab cellars. when you see something that is against the rules on reddit, report it and be prepared to wait a few hours while a moderator sees it and intervenes.
we don't know quebec here
an angryphone that spits its venom on our people.
disagreeing isn't enough to ban someone, even if you're a jerk.
the guy has bullshit and banned after cons:
>thefarnell  
>  
> rule 2, no discriminatory words. banned 14 days.
>  
> and i will be happy to make this accommodation to you: rule 2, no discriminatory comments. 14-day ban.
... i haven't seen the bullshit that said.
they will never insult you in your face, the internet gives them the chance to be able to take off their woke and political correctness masks.
oh me, i was banned from the qs bench for wrongthink
again, original link:
from the start, virtually no distinction has been made between exposure to the virus and someone who is sick. if you are exposed to the virus and the immune system (the innate one which is particularly strong in people in excellent health, or the so-called humoral one which is acquired following an infection or vaccination) thwarts it very quickly, but it there was a little viral replication and if you test positive for a moment, you are an asymptomatic case. if we stifle replication faster, we are not a case.
in no case is this a diagnosis of covid-19. no symptoms = we are not sick = we do not have the disease called covid-19.
indeed, yes, that goes without saying. on the other hand, revisiting the definition is also another opportunity to get completely out of the way, an opportunity to make society more paranoid than it is. anyway, revise the definitions or not, in my opinion scientists must unite to signal to the government that they are out of step with reality. some deputies should read testimonies from hiroshima or chernobyl, that would put their notion of "end of the world" into perspective.
completely agree with him (besides what i have been saying for several weeks). it is obvious.
with our current vaccination rate, it is no longer the number of cases to worry about. but of the number of hospitalizations and deaths.
[deleted]
i take this opportunity to derail on another subject. how is it that this sub is also anti measures? what is the link with the independence of quebec? it's going the reverse of the trend we see on r / quebec
i find the correlation surprising.
this world is a bunch of psychotic undereducated people who are unaware that our bodies have always been infested with germs and even that we could not live without them.
also, there is another word for asymptomatic: immunized.
> from the start, virtually no distinction has been made between exposure to the virus and someone who is sick.
not just that, we were throwing out a * blitzkrieg * of science info wrapped in doomsday scenarios one day and forgetting about it the next.
here, the * rt transmission rate * that came with stories like "rt * will be at 5 minimum" * or "* impossible to have an rt below 1 before 2022 because that would mean that everything is finished *" by example. this rt is easily obtainable on the inspq website but, surprise, no one wants to talk about it anymore ....
who "him"? dr. weiss? he has always been relatively anti-containment and especially anti-who as far back as i can remember. there is a gap between scientists and government, with the latter consistently being overly cautious.
there is more freedom to express yourself here and then like any sub, it follows a concentration of a certain type of people.
r / quebec is relatively quite anti-measure compared to a massive circle-jerk like r / worldnews. i even wonder if reddit makes sure mods ban users who present facts that go against the narrative that covid is the worst thing in human history. i got banned there for really not much while correcting someone who said really nonsense in order to greatly exaggerate the risks of covid far beyond what we even hear in our media here.
second point: it is indeed nationalism to oppose the latest iteration of anglo-american colonialism and i have named the covidian totalitarian dystopia. like the previous iteration, wokism.
p.s. 
please stop downvoting it for a question, let's not imitate the other sub, we're better than that here.
this sub has a penchant for freedom. from quebec and quebecers.
just my opinion.
the other sub has been swamped by authoritarian shills and activists as its visibility has made it an ideological / political battleground.
it depends on the users. the sub as such criticizes more than it incenses on a daily basis. anti-measures are certainly more vocal. and as it is precisely not r / quebec either, there is therefore a tendency to protest.
we are in the trash can of / r / quebec, all those who are banned there are here.
look at the dastardly and stupid subjects that preoccupy them and spend their time counting fears.
and you have to go to the end to see that it is not changing the definition, it is "the statistics are published according to the cases identified among the people doubly vaccinated, those who received only one dose and those who did not receive any ". it is surely the majority of professionals who agree to split the statistics by level of immunity. (but obviously this diary needed its out of the mouth of a doctor in the jewish hospital, pcq clickbait)
obviously, just the double dose cases are worrying where we are .... the rest are people who refuse to take the vaccine there, it is their esti problem.
if we don't have a virus that spreads in double doses (less than 1% of cases, let's say) well we can finally put an end to the health measures on august 15 as planned.
all the same funny that we identify with "prudence" the complete destruction of our civil liberties and to manage quebec with panic as a guide. for a disease which has a mortality rate of around 0.3%.
i'm not blaming you there, i'm just emphasizing how even the words we use condemn us to defeat.
relatively anti-measure in this case remains largely pro-measures 😜
i do not see how the difference in position on the subject affects nationalism.
this is what i noticed from reddit: as soon as visibility increases, a bunch of new accounts appear to monopolize visibility. the worst example was wallstreetbets where a bunch of people decided to go there during the gamestop saga to release smoky theories or silliness to lure people into their delusions and / or collect karma. for the other sub, i had already seen someone say that the covid was going to eliminate amazon and global capitalism because of i don't know what.
on the other hand, there is also another thing that seems specific to quebec (not just reddit but also other mediums), it is the low participation ratio (which i perceive). for example, for 1000 members, it's 5 who hit 1, 50 who clap back and 946 who do nothing. it's a bit of a stretch, but that's my impression. especially when we juxtapose with twitter where you can have a columnist for a quebec newspaper (or even the newspaper itself) with 200,000 subscribers but only 1 comment while joe from toronto or new york, has 300 subscribers but 50 comments.
it is my impression but it is what i perceive.
if only the (logical) conclusion of the end of the measures were applied ...
except that our band of authoritarian enthusiasts has the mission of punishing the 15% -20% of the population who do not want to take this vaccine.
is passing a doctor from the jewish hospital a clickbait?
it's not new that totalitarians seek to control the vocabulary to manipulate the debate
covidofoly is mainly a matter for active nato members.
the rest of the world has a much less crazy and more efficient approach.
the public does not have a sense of proportion, we can see it very well with the covid where it is clear that no one understands, for example, what is a chance in a million
what happens is that the 90% of users who only read without participating see that there are 5 loudmouths on one side and 2 on the other and they conclude that "the majority" are in this camp. there therefore bend themselves to it. that's 5 loudmouths out of a million.
speaking of the rest of the world, not too many journalists dare to talk about the taliban.
bearded men, no quarantine, no masks (except the medical burka?), no 2 meters, no vaccines, no 1:00 p.m. mass, no vaccination passport, no vat but which force the last world power to evacuate its bases overnight due to the fighting that never stopped.
things are going well. did someone tell them there's a big virus out there?
border with china too
covidofoly is just a mental illness present in nato countries
far be it from me to promote canada day, but that would be very naive as a political calculation. first of all, it's pretty rude to break people's balls on their national holiday. then, if we endorse this counter demonstration, next year it will be saint-jean baptiste day which will be grappling with the same clashes.
it's not by writing this on cbc the same day that quebecers are going to go.
it almost makes you want to celebrate canada day.
the cbc is obsessed with us men
i was downtown saskatoon and there are just orange t-shirt caliss
these idiots should apologize for burning and vandalizing churches. i am not religious but such acts are unacceptable !!!
fed up with these heads….
24 juin 2022 "canada's muslim brotherhood demand that quebecers join them in solidarity against racist law 21, join protests"
it will probably look like this ...
seeing them the beautiful pubs, at least half of you wonder wtf that what the point ... and you realize it's just another subsidy in disguise to sycophantic media.
besides having a nice orwellian theme, these pretty giant posters that say nothing but "obey" or "your government". really happy for muh taxes. me the dirty leftist of always, they are transforming me into a libertarian.
proto-fascist editorials from bootlickers like lagacé, you have to pay for it. with * our * money.
very interesting article from the cbc and rich in figures concerning the media campaign to 14 million (!!!) dollars per month of the government of quebec. lots of names with cachet collection and very little embarrassment.
it's ugly when you read a headline and say to yourself “ah tabarnack no more business.” and there you are already mentally ready to fail.
and you click and it's an old case that everyone saw for 6 months
if they had put as much energy into improving the health system's response to covid as the energy they put into trying to appear well in the media, we would have had a lot less deaths ... i hate duhaime, but i almost want to vote for him just to send a message.
i think like that too. nobody really believes he would become pm, it's a protest vote
a chain is not stronger than its weakest link. to make a people disappear, it suffices for a generation to stop wanting to defend it.
mbc avoids mentioning the elephant in the room, the juggernaut that now has over 1 million officials mandated to lead the population from cradle to grave. this inertia and sprawling administration comes at a cost. difficult to act otherwise when * fôquelgouvernamenfassdekoi * is the mantra and if someone decides to take an initiative, he is already cut off by taxes, regulations, fees, permits and the like. if the initiative for a profit is already nipped in the bud, then imagine a non-profit like the defense of the french language ....
the situation did not create itself. it is not a meteorite which fell on us in 5 minutes but a million cuts of sheets of paper (forms) calibrated over decades.
with regret i believe he is already dead. all he does is nothing but little kicks from a dying man. 😢
it is the nordic white race which is in danger of extinction (i do not particularly like it but it has the right to live as an integral part of the genetic heritage of humanity) not the quebec identity which even if the current quebecers all left for florida without returning and speaking english so as not to wear a mask, could be reconstituted the next day with a snap of the fingers and a few small joual lessons by yvon deschamps et cie.
at least they won't piss us off anymore….
another transcendental illumination from bock-côté.
oh, what's that smell, could it be white genocide?
there is even a reference to rhodesia!
man, ain't a good dog whistle if humans can hear it!
quirky man ... [facepalm]
he goes through a dozen ways to laugh at wokist social democracy ... keep it simple man! tell him that you have nothing to beat communism and / or the extreme left!
he goes so hard that you have no choice but to believe that he, the tamtam, the chinese neighborhood and the ethnocultural trades have no place in quebec.
> autonomist, non-sovereignist identity nationalism had taken over from denationalized sovereignism, ** “deidentitarized” **, and which, in the name of progressivism, had even converted ** to multiculturalism even if it had renamed it interculturalism. **
to attack non-sovereignist nationalism, it literally shits on cultural divercity.
you're an extreme right-wing guy reading this. forget that you enjoy my guy, it's the foot!
it's all wrong my boy, ..
*** [edit: when you read his column, there is something for everyone. don't you like non-sovereignist natinalism? neither do i ! don't you like the cultural diversity brought by immigration? me neither, interculturalism is a joke! don't you like wokite victimization? hey me neither!] ***
it's true.
on the other hand, to speak of an ever more exclusive and identitary sovereignty, a people cuts itself off from its allies who nevertheless believe in its cause: who would want to build a country from which it would be excluded so dry?
okay, but after all, what does quebec gain with cultural diversity? the multiplication of ethno-religious tensions? the rewriting of its history in the name of foreign sensibilities? the weakening of national cohesion? these are objective facts which have nothing to do with the extreme right and which should worry all the supporters of a french canadian national hearth whether it is exercised within canada or as an independent state.
quebecers welcome others with open arms. if others choose to exclude themselves by refusing to learn our language, rejecting our culture and embracing canadian-style pseudo-multiculturalism, quebecers are not to blame.
look at the names of the liberal members who abstained from the motion recognizing the right of quebec to modify its own constitution. almost entirely of english, greek and italian names. it was not quebec that rejected them. they are the ones who reject quebec.
this is what some have difficulty grasping or don't care at all!
no no no no no, you did not understand anything my boyfriend there, there you speak of ** multiculturalism **.
forget it big ...
you can also continue to do like the tremblay in saguenay if you know what i mean. a little new blood doesn't hurt.
first, i agree with the rejection of culture. it is obvious, if you are full of judgment and resentment towards your host culture, a change of air seems beneficial for everyone (that said, if you are from quebec and you hate your homeland, is it? what should we throw you out in the same spirit?). so i think it's a non-debate. then, it is a fallacy to say that multiculturalism is identical to "rejecting quebec". "pure" native quebecers embrace this vision of society and no, they are not traitors, sellers, or fools. you can be quebecois and not sovereignist, even totally pro-canadian, it is a reality to accept to give yourself a chance to convince them one day and to make this famous country. this is the meaning of my point. exclusive sovereignty which designates enemies without stopping cannot lead to a happy ending, if only by looking at the polls, but also with a little hindsight on what constitutes the soul of quebec. there is not in quebec a culture of love of constant confrontation and constant bitter hostility. on the contrary, it seems to me that it is a place in the world where it is good to live precisely because we tend to prefer consensus rather than loudmouths.
ditto for the liberal members. clearly appearances are against them: liberal, from other cultures and mostly english-speaking. but there again, even if i will be careful not to imagine them as proud standard bearers of quebec identity, it is also possible that some have an authentic reservation to go in the direction of legault's approach on the constitution (c ' is both a good and a bad move if we get stuck in canada, it's an uncertain bet if we get out of it since it risks creating several mini-governments around us rather than just one).
i'm not sure you got it right. in the west we are becoming more and more respectful in the face of ethnic diversity and individual freedoms (the wokists buzz a little too much on the concept for example).
and the discourse of current quebec sovereignty is too focused on quebec's historic majority. the protection of the french language is too embedded in its ethnic origins (although it must be well defended). it is therefore more difficult for second and third generation quebecers of foreign origin to feel challenged by quebec sovereignism. it is less and less in line with the increase in the ethnic divercity of western nations.
the challenge of quebec sovereignty is to produce a discourse that is consistent with ethnic diversity (i assure you that i am not talking about multiculturalism here).
** that is to say, the speech must appeal to people who respect and appreciate diversity as well as diversity itself. **
the latest news is that multiculturalism is the doctrine of the state of canada.
hahahaha, an inbreeding joke, she's good! speaking of new blood, do you also want us to talk about [unbridled blood relations among muslims] (
you are confusing multiculturalism and pseudo-multiculturalism à la canadian. the first is the coexistence of several cultures. the second is the coexistence of people who have different physical appearances but who all belong to the same culture, the anglo-canadian culture. quebec can exist in canada with the first, not with the second. the precise goal of the second is the dissolution of quebec.
cultural diversity is the only point that links interculturalism to multuculturalism. what i'm trying to tell you is that limiting your argument makes you seem more xenophobic than interculturalist friend. you did not understand anything in my intervention on the words of mathieux block-côté.
and the only thing that sets them apart is that interculturalism encourages social integration, not necessarily to mention social assimilation. and multiculturalism does not necessarily encourage social integration between cultures.
**interculturalisme**
> the notion of interculturalism intervenes as a privileged means of raising awareness of cultural diversity. ** more specifically, interculturalism suggests the adoption of the dominant culture of the adopted country or region combined with the search for commonalities while preserving individual differences. **
** multiculturalism **
> multiculturalism which promotes the maintenance of the distinctiveness of multiple cultures within a society is often opposed to other policies ** such as social inclusion. **
*** [edit: you have nothing comris to my intervention on the words of mathieux block-côté] ***
need i remind you that muslims are only a minority of the immigrants we welcome and that the importance you give them is clearly exaggerated.
to put things straight, i do not subscribe to the intercultural doctrine at all. interculturalism is a pale copy of the multiculturalism imagined by ethnomasochist gérard bouchard to appeal to his university friends in english canada. if individuals preserve their differences, then their distinctive cultures are maintained over time, it's all the same. [to quote the main interested party] (
> the population of quebec is increasingly diversified and the old french-speaking nucleus, once largely in the majority, is gradually contracting (from 79% in 1971, its proportion would have increased to 64% in 2014). it is therefore necessary to adjust the definition of nation and identity to the new reality.
ah well there, it works so well its intercultural chimera that it would henceforth be necessary to redefine the nation. if you could explain to us the profound difference with multiculturalism that would be extremely appreciated.
do i remind you that they explode (literally and figuratively) a lot more than the others if you tell them no?
or if we shouldn't talk about it?
if it makes you uncomfortable talking about inbreeding dysgenics, so be it, but you should avoid leading the subject with contemptuous stereotypes. especially that rather than dodging should be noted. what do we do, sir, blood quality inspector? we are blocking access to quebec to populations in whom consanguinity is rife or ultimately it was malicious ethnomasochism your comment?
ok we'll stop there. i believe that you are just a little too absolved by the national identity of stock and that is exactly what the chronicle of mathieux bock-côté looks like while in his last book he promotes the diversity of the national identity (that is, anyone can identify as a quebecer). this is what bothers me in his column, it is all crooked.
> “interculturalism has never been the subject of a real trial in our society, so when some people talk about the failure of interculturalism, frankly, i don't know what they are referring to. "
- gérard bouchard
[->source<-](  )
could it be prejudices or facts based on something other than your little anecdotes which have, need i remind you, no statistically value?
mr. can only note that these are based on marriages while they are less and less representative given the popularity of de facto spouses. he also notes he also notes that by wanting to keep our 7 million good french canadians free from any foreign influence, the 5% of marriage considered consanguineous can only increase. especially since an arab immigrant will not marry his cousin here since the chances are that she will stay in her native country.
it is a shame, because we would ardently appreciate a real differentiation between multiculturalism and interculturalism. do you see, even in the article you submit, gérard bouchard contradicts himself:
> we must rather recognize that this [majority / minority] relationship exists, and then strive to manage it, to orchestrate it in a way that respects the rights and aspirations of each other in a spirit of balance, he said. it can't promote that relationship, it doesn't want to accentuate it.
and yet, to manage this relationship for him amounts to redefining the nation and identity. there's no balance in there, it's a clean slate policy. it does not respect the aspirations of quebecers or their natural right to a national home. whatever the practice, even in theory the type only copied multiculturalism by changing the prefix. if basically all that remains is the french language, i don't want to piss off, but in canada all that remains is the english language, then we would have to go back to the drawing board.
staistically speaking, muslims explode more often than any other group. for business like cartoons or bullshit like al qaida and isis.
statistically speaking, if we are talking about figurative, go see the demonstrations against law 21.
the famous de facto unions that operate in algeria, tunisia or morocco, very strong! quite believable and reasonable. then where do you get your 5% consanguineous union in quebec? the state of affairs is that [consanguineous unions are a very rare phenomenon in quebec] ( among other things due to the benevolence of the catholic church. moreover and for your information, saguenay is one of the regions where it is the least prevalent. but hey, we should not miss an opportunity to break the sugar on french canadians to foam peoples in whom consanguinity is clearly normalized.
what do you mean by ** 《... clean slate politics ...》 **? what erasure of quebec's national identity bothers you?
look, i'm not sure you got it, so i'm going to be nice and ask you two quick questions.
▪ what exactly are you afraid of cultural exchanges?
▪what is your definition of a national home and its relation to immigration?
if you want pure statistics answer me this question: how many quebecers have been killed by muslims versus how many muslims have been killed by quebecers?
oh excuse me i was wrong it was not 5% but 5 to 9% in canada and given that the cultural differences within canada are relatively low on this subject and the considerable proportion that represents the population of quebecers compared to to the canadian population allow me to consider that such statistics also apply to us. when i spoke of a common-law relationship, i was trying to find a possible explanation that could give erroneous information about our rate of consanguinity. ps, the source was the same graphic as yours
by this i mean the nonsense that gérard bouchard lays at the end of his pen:
> it is therefore necessary to adjust the definition of nation and identity to the new reality.
when you plunge your arm into this gear, the only possible result is the perpetual redefinition of the nation until the concept is abandoned, as is the case in canada.
thank you for your kindness, it is extremely appreciated: p
i have absolutely nothing against cultural exchanges. nevertheless, for cultural exchanges to take place by definition, it takes distinct cultures. if we start to constantly redefine the national culture to the vagaries of demographic changes, well in the long term our culture will be annihilated. no more distinct culture, no more exchange possible, we will then be only a spillway of foreign cultures which will be very much alive as canada wants it to be. just imagine if the amerindians had applied gérard bouchard's twisted logic ...
a national home is a nation state. it is the natural mode of organization of states that predominates where the frontiers have not been arbitrarily drawn by colonialism. the division of the world into national centers promotes international stability and cohesion within states. the relationship with immigration is that with sufficient volumes, whether it is received through the doctrine of multiculturalism or interculturalism, it distorts the host nation to its ultimate perdition. like canada, it gives a state devoid of its own identity where all are mestecs which can only generate communitarianism and conflicts.
if we want to play this ... you have to look at what they are doing elsewhere too ... in london when they rush on the world with their tanks or randomly attack the world with a knife ...
in france when they behead teachers or kill people at the bataclan ... or nice when they decide to kill people at a parade with a truck ... or a christmas market ... charlie hebdo because of drawings?
worse, why not a christmas market in berlin too ...
in belgium when they detonate bombs at the airport ...
i'm not even talking about 9/11 worse of the attack at the boston marathon or the shooting in san bernardino ...
do you have to be cave-in to do nothing and wait for our turn?
to be sure i checked with an image editor and it really is 1 to 4%.
a first nationalist deputy for the pcq? i hope so.
yes it's done
all the actors in this story are just political opportunists who try to improve their own position before the elections while making us believe that it has to do with philosophical questions.
it's funny to see their defector mp go to the liberals when what she claims to reproach her former leader is not badly the standard position of the liberals themselves. annamie paul herself would be in her place as a liberal mp. and green, we all know he wants to be a chef himself.
"it's just $ 100!"
she donated to an opposing party.
isn't it that crazy osti who was in tabarnak not to have been appointed minister?
i don't know why, but she looks like a lady who sells energy rocks at the esotericism salon ...
so weird ..
indeed it's just $ 100
yes it's her.
another complaisant and somniferous text which is part of the purest péquisterie. pspp an agent of change, of renewal? i'm sorry, but on the contrary pspp is continuity. calls for freedom, social democracy or rené lévesque's nostalgia are the basics of pq inertia since the referendum defeat. then it is observed, pspp does not raise any enthusiasm, even that lately it seems more concerned with hockey than with politics. the last sentence is quite revealing of the stupidity that gnaws at the pq:
> while waiting for the democratic will of quebecers to be expressed, why not work today to ensure that history is written in blue against a beautiful background of freedom?
of course, then we'll smoke a good joint, a bleu dry in hand, daydreaming about the country while listening to beau dommage! let's see, the democratic will of quebecers is expressed every four years and the latest news it relegates the pq to the rank of third party. one day, the pq nomenklatura will have to get its ass off and return to the real world.
the only possible outcome for the pq is a right-wing identity approach that turns into front national-style populism, while keeping the social democratic aspects for the economy and the rest. frédéric bastien embodied it better.
yeah that's what i killed myself repeating throughout the race but "pspp is change!" .. the pq are in their churches and repeat their mantras being more and more disconnected from the rest of the world. the planet.
they still tell me that pspp is the candidate who will bring young people back to the pq .. calisse have you seen the figures? the pq is last among young people.
it's over but the last phase will be long and painful.
you have to know how to stand out. if the pq remains the third social democratic nationalist civic option, it is heading for ruin.
the caq is a rather lazy social democratic option.
at one million units for the homes of the elderly, the caq quickly made its profession of faith to the whole state.
when it is a quebec law that they do not like, "thats quebec not canada" but after when it is their genocidiare filth "quebec is part of canada then you are as responsible as we are". we must not forget what they did with riel.
of course, we are guilty of everything, even of existing.
who accuses us of being responsible for kamloops?
well it's simple, did the citizens of quebec provide material support to the responsible canadian government during these events?
and to be sure, is that the kind of crap we would have done in the same situation.
i do not know our history with the first nations and it is probably not by mistake.
if no one told me this story, it's because no one is proud of it. and what are the chances that it's not the same story as the rest of the continent? what are the chances that we would be the only ones not to have done the same horrors as everyone else?
in any case, for us to escape from this condemnation, it will take a fairly incredible level of proof from me because we know very well how far nations are ready to go to erase these stains from their history.
quebecers have nonetheless shown complacency for more than a ½ century while this disastrous mechanism was operating directly before our eyes. i cannot answer for my predecessors who lived during the residential schools in quebec, but quebec has its share of responsibility and guilt.
whether we are responsible or not that changes what ... it happened.
the same gang that holds us responsible for american slavery because of the color of our skin.
many people, including our prime minister himself (legault).
normally you are supposed to learn this said story in secondary 3
finally you maintain that you do not know the facts and that in any case you do not want to know them, while accusing at the same time gratuitously when you have just admitted not wanting to know anything?
what complacency?
"they are all by accident of our european disease, the end"
do you really want me to dig, like really. because i found it my pleasure to put them back in your face afterwards.
how do you want to bet that i find plenty of made in quebec disgusting stuff?
the complacency to allow cultural genocide to take place on its own territory without notable opposition.
and boy, you go to a late night school, we went into a lot more details
by finding elements, you deny your desire to remain in ignorance. isn't that contradictory?
so the french are also complacent about the holocaust?
in the 90s, it was all about when durham and his mean letter and how the patriots responded. the indians or duplessis didn't have 10 minutes
i have no "will to remain ignorant". i just have better things to do.
but let's say someone is not ready and accepted that yes, even in quebec we treated them like the first nations, i could do some research on it just to see.
the french resisted and were severely suppressed for by the nazi regime. quebecers as far as i know have not lifted a finger.
well inform yourself because it's not like that at all
you will find plenty of it in the news
the french did not resist, they abdicated. it is very easy to hit the blame with everything and nothing.
well they resisted against the germans perhaps not successfully and perhaps not thinking too much about what was happening to the jews but we must not forget that france was under a nazi dictatorial regime while we, in a democracy let such a thing happen. the majority of quebecers have voted at least once in favor of a prime minister who has turned a blind eye and continued to send children to these residential schools.
with your logic everyone is responsible for all the evil in the world, why the iroquois and afro-americans did not defend the deported acadians? are they racist? fuck off, indian law created by 4 english loyalists, the same people who hanged our patriots and anyway i see the federal government as a government imposed on us, we did not immigrate to this canada were forced into it.
in the 2 referendum 1980 and 1995 he still had native residential schools in western canada, it is the federalists who defended this system, same thing for all the wars of the metis in afganistan.
there is a difference between problems in neighboring countries and crimes committed in our own province and ignored by our two levels of government that we voted for. throughout the 20th century, quebecers had the right to vote at the federal level, but we had absolutely nothing to do with it. find the error!
firstly, these massacres like the one we saw in bc were hidden from the public, secondly in the injustices committed against us that we voted against, nothing changed because we are a minority in this country, the conscription of 1917, the hanging of louis riel, by-law 17 voted against all that and it didn't change anything, what you are looking for is to try to blame the quebecois for what the country of the english-federalists is doing.
and even if he had native residential schools and you want to complain about the what? 0.000000001% of quebecers who participated and knew? i can tell you about the 20,000 children of dupplesis who were pretty much all french-canadians who experienced a situation very similar to the natives, i haven't seen natives protesting against them. do you have to blame them too?
the mohawks even helped the english against the patriots, but the bad guys are us because we did nothing against a massacre in english canada which was not even published in the media.
we had our own problems in this canada, i do not see how it is wrong to focus on your problems before those of others, this literally what all peoples are going.
another example is the suicides of natives which is 3 times higher than that of non-natives, well between 1980 and 2010 french-speaking quebecers also had 3 times more suicides than english-speaking quebecers, why there was no anglophone-indigenous organization that talked about this topic? if you want to play the game of inequality, well look from both sides otherwise you will look like a hypocrite.
ah, that clown there. the fact that this man died denying reality is proof that belief in one thing does not make it reality.
[deleted]
he stopped taking aids medication over a decade ago.
according to his sister in the newspaper le soleil, he would have died "under nebulous circumstances".
he was never declared dead from aids.
why then? because he spoke loud and clear about the problems of the system. they want to eliminate dissenting voices ...
🐑🐑
there are many worse people than these people
i'm talking about those who need to create silly straw men to feel smarter than someone else even though they're half-imaginary people they've never met in person.
an american religion was founded by people who believed a pastor who told them that jesus was going to come back to a field on such date and, since he did not come, the pastor said another us, then another and so on.
in short, they sink so deep into impossible beliefs that they believe in them.
alexis cossette-trudel's channel is hilarious. every month he has a new divine revelation.
as some american commentators say, for some conservatives in north america, trolling and "owning the libs" has become the only priority: nothing matters but insulting * wokes * and inventing yourself any victimhood fantasy that justifies going nowhere. it's like the conspiratorial anti-mask crackpots of april 2020 when we will be doing end-of-year reviews in fifteen years: our grandchildren will wonder what we could possibly inject to be delusional like that.
you don't find it nebulous when three gurus including two ex-doctors tell you to drink salt water or 'chlorophyll' a few days after your death.
he quit in 2017 according to his doc ... and naturopath
> jelsaispas
>  
>his pension is nothing compared to the millions moderna is soon to be paying him. fauci personally own patents they used for their vaccine. against a pandemic we now know he helped create.
totally agree !
okay, i have to admit that i wasn't expecting this.
huh, how's that? he was so honest!
is he resigning to spend more time with his family ??
> “pierre fitzgibbon is an honest man. i was happy with my move and to have brought a man like him into politics \ [... \] i know that pierre agreed to make sacrifices. i thank him for that and for the heart and passion he put into deals to try to enrich quebec, ”said the prime minister.
hey, a trump-style speech * the honestest people ever * but this time, no one is panicking. we are strong in giving lessons in the little kingdom. and legault who candidly says that the rules should change ....
the shareholders of nemaska send their regards ..
no resignation in the article, only that he withdraws from the cabinet
a new chapter in the dramatic section of the caq ministers
there probably must be another scandal going on.
his family of shareholders
when the ethics commissioner recommends your suspension (on the third offense!), well no, you're not an honest man. you are a crosseur, and you release. now investigate the contracts he promoted. the host of patronage is enough.
resignation from his post of minister then ...
so the darker it is, the less valuable it is?
in a press release, the postal workers indicate that "the darker the stamp, the less valuable it will be. [...] therefore, when sending, it will be necessary to use more black stamps than stamps in this way, every letter and every sending will become a reflection of the inequality created by racism, "it says.
do people still use stamps?
its evolving backwards
omg 😆
hahahahhahahahahahhhahahhahahahha
somewhere in spain there was a chain of people who thought this was a damn good idea.
exact. it is to fight systemic racism we tell you.
yes, the crazy ones
it will turn around until the damage has been erased. or otherwise everyone dies.
not bad on humans are not long for this planet. they are too vicious animals.
"i always believed my life was a drama. no, it's a comedy."
how many months before this is offered in quebec?
anthony housefather is shocked that the muslim immigrants his party has brought in might be anti-semitic ... lol. / r / leopardsatemyface
it is quite revealing that the pro palestinians can demonstrate without hindrance, but that the pro israelis have to endure these clashes. it's as if some had an advantage in this turning sour ... hmmmmmmmm
what is most unfortunate about this latest outbreak of violence is that, as usual, it will only serve to hide the catastrophic toll of the various palestinian terrorist groups at the reins of the state since the disengagement of egypt and from jordan. because this is palestine, a failed state in a latent civil war in which the parliamentary majority belongs to hamas. elections were rightly scheduled, the first since 2006, but see fatah knows full well that its chances of winning are slim so we put it off in greece. a few bursts of missiles later and the inevitable israeli response galvanizes public opinion in favor of the terrorists ... with such machiavellian policies, one should not wonder why palestine is a field of ruins.
i love the palestine-isreal debates because it quickly removes the mask of the left and their political agenda "minority vs white" when all the ethinies have the same problems of hatred and racism.
do not forget that the demonstration of la meute was very violent at the time with ginette who had parked twice!
receiving rocks is nothing compared to that!
i like the reply
> i was thinking of going to jerusalem to demonstrate for the independence of quebec, i have my flag and all.
>  people are free to peacefully disagree. this is just vile. 
we can talk about war, but please keep it civil
israel is the only actor with the power to impose a lasting peace. instead, they prefer to ethnically cleanse. without defending hamas, it must be admitted that the idf is the deadliest terrorist organization in the country.
hi! have you forgotten that israel commits a lot of war crimes and that the death toll is not comparable on both sides? the israelis have no reason to protest, it is a slaughterhouse and they are the butchers. in addition, it helps to be a “not fail” state to have billions coming in from all sides and also a land designated for you. without forgetting that they are chipping away at the land that would be supposed to belong to palestine. i saw people chanting “free palestine” on one side and on the other a journalist recorded someone saying “the palestinians are warned before they are blown up”.
bof, i have no sympathy for one side or the other. the israelis are doing everything to provoke the palestinians, this faith is deportations in east jerusalem, the rest of the time these illegal settlements in the west bank. you can't peck your opponent all the time and then catch them turning around to slap you. on the other hand, the palestinians are not any more brilliant to answer, by the time they should have understood how it ended for them these stories there.
me too.
we just switched to * quebec is the worst racist place on the planet with its law 21 * to * israel is the worst racist place on the planet with its army * for the next few weeks. it'll do a little good to see the bone rodents go somewhere else for a while.
on the other hand, i have no illusions: when the situation will calm down a bit, we will see the old record again.
usually, a peace is negotiated rather than imposed. however, how can an actor negotiate peace with another who calls for its eradication? i know that the palestinians have the reputation of poor little martyred people in quebec, but we must not forget that it is the palestinians themselves who gave hamas its parliamentary majority. let's just say it wasn't the idea of the century and its consequences were highly predictable. otherwise, enforcing peace is effectively what israel is trying to do through its anti-terrorist barrier, its steel dome and the idf with mixed success.
then question ethnic cleansing, the galloping palestinian demographics would like a word with you: p is israel scavenging territory? yes, obviously, but ultimately we know that israel is ready to surrender territories or even uproot its own population. israel returned sinai to egypt in exchange for peace and anwar sadat took ak-47 discharge for this affront to the palestinians. israel is also completely disengaged from the gaza strip, but this time rather than peace it is a hostile, terrorist government that they have received in return. scalded cat fears cold water. the palestinians will have to show contrition if they are to resolve the conflict diplomatically, which means ending their futile indiscriminate bombing campaigns.
it's a shame because you have fallen into the trap of hamas terrorists. you see, they store their weapons in schools, hospitals, etc ... then they pretend the offended virgin when the tsahal destroy them. must see their game and its disastrous consequences especially for the palestinians. on the one hand you have indiscriminate attacks with knives, ram car or rocket lance and on the other you have previously communicated surgical strikes to preserve civilian lives. do you really mean a butcher and a slaughterhouse? by playing stupid games, you win stupid prizes.
the left also wanted to invent a jewish and muslim alliance vs. law 21 for their political agenda, and here we see the truth.
[war, war is no reason to hurt yourself!] (
hey, finding the other clip, [found this] ( never heard of it before!
> israel is ready to surrender territories and even uproot its own population
you drank too much cool aid
do i remind you that it was the israelis who sabotaged the oslo accords? they killed their own prime minister after a peace treaty that cut palestinian territory in half. you are not lucid if you think that the israeli right wants anything other than the complete and final deportation of the palestinian people. the territory session in egypt is a much more complex situation than you would like to admit, but let's move on. we cannot blame the palestinians for voting for hamas. when you condemn a people to live on 16% of its territory without access to the outside world and that you attack them on a daily basis, you have no right to make a surprised pikachu when these people become radicalized. a good argument, population growth. need i remind you that the black south african population increased proportionately during apartheid? they have grown from 68% to 79% of the south african population. are you really going to claim that apartheid was not an ethnic cleansing operation?
the palestinians cannot do anything to settle the population. if they disengage from the conflict, their people will be destroyed forever. conversely, israel would lose only the west bank and east jerusalem settlements. in short, stolen and illegally occupied territories.
a user told me:
> hamas is not white as snow but stop making excuses or victimizing or even downplaying what the palestinians are doing. this is something new for you, but being arab and lebanese, even though i was born in canada, it is not new what is happening, i myself experienced the 2006 war in lebanon, so i know what it feels like to experience moments like these.
the lebanese war 06 is hezbolah ** "party of allah" ** attacking israel like hamas ** "islamic resistance movement" ** does. and they paid in the same way, strategically firing high value positions for hezbolah.
if your 'government' supports inquisitors playing loose with israel. you pay the price for your inaction as a citizen.
edit: i looked, in lebanon only 60% of pop supports islam. that means 40% of the pop wants hezbolah in jail. do not forget that they had a civil war so the figures were more balanced in the past.
the theme is islam vs the world, exodus of christian lebanese and islam playing the holy war against everyone who says no.
last i heard, it is hamas and not likud that has sworn to the complete, * final * destruction of its antagonist. either way, that doesn't make any sense especially considering that what the israelis want, usually they get. so if the wicked israeli right really wanted to wipe out palestine, why disengage from gaza? if that was really its will, then israel would emulate its arab neighbors and expel its arab nationals manu militari as they did with their jewish nationals. and yet this is not what we see, the arab populations are exploding as much in israel, as in gaza or in judea and samaria.
if you want we can go back a long way, we can go back to the [un's initial partition plan for palestine] ( jpg / 800px-un_palestine_partition_versions_1947.jpg). and yet who waged a war of aggression on the nascent state of israel? ah, well yes, practically all the arab countries united which defended their arab compatriots. unfortunately for them, they were and still are extremely clumsy in warfare. after taking a series of humiliating beatings, egypt abandoned the gaza strip and jordan abandoned judea and samaria in favor of peace with israel. so the tearfulness on the theft or the illegal occupation of the territory, ultimately it is to blame the winner. if they had been good players or at least good soldiers, the arabs or palestinians would today have territories that even the most generous of peace plans will not grant them.
correct me if i'm wrong, but your analytical grid seems to dispossess the palestinians of their free home. if they can't do anything to resolve the situation, then they might as well say that they are eternal children unable to manage themselves. and yet no, they can and must be managed. this is precisely the key to legitimacy and recognition which we will agree conditional on israeli approval. it is all the more unfortunate that the palestinians are the biggest losers in this ridiculous asymmetrical duel that they impose on themselves via hamas and fatah.
moreover and since the comparison often surfaces, as its name suggests apartheid was not a policy of ethnic cleansing. it is an extremely absurd idea. apartheid means separation and that was exactly the goal of politics. one day it will be necessary to understand that policies which explode populations do not constitute ethnic cleansing. the acadians suffered from ethnic cleansing and their proportion of the population has not increased.
so first we say west bank and not judea and samaria. the un partition plan was ridiculous. giving 60% of the territory to the jewish 25% of the population made no sense. the arabs were right to reject this plan. i am not infantilizing the palestinians, i see one fact: they have no political power. it is not the "personal responsibility" which will save you when a foreign army supported by the most powerful countries of the world regularly comes to commit crimes against humanity where you live. the only thing preventing israel from exterminating the palestinian population is that if they used too harsh or too fast methods, the west would stop supporting them and the other arab countries could destroy their country.
i have had enough of this ridiculous debate. your bias is immense. there are big differences between the plo and hamas. the plo even advocates a two-state solution and has accepted that this state be made up of around thirty enclaves. the most recent failure in establishing a lasting peace has been caused by likud and only likud. try to go tell any political science, history or sociology graduate that apartheid was not genocide. you will make yourself laugh at yourself.
yes, but we will have to try to understand this absence of palestinian political power. could it be possible that it stems from the fact that the palestinian authority has failed miserably to build a democratic tradition? the last parliamentary election that brought hamas to power was 15 years ago. plo president mahmoud abbas is in the 16th year of his first four-year term. it's as if jean charest was still prime minister, it's not jojo.
we can meet on the spectrum of political currents offered in palestine. the plo is indeed not hamas which itself is not the pflp. the plo are arab nationalist terrorists, hamas are islamist terrorists, and the pflp are marxist terrorists. if the plo is successively expelled from jordan and then from lebanon, it is not because they are children of heart in love with democracy and human rights.
you shouldn't think that i have no sympathy for the palestinians either. their situation is extremely unhappy, but you have to be careful not to be the architect of your own misfortune. in palestine, they persist in what in quebec one would call a felquist vision of the political struggle and well that comes with its misfortunes.
perhaps the lack of palestinian leadership is related to the fact that they are being assassinated one after the other by the mossad?
[
[
i'm not saying that israel was wrong to assassinate some of them, except that it can create a problem: if you assassinate enemy leaders one after another, you end up not having anyone who has enough. authority to negotiate peace. frankly, i have the impression that it is wanted on the israeli side.
hence the importance for them of developing a legitimate political class, distinct from the various terrorist movements. as you mention elsewhere in the thread, both israel and palestine should be made fairly familiar with each other's modus operandi. it is extremely unfortunate to see them persist in this counterproductive approach which ultimately plays into the hands of israel.
he did well. i don't know if it's because i'm starting to get used to his vocabulary or if he's really making an effort to be better understood by a certain segment of the population, but he seemed to me to be more precise in some of them. his comments.
no worse, he clearly adapts his speech to quebec .. happy to see that he seems to take criticism and adapt!
original article in le devoir: 
adding an element to an unratified constitution? well then. it follows the logic of immigration of the caq i imagine, that is to say electoral tricks.
she has to come with powers, little motions don't help much.
the constitution act, 1867 will be amended. it opens the door to the creation of a real quebec constitution. i think we have to build independence brick by brick rather than hope to gain it by participating in a rigged referendum lottery.
what same?
either way, the majority of the sub are made echo chambers run by ideological fascists ready to shoot anyone with a bit of a critical mind vis-à-vis their extremist view of reality.
it is important not to mention the independence of quebec. they will downvote you to death. they don't like that. they are surely poor racialized victims of systemic racists from wicked quebec nationalists. before making a joke, you have to pass it to the jury of self-righteous people otherwise they could make a nervous poo on the carpet in their parents' basement.
explain the granny
the problem is simple, it starts with reda, and it ends with lastor ...
[cette image](
it's ordinary. it's a degrading meme and you have little karma, and has nothing to do with the news today or the last days.
there is a lot to decode here.
> i knew i was going to make waves posting this, but
so you had an idea of what was probably going to happen but you did it anyway. when you look for shit ... you find it, you have to believe!
> instant ban for life ..? lol. too bad for them
to see how much you complain, is it rather too bad for you?
> instead of trying to be "less white", people should try to be "less stupid".
phew, you didn't rack your brains for that one! you searched for trouble and you found it. take this as a lesson well learned and go for it!
your first intervention in the sub with this account is two bad reactionary borderline trolls. what were you looking for?
what is this disgusting frenglish!
freedom of speech isn't freedom from consequences, sorry for the english i have no idea how to say that like the world in french
are you the type of guy to go to walmart, shit on the floor, or whine about being kicked out?
when there are a lot of people, you don't have the choice to have a certain moderation ... otherwise it turns bad quickly enough.
worse, i went to see your meme. you're a little edgy guy who gets banned because you shit on the ground and nobody wanted you. learn from your mistakes and stop sweating the world.
thank you
from what i have seen, it is a pro-sovereignty group.
i was saying that bss and retirees have no business giving their opinion on public finances, with the dude format with plenty of swords at their throats.
so..? i don't have enough karma to give my opinion? we only post memes that have to do with the shit seen on tva nouvelles during the week?
wow thank you teacher! your insights are precious and i will improve in the future 🤡
just having a discussion on the topic, but i guess people who only have two neurons can't help but climb the curtains live. also, no trolling, just my opinion.
i agree. but it's not really a "consequence" of frustrating 3-4 tho thin-skinned left-wing moderators. just weird how a different opinion is considered "dangerous" and needs to be silenced.
"freedom of speech is not free of consequence"
except that moderation is one way.
everyone is going to target a person and insult them. but if this person defends himself we will ban him. r / quebec is the benchmark for guys who were last chosen when we played soccer in elementary school. now who are adults and have difficulty holding an erection, they remain reddit, where there is their like.
you always have a choice.
thank you for your insightful comment. you, "are you the kind of guy who has twelve fates in the same sentences"? i'm trying to have a discussion, if there's nothing smart to contribute, shut it up. bye.
bs and retirees pay taxes, many retirees pay taxes. i don't agree with your meme, but it doesn't deserve a ban at first glance. can you share the image?
that? [check bin the rain of insults and arguments at 2 cents ...: quebec (reddit.com)] ( /)
look, you've never been to r / quebec, and there in three days you posted two grannies of the guy with swords at their throats for unpopular opinions and the headlines "sue me" and "check bin the rain of insults and arguments at 2 cents ... "in 3 days apart. a permaban is excessive for a first fault in my opinion, but your behavior was not productive.
i had my problems with the moderation of r / quebec and it is true that moderation is sometimes partial and the mods tolerate behavior in some that they do not tolerate in others, but your behavior was able to create suspicion that you were there just to troll by reposting the same granny with inflammatory messages every time.
1. you did not participate in the sub before you started posting
2. you post the same image with different messages
3. you write slobbery titles that invite negativity and negative reactions
once again, if i was a mod, i wouldn't have permabinated you but i would have given you a time-out of a few days with a certain warning.
i wish you.
otherwise, getting kicked out of various sub-reddits, maybe the message will get by at some point. who knows?
it's frustrating, okay. at least it's not that bad on this subreddit
every sub has these rules, if not able to follow the rules, don't go. the world don't have to deal with you because it's too edgy to be in public.
ironic
i don't have it anymore, but no, it didn't deserve a ban for surr.
> bs and retirees pay taxes
the state takes cash out of one pocket to receive 30% back in the other.
here
the same meme with different messages ... are you familiar with the concept of memes? and what the fuck that i had never posted before? it does not change the ridiculous response that followed ... yes i provoke discussion, reflection, but apparently it's damn hard to debate without insulting the other and asking for censorship as soon as it goes wrong in our sense.
yes it is well known that silencing the opposition is a winning strategy.
it's not a matter of rules ... it's a matter of rules being applied depending on who they are to be applied to. i read tons of insults on this reddit and no one is banned so why prevent me from insulting others if it is customary.
pick it up with your edgy ... you discovered that word yesterday and you want us to know?
what rule is it about exactly? me, i was banned for something not in the regulations, which the moderator later claims cannot be banned for the reason i was banned.
so health workers would not have the right to give their opinion? or the workers of all the private companies that have received subsidies? or the officials? there will be more people who will have their say ... especially since the implementation of the wage subsidy for companies.
it's 15%, not 30%
they pay taxes on the money the state gives them. if you take more than you give, you have nothing to say.
sending a bunch of controversial and not very funny grannies without having participated in the forum before is not very polite. rather agree with kchoze here. it is normal for mods to do some quality control of posts. if the grannies had been funny, it would have gone better.
or maybe you knew you were going to get bumped into it for your action but you did it anyway?
are we really talking about "silencing the opposition" here, or are we just talking about the consequences of your actions?
nah, you get banned if you insult others and it's applied to people who postpone.
you can live in denial if you want to.
link me the post in question and i'll help you.
i know that social interactions between people can be complicated at times.
for physicians in particular, it is a shame that they are allowed to incorporate without actually being self-employed. equipment, personnel and fixed assets are provided by the government. their wages are paid out of taxes. they are then given the right to incorporate because they should not pay too much tax ...
a family doctor who incorporates because he owns his clinic? no problem. an incorporated hospital anesthesiologist who practices income splitting? mouain.
what are the healthcare workers doing in there?
since the federal wage subsidy, almost everyone takes more than they give.
hahaha well you don't understand.
i have already been banned for insulting yfb for no reason just because we are doing it with trump or bernier.
then i was banned for responding to the insults of others with insults. go explain to me why the rules are applied arbitrarily.
what the difference between all the free insults that are said or me who deals with someone with autism. because they postpone ... then the problem is those who postpone.
everyone insults for free. my wife was even attacked for no reason in a debate, the user was not sanctioned following several complaints. the toxicity of this place is explained by actions taken from above.
to be honest i don't want to spend more than 5 minutes on this story. i have no interest in returning to this hostile jungle.
_bot maître capelo_ 
apparently you made a mistake, the correct conjugation is
i know**
are paid by the state
unfortunately
> for no reason ..
x
i write badly but i know how not to make myself hated in public and be banned :)
tell me i'm naive, but i never imagined the federal government would have been smart enough to sabotage economic immigration. nah, this is truly a new pinnacle of treachery that confirms the endless malevolence of the federal government. it is one thing to profit from immigration, it is another to sabotage it to provoke a backlash against the host society. there's no other word, it's really machiavellian and minister mendicino must resign.
i have just obtained my permanent residence and for those who disembark this is what has been going on for roughly 2-3 years.
basic for permanent residence there are 2 stages: the csq (quebec selection certificate) and the federal stage. we must therefore first be selected by quebec (i got it in 1 month "automatically" because i studied in quebec and i speak french), then we must then send our request to the federal government which makes the medical visit, and the check of our judicial precedent.
the initial problem is that there are quotas, and that the couillard government constantly gave out a lot more csq than the quota allowed, and so once the federal had processed enough demand for the quota they pushed back the requests. remaining requests for the following year. it created a "queue" which extended the waiting time for the residence to more than 2 years. until then, it never stopped processing requests anyway, even if the quota was reached, we still dealt with the files at the federal level but we said to the requester "your thing is complete, when there is room you are the next in line ".
but in july 2019 (at the same time as legault's policy changes on immigration), immigration canada decided to stop processing new applications. not just to make them move forward, the guys don't even open the envelopes anymore. for my part, if i take myself as an example, i sent my request in august 2019, i only received an acknowledgment of receipt in february 2021, the acknowledgment of receipt means that the envelope with my request has been opened and that all the documents are correct, until then my request could have been returned to me saying "you forgot a signature on page 46, start from 0".
and so since the summer of 2020 roughly, people have started to get impatient "where are our files ?!" people were asking, because basically we weren't even sure our request was lost by canada post. and every time we asked immigration canada, by ourselves, or through members of parliament, immigration canada niait have stopped processing the requests. then following the pressure, the guys started to say to the deputies "it's quebec's fault! we have already reached the quotas for the year so we are processing more applications", although this had never prevented immigration canada to at least open the application envelopes ....
not really a surprise ... immigrants will have an interest in trudeau again the minute we go back to election
ha! i told you so! it was too fishy this thing.
now are we going to see anti-mendicino, anti-trudeau demonstrations? will activists publish open letters to denounce? will the government of quebec, and quebec as a whole, have an apology?
lol!
we have to separate as quickly as possible. are you not fed up with getting crossed by canada? estie that we are mitts !!!
in canada (ottawa), immigration is first perceived for humanitarian reasons (* let's help these poor people *) than for economic reasons.
you are naive. i suggest you catch up with the history of this country since the conquest.
you really think [this man] ( has your interests to heart? and that he wants the best for quebec? hahaha.
watch the "usual suspects" deny and downplay. here, boulerice who wants an apology. they make me laugh. very small people. if quebec hopes to retain any political power in the next century, it should tackle independence in the communist party. but i doubt that this news, which seems to me to be a political bombshell, really disturbs a population completely asleep.
welcome to canada! thank you for taking the oath to the queen of england.
we can console ourselves: we now know that the immigrants from the 2019-2021 vintages will have been treated in _vrais_ quebec by the federal government!
i'm kidding, but this is canada.
glad it worked out for you :)
for once in the groups of applicants for permanent residence, everyone has always shot the federal
so maybe the journalists should report their comments. mr. camara seems to have some against the provincial government in particular. but ok...
only way that bock on the side does not appear out of shape and sick ... being rolled up in 100 feet of fabric
i still haven't figured out what this band is supposed to be other than a homoerotic joke.
based
is this the group whose last two leaders turned out to be fbi informants? not great for their branding let's say
come on, you know very well that as our hyper-mega-smart and wealthy variousdata insinuates, we're only two fingers away from reaching the same level of nazism as these people, and that's what matters.
neither do i. from what i saw of the leader (?) gavin macinnes, he seemed like a weirdo masculinist who shuffled air for profit.
kind of poor jordan petterson mixed with alex jones.
i don't think they were nazis ... more 45 year old college jocks who claim the right to be proud to treat women like objects and to wipe themselves with gin to fight no t-shirts.
not a big loss.
what is the connection with op?
op is one of those geniuses who believe we are secret nazis. as proof, we don't hate mbc!
ah good? i do not remember having seen him defend this thesis.
you are not op. i'm talking about variousdata.
similarly.
no offense, but if you don't see that variousdata had fun coming to call us nazis again, you're not good at metapolitics.
sorry but i don't spend my time going through other users' accounts either
but it's mbc who denounces it because if you're against that you're a nazi alt-right racist homophobic transphobic islamophobic anti-vax conspiracy! / s
it's been some time since it was announced in manitoba under "vaccination against systemic racism". i am a little surprised that we are only starting to notice this now.
the return of segregation, and there is only mbc to rise up in canada?
first nations, inuit and métis people are all eligible from the age of 16 in ontario since phase two (phase 1 was mainly health care workers). another question of the ethnicity of the individual. most french canadians can probably prove to be métis.
i would have preferred that we give the vaccine to all the kids in their twenties because they are the ones who maximize the intensive care beds in ontario.
definitely, it becomes difficult to take the good man seriously when it comes to minorities. our american neighbors have [already ruled] ( that some populations were [ more at risk] ( to contract it and d '[have complications than others] ( and these profiles have been incorporated into vaccination strategies for a simple reason: these people will take more hospital resources if they catch him, and we are already lacking, which will penalize everyone. it is a smart strategy to limit the depletion of human and financial resources in the health system. even the people [who point out that it may be the fault of the said populations] ( ( pre-existing conditions or diet and the like) point out that [this is a good strategy] ( -vaccinations-race-ethnicity /) to protect the entire population. incidentally, prioritizing the most vulnerable people literally saves us millions of dollars in treatment. as a taxpayer and as a guy who wants to stay alive, that's what we want: intelligent and economical management that prioritizes efficiency over ideology.
fact that, science 1 - bock-côté 0
(let's say it's easier to cry wolf than to manage the health network)
(you can downvote to hell, i'm waiting for your contradictory studies)
do indians / hindus, the wealthiest ethnic minorities (far more than the majority of the entire north american population), just because of their ethnicity, become a priority?
on the other hand, it takes a daring beyond measure to dare to compare the american populations to the canadian populations with the social references of our neighbors to the south.
moreover, we will note once again with these studies that they still do not concern race as it is implied in the biological sense, but socio-economic criteria that are detrimental to health, to name poverty. just like "systemic racism", an imported concept, "racial" fragility according to the condition of health does not exist here.
this is the first time that i have heard of a government decision to vaccinate part of the population based on skin color, notwithstanding the scientific studies on which they are based. for the verb used, you say "to rule" but that would not be rather "to observe" if the result of these studies were unequivocal? to me, "to rule" implies a conscious choice which is not self-evident; someone who decides based on externalities, a political decision, in short.
how does it work in practice? who is he judging? do you just have to self-declare?
why use the racial factor for vaccine distribution when the racial differences in the consequences of covid are due to the different rates of co-morbidity in the patients (diabetes, obesity, etc)? it would be no more complicated to vaccinate obese and diabetics as a priority than to vaccinate blacks or natives.
fortunately, covid is not a very dangerous disease for healthy adults, because if it were the case with silliness like that we would end up with riots in a very short time.
certain that if whites were more at risk they would be vaccinated first. / s
the question, the only question that matters, is "is this subgroup more at risk / will monopolize more resources". if it is yes, it must be prioritized. black people ? ok. transgender people? ok. the rabid feminists? mmmmm ..
right now, honest quebecers and whites are dying to wait for an oncology appointment because covid is slowing down the entire system. it's no one's fault, we just don't have enough of anything (employees, doctors, money).
the extra patients that can be avoided in intensive care is a benefit for everyone. because a bed costs a hell of a lot of money, while the vaccine doesn't.
> on the other hand, it takes an unparalleled daring to dare to compare the american populations to the canadian populations with the social references of our neighbors to the south.
this is why the public health authorities in each province do their own research to reflect the local situation ... and come to the same conclusions.
this is because, in general, the health community does not ask for your opinion. the epidemiologists, medical specialists and researchers in the network (in quebec) have at least a doctorate in their respective fields, often a subspecialization as a bonus. what i, you or mathieu think of their research, i can guarantee you that it is far behind star académie in their thoughts (and already star ac ', by the way, it is quite far in general).
it is not a government decision for these reasons, it is the state which decides to apply the recommendations of these experts. it turns out that international research validates the american studies that have been done on the subject (often adding the criterion of disadvantaged background) and that they have been the most reliable for several months.
in practice, hundreds of public health researchers in their respective institutions are trying to model the pandemic - and all other health problems from diabetes to cancer to influenza - to better understand and combat it. if you want to know how medical school is waiting for you, it is beyond my skills.
just for the record, a few years ago i attended the presentation of a research report where some big political names from quebec were present. during the questions, a "vulgar" invited specialist doctor allowed himself to question the modalities for participating in the research. lapidary response from the deputy minister of health at the time "it is not because we are capable of being a medical specialist that we are capable of being a researcher". end of the conversation, curtain, everyone remained calm bin bin bin bin bin.
it is not according to "the skin" but of belonging to any minority recognized as more at risk. our diabetic friends - white, yellow or green - were prioritized at the start of the pandemic in 2020 for certain measures related to teleworking in the public sector for example, on the recommendation of public health because they were thought to be more at risk. . we ** discriminated ** all the rest of quebec to prioritize them, because we thought it was the right thing to do. mathieu wrote a column entitled "crisses of colonized diabetics" for the occasion. well no.
everything can be a criterion in life. there are programs that target gay or bi men based on vulnerability studies, some on country life, some on obesity, and so on. what is important is whether we see a real correlation between a subgroup and complications. there are programs that target geographic areas like my good old hochelaga for example.
if the group of 20-50 caucasian men who read bock-côté were found to be vitamin d deficient, public health would recommend sending this specific group dewor, regardless of whether the suggestion is popular or not. they are not there to validate the ideological inclinations of wokes or racists, but to ensure that the general population is healthier at a lower cost if possible.
it is ruled by the politician who decides on the basis of the recommendations of public health and of some more recognized researchers, and also according to the criteria that the politicians themselves consider important (see for example: why legault was more severe with montreal than with quebec?)
i would even say that it is one of the beauties of the health care system. in general - and in particular in emergencies except perhaps in joliette - we try to see the human being there as a patient above all and an ideological membership then. the only criterion that filters a little less than the others is the csp.
we prioritize several things at the same time. at the beginning, as the children were not affected very much, we let the schools go. if the mortality goes up, we will prioritize them. last year, women were more severely affected, and the network was informed so that workers can be more attentive when it comes to women. it's not moral, it's pragmatic.
if you are an 80 year old black, obese woman, you are at maximum risk. it is relevant to prioritize yourself for yourself but also for all the people with whom you may be in contact. if you are a perfectly healthy black teenager, you are - for now - less at risk, you will go further.
those who feel the loser do not understand that in an epidemic, it is the most "infectable" groups that must be tackled as a priority in the interest of all.
yes. as said, public health does not make ideology.
i would never understand how you can on the one hand say that you love quebec and on the other hand feel that your own people are untrustworthy as soon as there is any suspicion in any column. this article is just mathieu who goes into paranoia accusing everyone without doing the minimum checks. it's a bit short to deal with dozens of fools / dishonest people.
government decisions are not made by one woke and manipulative person. public health consists of dozens of different researchers in several establishments who are all somewhat competitive in terms of careers and accomplishments. there are whites, yellows, blacks. right, left.
none of them want to ridicule themselves by posting false ethnic stuff that will be denied six months later and ruin their reputation in their community. it is obvious that a large profile search will be reviewed by all the neighbors just in case. the politicians who follow or not their instructions do not want to be at the center of a scandal any more and take the trouble to read what is submitted to them, or even seek opposing opinions if the conclusions displease them.
it's not like it's justin trudeau and jagmeet singh all alone in an office late at night laughing at white people as they hatch an evil plan. your / s comes to imply that a bunch of researchers that you do not know are not only dishonest but also downright dumb because the researchers "on your side" will be happy to deny them contradictory studies in hand. if a study in quebec shows that caucasians are more at risk, you can be sure that researchers will publish it if only for their careers. and nietzche preserves us, god knows that the caq would hasten to follow this recommendation if only for their electorate.
> it is "is such a sub-group more at risk / going to monopolize more resources". if it is yes, it must be prioritized. black people ? ok. transgender people? ok. the rabid feminists? mmmmm ..
the obese? from what i understand it has been identified as a significant risk factor for a long time. i don't think it would have been controversial to prioritize the obese for the vaccine, and since obesity is more prevalent among amerindians than in the general population (is it also the case among blacks in canada?) it would have prioritized them indirectly, but without resorting to discriminatory criteria.
no, you unequivocally, explicitly turned the question racially. in the american studies that you posted, it is clearly stated that there is no indication that these groups are genetically more sensitive to coronaviruses than others.
all that to say what in the end, that populations at risk are more at risk? we guessed naturally.
thank you for the slice of life but i am even more perplexed than before my comment.
i will understand that you do not have the answer to my question for the skin test. the problem is not only theoretical: i am of mixed race. according to whom? so other than self-report, i wouldn't see how the government or anyone else could judge my predisposition to complications from the virus just firsthand.
understand me well: i am not questioning the validity of the studies, which i have not read. i take your word for it. what i am saying is that without a genetic test which would highlight this propensity, how would one go about granting me the vaccine or refusing me? from a health point of view, prevention is better than cure - so yes, go, vaccinate mulattoes (or those who identify as such). except that right now, we are supposed to sort out those who need it before others. it is the nature of choice. so, we start from a deliberate and normal discrimination (old, disabled, etc.) first, but which remains intrinsic discrimination.
nothing in studies shows that an obese 80 year old woman is more at risk if she is black rather than white, that's my point. the apparent racial disparity is due to the fact that the obesity rate is higher among black americans than white americans (i don't know if it's the same here).
no, researchers have found that disadvantaged groups are the most vulnerable. and strangely enough, the people who are able to tell the difference between "non-white" and "poor" when it comes to crime are no longer able to tell the difference between "non-white" and "poor" when it comes to giving out vaccines.
but it is a discriminatory criterion. any criterion is discriminatory. when we say obese, we "punish" those who are healthy from a weight point of view.
public health aims for simplicity and efficiency. if an entire segment is at 60% risk while another is at 10% (these are just numbers in the air here), we will prioritize the segment at 60%. in the heap there will be people who would never have been at risk, but we are aiming for efficiency (and cost reduction).
if 100% of blacks (fat people, kids, adults) got it but never developed any complications, they would come last on the list because hospitalizations are the problem.
yes, it's not genetic, it's other criteria. but regardless from the point of view of occupied beds and the price of drugs used, it is not "finding the culprit" that "reducing the pressure on the network".
these populations cost more because they are proportionately more affected, they must be prioritized in the interest of everyone. we do not "naturally" guess the public health policies that cost millions of dollars, we verify: it is the scientific approach that mathieu renames "racial vaccination" as if it were anti-white discrimination when that benefits everyone.
wait, i will rephrase more clearly: mathieu suggests that this is a "woke" policy because he is a fool who sees / wants to see anti-white racism everywhere and who does not need proof, just d 'to bark. the reality is that it is an approach which protects the whole of society, thought out by researchers from all angles on scientific and not ideological bases, unlike mathieu.
of course, since we love mathieu and his cause, we are much less demanding with him than we are with others. even if it means swallowing large snakes. even if it means encouraging something that would harm our own cause.
if you ask me how a nurse confirms that you are black or asian, my answer will be that we ask mathieu bock-côté for each patient :-)
i don't know, i guess it's a matter of judgment, there is no shortage of nurses and since everything is recorded online, little incentive to cheat to give the vaccine to pale friends. say the nurse decides that you are too white, she has to notify you why she is refusing you. and you can challenge the establishment's complaints handling process or the québec ombudsman. in any case, you will pass if it is relevant and you will be explained to you why otherwise.
yes, because it is in two different risk categories. with equal health, blacks cost more than whites in the face of covid. so blacks are to be prioritized, if only to limit costs. obesity is a second cause. to be immunosuppressed would be a third and so on.
read the studies that i took the trouble to publish to you above, you will see that this is exactly what it shows.
it is the same approach as the geographic zones in quebec. we identify which (geographic) segments are more at risk and we prioritize according to the risk. it's not geographic racism, it's risk management.
see the studies published above. this is also a criterion. ethnicity was found to be relevant, socio-professional category and early last year, gender when women were disproportionately affected. these criteria are not mutually exclusive.
you can be a rich white woman at risk, a rich native man at risk and so on. the categories overlap, are not mutually exclusive.
but there is no evidence that skin color is the causative factor for covid complications. it is correlated due to the different rates of obesity and diabetes in the united states. it is no more complicated to vaccinate the obese than to vaccinate the blacks.
> any criterion is discriminatory.
don't pretend you don't understand what i mean by discriminatory here. is an obese person with a given body mass index more at risk of complications if they are black than if they are white? if the answer is no, then prioritizing black is unacceptable discrimination against white. i guarantee you that if the obesity rate were higher among whites than among blacks and natives and we proceeded the same way we are doing now, we would be entitled to a concert of recriminations from so-called anti-racists.
in canada, care is never enacted with respect to cost. we are not in the usa. you go to the hospital, you receive the same treatment as pkp. nurses and doctors do not keep cash drawers when they leave clinics. they have no concept of the costs and it is very well like that (to disadvantage the discrimination which could be dispensed). accounting is done at another level, outside, where the stakeholders never come into contact.
moreover, the entirety of your reasoning holds its validity only in the american context where care is private. it does not hold up for a universal health system. populations at risk are already being taken care of with a dedicated vaccination campaign by clinics and pharmacies. in canada, there are no chronically ill diagnosed for financial reasons. any comparison of precariousness of different socio-economic groups falls almost flat. your reality is strictly modeled on the american model.
no, he does not consider contraception to be discriminatory. it is very bad to know him.
exactly i read the articles that you shared. they corrected the death rates for age, that's fine, but ** none of the studies you cited have tested other explanatory hypotheses to explain racial disparities **. the only one that touches on this question is this:
[
and indicates that social economic factors and co-morbidities explain the disparities, which is exactly my point from the start. if the real factor is that the poor, obese and diabetics are more at risk, it is those who should be prioritized, not on the basis of race.
we do both. we prioritize the two categories. each segment effectively identified by research is prioritized. whether it's two, ten, or a hundred segments, as long as they are meaningful. the spread of covid and its use of medical resources among minorities is a fact, so we are warning to save millions of dollars. it's an established fact at this point whether it's popular or not. we do not say "the melanin level is catching covid", we have not found a "reason" such as "black people are dirty and catch it faster", we see by the figures that the spread is stronger and the higher costs at home.
i'm not pretending, i'm telling you it like it is. public health is not concerned with whether a segment is popular or not. its aim is to avoid disaster. if the “minorities” segment is hit more heavily than the others, it will cost more and be transmitted faster than the others. we must therefore prioritize in the interest of all.
it's like having someone come in infected in a village with no sick people and say "i refuse to prioritize him because i don't like this guy". ok, but the result in the real world is that the village is going to be contaminated during this time for reasons of hate that have nothing to do with science: it could have been avoided simply by treating the patient right away. following.
> in canada, care is never enacted with regard to cost.
this is false, it is the role of the ethics committees (and of public health which provides the information so that the committees can play their role). this conversation has existed in quebec for more than twenty years, as i explained to you, it is just that we do not ask our opinion and that is why you are not aware, while i do. , since this is my domain.
the great distinction with the united states is that with us it happens upstream, discussion of specialists before making decisions, whereas over there it is downstream, on the patient's bed to question him on the expiration date of his credit card.
instead of taking quebecers by the throat to deny them care, the committees assess the performance of treatments (efficacy / cost / prevalence) to determine what we can afford or what we should avoid. .
> no, he does not consider contraception to be discriminatory. it is very bad to know him.
it was a joke that it is the vagina to underline the violent idiocy of criticizing vaccination policies established according to the general interest on the basis of a "* i don't like minorities and i like the caucasians who are my readership to feel oppressed and since i'm smart i don't need to question the middle on basic reasons because checking the news is good for journalists when i'm just an agitator * ".
any second-rate reporter would have called a public health doctor in quebec to say, "what, ontarians are racialist and suicidal?" and would have had it explained - better than i did - the reasons for doing so. but we do not sell paper in the shade. to say to a white person "it will be easier to treat your sores if we do not have ten haitians with diabetes with covid who take all the intensive care beds", it is not salesman. saying "ontario preferred blacks rather than de-strains" is a dirty seller.
no, because these are just leads. the racial disparity is there, so we prioritize to limit the spread. we don't know why, but we know it does, so we tackle it.
> public health is not concerned with whether a segment is popular or not.
[
seems to me that is exactly what they are doing here in canada right now.
stakeholders are never involved in the costs. there is no such thing as a doctor who refuses treatment on this pretext. here, health is accepted as an expense rather than a profit, which confers the best care for everyone, detached from any administrative influence due to the separation between accounting and care. in the usa, depending on what you look like, you can be refused in the face.
the disparity in complications from covid is also there for obesity, diabetes, and a host of other diseases.
[
however, public health, which acts on a totally scientific basis in your opinion, prioritizes race as a factor ... while according to the cdc racial disparity is due to social factors which are very likely different between canada and the states -united.
[
i'm sorry, but you absolutely do not convince me that public health is acting scientifically here.
going back to my 80 year old obese black vs white example, you say:
> yes, because it is in two different risk categories.
** this is only true if there is a direct causal link between racial origin and the risk of covid complications. however, there is no indication that this link exists. ** if it's just a correlation due to social and economic differences and the majority of the variance between racial groups is explained by a different obesity rate, you cannot. assume that being in both risk categories implies additional risk for black vs white.
as i expressed it above, it is because you do not know how the research environment which feeds public health studies works. these researchers are competitors. they are not there to play or to defend a political agenda. if they are wrong, someone will be happy to show that they have it all wrong and reap the laurels in the process. this is true for trivial studies which interest only specialists, it is still much more true for studies which interest the general public.
if the dozens of different research projects that go in the same direction were all hastily put together by public health workers would take them with a grain of salt for the same reasons (each of the public health executives values their career). but in addition, it would be all the easier for a white researcher, sovereignist and angry to prove that all this is false and to make as much capital as possible in the process ("the hero who saved the province"). a researcher may take a chance on publishing shit, but that dozens of institutions around the world are going in the same direction, it cannot be improvised.
the research community is ultra-competitive, no one wants to be the village idiot, they dedicate their lives to their reputation. you and i can write anything, it's not our real name on the internet, nor our career. their funding, their name is attached to what they publish and it is their relevance that makes their reputation.
read my answer again. it happens upstream, which is why you are not aware of it. the question does not reach the patient. and that's why sometimes your doctor will tell you "in mozambique such a treatment is available if you pay cash, but in canada you cannot have it".
we still progressed, we went from "it's a racialist conspiracy" to "i don't agree with the methodology".
i am not going to defend the methodology because i am not a researcher. i ** sense ** (= it's a feeling, i'm not asserting) that social factors are close between canada and the united states. there are variations between the states themselves, but some general criteria change little: haitians in florida have a diet probably close to that of ontario. the socio-professional categories of asians in california are undoubtedly close to those in toronto.
it's fine if you're not convinced based on your ** feeling **, but before you say "health researchers / executives are racialist and dishonest" you have to come up with specific points that don't. are presented nowhere in this thread, that's mostly my point against bock-côté. it's frankly dirty and easy to smear a bunch of reputations without doing any checking by just saying "we prioritize blacks, it's racist". it seems to me that such an accusation should at least be based on studies with concrete arguments and not impressions. casually, mbc accuses researchers, health experts and politicians of all colluding in something contrary to the interests of public health. that's a lot of people dirty all of a sudden without proof, considering that in all these good people, there are people who have the same pro-caucasian convictions as mathieu. casually, he also insults the world on his side in his big mess.
i think you are overly optimistic about the quality of the people who run public health. like any bureaucracy, public health will tend to appoint yes-man, "team players" who are ready to defend science yes, but not at the cost of displeasing the boss or their colleagues. as i showed you elsewhere in the thread, public health does not take into account meta-analyzes which show that the "obesity" factor is as much if not more important than the "skin color / ethnicity" factor in relation to the related risks to disease.
more broadly, there are also other reasons not to take anything that comes out of research for cash. here is a very interesting article about it:
[
the same methods used in medical research and in psychology seem to indicate the existence of psychic powers in humans, which is rather absurd one can agree.
science is of course the best tool we have for observing reality, but that does not justify resorting to the argument of authority. scientists shit through the same hole as everyone else.
bin voyon, it has nothing to do with the covid. what you're saying is about experimental cancer treatments or stuff like that. in the united states, the poor cannot afford to simply go to a general practitioner for everyday problems, hence the presence of undiagnosed chronic diseases. we don't have the same problem here at all.
> it's fine if you are not convinced on the basis of your ** feeling **
it's not just my feeling:
[
the odds ratio of risk of death from covid 19 for obesity is higher (3.68) than that for skin color (1.9) in the sources that you have given. so why prioritize the "black" category over the "fat" category other than for political reasons? it's no harder to vaccinate fat people than to vaccinate blacks.
casually, mbc accuses researchers, health experts and politicians of all colluding in something contrary to the interests of public health.
i haven't read the bock article on the side, i don't care. what i see is that the explanations for prioritizing blacks over other more logical categories do not hold water. i strongly suspect that there is a political component to it, as there is a bunch of other public health decisions so far.
"english only initiatives"
do we agree on that?
agree with english only initiatives
"digital blackface" like when you change the color of a photo on paint?
article of the national post
[
meanwhile, the blackface captain herself concocts racist subsidies ...
can anyone explain to me what is tokenism?
"expecting bipoc to educate you" pis "not believing the experiences of bipoc"
in other words, we want to shout that everything is racist and we are not able to tell you why. fa que ta geule, it's racist not to blindly believe us.
blackface
[
"white supremacy"
but it's not white supremacy, it's fucking cave to bring the race, it has nothing to do with it.
it's like in the state whenever there is a black man killed by a police officer and spoke of "white supremacy" even if the police officers were also minorities.
yeah and no. that's it and when we even use it with black people. it's kinda weird.
it's when you include x people of color just to hit a ratio or not - just - white people. see the character named token in south park.
no but i can explain tolkien to you
netflix
do you know token in south park?
example: "the myth of the noble savage" to describe the indigenous traditions when we have no idea what we are talking about
i think we have to qualify the point, we can expect the bipoc to educate us on the racism they experience, but when we ask for an explanation we must listen to it and not hide our face. the reality is that even when it's explained very clearly, people don't buy into it because they don't like it, but the facts are the facts.
yes i know, i have difficulty seeing the connection between “english only initiatives” and “white supremacy” knowing that the majority of francophones in canada are also white, but hey, let them do their things, in addition it goes in our direction.
in short, we need quotas to counter racism, but if we respect the quotas, we are also racists ....
those who are the happiest to see the word racist used all over the place are the real racists. so as far as i'm concerned, i consider that to call anyone and anything racist is racist.
they should also accept that not everything is racist. just because you joke playing with a stereotype doesn't mean you want to lychee them ... like joking ass doesn't mean you're sexually obsessed or you want to screw it all up.
it is not because you make yourself an osti of tacos that you are racist towards the mexicans because it is cultural appropriation. it's not because you use a gif with black that it's "digital blackface".
when you see everything as being racist and you don't want to hear anything either, it may not just be the other's problem. maybe you see too much racism everywhere or there isn't.
another example, i have seen posts on reddit as if all asian leas are eating volleys in the streets every day in montreal. there were some who found it boring that they couldn't have cayenne pepper or taser to protect themselves. sacrament, there are a couple of cellars who walk around whining "chinese crunches worse their virus" but to see them, they are being killed with all their might ... in montreal ... kessé is your reaction ? calm you, sacrament.
well obviously french speakers are another race. writing in english because irony. also you wouldn’t understand my french unless you take acid (or are native anglophone).
it is a false dilemma, one can very well include a respectable number of people of color while preserving a usefulness in their presence.
what ?
j'ai bu. sorry
this is correct tkt
"the day before, her political opponent had told le devoir that once elected, she would not renew the derogatory clauses nested in" law 21 "."
well done, she just lost potentially 70% of the vote.
quebec values = let women dress half-naked is secular, but dressing modestly is against integration. free quebec minds at manumilitari
at least she has the honesty to say so openly. a child of a female dog like charest or couillard would not have had a problem promising to maintain the notwithstanding clause and then reneging on it.
> well done, she has just potentially lost 70% of the vote.
she has also just picked up the vote of all those who shut themselves up in their communities by crying out about all that is "quebec"
those who are perfectly integrated ...
> well done, she has just potentially lost 70% of the vote.
probably in a parallel universe but in ours with 3/4 of the population of montreal who can press "skip" on french, with "bill 21 = adolf hitler" who can take pride of place as an argument among the media and secular fighters as fierce as pizza dough being flattened by religious metal steamrollers, it will be the other way around.
yes no if the evolution is true because are there signs?
at the same time, if she were fully honest, she would say that she would abolish it altogether, because the federal justice system dreams of doing battle with bill 21 and eliminating it entirely because of heresy against canadian multiculturalism. if we remove the notwithstanding clause, the courts will be happy to invalidate it from a to z. so between withdrawing the clause and eliminating the law is like changing four thirty cents for a dollar.
> she has also just picked up the vote of all those who shut themselves up in their communities by shouting about all that is "quebec"
also those who, while you receive a "vote for me cellar" paper sheet in the mail, receive the real candidate in flesh and blood who promises them everything and even more.
but of course not. in the latest polls, bill 21 was approved by 70-74% of quebecers. to go against law 21 is to turn the majority of the population on its back, there is no doubt about it.
yeah that's right. someone naive who is unfamiliar with the multicultural leanings of federal courts might believe that the non-renewal of the notwithstanding clause does not necessarily lead to the abolition of the law.
> if we remove the derogation clause, the courts will be happy to invalidate it from a to z.
not so sure.
the courts would overturn some of the obligation for teachers to remove their religious symbols, but perhaps not for the police.
gérard bouchard believed that his version of the law (which excluded teachers) would pass the legal test.
it's not so much an addiction. it is written into the constitution:
> any interpretation of this charter must be consistent with the objective of promoting the maintenance and enhancement of the multicultural heritage of canadians.
eille is still really cucks multiculturalists.
so, does valérie plante know how to do anything other than emulate the worst dumping grounds on the west coast?
> "the granting of the right to vote and to be elected for ** the permanent residents ** would mark a step forward towards the achievement of ** a proportional representation ** [of diversity]", can one read in a report that will be tabled this week in city council.
this is not completely blocked reasoning, they still pay their taxes and are permanent residents. their opinion and their well-being do not count !?
> "these are people who ** pay taxes ** anyway," defends me guillaume cliche-rivard, immigration lawyer.
where it bothers me is that the right to vote is still a powerful symbol of the identity of a people.
let's say that the republican in me wants to believe it, but let's be realistic, the right to vote remains a symbol that affirms the recognition of the new citizen as being a quebecer or a canadian whose opinion counts.
maybe at the municipal level it would be reasonable / honorable, let's let the (so-called permanent) population participate in the issues of their direct environment, right? but on the provincial and federal side, perhaps we should really have citizenship to participate in these broader social and identity projects. i do not know, i am very divided, i must admit ... but above all very relieved not to be in the bottom of those who will have to discuss it more seriously lol.
what a good bad idea
just like the democrats, replacement migration. very simple. you import illegals en masse and then they vote leftist.
reporting virtue:
* the deadline for citizen status is 5 years so we probably miss only one municipal / federal / provincial election.
* if the person is not interested in doing the paperwork, voting is the least of their worries. especially when a * green card * is involved. montreal is a * pit stop * before the real destination.
i find it stupid that we give the right to vote to those who, when they arrive, will cry about us and our laws (i have never seen the world whine like the hasidics during the pandemic) in their confined communities on the side of the neiges or the petit maghreb, without learning anything from quebec or the quebecois ... or french in general ... by being given everything they want for nothing.
it does not really deserve the right to vote if it comes here just to cry racism while shouting about everything quebecois.
i would have been for this kind of measure as normal but it is clearly an electoral tactic on the part of plante. it's quite disgusting in fact. they pay their taxes, most work or have children who go to school, in short they are active in the community. just that for me is enough to give them the right to vote at the municipal level (at the federal / provincial level i think that canadian nationality is still useful). except that there's an election coming up, it's not out of kindness or ideological coherence that she's doing that, just to try to have "easy" votes, it's clear that she thinks that immigrants will vote for it. i am more ideologically aligned with plante than with coderre, but i hope that it will fall in his face. taken advantage of a group of people for its political gain it makes me sick no matter who it comes from
edit nvm: i hadn't seen that coderre was for too, uh i'm a little surprised .... well i guess then
if he pays their taxes and has lived here permanently for more than 2 years i have no problem with that.
so why should islam not vote for us? we could ask them to pay taxes and islam will take care of voting for us. it seems to me a good deal
i'm going on vacation for two weeks in hungary, i pay taxes, so i would have the right to vote according to plante?
already, having a foothold in our society where we have freedom of expression is a long way, perhaps even too much.
i went quick about 3-4 of your posts and i was wondering, are you the type who calls yourself openly racist or more of the racist type without self-awareness?
i also had the same reaction as you at first, but after reading ...
we are talking about people who have permanent residency, but we are still talking about a fairly serious process there.
if you have a minimum of respect for democracy, i don't know about you, but it still invites you to take the time to think about it for a moment.
of course! we are white, we are all racists. our masters subsidized by the chinese (the wokes) tell us. you are white, you are racist. did you get up this morning? racist. did you brush your teeth? racist. did you dare to have a point of view on the domestic functioning of your country? racist. do the chinese fuck people in concentration camps? the fault of racist whites. annual genocides in the third world, black on black with russian weapons? our fault, your fault, of course. come, my young racist, it is you who is in denial about your status. all white people are racist without knowing it! and you know what's the only solution to cure your racism? importing billions of people with cultures not very conducive to a welfare state, which will surely bankrupt the country and destroy the french. think it? racist. have opinions? racist. stay in a corner and never say anything while letting anything happen around your dear home? yes! this is a modern, free and tolerant society! remember, true democracy is when you can do that obey, just like our famous comrades in the democtratic republic of north korea. woohoo!
without citizenship?
if we go to the other side, a system where the right to vote comes after 10 years of citizenship for new immigrants would not be more immoral. a permanent resident already enjoys all the same services as the rest of the population, to the tune _much_ greater than all the taxes he would pay in his lifetime. the right to vote is fundamental and it deserves more respect.
do you think plante would be interested in this procedure if 50,000 fn supporters arrived in montreal every year for a decade? not sure, me. i think we would quickly see requests to prevent them from voting, or to close the borders.
it suits him because it risks voting on the safe side, that's all.
if you read my main comment correctly, ** you will confirm that it bothers me too problem ... **
i'm just saying that if you take a step back and think about it in all objectivity (without linguistic parisanery) ... what is democracy?
i repeat otherwise, ** here we are talking about adequate representation of the population in the democratic process of an election. **
• the ** quebecer ** in me obviously says that citizenship must mean more than simple recognition of your person at the legal level and obviously the right to vote does. ** at this level, acquired citizenship, we fully recognize your power as a quebec citizen. you are definitely becoming a member of the people. **
• but if i think about it as a ** republican ("pro-democratic") ** it is obvious that the idea is not degenerated. a permanent resident lives the same life as an average quebecer, he has passed his language test, he can function in society ... he may not be a recognized citizen, but he is not a dog either. he is still present and exists beautifully and well, he lives beautifully and truly a life as a citizen and not as a tourist.
just saying.
go molo lol, it's not a plant that personally suggested that. her administration is just saying that she will take it seriously.
then like i said, in my case i am very divided. ** we are talking about adequate representation of the population in the democratic process (the vote). **
leave the tongue out for two minutes and ** think about it objectively ** for a moment. what is democracy?
that's all i'm saying.
it is still wrong for a permanent resident who has not passed the immigration criteria to be able to comment on the fate of citizens born in this country and who have no other residence than this country.
let me ask you again: if 500,000 supporters of the fn had immigrated to quebec for 10 years, do you think we would be talking about offering them the right to vote without citizenship? obviously not.
totally agree with you, look in my main comment.
> maybe at the municipal level it would be reasonable / honorable, let's let the (so-called permanent) population participate in the issues of their direct environment, right? ** but on the provincial and federal side, we should perhaps really have citizenship to participate in these broader social and identity projects. **
ok sorry versat1l but i'm just repeating myself. ✌👋
i am not very informed about the "said" immigration criteria for access to citizenship (if that's what you mean) but you definitely meet several to gain access to permanent residence after more than 700 days on canadian soil, if i am not talking stupidly.
martineau had started to change his tone after the peak of 2012 when he saw that the population was against the government. it seems to be happening again.
soon at 8 a.m. it will be sunny and 25c, nasty torture
really, torture? don't give a fuck about other people's health?
health ... 22 more hospitalizations yesterday ... you didn't give a shit about hospitalizations.
what is the relationship? curfews are and always have been unnecessary in preventing the transmission of the virus. it is a measure used to give the impression that the government is taking the bull by the horns when in reality it is grabbing the donut and letting people die like dogs by denying them any treatment before they get to the hospital.
i never said that xd made me not say what i didn't say. i said i wasn't tempted to stay indoors when the weather's fine outside at 8 a.m., not that i wasn't going to
yeah, i don't know where you get your sources from but i've always been in favor of lockdowns haha
there is also the fitzgibbon case which tends to have openings of investigation (4 now?) or scandals just before the announcement of measures. surely pure coincidences because health is apolitical or something like that ...
curfew is one thing that helps reduce the transmission of the virus. this is the report. the main way to get through a pandemic is to make sure people don't all catch the virus at the same time.
i 100% agree that the government is not doing enough to help victims of the virus, because obviously a curfew is not enough.
edit: but as usual, they'll get away with it with the minimum of effort possible ...
no fair enough, but it's easy to read it like "i would rather not have a curfew if i let people spread the virus so i can go out after 8pm" lol
i speak before a pandemic.
> the curfew is one thing that helps reduce the transmission of the virus.
this is absolutely wrong. no positive effect of a curfew to reduce the transmission of the epidemic has never been statistically observed, neither in quebec, nor elsewhere. only the stubbornness of decision-makers who do not want to admit having unnecessarily rotten the lives of the population for months prevents them from admitting the obvious.
but i still wonder if 1 hour difference makes the difference ... like it's at 8 p.m. instead of 9:30 p.m. does it matter?
my ideal would be after 8 p.m. the only valid reason to be outside is because you're on your way to your home, and after 9 p.m. no valid reason (except for exempt jobs such as delivery man).
i would prefer this title there:
urban camping more popular than ever in 2021!
[( ͡° ͜ʖ ͡°)](
with the price of homes increasing like no other, the rent with renovations and the simple lack of housing. it is made impossible for many to live in mwc.
we are at the point where we are celebrating homelessness. i just can't believe that we accept to live with this reality in society. poverty, the real one, is the plague of our world.
god bless the pandemic for telecommuting, rents can finally go down.
keep dreaming. from $ 3 1/2 to $ 1000 is already becoming the norm.
if i weren't in a shared apartment with my brother with an 8-year-old rent, i wouldn't be able to.
i just looked on kijiji, if i was shopping alone for accommodation right now it's too expensive, i would have to move from the island.
> continue to dream. from $ 3 1/2 to $ 1000 is already becoming the norm.
3 1/2 for $ 1000? it is still a good price. the vacancy rate is currently at its lowest in years.
i find the idea of a green party breakthrough in quebec intriguing. on the one hand, i am expecting another federal party that does not understand quebec and that even sees it with a hostile eye. on the other hand, i believe that his positions would be attractive to many quebecers despite everything. the big party snag was elizabeth may with her cell phone frenzy. with his departure, i believe the green party has a chance.
the ndp has never been on the side of quebec.
if i remember correctly, the bloc had a better environmental platform than the green party in the last federal election. the green party mentioned some strange things like the development of the tar sands to help the “transition”.
he makes a very strange connection. disappointed ndp voters will not spontaneously go to the green party as they seem to think.
in my opinion, we will fall back into political correctness with a canadian progressive sauce. the greens are pretty much all brainwashed when they leave, more so than the ndp.
get out of your one-dimensional white / black reality a bit. your palvovian reflections are starting to get really ridiculous.
both unfortunately have no chance of taking power they can promise a unicorn per household too. in the early 2000s there was a roc movement that was interested in the ideas of the bloc its always surprised that no one is just making a copy paste without separatism and making ideas like poutine their own.
they may even spontaneously turn to the plc
what do you mean ?
that the ndp "has never been on the side of quebec". it is simply not true.
thank you for the explanation
perron who goes to bat to defend the word negro. "that's a good word" .. good luck jean.
i have to give him the price titanium ball.
oh my god, blasphemy! quickly, may the university of ottawa help us!
may macron help us.
if coderre wants a baseball stadium, it is to give a gift to his billionaire friend stephen bronfman by helping himself to our taxes.
stephen bronfman who is [president of the financing] ( of the liberal party of canada ... the same liberal party of canada in which [denis coderre] ( //fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/denis_coderre#sc%c3%a8ne_f%c3%a9d%c3%a9rale) was minister of citizenship, immigration ** and multiculturalism **.
** coderre is just a continuation of liberal rot ... can you stop electing liberal host ???? **
my deep thought: fuck denis coderre ...
paul saint-pierre plamondon defended quebec well. i applaud him. when with jagmeet singh, i find so much that this guy is mediocrity incarnate. not for nothing that quebeckers have let down the ndp, and as it continues, this is not about to change anytime soon.
[deleted]
after listening to his segment, it makes you wonder if pspp does not actually have a dried out brain. the university of ottawa should apologize for attaran, jagmeet should apologize for his deputy ... to portray yourself as a victim is not exactly an assertion of power. it is enough the game of the perfect little censor, especially since it is inconsistent with his recent positions. if the only word that comes to mind is defamation, let him plead for little jeremy!
notice jagmeet was no better. it is tiresome when each intervention seeks to rewrite the history of quebec through the prism of systemic racism. it's okay, i don't think we'll base our historiography on the interpretation of an ontarian, moreover an apologist of sikh terrorism. in addition to his ridiculous test balloon with the * word in f *, the funniest thing is when he credits himself with many legislative achievements. the ndp is the third opposition, pushes, but pushes equal.
i am convinced that coderre was 100% honest and that when canada tells him that it is completely racist to be anti-woke and that he will be in power, he will not valérie plantera as much as possible every day of the week.
denis coderre: it's decided, he has my vote. his anti-plant / anti-woke positions are really good in this mongolian climate that reigns in montreal. never in my life have i wanted to see a mayor (mayoress) go out as much as valérie plante, rarely seen an administration ravage a city as they did. please, bring coderre back, he paid for his mistakes.
normand brathwaite: he says that racialism exasperates him, that he no longer wants to be a racial spokesperson ... his children are receiving death threats from all sides because of this debate.
jacynthe rené: what is she doing on all the unimaginable tv shows to justify herself? we have widely covered this story.
hold up. why would building a baseball stadium be a bad thing. explain please :-)
very "deep"
for the ndp jack layton was competing, his replacement makes me want to throw him up in the turban.
i have the right to say it, we are from quebec who have "lived experiences of life" so we can say what we want.
thank you for the work of monk on google maps, it is extremely interesting!
i think he has clearly noted the fact that anti-quebec racism is generally accepted in canada and that in these times when inclusion comes first, it should not be accepted.
i agree. it's slim pickings at the poles frankly. ffs. pourquoi, just once can we please have decent public servants. ugh.
an honest politician ... wow, like it exists ...
> canada will tell him that it is completely racist to be anti-woke and that he will be in power
do you really think that the former liberal minister of multiculturalism of canada (denis coderre) will piss off canadian multiculturalism?
coderre is an empty box with a new coat of paint.
coderre has spent his life making a living from citizens' taxes, he has always been an elected official, federal then municipal.
coderre is going to lie to you in the face just to get your vote, then he will go around and have a cognac with his rich friends, the bronfmans, the desmarais and the others ... and he will pretend not to know you. 'he sees you on the street.
the real political courage today is to stand up to the woke. françois legault does it in his own way, i am convinced that coderre will do it in his own way too, it is nevertheless sad, it is made that the liberal multi-culturalism 90's style of coderre is our best option.
not sure to understand how valérie plante devastated mtl? the enlightened and conspiratorial crackhead crisis existed before it happened, it just got worse with the tbh pandemic.
because we don't have to finance a stadium with public funds when the profits go into the pockets of billionaires
worse we will not hide it. youth are not so much interested in baseball as they are.
[deleted]
yes, but in doing so he is completely playing the game of the partisans of systemic racism. you should have seen jagmeet picking up the ball again after each of his laments. moreover, anti-quebec racism or the notion that it is part of attaran's speech is quite tendentious. because basically what is a quebecer? if you listen to pspp, it's essentially the same as a canadian being an identity based purely on geographic location. however, it is towards a people that we are racist, not a place.
i was also disappointed with his propensity to rely on defamation and canadian law. canada is clearly not a hotbed of free speech. as the leader of the party that wants to be the flagship of the sovereignist movement, we are entitled to expect a call for more freedom.
amir attaran as premier of quebec
big, it's been a long time since i made such obvious irony as that, really had to add a lol?
it's always better than plante
it was also the time when multiculturalism worked best.
the paralyzed streets, the management of the pandemic, the speeches in english only, the inclusive french reform woke policies, communitarianism (the neighborhood policy deplored by coderre), commissioner bochra manaï, the activism on systemic racism that she tries to sink in the throats of all the municipal institutions (spvm), the staff of her administration fired because it did not correspond to the new diversity and inclusion criteria, the complacency of english to the point of forgetting to communicate in french, hostility to residents outside montreal (if you have a car = eats garbage), hostility to traders, administrative interference ...
i continue?
give me coderre. i do not care that he is federalist-liberal.
building a stadium is not negative in itself. except when you look at the condition of some schools and neighborhoods, you can't consider yourself sane if you think the stadium is high on the priority list.
sports fans. tourism. money.
ah. but what if baseball stadium brought fans. fans bring revenue. make big tourism bucks.
i think we all share the blame in the horrific shit we did to the indigenous people.
i almost want to just say fuck it and be his campaign manager for d'artagnan, i mean... d'arttaran ;-)
because the number was less important. the more people you have from distinct communities who refuse to integrate and who organize themselves in cultural ghettos, the more problems you are going to have.
take money from tourism from stade and put into schools. rinse and repeat.
the bronfman family is one of the wealthiest people in the country who made their money on alcohol prohibition. they could buy all the hotels restaurants the stadiums and the team and start a tv channel and they would still be so rich. why not the nba in montreal then? hockey in quebec?
i think we learned our lesson with the quebec arena than an arena with public funds ≠ sports fans. tourism. money.
i can you know why you write in english
in addition there are faults🤦‍♂️
sure
whoa. i am pro having les nordiques back guys.
and yes bring in the nba. toronto sucks lol
because it's easier. stupid keyboard is in english us.
si je pouvais avoir les deux dictionnaires sur le keyboard that would be so amazing i speak, write and read german and italian too.
why? is r / quebec or r / quebec only free subreddits in french?
edit: you comment in english in other subreddits. then you ask me why i write english in a quebeclibre sub? bro. do english-speaking quebecers have a place in qclibre or not?
mistakes?
ah. but what if the* baseball stadium brought fans. fans bring revenue. makes* tourism big* bucks.
you can't say “what if baseball stadium brought fans”. it's like saying “chair is comfortable”. you see that it is not said. when you speak of something in the third person, your verb must have an “s” at the end. same thing for “make”, it is not said. and “make big tourism bucks” doesn't say that either. the expression is “big bucks”, so you should say “makes tourism big bucks”.
ah how triggered you are speaking in english dude, let the world write as they want.
do you read internet slang or not? lol. the comment was meant to be cheeky.
i'm not triggered haha y ma ask what faults
no i asked him quelle fautes. 
i didn't realise i was in class since i was the one schooling him. loll
oh shit you are bin savage boys
maybe, but you asked him pk he was writing in english and when he gives you his answer you ignore what he says and just make no mistake about his text. you don't seem like you've been kidded anymore by the fact that someone writes in english more than anything else. especially since you answered him in french with lots of mistakes yourself "i can you know why you write in english", you don't seem to really care about the quality of the language but sooner what language it is. . if you have a problem with english on a reddit qc sub, don't beat around the bush.
savage like a coureur des bois fam ✌😆👊
it is about time! hurry up before i die. i voted yes twice and have had my pencil ready for a long time.
are the francos waking up?
isn't that a white tiger now?
gilles proulx and the other "dragons" of the journal de montréal fantasize (denise bombardier is convinced that françois legault is cooking up a project of independence in secret, pure madness).
the current political scheme is incompatible with independence, otherwise the caq is no longer necessary. it is for this reason that i am convinced that qs is carving out a place for itself in the official opposition, unless the plq manages to redefine itself other than through federalism, which is quite possible.
as far as the pq is concerned, this party has no reason to exist except for sovereignty, and is destined to disappear with the quebec social-democratic ideal of the 70s and 90s that it embodied.
quebec society has almost no recourse to the anglophile invasion that it undergoes other than through a revolution before it becomes a minority at home.
a veteran with us, we'll try not to disappoint you.
no, he's a slutty dragon
qs will never become the official opposition. if ever there is something, the plq remains the party most likely to replace the caq ** in the current context **.
they are giving importance to a belligerent, arrogant and condescending fool who took his employer, the university of ottawa, to court on the pretext that they were racist towards him for denying him a promotion. .
no no, not his shitty character. not his shitty attitude. if something is denied to him, it is because of racism.
what an idiot.
calling for cancel culture: can you cancel this one?
no, he helps the sovereignist cause too much
if so, come on attaran give us a good slap.
i would also add: reconsider your studies at the university of ottawa. at worst, go to uqam. at best, the university of montreal, or even mcgill.
as a 1st year student in ottawa, i plan to save myself from there as soon as my finances allow me to leave for montreal. i don't want to graduate from this college run by clowns
this asshole won't tell me what to do.
~~ even if he's right about it ~~
it is the embodiment of evergreen college
suspicious number. i feel that there is one hidden.
according to the article, there would be an increase in gun smuggling (not so surprising in my opinion). it is time for people to start putting pressure on the government to relax all measures before it starts to get violent. no to the medical passport. what are you playing in quebec? do you wait for people to start pulling themselves up and the military to deploy to start telling you that measurements are not such a good idea?
add to that the systemic racism imposed on us by multinationals and the lgbtq + culture (always on the part of multinationals) which tries to appropriate the communities, where are we going?
what an idiot.
he wanted to go to liberia to make a good deal with andré baptiste sr!
ahah well seen!
rectal examination required?
how much do you bet that he gets away with 2 years minus 1?
excellent news.
phew, big monday for aa! nah, but it takes all the head round to defame hundreds of people for free and then ask for anonymity for yourself. good decision of the judge to tell her to put her healing process where she thinks.
the comments of the law professor at laval university are unfortunately more worrying. defamatory therapeutic libel? from kessé?
looks like the caq is afraid to introduce its bill. are there any major divisions with the federalist and business wing of the party? we can assume that it does.
i believe it is totally abnormal that it takes them 2 years to present their bill. if they don't want to include sizeable measures like bill 101 in cegeps, they don't have much left except bill 101 in federal businesses. (something even justin trudeau wants to do)
> we must not speak of a neighborhood with a high crime rate by saying that it is “not advisable” because it is to pass judgment.
when i say that xingjiang has concentration camps and i recommend running away from china and producing our stuff here, because i'm against that stuff, are you passing judgment?
before talking about microaggression, perhaps radio-canada should start to stop using and encouraging discriminatory terms like covid, conspiratorial and far-right to talk about people who oppose the measures.
i can't believe that a journalistic institution like radio-canada could fall into this fanatic dogma. here is the evidence of ideological corruption in the highest informational spheres.
i maintain: wokism is better positioned than nazism to triumph since it possesses morality, the most powerful weapon.
> sometimes a person who has been micro-assaulted does not even know they have been hurt.
brain gymnastics candy.
sophie durocher would be more credible when she talks about brainwashing and totalitarianism from woke if she wasn't a priestess herself using the same methods in the covid church.
it has happened a couple of times that "far-right" conspirators who clearly have mental health problems get identified publicly by radio-canada, it's a lot worse than micro-attacks so micro that "sometimes, a person who has been micro-assaulted doesn't even know they've been hurt. "
your post made sense until it came to defending the covidots.
first of all, we must consider radio-canada as a journalistic institution and not a soft propaganda device.
actually, i think you don't understand what i mean. yes i defend them and not at the same time. i defend freedom of expression and peace. what the media did that just shouldn't be acceptable. we should not allow people to spread hatred publicly. yet if i start talking about immigrant statistics, i risk being accused of hate speech fairly quickly.
i consider radio-canada to be a journalistic reference in the world, particularly for a network of such magnitude. if i say it, it is because i believe it. then nothing is perfect, there is always room for improvement.
it seems to me that the objectivity of radio-canada is inversely proportional to canada's interests in history. usually the international is not bad, there is nothing to foment with for example the results of the elections in new zealand, it will be quite factual. except for all that is local, the bias of the house shows through in a fairly obvious way. it is not only the treatment that we give to the news, but especially what we choose to put forward. for example, the radio-canada site will systematically offer an article promoting the character of the amerindians' eternal victim. day after day after day. it's not confusing, there's even a new parallel network dedicated entirely to native american whining. it's an old tactic to mark the public discourse and shift the overton window of acceptability.
radio-canada sometimes does good reports and everything. but whenever you listen to their political analysts or commentators for example, there is a bias that is very obvious.
i will not bow to the rhetoric of some who want the cbc to be a federative, idealized and politicized body of propaganda. and even then i would say * so what? *
for each example going one way, i can find a counterexample. are there any federalists commenting? there are sovereignists there too. it is also normal that the balance always tilts in one direction because absolute neutrality, if it really existed, could stand before us on a daily basis without being noticed.
i am not one of those who demand that the src become tva or vice versa according to a list of standards modeled on the competition * "yes, but tva does what src does not", * it is an illusory criticism; each medium has its audience and its way of doing things, its brand and its colors. it is useless to ask to copy one medium on the other, they work very well as they are, and we appreciate the one that speaks to us best.
good news for everyone, noovo (bell) is embarking on journalism at the end of march. that will only force radio-canada and tva to keep their heads above water.
as it stands, i do not see how radio-canada could journalistically do better. i'm not sure there is a reference of this caliber elsewhere.
regardless of the network, we will always find some kind of bias. we could put an ai powered by a quantum processor that we would manage to find flaws since bias, or simply objectivity, is by no means an absolute notion - moreover, if the 21st century will have something to prove philosophically then it will be the relativity of absolutism.
it is certain that radio-canada is not novosti, but you have to see [the mandate of the box] ( and how it applies to day-to-day. in all transparency i listen to the first channel more than tv, but the bias is quite transparent in the programming with its plethora of frivolous programs having a fixation on everything related to the new identity left. we will think more specifically of the shows of pénélope mcquade and rebecca makonnen who with marie-louise arsenault's plus on est de fous, plus on read are true incubators for multiculturalists. just seeing penelope mcquade's catastrophic interview with mbc where she spends half of the interview awkwardly defending herself from being biased, which she obviously is.
out, you're right on the so what. when a state pays for a national broadcaster it is entitled to use it to disseminate its state doctrine. it is more a state like quebec which does absolutely nothing with its broadcaster, which is the black sheep.
except that radio-canada is a public media paid for with taxpayers' money. at the very least, it would present the information as neutral as possible. but since it is there, it is their mission to propagate multiculturalism and defend canadian federalism. i find that unpleasant.
first, the 8 mandates are not suspicious in themselves. this is the kind of warrant you could read from any network. i can understand that there are points that may irritate some staunch nationalists, but i don't see anything here that is fundamentally unacceptable or propaganda unless i read too quickly.
indeed, there is a complacency to the ideas of the progressive left (wokism) in the programs, but however nothing exclusive to radio-canada since this complacency is universal, to varying degrees, in the media world.
that being said, initially i was mostly alluding to the news and journalistic culture of the cbc rather than the production of variety shows (of which mcquade and arsenault are part), although it doesn't hurt to debate it either.
don't they already present the most neutral information possible? there is undeniably a concern for objectivity.
for the role of propagating federalism, i would believe it if they did not give voice to the opposite camp.
no, they are not very neutral. just seeing shows like tout le monde en parle, or their political panel and other stuff that i don't remember their name, and the fact that most of their journalists and columnists are notorious federalists (michel c. auger, anne-marie dussault, etc.) jdm / tva has many flaws, but at least it offers a much greater diversity of opinions.
not everyone talks about it is journalism and political panels are always relatively balanced.
after that, whether you prefer tva, it's up to you, but the rest are just your preferences - otherwise why make sure you model the cbc on tva? it is nonsense to have two media the same, just this negation betrays the thesis defended by leaving. neutrality does not consist in throwing your right to vote in the dungeon at the very least that you fulfill your role at work, or here participation in a media.
what is notable is that higgins went to great lengths to reconcile ireland and the uk. however, i believe he is enraged at the bad faith on the part of british intellectuals. it reminds me a little of the attitude of canadians towards their own history.
when not planting bombs, the irish have this very pointed and diplomatic way of putting the english in their place. see [eamon de valera's famous answer] ( to churchill about irish neutrality.
louis t: does he understand what he is talking about ?!
but yes and it holds. he loves everyone, he does not want a fight, but the conservatives have bad values, there it is, it is said.
"me, i want everyone to be happy"
intellectual level zero
very bad decision by the caq to massively increase the funding of english-speaking colleges, leaving crumbs for french-speaking colleges.
very disturbing text by isabelle hachey on the university environment. to read.
in all of this debate surrounding academic freedom, there is a certain detail that seems to elude commentators. or is it called into question? at the medical school? in the physics department? oh no, it's true, it's at the institute for feminist studies! but it is that it was necessary to think about it before embracing body and soul of the frivolous pseudo sciences of the sort. it is certain that a faculty of militant pencil pushers costs less for a university than laboratories, but it ends up tainting the institution.
we can all see what is happening in the united states. if we want to escape it, we will have to stop emulating american academic culture. are courses like gender analysis or homosexuality and society really relevant in a publicly funded university? if so, how? how many cohorts of feminist studies graduates does quebec still need?
no mention of jordan b. peterson or gad saad (one more montreal teacher!). it fits well within the very limited boundaries that the media have to broach the subject. discover 10 years after everyone the problem, 20 for the solution (hint: japan) and will present themselves as precursors and visionaries.
"the case" (seems to be an exclusivity of the franco-media community) lieutenant-duval, it is 8 hours after the titanic hit the iceberg.
> if so, to what extent? how many cohorts of feminist studies graduates does quebec still need?
japan asked itself the question for the departments of human science and the answer was the abolition and the reduction of these departments. on the other hand, here, everything is well anchored in the politico-media complex therefore a reduction, even minimal, would be perceived as a stalinist purge or other similar swelling. moreover, not too much follow-up after the gabrielle bouchard episode concerning the financing of the ffq vs pdf quebec ...
and again, if it was only these faculties there. my roommate is in social work. he has a really crazy class that i watch sometimes, and it's squarely on how all social work is radical and must use “anti-oppressive practices” to put down white colonialism and quebec racism (which the teacher, an english speaker, usually spends the entire course trying to demonstrate). we are talking about a graduate course in social work.
and i'm not telling you what they were trying to get us to swallow when i was studying teaching. the humanities are pretty much all contaminated, except maybe the few dozen good people who study in classical studies, because to develop an ultra woke argument starting from the great latin and greek authors, it is a little difficult.
the problem i have with * feminist studies * is that they are first and foremost, as its suffix explicitly indicates, studies of indoctrination rather than a real field of study, for example between social relations men / women, their comparative evolution in society and other observation (except that at that point it becomes entirely another matter). no, here we clearly aim to transform students into activists for the cause.
but give her a chance ... she should have done what, not write? it's good enough that someone dares to denounce it with the risk of collapsing under threats, harassment and intimidation. i do not know if the criticism stems from this famous prejudice that many quebec nationalists maintain with regard to la presse, but at a certain point it is important to all rally together against the common enemy that ms. hachey very much identifies. good. this sectarian religiosity which invades us has no other goal than to ruin civilization. if it hadn't been for the rallying of the entire british parliament behind winston churchill, we would all be in nazi soil today. these ideologues in the courts of uqam propagating their doctrine are the next nazi threat.
but kamala who went to a high school in the more affluent neighborhood of quebec and has screeched his camps in the states?
"omg she is one of us".
i would like to add that i am currently working for a large company and they are going out of their way to create an * inclusion * program / department. to date, it is excessively nebulous and does not follow the usual logic of other departments (classic blow of asking for 10 years of experience in xyz with multiple interviews, etc.) to which the "normal" population has to endure.
but it's moving frightfully fast: a kind of hr / police / court with people from elsewhere without any apparent qualification. absolutely nothing to do with the usual way of setting up a new department like engineering, it or marketing ...
when mrs. hachey goes through a smear campaign like mbc with grotesque cartoons, social media and all the hoopla, i'll reconsider my opinion. in the meantime, she plays the role of "gatekeeper" very well by moving the overton window to where this "enemy" wants the debate to go with a very calculated recoil article but 5-6 in the other direction (pdf vs ffq at the time of gabrielle bouchard) before and another 5-6 which will come after. the equivalent of martineau who will write 15-20 articles against the "conspirators" and only one against the caq and declares himself "neutral".
it is this concept of * vedette * as described in guy debord's * société du spectacle * that i dislike the most: if joe bine talks about it for 10 years, it never existed but now the * vedette * so talking about it is important while continuing to crush joe bine. the same gamique had been used for the "young millionaire": all misogynists as long as it is not hachey / petrowsky talking about it.
the comparison to chamberlain would be more appropriate than churchill because flowers are going to be sent in a short time.
the * moment nounoune * \ # 4323 after "gordon ramses serves us chicken", "the bagel de coderre bet", "iran is against bill 21" and any other matter that the quebec media try to pass as an event international "we're talking about us! 11!" but that ultimately, * no one cares *.
in the case of the lieutenant-duval "affair", it's even better: in addition to the * no one cares * outside quebec, the most prominent feminist teacher in the media here did not even dare to address the subject so much that she, too, balances out ...
yes but what is the connection?
a few years ago, a friend got into trouble with his co-workers in a big, very woke downtown company, because he was quite abrupt when we tried to press him into accepting jobs. tickets to the company's * float * at the open-air orgy that is * pride montreal. * since that time, many of his colleagues don't talk to him at all, or talk behind his back. fortunately, it is not important enough to attract attention.
the funniest? they're all straight, and he, secretly to the guys.
okay, listen, i'm not sure where you're going with this other than maybe finding the easy excuse to shit on the daily news (i happen to too, i'm not white as snow). the only thing i read here is the famous "* you are with or against me" * without qualification or effort to the proposal of a minimal compromise.
it is rather popular in the english-speaking world. there were even gatherings in dawson / concordia.
ok, i'll go with a counterexample: imagine an article where the columnist quotes owners of bomb factories that were meant to be dropped on us. in this article, we complain that bombs explode during manufacturing before throwing them at us.
well, that's what is happening right now. what ms. hachey criticizes is not the bomb factory but the fact that they explode before, either in front of the teacher instead of after graduation and in work / life settings next to everyone. we.
if the article would have called for the bomb factory to be closed, it would have been something else but nothing goes in this direction: all the manufacturing (the subjects, the department, the fact that the students are not expelled, non-compliance authority, attacks, etc.) is never questioned as long as the factory itself is intact.
it's the same with lieutenant-duval: the factory had to be protected and public opinion had to be recruited as a volunteer firefighter. it also explains the low, even nonexistent level of criticism / insults that ms. hachey currently receives: everyone knows that she supports * the factory * ....
but what is the relationship with the reported facts? she may well get on wokism, but she doesn't write books. what you describe above is another article topic.
it happens every time a government is angry with canada. they can't stand quebec, they're just assholes.
there was a link i posted here, i believe, several months ago. i'll try to find him.
in short, the indians have a history of independence that few peoples have experienced in contemporary history.
the famous visit of justin trudeau to india, of unparalleled foreign interference with regard to indian national debates, was the starting point of the indian interest in quebec, which started off an analysis of the situation. canadian national. there have been several quebec sovereignists invited to fraternize in the indian media.
india is angry that canada supports the sikhs. there are a lot of sikh canadians in the liberal party and the ndp and even in the conservative party.
basically, many sikhs want the independence of the punjab to create the state of [khalistan] (
so if the canadian government takes the side of the sikh separatists, then india will take the side of the quebec separatists.
** the goal is for canada to tell india not to interfere in the internal affairs of canada, which will allow india to tell canada not to interfere in the internal affairs of canada. india.**
it's just a game of insults between india and canada ...
in reality, if quebec separated, india would probably not recognize free quebec because, if it did, if it recognized a separating province in canada, india would almost be forced to accept that a indian province could separate from india.
we must take advantage of this kind of opportunity to give ourselves international recognition.
haha nice, we'll take it.
saudi arabia in particular
thank you.
thank you, i understand better now.
say no to antifa, but i have them in original vhs in a box at home, good stock.
my my my. fuck disney, i will never subscribe to their disney + service.
luckily, it's not disney that owns the asterix films:
edit: wow, i searched for this scene in french and english on youtube and comments are blocked everywhere. it's pissing.
[removed]
you will get doxxed
make fun of "my nation" with pleasure, i do it myself all day long.
"nation" ?
in inverted commas ?
you seem to have the fiber of the oppressor.
[removed]
we are perfectly ready to help those who want to live with us.
the concept of "ethnic minority" is far-fetched. muslims are not a minority, neither are blacks, asians, etc. on the other hand, french canadians have become more and more a minority over the decades and that is a fact. stop bothering us with this nonsense.
what minority are you from?
believing that respect for a nation's distinct status depends on an attitude that must be snow-white towards others invalidates the right to distinct status of all human beings on earth.
from a more individualistic point of view, a trans woman like caitlyn jenner can claim the identity she wants, despite being disgraceful, right? deny him his identity because "bruce is a murderer, no respect he deserves!" reveals more the vices of the interlocutor rather than those of caitlyn.
that said, why are we talking about all this on / r / quebeclibre? do you care about disney +?
[removed]
[removed]
i have no problem with them, where you feel guilty.
u / chamotruche at some point you have to use your role of moderator
i still hope he eventually gets bored.
okay, that reminds us that things are flying rather low in the other camp. if the only arguments they have is "tayeule", i find that reassuring.
insults shouldn't have their place anywhere.
"ta yeule" sums up the entire chaos that reigns on reddit and social media. i do not want it.
i haven't seen any direct insults yet.
i hope that with the death of the queen canada will stop with the constitutional monarchy.
decalice
[deleted]
good riddance, she's gone ladies and gentlemen
you dream in color.
there is a difference between expressing your opinions and belittling / humiliating others. but yes, it was not a job for her, but not at all.
prerequisites for obtaining the position of governor general:
1) be popular across canada
that's all.
don't ruin my dreams. :(
the left is making a serious mistake with their decision to promote and defend islam and misogynistic symbols like the hijab (we must not forget these are symbols to hide the woman when she is outside of this house because otherwise it is a "bitch", and she must not be seen by men (apart from her husband who is the master of his wife and controls everything in her life, even her body)
in a few years the left will see it as today we see the white feminist movement of the first half of the 20th century, good intentions but very blind by choice and social pressure, going to criticize people of brown color is not acceptable for the wokes, just like in 1930, the right to vote for white women is a good cause, but for blacks? it was a "skid".
but hey we'll have to end with the racialist and revisionist mentality first, and gradually the left will feel at ease criticizing islam.
they are not able to criticize what is not european but that will change, as it happened with us, it was "cool" for the left to defend our sovereignty in the 60s-70s, but nowadays we are seen as "oppressor whites".
i thought that law 21 was just for the neutrality of the servants of the state, to reassure worried people when they are in front of the authority.
although martineau displays sincere concern, he forgets that he does not belong to canada. i don't think i'm the only one to say that the arrival of this cbc host doesn't surprise me at all, she is positioned in the continuity of the canadian network.
the day when radio-canada does the same, then yes there will be something to discuss. however, the dichotomy between the two faces of the same entity is real since it is reminiscent that no employee was fired at the cbc for having uttered the word "nigger", unlike the cbc. hopefully it continues like this.
ostie that you are boomers
there is sunday mass on radio-can
it is not "la gogauche", it is simply the canadian daily in its normal continuity.
if that happens in quebec, we can talk about it again.
there is never any of your criticism that is based in a material reality.
all your political views and opinions are based on psychoses that you create yourself and get angry about your own inventions lol
how easy it must be never to use arguments, "you're wrong because i don't like your political opinions"
like any left-handed idiot not capable of defending these opinions, then the government hides behind fallacies.
you who refuse to answer me even after i read the book, that's what is based in a material reality.
you are literally still doing it
that's not what i said and you're still in psychosis arguing against something i haven't said and extrapolating on unrelated things lol
i was literally using an artificial intelligence program to answer you after your insults and thought it was obvious
so that's not materialism lol
"material reality" hahah belleanière to say nothing, that's your problem "that's not what i said", you said nothing.
what are you talking about? it's radio silence with you since i read the book, as initially agreed.
euuuuh
you might be better off googling the terms before you say they mean nothing
freud also uses a version in psychology which means roughly the same thing in this context.
sorry i stopped at "marxist" you're an idiot from meta-québec a communist hahah and u come here to call us a "boomer" hahah nice irony, send back to the 60s.
this article made me swallow my coffee the wrong way in the morning ... i emailed minister roberge to ask if his ministry was aware and if they approve of such practices. i do not see why my taxes should be used to finance an institution which gives itself the right to openly discriminate against my children.
i like the concept of canadianism seen in the comments.
i just don't see the scandal. mcgill is simply replicating the tradition of affirmative action passed down to it by the federal, provincial and municipal governments. it is the result of the state doctrine of canda. i imagine that it affects the author more since it is his department that is targeted, but it is not more scandalous at mcgill than at the stm or in the streets.
however, the author puts forward [a letter] ( co-signed among others by julius gray who had gone under my radar. how funny it is to see this apostle of multiculturalism get crushed by the madmen that his ideology has engendered. but that was to be expected, by dint of praising inclusion and diversity as the basis of freedom and democracy ...
i do not understand your argument. is this discrimination against my children (who are anglophone minorities in quebec) because they are not allowed to attend the school they want? do we discriminate against them? or is it just discrimination when mcgill wants to increase diversity in their school and support students who do not have the same opportunities in quebec as pure wool francophones for example. at some point, i think quebec should make the decision to no longer support minority cultures. it will simplify things.
> i imagine that it affects the author more since it is his department that is targeted, but it is not more scandalous at mcgill than at the stm or in the streets.
the classic blow * of hoping to be devoured last *.
it's crazy to see so many people in such advantageous positions to see certain phenomena from afar being so myopic.
>dominique anglade may find that neither francophones nor non-francophones need a liberal party that is a pale copy of the caq.
macpherson should stop snorting glue.
the quebec liberal party is kept alive only by the english-speaking vote.
i like how, under the pen of macpherson, mbc becomes a supporter of french-speaking supremacy while the main person concerned is only a noble defender of the widow and the orphan. i also like how the minister of justice becomes the minister of identity when he never refers to the minister of heritage and culture as minister of non-identity. well said then, it looks like yet another example of it's not the same.
notice that a broken clock is telling the truth twice a day. he is not wrong when he talks about asymmetric language rights. never in a hundred years will francophones in canada have the same rights as anglophones in quebec!
> there was a turning point in quebec politics in 2016, when jean-françois lisée was elected leader of the parti québécois on a promise not to hold a referendum on independence in the first term of a new pq government. that deprived the federalist quebec liberal party of the election issue on which it had depended for nearly 50 years. as a result, in the 2018 general election, the liberals suffered the worst defeat in their party’s history.
* "but what can explain the poor performance of the liberal party? can this be a consequence of their disappointing record of the last 15 years? can we analyze it and draw from it? can we look at the actions of the caq in opposition over the past few years and find out what made them successful? "*
* "nah, it must be the separatists again. they weren't separatist enough this time around. always their fault!" *
hopefully angelade will listen to it. the transformation of the plq into an equality party 2.0 would be an excellent thing to keep the english out of power.
who is growing by leaps and bounds
it's funny, it looks like the same pattern from last year repeating itself. we will soon be announced another re-containment with curfew, etc., etc.
okay, there's nothing to worry about, if we follow the instructions to the letter, respect the containment measures and get our 3rd dose, in a few months at most we will find lavy davan.
a little fud to stock up on stocks and options, it is taken well.
are they going to suspend them for real or will they pretend and then put it all on our fault?
as long as it gives us a good excuse to keep the passport in place, hoping the world will get used to it and forget about it 🤷
a little curfew in soweto doesn't it appeal to him?
i wrote that i thought it wasn't a new variant, but no, it wouldn't be the same as ** the other ** south african variant that appeared along with the delta.
the 28 day challenge.
the 28-year-old challenge.
it's black friday at the stock market too 😀
no matter what happens, it will either be because of our "release" or because of the "measures".
28 years old, how long it will take for them to realize it's endemic.
poor little ...
not only that, but to brag about it and believe yourself to be morally superior. it is the paroxysm of postmodern neoliberal society; the purest atomization of the individual. it is highly selfish and societal irresponsible: demographic challenge, increasing rates of suicides and depression ... and so on. the west is on its last miles ...
where did you go to find that the person is a nationalist.
it's rubbish your thing.
the kind who doesn't have children because they are bad for the environment.
i have found that those who constantly talk about iq all the time are generally big losers who prefer to console themselves on a false pretext made up, such as having an iq too big to be understood by society. there is no genius that obsesses over iq values so much.
yes. imagine wanting children ... or not wanting children ... depending on where you are in life and what you want?
what madness!
/s
if he is happy without children, good for him.
and what is the relation of nationalism?!?
r quebec is an intellectual disaster
no, i don't see the problem. the person explains why they are happy with their choice.
having children on the spur of the moment, whatever the sauce, gives you the dpj, our generation of divorced parents, antisocial personalities, poverty and so on. if you are for having a child, you better be ready, for yourself and for him.
i'm going to put a little nuance in there, make children and then neglect them and whine after each day of the week, it's not brighter. you don't make a strong country with neglected, overprotected, or crushed children. quality is as important as quantity.
i have no problem that those who are not interested in not having children, on the other hand, it is our duty to encourage as much as possible the families who have good looks and who choose to do so.
none except the birth rate
the average ambient qi is indeed very low.
because the nuance does not seem to exist on the planet of social media and the interpretation is free.
of course, we don't want to create children in distress or in any kind of deficiency when we talk about demographic challenges and when societally we should have children. i will spare the environmental nuance, it is taken into account.
my point, which you clearly didn't understand, is that capitalism (in this case neoliberalism) is atomizing society. the interdependence of the economies which resulted from it in a specialization of the latter, made it possible to change the social fabric. to give you a bit of background, the election of reagan in the us and thatcher in the uk, so in the early 1980s ... a period that marks the beginning of the millennial generation. we grew up in this world, our parents too. the consequences you describe are largely the result of economic transformation (overconsumption, entertainment society). the economy creates its subjects and reproduces them. it is not a circle of individuals who want or create this, it is the dynamics of the system that creates consumers.
strangely, the old marxists create the nationalists.
toyt seems to be a fruit of modernism stretched to its logical conclusion.
a profound change in social values and an abandonment of the metaphisics for a pure and hard materialism. whether it is international socialism or international capitalism, there is no longer any place for the sacred and the virtues, they have been replaced by ideology, consumerism or bureaucracy.
the family is a traditional institution, which has no place in a modern world. it is slowly being reformed by government and market bodies.
it is not a problem of the left or the right.
i reassure you, i fully understood the phenomenon of capitalism which leads to individualization (as well as to * atomization * of society as you describe it) even before writing my answer.
except that here you are using an individual case testifying to his choice of life (qualifying the individual as "stupid") to accuse him himself, in the name of collective phenomena, of the destruction of the family model. we will come back for the nuance.
inevitably, this is the result of the "great transformation" theorized by karl polanyi. liberalism (in our case neoliberalism) is not natural and does not necessarily follow a defined trajectory. hence the concept of family is not strange to humans, but atomized by the market.
the state, for its part, can be like an agent in the pay of "capital" (large corporations, certain smes, large companies, investors) to set up conditions favorable to the accumulation of said capital. however, its presence contradicts this accumulation and must at the same time be legitimized (mechanism of representation). moreover, as a facilitator, the state also acts when the market becomes deregulated, spontaneously.
indeed, it is not a problem of the left or of the right, but of an international financial and free-trade "elite" who strengthen their will through the market.
there it talks and it becomes interesting.
for the supporters of the new world order in gestation, new totalitarian system, it is necessary to destroy the family, base of traditional societies and crucible of transmission of values. it started in the early sixties with television, the consumer society and credit then quickly the counter-culture and the anti-concept pill and soon feminism 2.0 accompanied by political correctness, gay pride and more recently. lgbtx and finally wokism. no coincidence in that. social engineering to replace religion, once a power that capital had to reckon with. he won and now talks to us about chipping (karl schwab of the fem in davos, where legault meets important people).
and it is not a problem either, therefore, if we disregard referential preference. it is simply the world that turns as it always has.
just like that, it's a very real phenomenon not to want children in the west. this is not just an isolated case or a news item (the discussion started with an individual case, yes). the subject is more and more documented and very topical.
if we do a count of what * is not natural, * the whole of humanity is not, so we might as well claim that neoliberalism is just as natural as anarchism.
i see the influence of neoliberalism in the world very differently from your postulate. there are very few overtly neoliberal societies, for example switzerland - it seems to me, in particular, that canada is also more neoliberal than the usa in the absence of leverage. aside from financial institutions, neoliberalism is relatively contained, and this is one of the reasons why models of society are being debated in the west due to the obvious death of liberalism, which is showing itself more and more. more obsolete for the society of the 21st century because of the immense proportions to manage, as in china where they experience the only model "promising" for the future, without disconcerted freedom. china is, unfortunately, what awaits us, so yes neoliberalism but not only that.
obviously it is a present phenomenon, just like many other phenomena. only, do not pass for free a choice of personal preference as a scapegoat at the source of all family atomizations ...
the west has functioned more or less 1500 years under a much less centralized and often boydened system, but which has repeatedly shown that it produces very strong individuals capable of dealing with much more populous and resource-rich civilizations. ours.
those who think that you can solve the problems of modernity with modern systems are absolutely blind to their civilization history.
it is probably in the nature of the chinese to be slaves to the state, but it is certainly not in mine.
humanity is not natural? humans are endowed with consciousness, which differentiates them from other mammals, but they are biogically an animal. western civilization stems from ancient greece, whose heritage is, among other things, a deep reflection on human nature. the fact that western civilization had acquired at the dawn of the twentieth century the practical means of emancipating the whole of humanity testifies to the validity of this heritage. the real question is why she didn't.
you really have a reprehensible desire to answer everything to have the last word, even if it means using a circular logic or one that leads nowhere. you illustrate a certain evil related to social media.
_ "we do not fight with a pig, because we both end up in the mud ... and he loves it!" _
it is not yours nor mine, but the liberalism of liberal societies shows its limits. for example, when the waters rise following the melting of the glaciers, to the point of threatening the integrity of a nuclear reactor on the shores of the sea, every man for himself will take the edge, otherwise disaster is guaranteed. another example: in the event of a possible health crisis, the consequences of dissent could be extremely dangerous. while in china, everyone is walking straight in the same direction ...
there are simply too many individuals and overload for liberalism without it being fundamentally reformed. the only model ready to face all this is that of china.
in short: capitalism has become much too big for liberalism.
isn't neoliberalism a product of consciousness? why would it be less "natural"? where should we delimit what is natural from what is not?
nature is more complex than a simple question of postage. for example, why have pets not freed themselves? after all, they traded their freedom for comfort.
humanity tries to find its way through civilization, whether it is as much through neoliberalism as communism through libertarianism. the community does not necessarily reason in a logical and rational manner, on the contrary.
excuse me for discussing on a discussion forum.
there is such a thing as natural law, which man must obey. evil is unnatural. yet natural disasters are destructive. man can know and understand nature and protect himself from its overflows, often in any case. the fact that a meteorite can destroy the earth is no excuse for us self-destructing ourselves and our environment, a form of nihilism. a huge benefit of the conquest of space is being able to ensure the survival of the species.
the lure of gain, the thirst for power, are manifestations of mental imbalance, psychological illnesses. the dynamics of good and evil, personified or not, are useful for the governance of societies. many ideological systems seek to justify, or "rationalize" the destructive behavior of elites. it's been part of their social engineering from babylon.
in real life, it must be more difficult.
but what is the relationship of over-simplifying these complex questions to the good / bad duality? is evil against nature? is neo-liberalism evil because it is a form of capitalism taken to the extreme? it seems to me rather a very naive, typically judeo-christian reasoning, to believe that man is fundamentally good or bad, rather than a real attempt to understand these phenomena.
nature is ruthless. the intervention of men is just as important.
personally, i think guy did a good job with his book je me souviens ... de rien. it's a great summary of our history and where we are in quebec in our time, it really turned me on. issues and historical facts that sink into oblivion over time.
as for his latest book, i also really liked it. it makes you think about the impact of certain current currents of thought. i quite agree with sophie on this, guy only demonstrates that the extremes, whether they are on the left or on the right, only polarize the mind even more. company.
does the use of terms like 'rape culture' imply that our society collectively encourages rape? i don't think it would be good to brag about this kind of thing in public and that the majority of quebecers would agree with rape ...
despite all the evil that is happening, i still find that in quebec, we are making progress and are more aware of everything related to sexual assault and man-woman relations. guys calm down on the jokes of uncle or misogynist attitude in general. it's not going as well as it was 10 or 20 years ago. there will always be room for improvement, but i don't believe that using these terms leaves room for debate and discussion.
there is a sorely lack of this kind of debate on hot topics in quebec. it is important to be able to debate and listen to points of view even if we do not agree, without insulting or attacking the other.
there are lots of people around me, friends or family, with whom i don't agree ... that doesn't prevent me from loving them anyway ...
in fact, you will notice that despite this tragic event, the shootings have greatly decreased in the past month.
[this is not a coincidence.] (
mbc in decocufié mode: it is about a haitian savage. the weapons are provided by the mohawk mafia.
thank you the mafia, real professionals
it's funny, i work with a majority of haitians and none of them are involved.
ah yes, the art of drowning fish. the great talent of the leftists.
"i know several muslims and they are not terrorists. so there is no connection between islam and terrorism."
\#padamalgam
alexandre bissonnette exists, so quebeckers are bloodthirsty fools.
sure if you're going with that kind of angle, you're going to need better than a dead maple leaf nazi of the cadets of the canadian army.
i prefer to listen to a podcast by patrick lagacé having intimate relationships with richard martineau at the same time as they summarize their careers as a clown before listening to mbc with his completely false and forced accent with which he is gives a haughty air to talk about his completely outlandish opinions. the french are asking for more, let's leave them to them. i'm pretty much on the right if you want to define yourself with stupid opposite and incomplete terms and still in-ca-pa-ble to endure mbc. jordan peterson is worth listening to, mbc has nothing to say.
division agent, nothing more, nothing less.
another osti of elvis, ciborium it comes from where, all of a sudden?
if you are still at the stage of being told to clean your room by square heads, we understand that you are not at the level required to follow a discussion on a set which addresses civilization, criss of tolerant
it's good my bob more to the right
> this is the journalist jonathan kay
son of barbara (2 pieces of robot for those who light up) and who works for the national post. in short, a joke against legault to be ignored by québécor (and already flushed by la presse).
what does that mean? well that means that no scoop on the subject leaves quebec and that our media caste is filled with eunuchs incapable of searching for themselves.
prediction: when the english-speaking press will lift the charge against bill 21 (np, g&m) and the pkp memo will issue an iron curtain against it, we will no longer be aware of the latest woke news. the majority of the french-speaking press is too pitiful to see the subject for itself in a way higher than a post on facebook.
it all comes from very high up, like unesco, just a few years after this ideology was disseminated in certain courses at the same universities.
as long as you stop seeing others as humans, the problem is with you.
and if you're writing this to troll because you think quebecers are hateful, you really don't understand a thing.
openly hateful
bilingual here. mother from saint-lambert. father from verdun.
i was more respected by unilingual francophones than unilingual anglophones. in addition, french speakers make the effort to speak a second language (english, spanish, etc.).
the english don't care about us, they don't want to know anything about french speakers and when i tell them "crisse man, you live in a province full of culture" they fucking roll their eyes at me.
fuck anyone from the west island. all they do is move to ndg or westmount. they dgaf and it shows. they don't even try.
sugarsammy was right "unilingues anglophones you're from the west island. that's it".
we should have asked louis xiv for more girls
disturbing. my friend, for your own good, talk to someone. i say that sincerely. yes, some anglos do not like quebeckers very much, but you must not become so despicable as to agree with them. the only way to get revenge for the contempt you receive is to rise above that contempt. all the rest is to validate it. if quebec became a nation of bullies who, hatefully, let people die in the streets, frankly, it would no longer deserve to exist.
to live on the west island myself, i think you generalize too much. and you shouldn't trust the internet either, otherwise all of canada would want quebec to die. i have never met an anglo here who seemed to despise me because i am franco. on the contrary, they all speak french.
i am anglo from the west of the island, i speak french, of course with lots of mistakes but still i make the effort. in the city center i speak french, i read the newspapers in french, and i am proud to be able to speak another language, and lucky too.
i was born here like you, here it is my province although it is yours.
besides, i know that there are full cringe angryphones that go wild with rage when we speak to them in french, but most of us aren't like that at all. even with my friends, who grew up with me on the west island, we find these ridiculous and stupid people. i even began to see how anglo radio (cjad i'm looking at you) is full of talk, if not anti-french, certainly alarmist and sensationalist with regard to the laws of the language.
it should also be noted that we are not all descendants of english colonists who came to quebec for the first time to fight montcalme. my family came to quebec after the war, and the reason we speak enish at home is probably because none of the french schools wanted to take my italian grandparents .... food for thought.
i hope you can one day see us as reasonable human beings, not monsters.
it's okay to hate anglos who are hateful, but not all of them (fortunately). tell yourself that zie gazette's commentary threads are like those of tva nouvelles, you don't necessarily read the crème de la crème of society.
would you have been born in 1760 in a fort in new france by chance? that would explain a lot of things.
you are mentally ill
maybe but i know the various types of english well and whoever wants to pretend that the square heads of montreal are not the most pathetic sub-orange of orangemen on the planet is going to have a long way to go before convince me of the cons.
i do not support op, but it is not surprising. anglos who complain should really say to themselves "well well, if it isn't the consequences of my own actions ..." nothing better to create hatred than spitting it in the faces of others.
> he would no longer deserve to exist
...
he's not wrong. he's just an asshole.
his rant is a bit of an extreme but trust me.
give me francos over the anglos in québec any day.
at least i'm not a fucking social pariah for liking marc labrèche with les francophones.
shit if you knew so much the anglos despise the french language.
unless he was born in 1755 in one of the hundreds of merchant ships captured or destroyed by the dirty pirates of the british navy before france was forced to declare war.
but you i imagine that you must find it super fairplay the 6000 sailors parked at the bottom of the hold to die of dysentery in the stinking swamps of england instead of being able to do logistics when the war begins.
we just had to think about it first, right? it must be said that without being able to hide on his island of marde it is less easy.
yes, because the anglos are haters without exception. we're generalizing a bit, i think.
besides, what actions have i committed whose consequences i am reaping?
i refuse to feel guilty, i am not the enemy, and i feel that i have done nothing to deserve so much contempt.
> i do not support op
important part of what i posted.
> "anglos who complain"
without qualification. important part of what you posted.
badly worded, i admit. my position is that considering the hatred on the part of english-speaking society towards quebecers, it is not surprising to see people who end up responding similarly.
there i agree. and i'm sorry for being so defensive.
with all the silliness i say, you are far from offending me.
"the canadian anti-hate network, a far-left english-canadian organization funded to the tune of $ 268,400 by the trudeau government under the" program of action and the fight against racism "(which should be renamed" program d 'action against critics of canadian multiculturalism'), launched an operation of political repression against nomos-tv in order to censor any quebec nationalist speech that does not go in the direction of the prevailing political correctness. "
... and voila, as long as the pure woolens seek to organize themselves against the overpemacist ottawa anglos and endless immigration, the ontario pigs are quick to shut everything down.
in any case i can tell you that in france we would have preferred to welcome mr cormier dénis rather than mathieu bock côté; it is a monster of culture and beautiful rhetoric your acd
wait a minute ... didn't he suspect that nomos' crusade would fall like this? it's impossible, i refuse to believe it. he can't be that stupid.
after having sought and seen their opinion on trans and some other social issue, it won't make me sad, and in the end he has other french defense group that looks a little less like a closed right, already when people start to use terms like anti-fa, those rare people who in the end you are really a group that defends everyone's rights and are rather navel-gazing and only their vision of things is the right one, which is really not the right way to defend a point, if sovereignism is ever revived, it must not be due to the hatred of the anglo or the roc, but for a common goal of society, this struggle of languages is useless and a language does not change a culture, its takes more than a language to change a way of thinking, of loving or of hair.
in your place i would be much more afraid of the popularity of netflix and other made in usa stuff that comes to mind their vision of things than of an enivitable loss of french in america in the centuries to come, already made more than 150 years that he tries and french has still not disappeared, it takes a lot of time to do this kind of thing and will be done naturally by all this american cultural invasion, by their expression and folklore which is more and more present. the fight is not in the right place and in the wrong category at the moment
[deleted]
nomos' youtube channel didn't need canada anti-haine truc to get shut down. to believe otherwise is almost certain disillusionment. it was written in the sky. pointing to this organization in particular, and pretending it was surprising, serves to feed the stingy audience with ideological propaganda that fueled daily outrage (and even beyond). there is no worse political recovery in the genre, quite up to what one expects from a site like hqa which likes to manipulate the truth to the point of no longer appearing credible in anything. .
why "pure wool"? now it becomes a matter of purity?
you surprise me that we continue to lose the fight for independence ...
an ideological monster above all who has little respect for the facts as long as it serves his cause. you already have henry de lesquen, they are exactly the same.
he knew clearly that he was going to end up taking the banhammer in the face, that's why he always said that if ever the whole channel disappeared from youtube to go and see on odyssey.
criticizing radio-canada, which produces drag queens' shows for children with our taxes, does that count as "transphobia", i imagine?
i want to, but there is absolutely no question of the quebec breed at nomos. their doxa is the french race of america, french canadian to the limit.
lol why are you downvote?
100% reasonable and smart post
the cahn boasts of having successfully censored nomos and guys like henry de lesquen, who goes beyond nomos, are still on yt precisely because they have not yet suffered this type of campaign from the antifas. (or the french antifas don't understand that you have to complain in english to be heard by yt) ...
already mixing transgender and drag queen shows a great ignorance of the subject and even, what does it do? its not doing porn, its doing what to see drag to the child? with these best shows for children with pirate, talking dog, green monster etc, what is the difference in the end fundamentally? if i would put on that touching, talking about ass and stuff like that, then i'd have a reason to complain, but just complain because i don't like show dragging, it's a waste of time. and i repeat to you or teach a drag is not a trans and yes to want to manage the life and the contents of certain just of their kind because for you these not "normal", even this it is entirely is transphobic, but well i would not ask too much since you do not seem to know the difference and which is very likely that you are full of false judgment and prejudice on the subject in the end.
it is the only one that would not exist according to those who hate it. we can go and live in china for 50 years and we will never be a chinese. the same is true almost all over the world. except in quebec! the french-canadian identity would be the only one that is completely porous.
i am not a french canadian. i may sound and sound like it, but my parents are germans. i would be disrespectful, aggressive and a little nono if i tried to pretend to be cf or worse, that cf doesn't exist because i would have complexes about my own identity or being uprooted. québécois perhaps, at the limit, but it is a new category invented very recently, and which, as our friend showed us, does not want to say anything if anyone can claim it. in general, boundaries mean nothing if they do not delimit anything.
his comment also seemed to say that the independence of quebec will be gloriously done with the help of people of all origins and all colors and that it will be a bright future. i wish him good luck. foreigners do not give a damn about sovereignist demands, which seem to them to be precisely an ethnic whim of the “french race in america”. even today, apart from baroque music concerts, there is nothing whiter than a pq convention.
henry de lesquen is far from knowing the success of nomos. acd speaks to the french because it brings them a breath of fresh air that the catholic-royalist right has not had for some time. before making himself known in france by his famous viral video on french expatriates, he himself was more moderate in his words and much less theatrical, i myself liked to listen to him. with that more nuanced tone it certainly would have gone better, but he has overstepped that limit many times since, leaving a series of opportunities to banish him desired by his enemies. was all that theater to attract cliques worth it for this risk? the price is dearly paid. i have no doubts about nomos' sincerity, but they need to stop the toxic marketing, and that goes for hqa's fake news as well.
i am against giving puberty blockers to children. it's criminal.
yet the pq are the first to do all the intellectual gymnastics imaginable to dissociate themselves from the ethnic question and the issues of demography 😂 but hey, they reap what they have sown with their voting intentions on the way to being lower than those of the pcq.
we are the unfortunate witnesses of the twilight of quebec civic nationalism. contrary to expectations, the abnegation of the french canadian ethnic barrier did not generate massive support from foreigners. the perpetual lamentations following the factual and undeniable speech of jacques parizeau did not know how to instill the long-awaited reconciliation. we are in front of a field of ruins. then it is entirely our fault, the sovereignists painted themselves in a corner. faced with the irrecoverable costs already incurred, they have no other choice but to project themselves into this fantasized quebec with why not boucar diouf and djemila benhabib as prime minister as president. an interculturalist and post-national eden that would finally free us from multiculturalist and post-national canada! but it does not turn on anyone, even more and as you mentioned in the overwhelming majority of foreigners whose addition to us should be saving. unfortunately op deleted his comment, but that won't happen guys, we'll have to do otherwise.
> henry de lesquen is far from knowing the success of nomos. acd speaks to the french because it brings them a breath of fresh air that the catholic-royalist right has not had for some time. before making himself known in france by his famous viral video on french expatriates, he himself was more moderate in his words and much less theatrical, i myself liked to listen to him. with that more nuanced tone it certainly would have gone better, but he has overstepped that limit many times since, leaving a series of opportunities to banish him desired by his enemies. was all that theater to attract cliques worth it for this risk? the price is dearly paid. i have no doubts about nomos' sincerity, but they need to stop the toxic marketing, and that goes for hqa's fake news as well.
lesquen has over 42k yt subscribers, compared to around 30k for nomos at the end. and he's the king of trolling. he goes much further than cormier-denis.
to be against these one thing, but not these not currently criminal, but i did not enter into a debate with you who, clearly i know nothing and is ill-informed, i love when people who imagine themselves to be better informed than the medical consensus and which debates about but the right to exist, especially when that no fucking link with the previous answer, for the moment will close it simply with a "yes your reason my big one, now finished your vegetables" pease 💋
in absolute numbers there is no doubt, but lesquen has been stable and well-known for years, while nomos is (was) steadily rising. he too can get shut down impromptuously. it only takes someone who actually does it.
> the massive opposition to the bill can also be explained by a very revealing statistic on the vision maintained by the anglo-quebecers on the nature of quebec society: 82% of these disagree with the statement according to which quebec is a nation whose official language is french.
82% of anglophones in quebec are in total denial of reality and that says a lot about their position.
this is why it is dangerous that we become a minority in quebec (around 2040), we will be back in the 60s.
it would help a lot in the political debate in the west if zemmour wins.
indeed, that would show that it is not by electing an idiot of demago like zemmour that we can straighten out a country
it would do a lot of damage to the condescending well-thinking forced to question itself, like the election of donald trump.
okay, because someone offers better?
literally anyone zemmour is nothing, he doesn't even have a program. his only argument is "muh immigrants not well".
it's a bit normal not to have a program for someone who is not a candidate.
this is raging madness.
with clear data that infected vaccinees are almost as able to transmit the virus as uninfected vaccinees (a recent british study found that after 3 months, astrazeneca vaccinees transmit the virus to their contacts as easily as non-infected people. vaccinated and vaccinated pfizer have just 10% less chance of transmitting it), it is clear that the vaccination passport has no scientific justification.
but science has crunched for a long time at the bottom of the jacques-cartier bridge because no one is listening to public health or the government.
it is a political measure, based on the management of government communication that politicizes and moralizes the crisis by blaming scapegoats for its own failures. in their speeches, the unvaccinated are clean steps, those responsible for the covid crisis, traitors to the community who "delay the group", and it is the duty of every citizen to spank on them as soon as possible and to make their life impossible. and like all such talk, vaccinated moderate people who refuse to participate in this persecution are viewed as negatively as the unvaccinated, because hatred is a civic duty just as much as vaccination.
the real disease that infects quebec and that scares me is not covid, it is the unhealthy and authoritarian hysteria which is well, much more widespread and which does not seem to go away.
> even the fact of being unvaccinated "constitutes both a serious reason for terminating an employment contract and a just and sufficient cause justifying a dismissal", we can read there.
it is staggering to see how this government is breaking down the labor code with regulations and decrees. this is all the more so considering the silence of the fourth estate and the unions. especially when we are talking about a purely political decision that does not emanate from a recommendation of public health, a decision which surprises surprise exonerates the personnel of the ministerial offices to submit to it, it is not strong. it must therefore be understood that for the caq and the plq, attending the work of the national assembly is not essential in our democracy.
the health dictatorship is now well and truly in place. those opposed to vaccination will no longer be able to express themselves. this is very serious.
> people who do not meet this condition and whose presence
is required between the walls of the national assembly, at its center
reception or in the adjacent pamphile-le may building ** can therefore be **
** suspended without pay, with the exception of the staff of the offices of the **
** ministers. **
once again. are we starting to make the link with the exempt police and dismissals in health * in the midst of a pandemic *?
anyway, we were able to pass the pill of making 600 doctors disappear as normal and that the telemedicine of the first year is not an alternative for the second even if the hysteria is the same. so we can swallow anything ....
sorry, but i totally agree with threatening to fire someone from their job if they don't get vaccinated. after all, it's their fault that people die from covid-19. i firmly believe in that. at least 10% of people in quebec are children in their heads who make efforts only when they are punished. on the other hand, the government has not made responsible people feel guilty for not forcing people to be vaccinated. and then i find that the people who call guillaume lemitivierge of all names go too far. and then i do not understand how an unaffected vaccinee can transmit the virus since he is not affected by the virus, therefore does not have the virus. to transmit the virus, the virus must be in or on his body. so he is infected, even though his body is strong enough to fight it. anyway, they decided on a 3rd dose and i'm going to take it [ (
this
at 80% vaccinated, do you think it's still not enough? there is absolutely nothing to justify such measures at this rate.
strangely, i don't see anyone using the same argument for the flu.
> at 80% vaccinated, do you find that it is still not enough?
many of these people won't be satisfied until everyone is triple-masked in their own home and then quadrupled (by receiving weekly boosters, of course).
unfortunately, many of these people run our government.
i don't want anyone's bubble but there are two things that can really help the domination of french in quebec.
the rise in the birth rate among french-speaking quebecers and independence. the rest is plasters on a problem that is well beyond the powers of government.
excellent comment.
he doesn't always aim right, but sometimes he produces beautiful richard pearls.
> we are deeply troubled and worried, writes csc providence spokesperson lyne cossette. we were confident that suzy kies was of aboriginal descent. [...] we had relied on his word.
hahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha
hahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha
hahahahahahahahahahahahaha!
so if thomas gerbet of the cbc had not written an article, the school board would have continued. and if mr. gerbet had been assigned elsewhere, who would have sold the wick or dared to denounce publicly? a conspirator on youtube was probably more watched in 6 months than in 11 years .....
i am sure all of this will help the liberals / ndp. / s
as if your origins justify your actions. ostias of assholes ...
if you want to laugh beyond measure, take a look at some of the answers on this thread.
"the wokiske is an invention of the reactionaries"
justin is like an onion.
only showers of superficiality.
no content.
clearly we have not had the same reading of the debate. trudeau did not do better or worse. the only one who failed is jagmeet singh. the others, they neither improved nor worsened.
am you the only one here who is unable to listen to a leaders' debate without having the same reaction as when someone creaks on a board with their fingernails? the amount of fallacies, shortcuts, and silliness that the chefs swing among themselves literally provokes a physiological reaction to me so it annoys me. i'm not exaggerating, it's 100% true.
if that were only that .. a master class of fallacies, rhetoric and manipulation would be interesting, but the whole thing is gibbered in such poor french that it's just insulting to see it go.
it's a bit like watching theater, except the actors aren't that good.
seriously, what happened to the talent of a speaker.
televised debates are the bottom of the barrel of democracy.
no demonstration, only rhetoric. cut the floor and shout.
unfortunately, i agree with roof 100%. i have seen elementary school children persist with better arguments.
good question. ultimately i would tolerate the monotonous tone of a professor of geriatric philosophy if they had something intelligent to say, but that's too much to ask, apparently.