nietzsche wrote in english?
no, but his work is translated into several languages.
the english are the ones who massacred the first nations the most and are now draping themselves in virtue. what hypocrisy.
"far from being a member of the métis nation, as she had long claimed, a laborious trace of bourassa’s family tree revealed that her supposedly indigenous ancestors were in fact immigrant farmers who hailed from russia, poland, and czechoslovakia." 
"it started to unravel in 2019, when she appeared in full tribal regalia — draped in an electric blue shawl, with a feather in her partially braided hair" 
the wokes 
courtesy of 23 & me
get feathers in your ass and ask for privileges. apparently it works.
demand accounts. not to demand its permanent closure, but to demand accountability and above all not to prevent asylum requests ... it makes you wonder what the fundamental difference in terms of borders between a quebec under pspp and canada under justin trudeau .
obviously criss ... from day one!
let's try to stand up. we might be surprised at the result
the federal government is continuing in durham's footsteps under the benevolent gaze of the government of quebec.
as much as i agree with you ... you have to be held accountable first. the basis of any disagreement is to give the other a chance to explain themselves.
i know, i know, we're talking about the roc ...
but wokism is in our heads. / s
i don't know who makes the decisions in that hierarchy, but lyne rajotte's quote makes her seem more like a whistleblower in disguise than someone who's okay with it all, in my opinion.
it is mrs. rajotte herself who makes her decision, and that goes without saying for anyone since it is the norm everywhere now.
it is so much the norm that the university faculty for which i work, moreover a scientific faculty, saw fit to add, with the arrival of a new rector, an educational component entitled "social responsibility, diversity and inclusion" (with the standardization of inclusive writing everywhere) to all its teachings, like a prayer to ethnic and sexual minorities. it is so normal that i am the only one to have complained about it to the director of my department, a man completing his doctorate in clinical ethics, who seems to see no problem ...
who makes the decisions? who?
is this a slap shot joke?
we cut general delawarde from the library!
but who!?
[qui?](
i saw a woman on twitter who posted something on social media where she tells her young daughter the good news that she is going to be able to get the vaccine and her daughter starts screaming with joy ... because the damn madwoman has kept her daughter in the house practically without letting her out since march 2020! how many millions of children around the world have suffered needlessly in this way since march 2020 because the authorities decided that scaring and distressing the population was the best approach to ensure their support for and compliance with the measures ? what long-term psychological damage will we have created in an entire generation?
there are idiots as much among the covidists as among the protesters. in both cases, the population once again finds itself hostage to all these mentally deficient people.
damn, i wanted to write anxiety-inducing agents, not antigens. atocas rekt
the problem isn't that her daughter is scared, it's that her daughter is being lied to.
what disease?
the reduction in the number of children per family has serious consequences for the psychological health of children. overprotective parents who have 3-4 children are unable to constantly supervise them all. but when there is just 1, his parents never let go. in this case, you can be sure that this crazy woman would never have locked her children if she had had two boys in addition to her daughter, it would not have been endurable. but if you just have a pretty quiet little girl, then it's easy to keep her locked up. parental incompetence is diluted by the number of children.
it's almost as much a resilience crisis as a health crisis
the media and official propaganda of our most beautiful country in the world have spent months pulling out articles like this and fueling anti-vaccine doubts themselves.
 and then they wonder why the good serfs haven't rushed to the clinics to get their doses.
sure, i don't feel much ideological affinity with those who think vaccines will kill them, but i don't really see how these people are holding us hostage. at the moment it is really the health fundamentalists who are in charge
yeah that's if you literally believe she was told the vaccine was going to kill her.
she has been victimized for two years by the government and the media who cultivate the fear of covid for people not at risk at all.
in addition if we add the immense ease with which couples of parents separate / divorce ...
when qs will be concerned about the quebec nation, its values and its language and not its anti-colonialist collectives etc and will become sovereignist not a facade to steal votes from the pq; then they could get my vote. until then what i notice about qs is their lack of speech and loyalty, like any self-respecting communist.
** i respect amir khadir, **
he's not some mentally ill madman who sees white privileges or micro-attacks everywhere.
the problem with qs ** right now ** is that their dumb wing of fanatics has taken over.
"in the past, people even laughed at us because we had compost bins in our conventions! a sweet irony, when we know that today we distribute these bins to all households in most cities in quebec. "
as for the separate queues in your conventions according to men, women and 3rd gender, were you at the forefront too?
in the defense of amir khadir, the chronicle of jfl was indeed a rambling rag whose essence is difficult to understand. was he mocking the cosmetic refocusing of qs or was he lamenting the discarding of militant anti-capitalism? the arguments of cegepien on growth at all costs, that will do. were it not for the spirit of innovation and going beyond either of capitalism we would still be at the locomotive # 1 of george stephenson, and again! children would still work in ragged, proto-industrial factories for fear of growth at all costs and technological development that made their work obsolete. so we will have to come back with these beasts calls for collective impoverishment and civilizational regression.
nonetheless, amir khadir still plays in angelism when he feels the contribution of qs to quebec politics. as a reminder, it is the same man who led [a solidarity delegation in ecuador and venezuela] ( -venezuela) among other things to praise the disastrous bolivarian revolution. the type is even allowed to appeal to [take inspiration from hugo chavez] ( and that's what the bottom hurts. khadir is a doctor, it is far from being a peak two. so how does he reconcile his unbridled anti-energy positions with his support for chavez [at the peak of the oil windfall] ( he knows, however, that venezuela is the country with the largest proven oil reserves in the world. he knows that at the time of the events venezuela was spouting from the ground [3m barrels of oil daily] ( that he was receiving more than $ 40g annually of this industry which he nevertheless proscribes in his own country. everything he masturbated in venezuela from schools to hospitals to food distributions relied on oil revenues. it is all the more striking that it is venezuela as a whole which is collapsing with the undermining of its oil industry by the ineptitude of the bolivarian apparatchiks. so it's all well and good compost bins, but we should also come back to the venezuelan training course of our favorite shoe launcher.
indeed, he's more the kind of guy who [accuses the pm's office of systemic racism] ( racisme-bureau-pm-couillard) and which in [appeal of a commission on the said systemic racism] ( commission-on-racism-system). especially when he encouraged the boycott of the walker for the crime of having 2% israeli shoes in inventory, you really see that he was one of the mad guards against the moronic and fanatic wing of the party and clearly not one. of his early supporters. basically it's like françoise, manon and gabriel, all wonderful characters with values in the right place who adhere to this delusional crypto communist party not out of conviction, but to protect it from its lowest instincts!
we invite these leaders to go wild, to bring us their projects in a congress and we are entitled to yet another episode of whining from our amerindian kinglets ... it's all the more stupid that this great circle economic, notice that it is called great to flatter their ego like many things with native americans, well [we are the ones paying for it] ( and it's always the same with them, yes, yes, yes i want it, as long as you collect the check.
one day it will be necessary to understand that no income sharing can be exercised as long as there is no income creation. this concept escapes the amerindian chiefs who already fantasize about the idea of making their bands rentier states, but who are still looking for where the rent will come from. with all due respect to chef réal mckenzie, the definition of respect is not to spit in the soup. so instead of grumbling that everything is not delivered to them fully cooked in the mouth, we should avoid arriving empty-handed. especially coming from people who have had pain and misery that emerged from the neolithic era during the last century, we could expect more recognition.
françois legault, arrogant? no ... who would have believed it? / s
it does not surprise me knowing the start of the passably laughable campaign of mr. legault with the populist facet, enough to make doug ford's buck a beer like a little beer next door.
when will you be able to distinguish between an elected “leader” and the community?
do you consider that you have to follow every word, every intervention of legault since he is the head of state of quebec?
my opinion on this subject stands notwithstanding the prime minister in place. i am also not shy about criticizing this government when it wanders, but we have to admit that it was right on this file.
the day is approaching when our decadents will have slid the overton window so far that benevolence will dictate that addicts be supplied with drugs of all kinds. it will not be jojo.
see, trudeau is about to reopen roxham road and what excites the pq's feluettes is to ban f-150 advertisements ... what a great way to antagonize the meager potential electorate who still support this dying party.
wow this is an important political issue
we could you ban all announcements, including government announcements.
québec solidaire trembles for sure.
insignificant.
it's funny, it looks like the same pattern from last year repeating itself. we will soon be announced another re-containment with curfew, etc., etc.
okay, there's nothing to worry about, if we follow the instructions to the letter, respect the containment measures and get our 3rd dose, in a few months at most we will find lavy davan.
a little fud to stock up on stocks and options, it is taken well.
are they going to suspend them for real or will they pretend and then put it all on our fault?
as long as it gives us a good excuse to keep the passport in place, hoping the world will get used to it and forget about it 🤷
a little curfew in soweto doesn't it appeal to him?
i wrote that i thought it wasn't a new variant, but no, it wouldn't be the same as ** the other ** south african variant that appeared along with the delta.
the 28 day challenge.
the 28-year-old challenge.
it's black friday at the stock market too 😀
no matter what happens, it will either be because of our "release" or because of the "measures".
28 years old, how long it will take for them to realize it's endemic.
import the middle east, get the middle east.
what are we doing in this country
i repeat myself:
these are the opponents of law 21. people who want to indoctrinate young people with radical islam.
no more complicated than that.
poor little ...
go hophophop to citizen work, it will not pay for itself.
end of the pandemic for spring 2022. just to finalize the last * gaslighting * scripts of the population who saw nothing coming as usual.
we have passed to the complex stage of racialism, the bookseller does not even hide it anymore. racial supremacism is now openly advocated in the name of positive discrimination, and soon we will be at positive racism, every race in its corner, universalism in the trash. quebec will be nothing more than a vestige of the distant attempt at colonization by france.
any racial incitement must be condemned without hesitation, for the worst atrocities of our civilization were rooted in racialism.
when i realize that the colonial french-canadian ideals condemned racialism, a product of the enlightenment, (moreover in the 17th and 18th centuries!) more than our quebec elites today, it is because it does not there is nothing more to do. call it whatever you like; colonized, dominated, assimilated, replaced, extinct, disappeared ... the cause is lost. our elite is completely assimilated by another culture.
> to meet the needs of the 72 libraries she manages, librarian lyne rajotte decided four years ago “to buy 100% of children's books where a child of diversity appears. this book, we acquire it, good or not. we enter 100% of what is non-white in novelties in our libraries. and we have an even bigger budget than what we find on the market. we never manage to empty our envelope ”.
systemic racism in action.
[deleted]
> asterix
let's say that, despite the affirmations of the "french" judges, of the black gauls, there has never been any.
yes yes ... try to put something in mandarin on r / news to see how long it will last. especially with your post history (like this one), it doesn't help your cause. posts in french on r / mcgill, i have already seen some. after that, if it is to go and treat them as * hosts of supremacist anglos *, even in english, it will not live long.
we should remind our dear self-righteous obsessed with oppression that french colonization has, on the contrary, had the result of reversing the ethnic relations between the oppressors and the oppressed rather than strengthening the oppressing ethnic groups, always according to the mr. bernard lugan.
in reality, it is neither better nor worse, it is different, insofar as interventionism has left its traces as much for good as for bad (several indigenous ethnic groups have welcomed the french colonizers as saviors). unlike english colonialism, that of the french did not interfere with local government (often a tribal operation that relies on a chief).
> unlike english colonialism, that of the french did not interfere in local government
it's the opposite
this is not what bernard lugan explains, at least from what i could understand.
i confirm what gcgs said. i had listened to the interview a while ago and lugan rightly denounces the universalist vision that the french colonizers adopted as being harmful to the development of these countries because it brought down the power structures that existed before colonization.
* except in settlements like rhodesia or a small part of kenya, everywhere else the english were very few. there were a few officers, a few tradesmen. * *** they left all the structures *** * in place and when independence was achieved, who came to power in these countries? they are the old traditional chiefs ", explains the author of incorrect news from a missing africa to sud radio. *
* "with us, the only country in which the former traditional chief came to power, it is the only country which has walked for a while. it is the ivory coast", judge bernard lugan. "**** everywhere else we have broken the elites and created false elites instead of the traditional chiefs ****, we have put people who came out of our schools of teachers or our normal schools", explains the specialist of africa*
but wokism doesn't exist. it's just in our heads. / s
it is in the name of which constitutional jurisdiction that the federal government already appropriates the distribution of university research grants? ah yes, none, if not the federal over-taxation in relation to their responsibilities which creates their "spending power".
who here is ready to bet that in the eyes of the feds, the “diversitarian” quotas exclude french speakers?
we are witnessing a civilizational slowdown. what is a civilization without technological development? nothing. a tribe. obscurantism.
while reading the title, i said to myself "oh well, an anglo / canadian newspaper which criticizes the wokist regime for the first time" ... then i quietly changed my mind when i noticed that they gave a voice to this strictly scientist. because he comes from a minority ethnic community. on the other hand, as soon as a citizen like jordan peterson or mathieu bock-côté asserts the same thing, is it white supremacism? two weights, two measures.
there remains, however, one positive point in this woke deception: the newspeak madness, for example the subversive woke definition of words like "racism", which would henceforth define simply "general and non-racial oppression", the latter itself being a redefinition of "hierarchical". yes, you read that right; for the woke, racism is the hierarchy, even though a hierarchy is made up entirely of caucasoids or congoids, it is racism according to the militant definition.
this is a positive point because, because of this marxist attempt to destroy all systems, wokism will end up alienating both those it claims to defend and those it fights.
"but what world does mathieu bock-côté live in?" - chantal guy, la presse
not only that, but to brag about it and believe yourself to be morally superior. it is the paroxysm of postmodern neoliberal society; the purest atomization of the individual. it is highly selfish and societal irresponsible: demographic challenge, increasing rates of suicides and depression ... and so on. the west is on its last miles ...
the kind who doesn't have children because they are bad for the environment.
where did you go to find that the person is a nationalist.
it's rubbish your thing.
i have found that those who constantly talk about iq all the time are generally big losers who prefer to console themselves on a false pretext made up, such as having an iq too big to be understood by society. there is no genius that obsesses over iq values so much.
yes. imagine wanting children ... or not wanting children ... depending on where you are in life and what you want?
what madness!
/s
if he is happy without children, good for him.
and what is the relation of nationalism?!?
r quebec is an intellectual disaster
no, i don't see the problem. the person explains why they are happy with their choice.
having children on the spur of the moment, whatever the sauce, gives you the dpj, our generation of divorced parents, antisocial personalities, poverty and so on. if you are for having a child, you better be ready, for yourself and for him.
i'm going to put a little nuance in there, make children and then neglect them and whine after each day of the week, it's not brighter. you don't make a strong country with neglected, overprotected, or crushed children. quality is as important as quantity.
i have no problem that those who are not interested in not having children, on the other hand, it is our duty to encourage as much as possible the families who have good looks and who choose to do so.
none except the birth rate
the average ambient qi is indeed very low.
because the nuance does not seem to exist on the planet of social media and the interpretation is free.
of course, we don't want to create children in distress or in any kind of deficiency when we talk about demographic challenges and when societally we should have children. i will spare the environmental nuance, it is taken into account.
my point, which you clearly didn't understand, is that capitalism (in this case neoliberalism) is atomizing society. the interdependence of the economies which resulted from it in a specialization of the latter, made it possible to change the social fabric. to give you a bit of background, the election of reagan in the us and thatcher in the uk, so in the early 1980s ... a period that marks the beginning of the millennial generation. we grew up in this world, our parents too. the consequences you describe are largely the result of economic transformation (overconsumption, entertainment society). the economy creates its subjects and reproduces them. it is not a circle of individuals who want or create this, it is the dynamics of the system that creates consumers.
strangely, the old marxists create the nationalists.
toyt seems to be a fruit of modernism stretched to its logical conclusion.
a profound change in social values and an abandonment of the metaphisics for a pure and hard materialism. whether it is international socialism or international capitalism, there is no longer any place for the sacred and the virtues, they have been replaced by ideology, consumerism or bureaucracy.
the family is a traditional institution, which has no place in a modern world. it is slowly being reformed by government and market bodies.
it is not a problem of the left or the right.
i reassure you, i fully understood the phenomenon of capitalism which leads to individualization (as well as to * atomization * of society as you describe it) even before writing my answer.
except that here you are using an individual case testifying to his choice of life (qualifying the individual as "stupid") to accuse him himself, in the name of collective phenomena, of the destruction of the family model. we will come back for the nuance.
inevitably, this is the result of the "great transformation" theorized by karl polanyi. liberalism (in our case neoliberalism) is not natural and does not necessarily follow a defined trajectory. hence the concept of family is not strange to humans, but atomized by the market.
the state, for its part, can be like an agent in the pay of "capital" (large corporations, certain smes, large companies, investors) to set up conditions favorable to the accumulation of said capital. however, its presence contradicts this accumulation and must at the same time be legitimized (mechanism of representation). moreover, as a facilitator, the state also acts when the market becomes deregulated, spontaneously.
indeed, it is not a problem of the left or of the right, but of an international financial and free-trade "elite" who strengthen their will through the market.
there it talks and it becomes interesting.
for the supporters of the new world order in gestation, new totalitarian system, it is necessary to destroy the family, base of traditional societies and crucible of transmission of values. it started in the early sixties with television, the consumer society and credit then quickly the counter-culture and the anti-concept pill and soon feminism 2.0 accompanied by political correctness, gay pride and more recently. lgbtx and finally wokism. no coincidence in that. social engineering to replace religion, once a power that capital had to reckon with. he won and now talks to us about chipping (karl schwab of the fem in davos, where legault meets important people).
and it is not a problem either, therefore, if we disregard referential preference. it is simply the world that turns as it always has.
just like that, it's a very real phenomenon not to want children in the west. this is not just an isolated case or a news item (the discussion started with an individual case, yes). the subject is more and more documented and very topical.
if we do a count of what * is not natural, * the whole of humanity is not, so we might as well claim that neoliberalism is just as natural as anarchism.
i see the influence of neoliberalism in the world very differently from your postulate. there are very few overtly neoliberal societies, for example switzerland - it seems to me, in particular, that canada is also more neoliberal than the usa in the absence of leverage. aside from financial institutions, neoliberalism is relatively contained, and this is one of the reasons why models of society are being debated in the west due to the obvious death of liberalism, which is showing itself more and more. more obsolete for the society of the 21st century because of the immense proportions to manage, as in china where they experience the only model "promising" for the future, without disconcerted freedom. china is, unfortunately, what awaits us, so yes neoliberalism but not only that.
obviously it is a present phenomenon, just like many other phenomena. only, do not pass for free a choice of personal preference as a scapegoat at the source of all family atomizations ...
what do you expect from the province that believes denouncing daesh is islamophobic?
on the same subject, at the bottom of the article:
let's laugh.
hilarious considering that it comes from the province which still has orange order parades.
it's not the same province that lets sikhs drive motorcycles without helmets because "muh religion, my turban is more important than your road safety code"?
yeah, i'm not surprised.
must not forget, and this all our federalist experts explain it clearly to the unison, that 1- the orange order does not exist, that 2- even if it did exist, it is without any relation or interest towards anything is relevant, and that in addition, you will know that it does not even exist any more, and that 3- we are in the current year so no time for species of old baffles of little white people.
that's a great answer from someone who sees a revolution as the only option - and the best. i believe that qs understood that it was more profitable to approach the social democrats to advance the socialist cause. there is absolutely no point in shouting out loud about the system's problems to make themselves look like a painful teenager and they are right.
capitalism triumphs without reason, which is worse.
they are social democrats but without being either, the marxist wing remains very strong.
quebec, remember last year when legault was singled out for having ** no paper proof, no report, no traceability of all their management of the crisis for nearly a year **.
no evidence, no traces, no culprits.
nothing but yes, only the arab telephone for what is and will remain the greatest crisis that quebec has known.
it was not at all an accident, the elderly cost a fortune and do not bring in anything, aging population and lack of manpower, we exterminate them and hop there problem solved. those who believe they would never do that, think again, ** you would never do that **, they do it and even a lot worse multiple times in a single term. it's time to wake up, when it's been 10 governments in a row that bugger us, we have to start tightening their buttocks and making it more difficult for them by being alert and by stopping trusting them with our province.
"in addition to the patients who died of starvation or lack of care, several elders who could have been treated have apparently been euthanized!"
[deleted]
has he ever lied under oath, duhaime? has he destroyed evidence yet? how many vulnerable seniors are he responsible for killing?
there is absolutely no parallel between eric duhaime's speech and that of the government, which masks its manifest responsibility in the deaths of thousands of seniors. to instrumentalize this scandal in such a way is bordering on filthy and it frankly lacks respect towards those we have lost.
he is right.
the covid does not threaten the health of the population today. 90% + double vaxx.
we must stop testing, the data point of daily "cases" is the source of hysteria.
if we succeed in protecting the vaccinated triples from vaccinated doubles and unvaccinated cats who put them at risk, perhaps we will avoid re-containment.
this is the purpose of the vaccination passport. but i understand his point, and yes, it has to be worked out someday. let's finish the vaccination of 5-11 year olds and get back to normal. covid is rampant at this point.
but it will still come back.
[deleted]
tell that to all the fanatics who are going to ask for one in less than 3 months. it's coming, you're in the eye of the storm, it's just to make you believe in the effectiveness of the first two vaccines so that you adhere to the full schedule. 3 months check bin that, a reddit nowhere will have predicted the future better than all the "experts" that we present to you in the news (even that i am very generous with the 3 months)
hehe, don't forget that we have the next variant coming up, the sharks.
the health care bill is really the tree that hides the forest.
i would answer tse, it's all well and good to want to save people aged 75 and over, but if you decide to put quebecers under a glass bell, would you mind paying for the associated costs (vaccination, pku, monster inflation, etc.)?
do you think the vaccine doesn't prevent hospits?
ah yes, which one?
how to demonstrate that yes?
edit:
gibraltar, ireland, two places vaccinated at 99 and 92% (on average 3 vaccines / person in gibraltar) both have more cases than ever and have re-confined. germany, israel, england, maine, etc ... all good vaccination rates and the same story (israel has reached the 4th vaccine for the elderly, without a 3rd vaccine you lose your vaccine passport ...)
who said the number of hospitalizations would remain relevant?
the european countries which return to confinement all use the argument of the number of cases to justify themselves.
no, i'm not telling you about the "cases" confirmed by pcr.
i agree with you that it does not prevent infection / transmission as the places you mention precisely demonstrate.
rather, i believe the numbers show that it appears to be beneficial against hospits. just look at the number of uk "cases" vs hospits and compare before vaccination. it seems to me that it has some effect.
yes and no.
i agree with you that there is a kind of hysteria around the number of "cases" here and there.
but if you look at austria and germany in particular, hospits and deaths increase significantly.
the reality is that the difference between these countries there and here is that we had a big wave of deaths in the spring of 2020 and not them. so we can speculate that they have lower natural immunity.
the same thing happened a few weeks ago in the western provinces which had a good wave of deaths because they had not had a wave in april 2020. it is a pattern that is occurring. currently seeing according to my understanding of the data.
in any case, we should live normally and so should they. or at worst, put measures targeting the elderly or otherwise at risk. because the vaccine screech won't prevent transmission and eradicate the fucking virus (that's hard to accept apparently).
difficult to say, compare the 1st, 2nd and 3rd wave, without a vaccine it drops drastically, not only do we develop natural immunity (especially by letting people without risk such as young people catch it freely), but also we learn how to treat it better. and the most vulnerable people have already passed through it in large numbers.
we have been sold a potentially dangerous placebo at the cost of tens of billions, all over the planet.
moderna? sweden, norway and denmark no longer administer it at the age of 30 and under because of myocarditis, iceland not at all.
we? we do it cheerfully.
who says no to childhood immunizations like many real experts not chosen with tweezers.
we? 5-11 let's go and within 6 months the toddlers from 6 months to 5 years old.
we literally stopped injecting astrazeneca because of the dangers, proof that when we hurry it is risky, and there we continue to inject the 0 population at risk of covid with a risky product * in the short term, imagine long-term*...
we have been played, we must accept it and stop complying with nonsense before becoming beings perfectly conditioned to accept and defend it.
but hey, all it takes is a few articles every day for two weeks in the newspapers and repetitions on the news to convince that yes children are at risk! well more children are drowning and we continue to give them baths and let them bathe ...
the covid only kills one thing, common sense.
> who says no to vaccination of children like many real experts not chosen with tweezers.
glad not to be the only one who remembers the who goals which were basically to vaccinate people over 50 (population at risk) and send the rest to poor countries asap.
it's crazy to see any mention of this fade from the media and come up with stories of toddler and zoo animal vaccinations.
listen to me the vaccine is not one of the holy sacraments so i can admit that we are not 100% sure if it has the effect we give it.
and i agree overall with what you say. however, what i understand from the current data is that it seems to have a certain effectiveness.
and that we should live normally.
where's the bunch of hysterics normally screaming for privilege?
we should live normally (protecting people at risk) from the start and invest to the max and deploy the army to boost the health system to absorb the influx, governments are forced to play with numbers anyway, like a government te would hide that a meteor that will end life on earth until the last second. trudeau bought 8 doses per canadian for until 2024 in mid-april even before vaccinating the 60 and under, they clearly know something that you and i don't.
small exercise, remove the covid from the equation, and look at the measures imposed worldwide, without covid we agree in the second that it is the signs of a takeover on a global scale. add the covid, it's the same thing but with justification.
in either case, and regardless of the truth, caution, mistrust and patience are required more than ever.
we should just have done like florida or sweden.
a black pro blm, career criminal ... 2 days after rittenhouse is received a correct verdict of innocence goes to a parade organized by a white organization to terrorize the whites ..... a racist madman .... things are bad in the usa .... it shouldn't cross borders ..
yes, that will help the cause that ..
tabarouette.
he is in the first place a mental patient and a murderer. if he also played mario kart, are we going to ban nintendo? i don't know how important it is to mention blm in the title ...
> while everyone involved in this incident was white (rittenhouse like his attackers),
in fact rittenhouse was hispanic, as indicated on court documents
ah and * were * not was.
this site is emptying.
the situation is interesting, however.
the real crime here is having a christmas parade in november
a blm lover with a troubled soul?
[
if this is true, the situation is even worse: the media reacted by generating fake news (* the driver was fleeing another crime scene *) in an attempt to do damage control.
alexandre bissonnette was lepenniste, the voters of the fn are not terrorists so far.
blm is crap, but let's not confuse activists with criminals, because that only reinforces blm's racialist discourse, namely the dishonesty of its opponents.
we wuz...
what is the relationship with quebec?
you have to stay as homogeneous as possible. multiracial societies are multiconflict societies.
it's not, but if it was a white man who was pro-trump, it would be in every headline. try to find that this guy is pro-blm in mainstream media though ...
i believe it is important to speak out against hypocrisy.
t'es sur r / quebecfree bro
besides bad french, there seems to be a lot of inventions in there. i mean, even breitbart doesn't say anything about 3/4 of the "facts" reported on this site.
hey, the mainstream press is starting to pick up the information from the "drain site" 24 hours late ...
[
true, it also takes a parade for chanukah, kwanzaa and eid al-fitr. we have to be a little more inclusive there, this people will not replace themselves there alone.
absolutely right.
what is more culturally or politically relevant is the media coverage of this event vs. the rittenhouse trial.
as long as you import the wokism here, you might as well import the rest
you can have a peaceful, heterogeneous multiracial society if you stop cynically dividing the population with stupid conspiracy theories like "systemic racism".
but are you a racial nationalist or an ethnic nationalist?
rare times with which i agree.
i would like trudeau to intervene to put a stop to haitian immigration.
this is what would help the most to secure certain neighborhoods in montreal.
> in the summer, ms. plante also brought together the mayors of the four other
largest cities in the province to put pressure on the
federal government, ** calling for greater border control ** and
the ban on handguns.
wasn't border control a delirium of the ereme-droate?
can you develop? i would like to see your point of view as well as your arguments.
unless the regionalization of immigration is made compulsory to counter communitarianism so dear to valérie plante.
which populations are killing each other in certain neighborhoods of montreal? swedes?
liberal crosswoman who considers that she has not yet crossed quebec enough.
even if she wouldn't have done anything (with a big si), her eyes and ears have surely seen and heard things that criminalize her as much as if she had committed these crimes as an accomplice to these acts.
it's a bit like saying what i'm already thinking: qs's identity politics is a form of anglophone colonialism. it goes against the principles of the french-speaking world and the vision of a better world that we have. it is to americanize us.
frédéric bastien proves once again that he was the leader the pq needed. no banality to the "we will be the party of the environment" of pspp. man, the train has already left the station and you're not in it. bastien hits hard and on the right nail, that of the betrayal of the qs crypto communists.
nadeau dubois, our favorite bolshevik
> it was the qs congress at the end of last week and the issue of bill 21 came back to the table. the qsists promise to abolish it.
[i know exactly the kind of person who opposes law 21.] ( -nadia-murad-nobel-de-la-paix-2018-20211118)
qs stune bunch of woke buffoons .... we have to stop giving them importance .... qs supporters should switch to the conservative party ....
qs is the liberal party's school club. they claim to be sovereignists to collect votes but all the rest of the policies are trudeau ndp. their goal is the assimilation of the quebec people.
a bolshevik who fights for religious minorities 🤷‍♂️
our favorite bolshevik neo please excuse me
pfffffff! i had already heard eric duhaime express himself in such terms in his live broadcasts, but what has just been adopted at the party convention is something else. quietly, the pcq lapses into ethno-nationalism. if many thought that only the sanitary backwash fueled the flame of duhaime, it is clear that we can add the identity backlash.
i wonder how it is possible to reconcile libertarianism and nationalism. nationalism necessarily implies state intervention to protect its nation. for example, when duhaime talks about bonus babies and giving money from the second child, that necessarily implies creating a tax and a form of wealth distribution.
i believe that the ccp has come out of its unsuccessful libertarian episode with the departure of adrien pouliot. the new [party values] page ( is quite revealing in this regard and aligns more with the policies of the national union than those of the american libertarians.
** the single rate tax benefits the rich who will then pay much less tax. **
** russia ** is one of the countries which has a flat rate tax. russians who are rich are ** very rich ** while russians who work "normal jobs" are 5 times poorer than the average canadian worker.
** the problem with the single rate tax is that it only taxes salaries ... however, the rich do not pay themselves salaries. **
under a single tax rate (flat tax), bill gates, elon musk, lino saputo and the other billionaires would not pay a cent in taxes; zero dollar.
** here is the list of countries that have a single rate tax: **
* armenia
* belarus
* belize
* bolivia
* bosnia herzegovina
* bulgaria
* timor oriental
* georgie
* hungary
* kazakhstan
* kurdistan
* kyrgyzstan
* moldova
* mongolia
* macedonia
* romania
* russia
* turkmenistan
* ukraine
* uzbekistan
** do you know what all these countries have in common? **
* their workers are all poorer than the average working canadians.
* the rich in these countries pay no taxes.
* corruption in these countries is everywhere.
* the population is poorer than in canada.
* ** none of you want to live in these countries ... **
** stop believing those who say they will lower your taxes, these are lies! **
unless you're a multi-millionaire, you're still going to pay, whether it's taxes in exchange for free services or user fees every time you need a service.
** gender policies always lead to: **
* pay your water meter bill
* pay to take paid routes
* pay to take the toll bridges
* pay to go to the hospital
* pay for absolutely everything that is currently taxed.
** all places that have a single tax rate are countries of must! **
won't work.
not for economic reasons but because of what guy debord would call the * industry of knowledge *. in short, a complicated thing = a lot of jobs as auditors, accountants, h&r block advisors, tv host, etc. a simple rate and all that nice people is gone. we are perhaps talking about thousands of public (even the aut'journal had spotted it) and private jobs here.
there was a parallel on this subject with the free tax software of revenu-quebec (logical because the one who designs the tax is in full knowledge of his field) of several years ago: withdrawn because it eliminated from the job to civil servants and had made private software obsolete.
the knowledge industry * has defended itself and will do so again for the flat rate.
why not? we are overtaxed in quebec.
talk about a bold proposition that takes us out of our comfort zone. it changes us from the puerile debates, exhausted on the multiplication of the levels of taxation which always end with a more important drain in your wallet. the advantage of single rate taxation is that it does not penalize the increase in income, a laudable undertaking if there is one. the problem is all the more glaring in view of the fact that it is precisely the income of individuals that weighs down state revenues. see, the latest [personal tax statistics] ( tell us that 69% of less well-off taxpayers contribute only 35.5% of tax revenues while 31% of the better-off assume the lion's share, ie the remaining 64.5%. alone, the top 7% of quebecers who earn more than $ 100,000 per year pay 28.4% of all taxes collected! and yet the prevailing rhetoric is that the rich, the wicked rich do not pay their fair share, which is clearly wrong.
i think i will vote for him next election.
since you mention russia and its workers five times poorer, its [top 1%] ( 2021-2) is seventeen and a half times poorer than canada's [top 1%] ( so i want the stereotype of the russian oligarch, but are they really that rich? it should also be mentioned that tax revenue grew by 65% during the three years following the adoption of the single rate of 13%. obviously, this increase was not done on the backs of humble russian workers since their standard of living and their purchasing power increased over the same period. the gdp / h is also increased by 244% between the introduction of the single rate of 13% in 2001 and the introduction of a step higher than 15% in 2021.
nor should it be insinuated that a single tax rate on income implies the absence of tax on dividends. it is dishonest. besides, the three terrorists that you put forward have by themselves paid more than ten billion dollars in taxes despite the salary scheme that you denounce. then beyond what they paid, that is to say a contribution light years away from that of the average taxpayer, must not forget their companies. the whole world envies the united states and envies its microsoft and tesla, we all want an iteration here. granted, saputo is more ordinary, but still it is an agri-food giant that is growing well. at maisonneuve-rosemont hospital, i assure you that they are far from despising lino saputo.
otherwise we are already paying for everything you say we should pay with flat rate tax. we have water meters in our homes. we pay for the roads. we pay for the bridges. we also pay for hospitals and in each of these cases it is not exactly extraordinary as a service. we have to get out of the paradigm that what the government pays is free while we pay for the government, [53.3% of our income] ( quebec / tax-table /) for the less fortunate among us. so perhaps one day it will be necessary to look at the case of countries of mustard like norway, japan, sweden or denmark which use the single rate in their similar sub-national administrations in quebec.
false.
the * very rich * do not pay taxes on the vast majority of their income, and it is not yesterday that it ended up in tax havens, and even when they get caught, they receive a preferential rate if they decide to avoid a lawsuit and all the hoopla that comes with it and decide to just pay.
source? my grandfather was deputy minister of finance in quebec in the 1980s, it was he who passed the law for the preferential rate to avoid all the procedures and just to harvest.
because it favors the rich to the detriment of all the others.
i don't quite understand why you defend the interests of the richest so much. are you aware that the quebec business class is largely anti-nationalist and anglophile? why should we help them when they stabbed the nationalists in the back every chance they had? do i need to remind you that all the commercial chambers are turbo-replacists. if you think that they will support the nationalists in return, think again, they are ungrateful like the desmarais.
besides, what will they do with the extra money? will they invest it in quebec? i highly doubt it. even if they do, it will only contribute to asset inflation given that today capital is no longer the limiting factor of growth but rather a surplus factor (as can be seen from the evolution structural interest rate down). on the other hand, can we really say that we live in a capitalist system when all the companies operate under a state money infusion? once there, we would not be better off with a partially planned economy, at least to avoid wasting these subsidies.
it's true the rich don't pay enough and if you think you are rich because you earn 100,000 a year you are wrong. i'm talking about multinationals who use tax evasion to pay less, they are the real target.
as if the poor should pay their fair share, sleepy wins ...
let's start by providing the necessary funds for the tax authorities to find the money hidden in tax havens by the richest in the world, then we will talk about a fairer taxation.
chu agree with you, but there are a lot of cellar destined that yin will be able to satisfy. apparently the rich are ripping us off, while the government is taking all of our money.
the rich will always pay a higher percentage because of the basic exemption (which the pcq wants to raise if i understood correctly).
and the more complex the taxation, the more it favors the rich, who can hire an army of accountants and tax specialists to find loopholes in the law, unlike ordinary people.
because the rich need more in quebec, in number and proportion. even the quiet revolutionaries understood that in order to stop being a branch economy we had to build successful and powerful business classes and then we still do. quebec is rich in the poor and poor in the rich. afterwards, the aversion of the rich and of private enterprise is aimed much more at pq than at nationalism as such. those who shout loudly to be the voice of independence have been breaking their balls for 50 years. even today the speech is the same, always more, more taxes, more taxes, more regulations, etc ... it is a self-inflicted injury.
then after you have to avoid slipping, the planned savings do not work, period. subsidies are precisely planning, economic control and we are able to observe that nine times out of ten, they handicap the economy. it is in line with what taxpayers will do with their own money that will not be taken from them. they will do what they want, which in their eyes makes the most sense. to this end, i do not share your doubt, i am even convinced that the lion's share of this money will either be spent or invested in quebec, at least invested through quebec institutions.
indeed, assets represent wealth more than income, but a thousand $ 100,000 and more excuses is the case proposed by the ministry of finance. then yes, in an ideal world the poor should pay their fair share, everyone should pay their fair share. to accumulate the advantages of having a low income, it is to encourage the population to obtain or at least to declare a low income which does not help anyone. especially with a bit of luck, maybe we would have fewer fraudsters if the marginal tax rate was not [53.3%] ( planning-guide / tables / quebec / tax-table /).
it is not a question of resources. it is a question of the actual tax collection power. if revenu quebec sends a notice of assessment or even a request for verification to a taxpayer in the bahamas, do you think they will have an answer?
usually when the rich rip us off they do it with government help, like when we subsidize their bankrupt company.
the political system is the problem, being able to vote in an election the most urgent subjects and which are important to us and worse after letting the different political parties show their ideas to resolve each of these problems there and so that we can vote for the best solutions, this is where quebecers will better understand the issues, if you explain the fact that we waste so many taxes on subsidies of all kinds that are not necessary and are often used by politicians to win votes.
a libertarian angle for the economy with nationalist measures for values, a bit like the national union of daniel johnson, the only problem with the conservatives is that sometimes they are too cuckold with the multinationals which do not have our interests at heart, and the environment regardless of our personal opinion, in quebec you are not going to be elected in 2022 without an agenda that is at least vaguely pro-environmental.
the solution is simple. simplified progressive taxes. here is.
> afterwards, the aversion of the rich and of private enterprise is aimed much more at pq than at nationalism as such.
so why are chambers of commerce turbo-replacement? why is the metallica right even more anglophile than the plq? why are right-wing politicians like pouliot or maxime bernier so anglophiles? anti-pq is only their excuse, in reality it is quebec nationalism that they hate.
the simple reason is that the capitalists like the protestant culture which is more aligned with their values.
in addition, the objective interests of the quebec business class are contrary to the national interest. according to the idq study, the increase in immigration promotes nominal gdp growth but reduces that of per capita gdp. the business class gets stuck in per capita gdp, they want nominal gdp growth because it represents more business opportunities for them. regardless of the consequences for the people and the nation. the businessmen will always put their class interests before the interests of the nation, only the popular classes are ready to put their economic interests aside when necessary for the survival of the nation. [ // institutduquebec.ca/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/201905-idq-seuils-immigrations.pdfialis( .pdf)
> we had to build successful and powerful business classes and then we still do.
if the business class were not crammed with traitors to the nation, i would agree, but i see that the school club of the business class is still young liberals, not young pq or young caquists .
> it's been 50 years that those who shout loudly to be the voice of independence have broken their balls. \ [.... \] this is a self-inflicted injury.
action-reaction, it takes two to dance, etc ... it's been just as long that the business class has considered quebec as a defect that must be assimilated to the rest of the country. considering how generally ungrateful the business class is to the people, i will not take the first step. let them start by being patriotic, then i might support them.
> planned savings do not work
the purely capitalist economies either. all developed countries have state mechanisms to deal with the problems of the pure free market. this for several reasons, first of all the tragedy of the commons obliges a certain intervention of the state. [ ( : //fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/trag%c3%a9die_des_biens_communs)
second, any purely market economy is biased by the fact that we attribute no value to natural resources. what's in the basement is free. this is not illogical, since it is impossible to sign a check at the planet earth, but this means that we only optimize according to one variable (money) while a real good management stocks of non-renewable resources must carry out multivariate optimization. if this is what we did, it would have been a long time since we would have understood that we should not waste oil on stupid things given that the resource is finite and that it is essential for the majority of consumer products in the world. modern world. note, this multivariate optimization failure problem is not unique to capitalism, but it is a system limitation nonetheless.
the reality is, it takes a little planning. yes, too much planning is bad, but it takes a minimum.
> subsidies are precisely planning, economic control and we are able to observe that nine times out of ten, they handicap the economy.
according to this criterion, capitalism died in 2020 when the governments of all western countries subsidized all companies without exception. in my opinion, the nationalization of certain industries is desirable, but you have to choose them carefully. we must aim for what is of strategic importance and which allows a leverage effect on industrial development. so essentially, energy, transport infrastructure, strategic resources (ie, either of military importance, or scarce enough that it is practically a monopoly).
> they will do what they want, which in their eyes makes the most sense.
they will do what will maximize their return. in a post-peak oil world, it will be to invest in a package of bubbles. because as i mentioned, capital is no longer the limiting factor of growth, but the surplus factor. there is so much capital in circulation that interest rates are stuck to the floor despite governments rolling the billboard like 1930s germany. equity cost / benefit ratios are hitting all-time highs without giving any sign to want to go back down.
if all the countries in the world put pressure on the bahamas / caiman islands / whatever tax haven of the day, i believe so, eventually it will crack.
we can see that cbc is a past master in the art of addressing non-existent problems! nonetheless, an affirmation from our dear georges laraque is particularly spicy. hockey cannot survive if minorities do not take an interest in it. ah good? especially since he makes the distinction between quebecers and minorities, we will understand that he uses québécois interchangeably with french canadian, what should we understand? if quebecers reading french canadians have hockey running through their veins, but the sport will not survive a wavering interest on the part of minorities, well it is because french canadians themselves will not survive the minority deluge. . this observation probably escaped geroges laraque, but it is a tacit recognition of the great replacement as candid as it is.
typical neo-liberal mentality obsessed with skin color, never a diversity of opinion on the other hand.
the problem is not that we are starting a hockey committee in the midst of a health emergency, it is that it is 100% white. 🤡
the state of emergency is good for the return of the nordics but still needs a little diversity. 🤡
until.
it is ridiculous to dwell on the ethnicity of this world. if i understand the news correctly, it's just that the committee was set up. so we have no idea what actions they will take and what recommendations they will make. can we wait until they've done their job before lynching them?
quickly too, here are the reasons why i will not register my children in hockey, or at least i would be very reluctant.
-it is the sport that costs the most to practice.
-it's too violent.
-no outlet for girls.
-toxic environment caused by dads dreaming of sending their guy to the nhl.
-it requires spending a lot of time in the arena several times a week.
-i have prejudices against hockey players because when i was a teenager, the hockey gang was all assholes that thought they were better than others.
how and on what is this committee formed?
as much as it is in our nature to find solutions to problems, so too is looking for problems.
let us not forget that legault wanted to ban the wearing of the face cover just before imposing the obligatory mask 😆.
quebec is a gathering of several ethnic groups. our strength is in the representation of minorities. all religions included. legault is a french-speaking white man who only recognizes french-speaking whites.
even / r / canada doesn't take the bait. that says a lot about the value of the article.
laraque ate too much slap in the face!
i pity gonzo to have to endure it!
the big replacement .... hahaha
but no, the wokes, they find that the color of the skin is the most important thing in the world! this is how they determine a person's worth.
ah, and if we can also make sure that religion is going to be everywhere in the state at the same time, that will be great! after all, religions are always a good idea!
> our strength is in the representation of minorities.
give me the list of the advantages it brings us.
ok the liberal is beautiful tayeule
it helps to increase coordination, relationships, teamwork between people, improving performance, quality of work, productivity and lifestyle. it makes communication effective even in bad conditions. keep people away from social issues and help deal with conflict easily.
it's your turn; give me a list of the disadvantages it brings us to include different races, nationalities and languages. and if possible, name me a culture that benefits from not being open to these things.
\> it helps to increase coordination, relationships, teamwork between people, improving performance, quality of work, productivity and lifestyle. it makes communication effective even in bad conditions. keep people away from social issues and help deal with conflict easily.
it's beautiful clouds that but that does not answer my question. let's say for example that air canada only has white men on its executive committee, how does that specifically prevent the things you mentioned above? productivity and lifestyle pay off because we don't have "adequate representation"? coordination is poor because of this?
i don't understand what you are trying to say.
> it's your turn; give me a list of the disadvantages it brings us to include different races, nationalities and languages. and if possible, name me a culture that benefits from not being open to these things.
by creating a representation imperative we risk promoting people based on criteria other than job performance and creating real resentment. give me the list of the 100 greatest hockey connoisseurs in the world, i'll be surprised if it's not 100 white dudes. it's just like that.
promote people based on criteria of real resentment. can you be less abstract? and if you think the majority of people who know about hockey are white, then unfortunately you're part of the problem. do you think toronto or new york this is true. where do you think of your municipality in quebec? it is when we leave our country that we see the effervescence of all nations. united we are a very difficult force to divide. the day or quebecers (in general) will recognize the advantages of welcoming and including, we will truly be a country. until then we are and always will be a small people with a declining future. instead of betting on francization, maybe we would benefit from gathering the strengths of everyone and thus making our short time on this planet a little more livable and why not, a little more diverse.
> promote people based on criteria of real resentment. can you be less abstract?
ok, i'm going to take it slower for you. we have 1 position open in the department, we currently have zero women. we hire a woman to fill a quota, she's not terrible. what will other men think? replace woman with whatever criteria you want.
\> and if you think the majority of people who know about hockey are white, then unfortunately you're part of the problem.
do you have eyes? you're definitely kidding me. i'll even go so far as to say that must be true for curling too, and maple syrup. what a shame ! what a problem to be realistic! the world is bad because of a person looking at the facts
\> do you think toronto or new york this is true. where do you think of your municipality in quebec?
what does it mean ? i live in toronto and new york, i don't want to live there any more than they want from me. and, again, what's your point? that there are people of color who are hockey fans out there? fair enough. are they the greatest experts in the game? i doubt.
\> until then we are and always will be a small people with a declining future.
why in decline lol? if jean-pierre works at the local bakery instead of ahmed, what does that change? racist much my man?
\>. instead of betting on francization, maybe we would benefit from gathering the strengths of everyone and thus making our short time on this planet a little more livable and why not, a little more diverse.
as long as we're talking about diversity of opinion you're right, if you talk about the importance of race in the representation of society you're just a fucking racist disguised as a tolerant. live and let live, you know?
your lines make me laugh because they are archaic theses and thoughts. as soon as you see another race, you probably call it ahmed. we don't care about toronto. maybe if you weren't up to others you would see my points. you can continue to claim that quebec is the best and that we should only promote the nationality of origin (which is fundamentally false) but the reality is that the world is changing and when we take the blinders off horse, he realizes that he is free, that there is a world other than what his master prefers to show him. take off your blinders and life. you are human long before being from quebec and you have more potential in a group than alone. your points are legitimate and your opinion is valid, know also that this is true for all the other ethnicities and people who want to participate in their community. maple syrup also exists in ontario, the united states and elsewhere.
you drank too much kool-aid. contrary to what you may think, before traveling the world, to educate me seriously about history and society i thought like you.
i just discovered the term "idw" for "intellectual dark web," which is the equivalent of "international jew" to these weirdos.
i wonder if bock-côté still defends anti-vaccines?
he defends their right to dissent.
and i who believed he was just a pedantic and narcissistic contrarian with a beautiful vocabulary.
this is what happens when you read words and project your emotions onto them instead of trying to understand them.
here then! me who believed that dissenting opinions were something to consider.
as long as it matches your thoughts, right?
you say yours, he says his.
> the quiet revolution was a wonderful time, no matter what. but she failed.
well, you have to name the real to face it. we bet everything on a united generational flash in the pan and it was a bitter failure.
> my fieldwork in preparation for the general election continues, wrote mr. st-pierre plamondon on thursday. the enthusiasm and the response i get on the ground confirms that our fundamental option is still engraved in the hearts of quebeckers, and that it is therefore called upon to bounce back.
we come back to the famous * that will not always be able to not happen * of miron so dear to the pq since the beginning of their inevitable post-referendum agony. and yet no, independence is not called upon to magically bounce back, regardless of [the dozen unfortunate] ( 6 / p600x600 / 257723331_439933750823831_3927132927018644594_n.jpg? _nc_cat = 106 & ccb = 1-5 & _nc_sid 8bfeb9 = & = _nc_ohc ydjtf4hgmj8ax_dogqo & _nc_ht scontent.fymq2-1.fna = & = oh 329317e8048af73d2ebc3f18d847b930 & oe = 619f2f2c) that still move to listen pspp. not only does he lose a great opportunity given the history of the constituency, but had it not been for his procrastination he could have avoided a caquist and liberal opponent to face only the united nutters. what do you want, the pq and his leader are in a state of rigorous rigor. pspp will never be elected and the pq will be able to rejoice if it keeps matane matapedia.
it is quite funny to see qs spokespersons and deputies attempting to cage the militant monster they themselves have brought into the world. no matter the 45%, 55% or 65% ghg reductions. no offense to gnd and its electoral appetite, what the qs program calls for is a decarbonized economy by 2050 with a 95% reduction in ghgs! ditto for manon massé and ruba ghazal who rebelled against the idea of nationalizing mines and foresters. girls, it is written in black and white in your program that they must be placed under public control via nationalization if necessary! then what to say about this pearl:
> the latter [the activists] pleaded to nationalize the polluting industries, without financially compensating the private companies, and criticized that the party mainly relies on eco-taxation, a measure which "does not bother the capitalists"
reeeeeeeeeeeee! the evil capitalists! look at the nationalizations without compensation, it's also part of the qs program. alternatively, this is the path that led cuba to international isolation, misery and dictatorship. in fact, the whole party program is a tissue of such debilitates from diseased brains that idolize hugo chavez. unfortunately for the elected officials of the party who now have a financial interest in their re-electability, we cannot eternally disguise a party with flawed dna.
they have so many beautiful values !! 🌈🇨🇳🇨🇳🌈
at least, nationalizations without compensation would be a fairly drastic way to achieve our ghg reduction targets ... if we can no longer import oil because we took economic sanctions following the theft of foreign capital, this will be very easy to reach the reduction targets ..... brutal, but effective! it is sure that it may make it a little more difficult to fulfill their other promises ... and slightly complicate our lives if we have not taken the time to prepare for it, but i am sure that comrade nadau dubois has thought of a plan!
personally, i think guy did a good job with his book je me souviens ... de rien. it's a great summary of our history and where we are in quebec in our time, it really turned me on. issues and historical facts that sink into oblivion over time.
as for his latest book, i also really liked it. it makes you think about the impact of certain current currents of thought. i quite agree with sophie on this, guy only demonstrates that the extremes, whether they are on the left or on the right, only polarize the mind even more. company.
does the use of terms like 'rape culture' imply that our society collectively encourages rape? i don't think it would be good to brag about this kind of thing in public and that the majority of quebecers would agree with rape ...
despite all the evil that is happening, i still find that in quebec, we are making progress and are more aware of everything related to sexual assault and man-woman relations. guys calm down on the jokes of uncle or misogynist attitude in general. it's not going as well as it was 10 or 20 years ago. there will always be room for improvement, but i don't believe that using these terms leaves room for debate and discussion.
there is a sorely lack of this kind of debate on hot topics in quebec. it is important to be able to debate and listen to points of view even if we do not agree, without insulting or attacking the other.
there are lots of people around me, friends or family, with whom i don't agree ... that doesn't prevent me from loving them anyway ...
the positive side of all of this is that it forces our leaders to admit that mass immigration is so dangerous that it can be used as a weapon.
montrealers francos will take dearly in the next few years, they will realize what it means to vote for an alter-globalist leftist woke bobo who just pretends to care about his tribe for votes.
"defending french? that's over, they have to concentrate on real business"
"what? he had a mohawk community in 1500 of 50 people? quickly we must make mohawk the official language and subsidize them"
** wait ... valérie plante did not speak in english, ** he is a mohawk who spoke in mohawk and in english ...
> as a reminder, during the ceremony that took place thursday evening, the host of the evening invited a representative of the mohawk ka'nahsohon community kevin deer to make an opening speech. this one spoke in his native language as well as in english, after having pronounced some courtesies in french.
>  
> without commenting on the events, the office québécois de la langue française specifies that "the charter of the french language does not provide for any obligation for a municipality ** with regard to speeches made by a third party **".
[ ​
so it's ** a mohawk guest ** who spoke in english and mohawk, ** it's not valérie plante. **
no shit there's not a mohawk who speaks french
"but denis coderre is the friend of english speakers!"
both are sold.
what a bitch.
the mohawks are not even native to mtl, they come from new jersey, they are just used by the anglo scum of toronto and ottawa to shit on quebec and i do not even speak about the traffic of weapons and drugs on their reserves.
video of the mohawk guest speech: [ danemark(
video of valérie plante's speech all in french except for one sentence in english: [ danemark(
** the whole ceremony was in french except for the mohawk guest and a single sentence from plante (over a 10 minute speech in french). **
i know, i think there was an iroquois community 5 centuries ago but who knows if they were mohawk or not.
bin so see you, are you telling me that the large north american "multicultural" cities tend to degenerate in sectors with a strong presence of the group that we will not name?
i have my trip! it's all new!
it must be my fault esti.
isn't she exaggerating a little bit, the bombardier? we have reached about thirty murders this year, yes, you have to go back 10 years to have such a deadly year, but it is still nothing compared to the big american cities. baltimore has seen 32 murders [in the last 30 days] ( and baltimore is smaller than montreal. bodymore murderland, indeed!
793 murders in the last 12 months in chicago.
we calm our nerves. there is a problem, and she is not wrong on the merits (notably on how the obsession with the fyftémik bundle undermines proactive approaches) but she exaggerates everything.
and it is certain that valérie plante is exploiting the crisis just to push for legal anti-gun political positions that have nothing to do with the problem, like politicians like her do all the time.
the monthly [swelling] dose ( has arrived!
life in general is a race war, there are just the delusional wokes who make themselves believe that everyone is beautiful and equal.
excerpt from suicide note by mitchell heisman
''a crucial element of the norman victory in 1066 was the repression of the anglo-saxons as a distinct “race”, ethnicity or volk. native anglo-saxon kultur was crushed before it had the chance to produce its own johann gottfried herder. this collective kultur capitulation was an aspect of norman mastery that anglo-saxons never fully overcame. conquest was a literal repression of ‘biological factors’ in the sense of overcoming native values of political-ethnic autonomy and self-preservation. it was not only the political destruction of a distinct anglo-saxon kin-culture, but the destruction of the values of a living faith in that native kin-culture. this was almost inevitable since this was virtually the definition of the victory of the norman inclusive fitness strategy that eleanor searle described as “predatory kinship”. norman political success was contingent upon and founded upon, anglo-saxon political failure. the maintenance of the english caste system began in norman preservation of their kin-caste — succeeding exactly where the anglo-saxons failed. that class institution originated in the will to conserve and perpetuate the norman victory on october 14, 1066 across the generations by preserving themselves as a caste over the anglo-saxons — without end.''
i have a friend who works in maritime transport, it is known that there are certain docks at the port of montreal and near the indian reserves where the police are not allowed to go. if we want to solve the problem of illegal weapons, we should start there.
well yes but if it had titled "slight increase in homicides in montreal" there would have been fewer clicks :(
nah man, this is the start of a civil war. / s
as much as quebec solidaire calculates extremely badly, as much the analysis of marc-andré leclerc on the desired strategy for qs does not hold.
seriously, it wasn't that complicated.
qs thinks mv can be taken. they are probably right. so they will try.
the loser is the pq who is too afraid of losing the county and humiliating its leader.
qs will elect the caq ... what a bunch of idiots
[deleted]
a demographer from the university of montreal testified before the committee responsible for bill 96. i listened to his testimony, and he made it clear that the bill was not going to change anything, and that the ban on any immigration would only slow down the decline of french, not stop it. it's [here] ( if you want to watch it.
french quebecers (and english quebecers too) have older populations, and a much lower fertility rate. one way to solve this problem is to encourage french quebecers to have more children, and one way to do this is to subsidize the children.
basically: the reason french is in decline is the fertility rate. at this stage, immigration and francization are very minor factors, and they will not have a significant demographic impact on the composition of the province (watch the video).
i don't know what you propose to do about it, but at least eric duhaime is trying to tackle the problem. the caq is only proposing reassuring measures that will do nothing, such as banning signs in english.
alternatively, one could simply return the province to the catholic church, ban all birth control, and admit that the quiet revolution was a mistake. that would also solve the problem.
the beautiful inclusive canadian openness
when we know that the canadian multiculturalism which leads to these absurdities is nothing more than one more tactic to try to destroy the people of quebec, we realize that canada has reached the point that it is ready to go. self-destruct if only he can drag us into the hole with him.
keeping your (healthy working) population pristine against viruses is by far the most counterproductive strategy that can exist.
when it's been 24 months since the coach guides the team with a late-night plan, do you really think that by continuing in 36 months the situation will be resolved?
i am one of those who defend the policies of the government, but if the vaccine does not do the expected job, i too confirm that we will have to live on.
this week, ontario also suspended its deconfinement following the rise in cases.
the other rich?
i salute your common sense
we live in a world led by fearful people. to be vaccinated does not mean much except to say that you are a sheep. it is the usa which will decide how will happen the next 2 years in the world ... on the other hand with the "past date biden" and the incompetent harris .... that does not bode well ...
it's funny because the big beautiful step of the decolonial collective of qs balances * with respect * figures in the air and imagines having closed the debate. and yet, i also have figures. for example, in canada, over 90% of inmates are men. so that's not four times more, it's nine times more. are we to understand that a systemic misandry is operating in canada? or is the collective united for the liberation of man? ah, but no, because we all instinctively understand that if there are more men detained, it is because the men commit more offenses punishable by detention. we're not beating around the bush, 1 + 1 = 2.
it is all the more stupid that this jug which claims to have a factual argument that rises above individual perception spends the rest of the exchange bringing us back the most exhausted anecdotes. especially since it releases its famous definition of amnesty international, a definition that it is unable to apply in quebec, we understand why the solidarity parties are starting to have the ponpon of these ideologues with two balls who do not interpret the world that through a racial prism, racists what.
* news (autocorrector)
here is a good example of the inconsistency of qs. the first articles of the qs program are about ecology and the fight against climate change, which is very good i totally agree with that ... except that qs just does not understand the nature of the problem, because that if this were the case, they would immediately see that promising a 35-hour week and a month's vacation is simply not compatible with the fight against climate change. to fight climate change, we need to consume less fossil fuels. what consumes fossil fuels, our cars yes, but not only. there are also mechanical shovels, the 18 wheels that bring food to city dwellers who vote qs, trains, tractors, harvesters, heating hospitals and universities, etc. in short, all the machines that increase our work capacity. it follows then that the reduction of ghg necessarily leads to a reduction in the working capacity of the company (therefore decrease). in their crass imbecility, the go-leftists of qs imagine that degrowth is like a vacation for everyone, when in reality it is a step back (partial, given that we would still have certain energy sources other than petroleum) around the 17th century.
this backtracking is inevitable, it will be caused either by the ecological crisis or by the depletion of petroleum resources (and the gradual drop in its return on energy investment while we are going to exploit increasingly difficult sources) . petroleum is the only source of energy that allows the use of mobile machinery given that it is in liquid form and its incredible energy density. and it is these mobile machines (tractors, mechanical excavators, cranes, etc.) that have built modern civilization.
the return on energy investment from wind and solar is not sufficient to support our current standard of living. in any case, to make wind turbines you need steel, which must be reduced from its oxide form to its metal form by fossil fuels (anthracite, petcoke or natural gas). same thing for solar, silica must be reduced to silicon with coal or petcoke. (obviously, no member of qs has ever put their eyes on an ellingham diagram, too complicated for their little heads).
qs will have to turn on, we can't have the fight against climate change and the leisure society at the same time. it's one or the other, not both.
the recipe for the qs program is not very smart. basically it's the addition of the grocery list, they go around all the organizations of civil society, ask them what they want, and they put that on the program. correct as a first step, but you need a second step after that, which is to manage the trade-offs. that is to say to go around the proposals, to see those which are contradictory between them and to decide to keep one and to reject the other. but doing this takes intelligence, hard work, and leadership skills, which the go-leftists are sorely lacking. not to mention the fact that this is a party of city dwellers who are even more disconnected from the physical flows of the modern world than the average population.
if you think we have bad politicians right now, when their only job is to redistribute modern wealth, wait and see what will happen when they have to redistribute poverty ...
hahahahahahahahhahahahahahahahahahahahahahahhaa!
when there is no more manpower! hahahahahhaahahaha!
typical neo-liberal ideology, "a taboo subject? quickly we must ban all discourse and make it even more taboo".
several feints (pleading ignorance, waiting for a complaint, etc.) were available but superintendent fisher decided to tackle it all head-on. very frequent situation where the authority takes the initiative of the imaginary plaintiff.
we are france in 1990 ... but hey, let in 70k per year, it will turn out well.
extreme cultural enrichment.
i remember him, they talked to nomos-tv about it.
it's just fucked up stiff.
it is a deeply ideological gesture.
"" all our dictionaries have been inclusive for several years ", affirms marie-hélène drivaud. we have as proof this other correction of the dictionary:" we have reviewed all the times where there was written "man" to replace it by "human "." thus, in the definition of "hair", we no longer read "hair on the skull of a man" but "skull of a human". "
[deleted]
ahem... c-16... ahem
in fact, you will notice that despite this tragic event, the shootings have greatly decreased in the past month.
[this is not a coincidence.] (
mbc in decocufié mode: it is about a haitian savage. the weapons are provided by the mohawk mafia.
thank you the mafia, real professionals
it's funny, i work with a majority of haitians and none of them are involved.
ah yes, the art of drowning fish. the great talent of the leftists.
"i know several muslims and they are not terrorists. so there is no connection between islam and terrorism."
\#padamalgam
alexandre bissonnette exists, so quebeckers are bloodthirsty fools.
sure if you're going with that kind of angle, you're going to need better than a dead maple leaf nazi of the cadets of the canadian army.
basically the lowest bidder who turns around and says "lol it's going to cost more than we asked and it's your fault."
[the armed forces called in reinforcement] ( britannique/les-forces-armees-appelees-en-renfort.php )
it seems to be quite big, curious that it is not the first page everywhere
it is indeed a very good book. crichton has written several other very good ones.
michael crichton, an author that i really appreciate who masters the art of turning our lives upside down. i especially liked sphere and the andromeda strain, real science fiction stories.
i was also surprised at the excellence of this book which i read while learning english, when i was younger.
i think that the iconic visual of the film which is strongly anchored in the memory helps the imagination a lot during reading which improves the experience considerably.
good review. i'll add it to my list of books to get.
there are some scary comments!
it seems that in 80% of cases, valérie plante or her team would be the victim.
so if what the newspaper says is true, plante would have won an even bigger victory.
i prefer to listen to a podcast by patrick lagacé having intimate relationships with richard martineau at the same time as they summarize their careers as a clown before listening to mbc with his completely false and forced accent with which he is gives a haughty air to talk about his completely outlandish opinions. the french are asking for more, let's leave them to them. i'm pretty much on the right if you want to define yourself with stupid opposite and incomplete terms and still in-ca-pa-ble to endure mbc. jordan peterson is worth listening to, mbc has nothing to say.
division agent, nothing more, nothing less.
another osti of elvis, ciborium it comes from where, all of a sudden?
if you are still at the stage of being told to clean your room by square heads, we understand that you are not at the level required to follow a discussion on a set which addresses civilization, criss of tolerant
it's good my bob more to the right
a linguistic betrayal. the caq is a red party with a blue polish.
🙄🙄🙄
at the same time, it would be just a plasticizer. the reality is that immigrants don't give a damn about french no matter how hard we try to get them down their throats. the only real solution is zero immigration and a natalist policy.
okay, but that can't hurt.
what a surprise / s
in a parallel world, marguerite blais has the spotlight in full face 24/7.
she is a former media worker, i wonder if it is not because of that that she is spared. in any normal government she would be a low level backbencher ... in a normal country she would never have been elected.
the vaccine passport is outright a containment of the unvaccinated. it's the same thing.
austria has experience in this area, it is also a call to give more ideas to the dictator covidist confiner of this world such as legault
i can't believe i'm about to comment on my opinion on reddit but hey, here it is:
if the vaccine had been perfect and flawless, i would probably be on the "yes" side. except that here we end up with a vaccinated population, although it certainly spreads the virus (much more weakly i know;). so i believe that austria will not succeed in wiping out covid so easily. so that creates problems where there shouldn't be any in my opinion.
i'm still part of the people who have principles and who will make a lot of effort to keep them so i put myself in the place of non-vaccinated people (without being anti-ax nazi) and i think i can say that i understands them ...
in short, if there are people who want to discuss respectfully that makes me happy, i will not answer otherwise :)
except that in austria they are under house arrest. we are talking about the cradle of nazism here after all!
i like your comment.
i am not antivaxx. i have all my vaccines except the one against the covid. i think the covid vaccine is a miracle of science.
but it has been politicized and presented as a miracle solution for the eradication of the covid, which it is not. as long as the vaccine does not prevent transmission to the point of being able to strangle the epidemic, it is not legitimate to impose it on others.
it only protects the vaccinated individual since, although reducing transmission, it can only postpone the time when everyone will be infected and will not be able to avoid this event. it is for this reason that any restriction of the freedoms of individuals linked to vaccination status is illegal, unconstitutional and above all immoral.
my refusal to take this injection is a conscientious objection. i refuse to submit and participate in the lie that the pandemic would be over if it weren't for my insubordination. i still refuse to obey irrational and contradictory injunctions, the basis of which is above all to flatter the electorate of the party which sets them up.
you were talking about the nazi antivax. honestly, i see a lot more de facto totalitarianism among the sadistic confiners who refuse to let go of this quasi-terrorist health regime.
the austrian example is convincing. the advocates of confinement will tell us "you see, it will have worked, the vaccination rate has increased !!" as if it was a good in itself. at what price? what a horrible precedent for free society ...
the end justifies the means for some of these people. as such, they will always go further until they come up against real resistance. the pandemic will end when we decide to stop participating in it.
for me the line in the sand is drawn to coercion to medical treatment which can only benefit me.
we quite agree here to say that
1- the measures did not demonstrate the expected effectiveness
2- the vaccine has not improved anything except sparing the death of people maganés
3- the government comes over every day thinking about the new powers they have granted themselves
4- masks and confinements are stupid
5- the virus will come back anyways, from an animal reservoir or a foreign country
6- we must learn to live with the virus and the fearful will stay at home
if we thought otherwise we would be on r / quebec
i had exactly the same position but not being vaccinated could harm my job (a lot).
for the third dose ... i will be moving from quebec before taking it.
stop it, according to the average sub participant, the majority are fiercely anti-toutte.
i understand you. a friend of mine took it for his job.
i told him there was no point in making himself a martyr. except that indeed it was in the perspective of 2 doses and then that's it.
a vaccine subscription is much more creepy.
i took it relatively recently, so i "delayed" the band for a long time to find out what position we are in.
that being said, i told everyone who asked me why i didn't want it that if they promised us the end of the measures, i was going to take it tomorrow morning. alas, people have been naive. "it's your fenir" "we're going to remove the brands in september" blah blah. i am more and more determined to go live in the woods or straighten out.
totally agree.
i think that several wanted to be vaccinated "against the measures" rather than against the covid. i find this transaction repugnant on the part of those who impose it, but i understand the people who thought it was worth it.
i just didn't believe it. the government still has not specified a specific goal to achieve so there is no mechanism to get us out of the state of emergency. the only thing that matters is the polls and the opinion of the subsidized columnists. .
it amazes me that the average person of our time still wonders how people could have been so "dumb" historically to allow the rise of authoritarian movements and other social excesses.
but it confirms to me what i have been thinking for years and years, most "secular" quebecers who reject religion as if it were the plague and who revere "science" (or rather the government) would have been the most pious in another era.
lots of people who say "trust the science!" do not hesitate to also say "science has changed!" like a guru seeking to change the meaning of what was said the day before. indeed, we are swimming in full religious fervor right now and it will be hard to get out of it.
amen.
yes i think anyone is asking a question like "how did a civilized nation like germany fall into totalitarianism?" has just observed us for 18 months.
worse, i'm not saying that we went to the gas chambers. we just met the necessary conditions for collective psychology to take the path.
when you leave, when you say "trust the science!" it just shows that you don't understand what science is precisely.
the motto of the royal society of london was "nullius in verba"
that is to say "take no one's word for it" ...
it is the first gang to deny all the science behind human biodiversity. go figure ...
it is more a rise similar to bolshevism that we can observe, with the wokes + the ambient decadence.
i have been saying this for years too, and, surprise, putin came out 2-3 weeks ago to say that what the west is going through, they experienced at the turn of the 20th century.
yes i agree that it is more like bolshevism in several ways. i just think that totalitarianisms have similarities.
i think there are parallels also with the cultural revolution compared to the woke movement.
unsurprisingly, la presse is the voice of the turbo replacers by peddling the nonsense of demographer victor piché who imposes the balance between demographic growth and economic growth. and yet this is hogwash. japan's population is shrinking as its economy grows. ditto for south korea and a plethora of european states with a galloping economy despite their demographic woes. germany, the economic engine of europe, also experienced the same phenomenon in the course of the 2000s. so where does this adequacy come from?
his ideological blinders are all the more striking when he pulls out this dung:
> those who want to lower the immigration thresholds in order to preserve the “french-canadian” ethnicity of quebec must explain to us which economic model they intend to adopt, because the largely dominant model in quebec society is contradictory with such a choice
and yet the institut du québec tells us that the growth of the gdp / h will be inversely proportional to the immigration thresholds. so it will be necessary to explain to us how an increasingly fragmented society, less and less prosperous will facilitate our economic model. we are talking more and more about the wealth gap between quebec and the rest of canada, do we really want to level down by importing the third world into our midst? especially when the guy candidly claims that such a policy will lead to our dispossession of our own national home, i believe the answer is no.
even days: * children pollute! they shouldn't be! *
odd days: * need immigration because you are no longer having children! *
let the government spend immigration money on a generous and aggressive birth policy. immigrants cost more than they earn.
simple, make children where die like dogs forget by the rest of humanity. no one is going to come to the aid of quebec, not even france. as a tribe we make children, at least 3 per couple to increase the population ... or we die slowly ... and it will be long and painful.
francophones who think they are anglophones ... no need to say, we are definitely in montreal!
this world, do you have a personality or culture of your own belonging to this american believer?
when you are pro-immigration this is what you want. do you really want your children to grow up surrounded by these kinds of "humans"?
send another to dawson, the best anglo college in quebec ...
the hunt for the english. what criss who speaks in english. if you want views you don't do that in french.
you're not so much better dude ...
valérie plante is not from an immigrant background while she encourages everything that is wrong in this video. before blaming the immigrant, our multiculturalists should first look at each other.
3:06
it is a host of culture of mard, as we see in the video, what do you want i tell you, criss de najun parasite
"yoooo st-hubert ya des white people yoooo full redneck yoooo"
from the top of his 83 iq haaaahahahahahaha osti that you are not worth shit
oh yeah, our multiculturalists who don't get any funding from big industrialists and globalist “philanthropists”.
there is absolutely zero influential actors, no lobby and no pressure being put on our elected officials. these are individuals who came to power 100% organically and who exercise their full will in promoting such policies.
you should start following the money a bit.
oh okay, so the broadbent lobby is starved?
what is extinction rébellion?
these people will applaud when we will be locked down permanently "for the climate"
as long as it does not break things or block the ponds
a collection of eco-anxious mental patients who use [quasi-terrorist methods] ( to impose [their delusional goals] (  to the rest of the company.
climate change is not an infectious disease.
extinction rebellion is not wrong on several points. climate change is an existential threat to our societies and we must stop burning hydrocarbons for energy as soon as possible. even if we did not take into account climate change, burning oil is completely stupid, every gallon of gas that we burn represents plastic that we steal from future generations, which is a raw material essential to industrial society. oil is too valuable to be stupidly burned in non-essential applications.
but i agree with you that too often hippies are dogmatic and too stupid to realize the foreseeable consequences of what they ask for. i suggest you listen to this conference by jean marc jancovinci, it's rare to explain the problem in a down-to-earth way and without the stupid dogmatism of green hippies.
[
so they are a more radical version of greenpeace?
your blind if you think we're not gonna get out the lockdowns for various silly reasons. the government has its foot in the door that will be used again. and we will tolerate it because the tv will say that it is necessary.
here india considers a "climate lockdown"
basically your cave air
both sides of the same coin?
yes, the government wants to shut everything down because ... reasons.
they have a major smog crisis in new delhi, innocent host. are you going to tell me that in 1998, we had "ice containment" while we were there? when the fire breaks out in your home, are you in "fire containment" if you leave your home?
i couldn't tell. greenpeace was \ * very \ * active in the 80s and 90s. great bangs. some governments have gone to great lengths to try to kill disturbing members of greenpeace.
i don't know if they are the same thing.
and you would have laughed at anyone who told you in 2018 that in 2 years ... because of a lil virus.
we would close everything, with curfew, that pencil pushers will decide who stays open and who closes in addition to decided what will sell. that everyone was going to have a mask and that we were going to ask the agent busines as a border agent.
yeah you saw it all coming, you're hot.
you who said climate lockdown there wouldn't be. and not during the ice storm no one was confined to the house what are you talking about.
beautiful cellar
no, i wouldn't have laughed at them because that's exactly how you reduce the transmission of an infectious disease. christ, i said it was coming in january 2020. it didn't take a gift of clairvoyance.
this is not a goddamn "climate lockdown". ** the air is poisoned. **
absolutely no hard evidence, no credible study to back up your claim.
only affects.
> absolutely no tangible proof, no credible study to back up your claims.
jean-françois lisée still misses the target by ignoring the elephant in the room or the hesitant waltz of pspp. because in order to respect the tradition of not opposing the candidacy of a party leader, the leader in question must first be a candidate. however, pspp is still uncertain about its intentions in marie victorin. it is all the more stupid since it was he himself who was on the heels of the caq to call a by-election, so we have to plug in. and yet, it looks like [boasting at the adisq gala] ( 5 & _nc_sid = 8bfeb9 & _nc_ohc = dwedkt7xhgmax8zmidx & _nc_oc = aqn4tym072zjpsc_c1tcbskyvuuoj4iheukgu-mbxowb5cuxskwaj4j7fzdeyvemz8zfqf3ctaxndww3m_e7mrfz & _nc_ht = scontent.fyhu2-1.fna & oh = 5edfebbd62ac08525cecd8bd1ed3c840 & oe = 619437cf) illuminates much more pq leader that the idea of entering the parliament and it is to his dishonor.
okay, afterwards jfl is obviously swelling verbally when it calls the door-to-door efforts of a sociologist and a lesbian activist political brutality. especially since he autopeluredebananise knowing that he [himself campaigned in the constituency of manon massé] ( route-where-the-leaders-have-walked-e2eea7911ae164fabdf554c5f1f6cbc9). we will come back to the main principles of democratic good manners between adversaries. lisée claims to be one of quebec's greatest political observers, so we should stop making excuses. he led by far the worst campaign in the history of the pq, an emasculated campaign completely detached from reality from his hashish-smoking bohemian boomer bus. the guy who used to play around with the idea of ak-47s under burqas started his campaign by putting baby carrots and celery in ziploc bags. he is fully responsible for his defeat in rosemont, the unprecedented thaw of the pq in the 2018 election and is among the first responsible for the imminent death of the party. moreover and speaking of good manners, it would not be too much to throw a few flowers at the caq knowing that it has granted the pq the status of a recognized party which nothing obliged him so much the passage of jfl fu catastrophic .
yes, we understood; lisée settles her accounts with qs and the caq.
🤡
the deer will have to wear the mask and schedule their vaccination doses on clic santé so that they download their qr code on their cell phone because otherwise, access to the forests will be prohibited to them.
it reminds me of the articles from the beginning of the pandemic like "covid in your fridge ?! chicken wings tested positive"
a way should be found to vaccinate mosquitoes so that they do not contaminate the triples vaccinated next summer
i wonder how many viruses can affect multiple species?
and the world continues to trust pcr testing ...
propaganda low qi ... cmon, this sub is better than that.
damn foolishness
it's been several months since it was known that deer could be carriers
truly? is that your story now? doesn't covid exist because deer can catch it?
damn, we knew that zoonoses were common with this virus while the who was still repeating chinese propaganda in january 2020. and then you are going to pretend that it is new?
it comes from interactions with humans, which are increasing all over the world due to deforestation for the benefit of urbanization, especially in china and africa, which are demographic bombs.
i never said covid didn't exist.
i have always said that it will be endemic and that zerocovid is a politically motivated lure. in addition, the whole zoonotic component is still not assimilated by the population who still imagine that everything that goes wrong (including the closing of emergencies) is caused by the few% of non-vaccinated and that it is necessary indulge in our 2 minutes of hate.
the man and the deer have lots of viruses and they can't get enough of them. the fact that covid19 is transmitted to deer, lions, cats, dogs, horses, etc., is quite exceptional.
and it's not this year that humans and deer began to mix.
no one is talking about "zero covid."
it is not this year but the world trend is towards urbanization (1 house per inhabitant, we are almost there in the west). and deer and humans also do without other viruses that come under the microscope, so in itself there is nothing so exceptional (except our tendency to individualize at the speed of light).
here, the proof just the ultimate proof that you live under a rock.
or that you have selective memory.
or that you are in bad faith.
or d) all of the above.
cool, find me talking about a zero covid goal after march 2020 once leaders stopped pretending nothing was happening.
incredible bad faith.
3 days and all you can find is a baseless insult.
1- i don't spend my life on reddit, i have ambitions.
2-i do not believe that the burden of proof falls to me on the reverse side of a completely crazy statement: "no country has pronounced zero-covid".
unless you got the wrong verb tense?
> this is the journalist jonathan kay
son of barbara (2 pieces of robot for those who light up) and who works for the national post. in short, a joke against legault to be ignored by québécor (and already flushed by la presse).
what does that mean? well that means that no scoop on the subject leaves quebec and that our media caste is filled with eunuchs incapable of searching for themselves.
prediction: when the english-speaking press will lift the charge against bill 21 (np, g&m) and the pkp memo will issue an iron curtain against it, we will no longer be aware of the latest woke news. the majority of the french-speaking press is too pitiful to see the subject for itself in a way higher than a post on facebook.
it all comes from very high up, like unesco, just a few years after this ideology was disseminated in certain courses at the same universities.
ah, yes, while we are struggling to see the end of the health emergency, the federal government has the priorities in the right place and intends to reopen the most important point of illegal entry into the country, wonderful! as a reminder, this unbounded fiasco had the consequence of [quintupling the number of * asylum seekers * on social assistance] ( -11.pdf). even after a year of respite, their number is still [three times their normal and previous level] ( then what do our dear * nationalisses * of the bloc offer? revoke the safe third country agreement so that these parasites can enter through the front door unobstructed. we are cuckold or not really! ditto for our supposedly nationalist parties at the provincial level who willingly send the police to track down citizens to their granaries, but will not lift a finger against this migratory invasion. this situation is nothing more or less than madness.
i repeat, the extension of the health emergency is an exclusive western delirium. the third world has settled the pandemic and will not be able to wait for another year of * white problem * (watch who propagates and feeds on this anxiety-provoking climate). migrants have already started to pile up again at the southern border of the united states and convoys in south america are forming monthly.
spring 2022, the who will surely announce the end of the pandemic and will be synchronized with the limit reached in the patience of migrants to stay at the western border. the virus will have disappeared overnight from the spin doctors and the media will pretend never to have had an opinion other than "no borders / nobody is illegal".
once again, the population will be stuffed.
we will probably come back to pretty sanctuary towns where citizens will have to brandish their qr codes and ids at all times while it will be illegal to ask for the name of a refugee with a cough. ubuesque situation but it seems that there is a strong demand for.
[deleted]
well i agree with you on racism. fuck racism.
yeah quebec is getting tough right now
there can be the best idea in the world sometime and this idea will go nowhere the same.
exactly, everyone at home, we solve the problem.
this is probably the silliest thing i read on the subreddit.
"what it takes is 250 years of racial mixing to eliminate any biological distinction between the inhabitants of a territory, and it should be done without problems"
-you, probably
ah but maybe you also think that you have to educate people in the hope that no ethnic faction is created in any territory. this is chance to work, i am sure.
tell me a beautiful story of ethnic diversity which ended well in the history of humanity, i am waiting.
lol, you can call me a fool as long as you want you will end up as you started if you argue with me, with a bacon fit and tossing mard, in a loss of control over confronting your own contradictions .
but listen if you prefer to do the dirty job of the industrialist globalists who want to turn the world into interchangeable pieces and who push their agenda under the guise of tolerance, that's your problem.
but you will think a little before treating the others thick.
not able to look at that with the face of turd in lagacé present.
what credibility does patrick lagacé have when he denies radio-canada's multiculturalist bias when it is written in black and white in the [broadcasting law] ( //cbc.radio-canada. ca / en / vision / mandate)?
especially since lagacé is [columnist, not journalist] (
a journalist is someone who looks for the information that occurs and writes neutral and impartial reports reporting what he finds to inform the population. a columnist is someone who writes a news column giving his opinion, and who is not limited by the strict journalistic standards of the former.
the fact that lagacé claims to be a journalist in this interview is a serious sign that there is increasing gender confusion in the mainstream media. columnists who believe they are journalists means people who believe that their "opinion" is "information" (and suddenly people with a contrary opinion make "disinformation"). it signals that the "information" conveyed by the mainstream media is increasingly colored by the opinions of those who produce it, to the point where the media are no longer reliable and they can no longer be trusted to report the facts.
exact. another columnist (richard martineau?), used this distinction in order to avoid controls and blame. gender confusion is often found in courts elsewhere, but given that here, it serves to mix up an infantile * toothless * population. it goes.
moreover we see the difference between lagacé and the other guest since lagacé takes himself for a journalist, and he or nantel speaks of mbc as a journalist ... not the best debate on the subject.
my god, i have rarely heard such a fool in a long time. what mediocrity.
i listened to a few episodes of g. wagner's podcast and unsubscribed quite quickly. certain subjects are clearly above these cognitive capacities and it is understood that he reflects and formulates his affirmation at the same time as he says it.
the problem with that is that he brings his commentary, his opinion, as if it were reinforced concrete but in fact it is straw that holds with strings.
lmao i like it when he talks about the people "hiding" behind mbc who are supposedly fools.
as if 95% of the media content isn't trying to put anything out of the mouth of the world so that they can fight against windmills.
awareness = 0
it is the festival of the projection this capsule in the format which takes us back almost a decade in time. guillaume wagner has the nerve to accuse mbc of calling for censorship in the name of inconsistent junk by bringing up to us his opposition to the reenactment of the battle of the plains of abraham in 2009. did he not detected this typo during viewing? does he really believe that the simple opposition to an event or an idea is akin to censorship? is he himself appealing to mbc censorship?
don't worry, it's really just a joke and it's really good to cover yourself with the umbrella of humor, because analysis level is not strong. more specifically, we note a comedic process whereby he has to go and relax in the woods after mcb has linked the separation of populations into racial silos and apartheid. tabarnak de caliss he adds, how shocking it is! as a reminder, the word apartheid means separation, the apartheid policy was based on the separate development of populations in racial silos. it sets the tone for the type's intellectual depth and explains why he prefers to lose a debate with his toddler rather than with mbc.
this guy is a "has been" and it's not for nothing
i loved listening to his podcast when he let his guests speak. he filled a certain void in the landscape and he knew his place.
mbc ca?
especially since he passes his "thoughts" as humor, which gives him the excuse to talk about any bullshit legitimately. i would like to see mbc knock him out in a debate.
everyone is a fool. the problem is those who believe they are not.
a stratospheric intellectual fraud.
because for you.
english canada gradually gains by making us believe that what is happening is normal. by dint of calling us racist, i think it ends up entering us into the subconscious that defending our culture is racist.
> we are constantly invited to open up to the other, without understanding that it is often the other who does not want to open up to us.
could that change?
i detect a lot of weariness towards what quebec represents for those who are not interested in it and who do not hear our best sounds of bells. it is a vicious circle that is difficult to break. we will often respond to these resistances with legislation, but they do not arouse the passions that we would like them to awaken. they too often exacerbate a fed-up that reverberates in other echo chambers to manifest itself in the opposition. it's a shame that we come together so often in situations where it would be up to us to apologize for defending ourselves.
however, i have seen openings: through authentic exchanges, in front of a few rare local productions, in the face of some of our values and attitudes, with regard to our resistance to americanism ... i wonder if it is too naive to believe that it is by building bridges that our guests will open up to us. it does not seem that it is vital that we choose to become quebecois other than by twisting our arms.
the imagination would be a field so much more fertile than politics ...
are you going to transfer this reddit to r / quebec la?
sacrament that you are sticked to french
here in quebec, no one is accountable to the wokist mentality as chewed up by the roc: quebecers were and remain more than ever among the true original protesters of the wasp order, among the very first wokes in the authentic sense. . it is a people who have always spontaneously sided with the other minority peoples of america and the west and who without too much exaggeration or recklessness have a favorable prejudice to so many interesting sides of what is gypsy. , black, chicano, latino, cajun, and so on. there were authentic fascists in quebec as everywhere, as among the black peoples in the first place (duvalier it seems to me that it is in the same family as mussolini, papadopolos and many others) but these quebec fascists like lionel groulx and adrien arcand remained isolated individuals, with enough groupies to fill a brewery but never more, without connection between them, without hold on the collective unconscious: moreover all these quebec fascists had become so by anti-canadian racism. french and by seeking a foreign model capable of obliterating this national character that they did not like, most often because of the non-recognition by their people of their real or imagined talent or authority: trudeau père began by being one himself. when an anglo-canadian comes out with this kind of argument drawn from this woke ideology which does not even hold among black americans as it is artificially imposed by the forces of californian transhumanist snobbery and which is a final attempt to recover the civil rights movement which in fact is in its last death spasms, quebec must treat them as mentally ill people made cyber dependent by the absence of loved ones in their lives elsewhere than on social networks.
i totally agree with you, but it seems to me that reality is getting in the way of your vision. the flat reality is that everyone in the western world has relocated a good part of their cultural production to the united states (in the same way that our factories have been relocated to china) and that, therefore, it is extremely difficult to compete with them in this regard. first of all by the size of the financial means at their disposal. money attracts talent, which attracts more money, and so on. the only way out is to close the borders partially or totally in one way or another, which risks being a very unpopular policy. we made the mistake of believing that all we imported from the united states was entertainment. false. we import a deeply insane worldview too.
well, why not?
english is as ugly as a dog's ass. have you ever heard a child from anglo? do you want this for the local youth? the stake is real.
i find it hard to imagine a return to, say, a quota system to block the importation of the american mentality. but it is true that we have a serious broadcasting problem to resolve. when it becomes clear that it requires a personal initiative to be exposed to quebec content and that you have to go to reddit to know what to listen to, it is a sign that we have a long way to go.
since big productions with big budgets come from elsewhere, it would probably be better to bet on other more local forces. i think there are still people who feel the need to stay connected to their environment, who appreciate the distance that our linguistic situation gives us and who have authentic perspectives to share. we should be able to go a long way with small budgets and deep, entertaining and accessible content. i allow myself to dream ...
finally, there is also that the media landscape today includes a whole lot of small communities. he has tiktokers that are more recognizable to me than movie stars. it is not because a realization will be made with large deployments that it will take more place in our lives. i even think i perceive a desire to escape from the hollywood asylum. as long as we are thirsty for common sense and belonging, there will always be room for alternatives to the noise and fury of cultural enterprises.
there is an interesting trail to follow which is next to the stalking ...
anglo children are awake for a short time compared to franco.
and a speech in english has 100 times more impact in english than in french.
like any music or movie.
the death star ... 🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣 the death star
bouaaahahaha in fact the children of square heads attend their stalino-canadian-anti-white re-education sessions at school without flinching more than their miserable parentage, my poor elvis.
the other stupid colonized osti with his star wars as a cultural referent pffhah! it has become so downright shit as a series in addition, it must be said that without the audio-visual cachet there was not much at the base.
i could give you as many examples as the number a pie has of decimal.
the french language has no impact vs english.
what do we care about the impact. first of what impact are you talking about? financial? nothing to shit. cultural ? nothing to shit about anglo-saxon barbarism. in normal countries, the right is patriotic, here in quebec, the right is even more ethnomasochistic than the most extremist wokes.
ok it's beautiful tayeule the illiterate catamite, go back to stupefy yourself on netflix
its ok i leave you to your r / quebec 2.0 i am out
the liberal party was all the time the first to ask for more authoritarianism during the pandemic, fuck anglade, as much i hate the caq as much i trust that the plq would have succeeded in being even more opportunistic. the more you have ti namis, the more people you have to please.
it was not they who found throughout the pandemic that the measures of the caq were not numerous enough or restrictive enough? now is it too much?
if there were only these two names on my ballot, anglade and duhaime, i would vote duhaime to tell you how wary i am of this boss and her party.
with reason.
beginning to be ciborium time.
anglade ... bilderberg ciborium .. 🤦🏻‍♂️🤦🏻‍♂️🤦🏻‍♂️ we are not out of the woods
🚩
they're right.
on that niase the bitch there
that is. can we hope that this is the beginning of a change of course?
she's a woman, she doesn't know what she wants ... joke ... but true
the [freedom passport] party (
indeed, anglade had chosen as the main angle of opposition the fact that the caq did not go far enough or was not restrictive enough in terms of health measures.
it's a strategy that i can partly understand, but which to me never made sense. since legault fell in the midst of panic, hysteria and other fearful talk about covid.
anglade is not too worrying. unless there is a major turnaround it is bound to make perpetual opposition. the most worrying thing is that the caq is becoming the liberal 2.0 party. they have already picked up a lot of their political staff (like the pq for that matter), and like the plq the caq cares more about its image than the relevance of its policies ... and obeys the same masters as the plq, that is to say the council of employers.
well, basically, if we follow the logic of this article, we should have never been vaccinated and thus sacrificed the lives of tens of millions of old people around the world dying from the coronavirus to protect babies and children because that the health restriction prevents people from training against the flu virus. but there is no actual solution. it is impossible to prevent millions of people from dying when a pandemic arrives. it is borderline if it would be necessary to make on purpose to make sick everyone with real active virus even if it means being often in bed just to make sure that no one dies again if they come across a virus that is stronger than either.
this is an extremely creative take on the article that takes a closer look at the immune deficiency of the youngest. then you have to come back to earth with the tens of millions of fantasized deaths. tens of millions? it's like [the 60,000 lives saved by dr arruda] ( it is fantasy. in almost two years, the covid 19 pandemic has just killed 5m people. year in and year out, 60 million people die on earth. as a reminder, the spanish flu killed between 50m and 100m people at the beginning of the last century when the world population had not crossed two billion. we must stop making ourselves believe, we are not facing the black death. so we get off the covidian hysteria, take stock and move on. it will be entubated in the name of a disease which in the country with the worst toll in the world is peru will have taken only an insignificant six-tenth of one percent of the population.
above all, we must avoid imprisoning children in a sealed bubble that would weaken their immune systems. we are already starting to see the negative consequences (resurgence of bronchiolitis). the solution is certainly not to isolate them even more, it only makes things worse in the long run.
second, vaccination is a useful tool, including against covid, but vaccinating children against it is madness because the balance of cons is clearly negative.
in quebec, since the start of the pandemic, only one young person aged 19 or under has died of covid. according to figures provided by pfizer and moderna (1 to 3 deaths per 100,000 vaccinated), if we vaccinated the entire population, we could expect to cause 35 additional deaths!
source :
[
the question behind these words is something like:
"have we, as a society, taken our evolutionary obsession with living as old as possible, at all costs, too far?"
i was talking mostly about old people and about letting people die to save other people. for now, it looks like it's the fault of the leaders who haven't been able to minimize the damage even more by doing whatever it takes.
i took a look. the pharmatient are much more credible than the conspirators. i couldn't even want to debate it, it's getting too complicated.
not really. in fact, humans should train with science so that future generations are born with an increasingly long life expectancy. good will have to limit births and go to space if we want to live 200 years as in mass effect. the problem is that to live old, you have to exercise and play sports. like i work at the factory and sometimes during the holidays at least 30 minutes of walking or jogging. that way we feel in old shape then around 100 years old until a few years it plummets. except that we almost put under artificial respiration people aged 80 who have difficulty walking and who have memory problems and many other complications. the kind of people who would have died 10 years earlier if they would have lived in the industrial age over 100 years ago. by the way, if china would have closed the borders and warned the rest of the world, we would not have had this virus in our country. it is not the people that we should have confined inside, but the virus that we should have confined in china. i have seen videos on youtube recently for a few months and i can swear to you that it is the most modern country in the world. at least some part. just the interiors of trains and subways look almost futuristic. well it is the cities and the richest people who have it while the poor part of the country works as an almost exclave for the rich, but all of the same, they seem to have the means to fight the virus. as if they were on purpose to confuse the west.
excellent decision, but these dogs will find another subject to shit.
i thought the article was going somewhere, but it says `` sovereignists and young people on the left were elected in municipal elections. ''
ok
no longer having a place at the provincial level, the left-wing sovereignists took refuge at the municipal level. this is a huge loss of status, the municipal not being a very influential level of government on major issues.
we are entering a new political cycle.
a way of saying that the sovereignists no longer have a place anywhere.
yeah, i got that feeling too. its text ends in a fishtail.
it is well known, all sovereignists are on the left.
that said, the right-wing sovereignists have no more place elsewhere, if not none.
the coming divide will be multicultural progressivism vs national conservatism
the majority anyway.
when the english stole from us the national anthem, the beaver, the maple leaf and the (canadian) appellation… was that cultural appropriation?
it's funny that emilie nicolas takes herself for racialized when a significant proportion of blacks consider her to be white. for me it's still a bitch from the upper town of quebec who presented for the plq of jean charest in 2012, nothing less. you still have to be solidly politically insane to be supposedly on the left and go to the plq in 2012.
ms. nicolas who also supports the existence of a "black culture", a neologism simply meaning african-american culture.
they have barely graduated from university and they are going to teach us about life! sponges filled by subversive teachers. me, it is these teachers with their sources and their references that i would like to hear.
chinese neomarxists don't care about "cultural property" ... only guilt matters
"i don't care what people mean" .... ok
no kidding, emilie nicolas should go to consult, she does not look well.
i do not know. i just see 5 white people speaking on behalf of minorities.
> the goal is really to make yourself interesting
emilie nicolas
wew. pot, meet kettle.
that this crazy woke is presented to us as an intellectual is an alarming symptom of the decline of our society. we replace the religious by the sub-religious.
let her go back to sleep with jean charest.
nice video. rachel dolezal confirmed.
canada is a construct of cultural appropriation.
yeah or like the modern world and everything that goes with it. i see no one kneeling in front of the europeans.
because there is only one culture in africa of course.
our wokes are a lot more neo-marxist than the chinese.
i… i think you're misinformed.
* the game of privileges * hahahahahahaha!
the voice of the ghost of p. magnan at 4:45? could this be a sign?
why didn't he air this during the campaign?
i did not know the channel and i liked it, thank you for sharing
based and pill red
tldr? it's a bit long for the time i have.
since mcluv's original material is from the media and is publicly available, one could put it another way:
why not a single one of the hundreds of journalists who covered the campaign dared to produce even a single similar news capsule with their archives?
they sit on the same content ....
it's really worth the effort.
that's for sure, but it's often like that with the scoops.
he clearly has a grudge against plante (with good reason), so i wish he'd brought this out a week ago, although it probably wouldn't have changed much.
can you give us a digest?
i don't have twenty minutes either.
i believe this story was adapted as a series on netflix, it was funny.
i know they made a movie of it. i read the book just before it came out, without knowing it.
the important thing is that holness only collected a meager 7.3% of the routes. let him show off!
will prosper lost his election as borough mayor of montreal north. good news. looks like police definancing isn't that popular with our black fellow citizens.
soon the cars banned from the island with the white men.
good luck to traders!
i wonder how much he would have had if all the cities of the island of montreal were merged ...
not just that - coderre who was trying to take votes at hotmess - the total of the two is down 50%.
there may be some hope (meager though) in montreal's future francophone
especially our fellow citizens most affected by criminal violence who said no to this madness instigated by a mole of organized crime. unacceptable.
unfortunately, this francophone mass of montreal hardly cares about its own francophonie. it is the same who will elect québec solidaire on the whole of the island in the next elections, between 2-3 rituals aimed at clearing up.
is this the very right-wing candidate supported by jeff fillion?
he is rather centrist.
no unfortunately.
there's no one on the right to sth. decalisse
you know that you succeeded when you have no idea who it is.
* a boyfriend is a boyfriend * 🤡
they want to [* review *] ( the concept of parental primacy ... the control freak show has just started
i don't know who it is.
the laurent commission on the dpj.
former pq member it seems to me
if you've never seen it, this large-scale film brilliantly stages the french victory at fort william henry. the creator also uses excerpts from the war that made america series which i recommend to you as well.
as long as you stop seeing others as humans, the problem is with you.
and if you're writing this to troll because you think quebecers are hateful, you really don't understand a thing.
openly hateful
bilingual here. mother from saint-lambert. father from verdun.
i was more respected by unilingual francophones than unilingual anglophones. in addition, french speakers make the effort to speak a second language (english, spanish, etc.).
the english don't care about us, they don't want to know anything about french speakers and when i tell them "crisse man, you live in a province full of culture" they fucking roll their eyes at me.
fuck anyone from the west island. all they do is move to ndg or westmount. they dgaf and it shows. they don't even try.
sugarsammy was right "unilingues anglophones you're from the west island. that's it".
we should have asked louis xiv for more girls
disturbing. my friend, for your own good, talk to someone. i say that sincerely. yes, some anglos do not like quebeckers very much, but you must not become so despicable as to agree with them. the only way to get revenge for the contempt you receive is to rise above that contempt. all the rest is to validate it. if quebec became a nation of bullies who, hatefully, let people die in the streets, frankly, it would no longer deserve to exist.
to live on the west island myself, i think you generalize too much. and you shouldn't trust the internet either, otherwise all of canada would want quebec to die. i have never met an anglo here who seemed to despise me because i am franco. on the contrary, they all speak french.
i am anglo from the west of the island, i speak french, of course with lots of mistakes but still i make the effort. in the city center i speak french, i read the newspapers in french, and i am proud to be able to speak another language, and lucky too.
i was born here like you, here it is my province although it is yours.
besides, i know that there are full cringe angryphones that go wild with rage when we speak to them in french, but most of us aren't like that at all. even with my friends, who grew up with me on the west island, we find these ridiculous and stupid people. i even began to see how anglo radio (cjad i'm looking at you) is full of talk, if not anti-french, certainly alarmist and sensationalist with regard to the laws of the language.
it should also be noted that we are not all descendants of english colonists who came to quebec for the first time to fight montcalme. my family came to quebec after the war, and the reason we speak enish at home is probably because none of the french schools wanted to take my italian grandparents .... food for thought.
i hope you can one day see us as reasonable human beings, not monsters.
it's okay to hate anglos who are hateful, but not all of them (fortunately). tell yourself that zie gazette's commentary threads are like those of tva nouvelles, you don't necessarily read the crème de la crème of society.
would you have been born in 1760 in a fort in new france by chance? that would explain a lot of things.
you are mentally ill
maybe but i know the various types of english well and whoever wants to pretend that the square heads of montreal are not the most pathetic sub-orange of orangemen on the planet is going to have a long way to go before convince me of the cons.
i do not support op, but it is not surprising. anglos who complain should really say to themselves "well well, if it isn't the consequences of my own actions ..." nothing better to create hatred than spitting it in the faces of others.
> he would no longer deserve to exist
...
he's not wrong. he's just an asshole.
his rant is a bit of an extreme but trust me.
give me francos over the anglos in québec any day.
at least i'm not a fucking social pariah for liking marc labrèche with les francophones.
shit if you knew so much the anglos despise the french language.
unless he was born in 1755 in one of the hundreds of merchant ships captured or destroyed by the dirty pirates of the british navy before france was forced to declare war.
but you i imagine that you must find it super fairplay the 6000 sailors parked at the bottom of the hold to die of dysentery in the stinking swamps of england instead of being able to do logistics when the war begins.
we just had to think about it first, right? it must be said that without being able to hide on his island of marde it is less easy.
yes, because the anglos are haters without exception. we're generalizing a bit, i think.
besides, what actions have i committed whose consequences i am reaping?
i refuse to feel guilty, i am not the enemy, and i feel that i have done nothing to deserve so much contempt.
> i do not support op
important part of what i posted.
> "anglos who complain"
without qualification. important part of what you posted.
badly worded, i admit. my position is that considering the hatred on the part of english-speaking society towards quebecers, it is not surprising to see people who end up responding similarly.
there i agree. and i'm sorry for being so defensive.
disappointing condition. quebec has been going back for 20-30 years. slowly but surely. we created a system that was too cumbersome to maintain and we are not providing it. there is a lack of resources. or at least, we lack it with our way of managing them. it is terrible. we accept that students and teachers are in an establishment where the water is not drinkable. it upsets me.
20 years of money transfer from schools to friends of the plq like bombardier, that's what it gives.
neo-liberal policy is indeed a disaster.
horizon quebec is like a bousolle which always indicates the south instead of the north.
so if you want to do the right thing, you manage to always do the opposite of what horizon quebec says.
i voted for plant height and i'm happy.
**why?**
** coderre is a real godfather of the mafia **, he is a corrupt "giant dildo" class.
** coderre is also a mega woke **, former federal minister of immigration and multiculturalism, it is because of him that canada brought in tons of immigrants who joined the anglophone community of quebec. ** coderre is responsible for the replacement efforts of the people of quebec. **
** coderre is a traitor, a judas who worked in ottawa against the interests of quebec in ottawa. ** a renegade, a sold, a hypocrite, a dangerous gravedigger of the ambitions of quebec.
** coderre is a liberal, a federal politician, ** therefore he is the enemy of the conservatives, the enemy of quebec nationalists, the enemy of quebec sovereignists, the enemy of all those who want a strong quebec and independent who speaks french.
** holless is a con who claims that quebecers are oppressors of the poor anglophones ... ** and who wants to separate montreal from the rest of quebec to better assimilate francophones.
** at least plante is a real quebecker, a person who has never been elected at the federal level to fight the quebec nationalists (unlike coderre the traitor), she forever shits on quebec, unlike coderre who is ready to sacrifice his part to please the powers of english canada. **
changing the mayor is pointless in a context where the whole apparatus behind is encrusted and liberal for centuries. replacing plante with coderre means absolutely nothing when the hundreds, see thousands of civil servants, specialists, esssperts et cie are guaranteed to keep their jobs well paid.
it wasn't plante herself who plotted the new cycle paths during the pandemic and signed the engineering plans and made sure everything was going as it should: it's a horde of motivated officials who normally would have found 200 reasons for do nothing. coderre promised to preserve the status quo and the media made sure that the race remains under control because when a family member has a job in the machine, we make sure that he keeps it and that the average citizen eats of the m ..... * because a boyfriend, c't'un boyfriend *.
tl; dr: she won't be able to help her boyfriends rob the taxpayer so we won't attract businessmen.
lock up anyone. the 2 will be there with their friends with both hands in your pockets.
1. support for wokes and antifas
2. rise in gun violence
3. impropriety
4. roaming
5. endless work
6. green extremism
7. housing prices
8. french language
9. taxes
10. chaotic management
even frédéric bastien says that coderre would protect french better than plante. and i remind you that it was plante who launched holness's political career in 2017.
and yet valérie plante sat on the board of directors of the new democrat [broadbent institute] ( even as mayor. i understand denis coderre's flaws well, but ultimately i don't see how an ndp puppet with a disastrous record is better. especially as a true quebecer, we will come back from a mayoress who peddles the myth of unceded montreal, which is simply shameful.
> coderre is a real godfather of the mafia
>  
>,
it will be necessary to inform will prosper
> helpreddit partsreddit premiumreddit giftsabout
despite his very real flaws, coderre is not an extreme left-wing ideologue who will disarm / define the police and willfully spoil the lives of motorists, and therefore send even more french-speaking families to the suburbs (which contributes to the decline of french at mtl).
this is sufficient reason to prefer him to plante.
> so if you want to do the right thing, you manage to always do the opposite of what horizon quebec says.
since hqa is against trudeau, does that mean you are going to support trudeau?
11. a founder of a street gang at the town hall of montreal-north. we turn the page easily because it is black.
> frédéric bastien
this guy is not the pope, he is not infallible and he is wrong sometimes as everyone is wrong sometimes.
coderre has a ** proven ** history of fighting against the interests of quebec. it is not even a question to ask, we have proof and proof and proof of his actions against quebec.
coderre even got involved in the sponsorship scandal, the sole objective of which was to swallow up, with big brown envelopes, canadian multiculturalism to the people of quebec.
** there has rarely been a greater traitor of the quebec nation than denis coderre. **
frédéric bastien is in the thick of things, although i generally agree with him.
the same goes for nomos.
this is included in point 2.
but remember, the great replacement is a myth ....
we must not forget the misogynistic significance of the hijab, which is not a theory but literally written in religious stories.
"promotion of the veil"
because it is sure that a poster that says that there is freedom in wearing the veil will make everyone want to wear a veil.
let's say that it is a term to say the least reprehensible and reappropriated depending on the environment. it would be preferable in such a case to speak of demographic changes or massive immigration, more precise and concise.
and renaud camus the greatest racist conspirator of modern times.
it will not influence the young white provincial girl of french parents, it gives ammunition to muslim men (and some women) wanting to wear the veil on their daughters.
ah, still someone who has never set foot in the arab world.
ah yeah totally organic demographic changes in which the population had a say.
if that was the case, stupid propaganda campaigns like this would not be necessary.
i am literally african of origin ?? all half of my family is muslim ... in fact what even talking about
continue not to understand what i am explaining.
it's just that this is the opinion of a huge part of the population who only have victimized knowledge of the arab worlds.
explain to you that we must bow to popular pressure to "sugar coat" real problems. i didn't agree more.
and where does your expertise come from?
you reduced you to ashes
continue not to understand what i am explaining.
bahahaa
blah blah on toxic masculinity ... using
my god, the hierarchy of the genre ... the justification for defamation ... accusing guy nantel of supporting the aggressors ... what a disillusion.
"i never worry when my boy leaves the house. while for my daughter, i am always worried. it is not normal."
but has she finally forgotten the notion at the basis of this declaration? women are more vulnerable for one very simple reason: physical strength. abusers certainly have no place, but forgetting or knowingly ignoring the fact that women are not and will never know how to protect themselves physically on an equal level, it is literally to wonder if the dream of these feminists is just not to become men.
i would like to hear a woman, who corresponds to all stereotypically feminine clichés, hold the same speech. why? because, like several positions of the left, i accuse the lack of individual emancipation.
[ marge( this is what is happening in france. a youtuber was raped by another youtuber. she believed he was correct because he was a so-called feminist.
this is precisely why i do not take feminism seriously. it is absolutely impossible for a woman to try to make the world a fairer place for women without a fight. for me, only women who have learned martial arts and who have already fought and got away with normal men (in the frame of a military or police type job) are worthy of being a purely feminist. . quite simply, because it's the only way not to panic when you feel surrounded by psychopaths. psychology and cunning are seldom enough against the worst assholes.
> not take feminism seriously
do you know that you can be feminism by being a man ??? you know how to fight apparently .... lol we are in 2021, it is time to grow a little my little guy.
r / thathappened
beautiful tea towel
lots of poop
pénélope mcquade is like a dusty wallaroo trail bottle that slowly turns sour.
without joke think about it for a second.
pénélope mcquade is paid $ 100,000 + at the very least by taxpayers to play wokerati on the public broadcaster.
i threw up in my mouth.
how many hours of radio a week does the poor thing already do? at one point the subjects lack ... depth. come to think of it, a curved penis and drooping labia majora it's okay to talk about it to prevent discrimination in gyms. people are born the same!
more like an old pabst cacanne forgotten during 2-3 months of summer in the suitcase of an old nissan sentra 93 matt black painted with the cacanne
lol, i take it down the xd one
admit your white privilege!
more or less 10 hours it seems to me. however, one madness never waits for another, it is an inexhaustible source.
ark why my mouth remembers this taste even if i don't remember the exact moment
i identify myself as transrace and omnibigenre.
> "even if the university could adopt policies and regulations that would have the effect of limiting academic freedoms or expression […] the committee is not in favor of institutional censorship or self-censorship when it is likely to compromise the dissemination of knowledge and that it is motivated by fear of public disapproval. ”
fortunately common sense still exists
a little respite in this crazy world.
we have short memories for a people whose motto is "i remember."
this unforgettable november evening
the guy will be able to write "how to become the most despised person in quebec in 1 minute" after retiring.
.... with a name like rousseau in addition.
worse, he said it's a good thing he doesn't need to speak french in montreal.
this is not a new situation, already in 1976 the commissioner of official languages complained about the linguistic situation at air canada.
obviously, at air canada, it is a tradition to ignore the francophonie.
they should just adjust the law to say that you don't have to be bilingual but that it's 50% of your salary if you speak just english or just french 😏
* we are going to release the news, which all journalists on 15-20 trips per year know, when the caq is going to have its worst pandemic flop. 🤡 *
* hey, we're even going to shift that to sync with ontario. will see that fire! 🤡 *
* oh well, could even stifle hydro's silliness at the same time! 🤡 *
🤡
sti, even p. lagacé does it by avoiding talking about his * bike ride boyfriend * to tweet non-stop on ac.
it was pure chance, i told you! 🤡
i don't intend to take air canada
1 point for the deductible
it is almost as if the orangemen continue to calmly orange trees while we do nothing.
i hope that air canada will move their head office to toronto.
i do not understand why we get angry, come and live in the west island, a unilingual english land, where french does not exist. we despise quebec culture while playing the victim of an oppressed minority ... but you can live without saying a word of french ... like the ceo of air canada.
ok and?
these are the worst, they deny their roots or it happened before in their lineage. his father has (had) a french name but was perhaps already assimilated, so married to an english woman and already spoke poorly french if his mother was english and he only went to english school. in other words, there is one of the rousseaus who has not kept up his job and his descendants are assimilated. a true canadian, like the trudeaus.
i'm not convinced let's say ...
and air canada has a long tradition of providing ass service in french. showing everyone that they have an unrepentant rhodesian esti as ceo is the icing on the cake.
there is zero business in french. next!
the pm jabber not capable jabber in english and we like him well.
if the ceo is against the language of 20% of the clientele of his company, it gives the example to his subordinates that it is okay to be angry too. this is what they do.
you are frozen.
you put your head in the sand like the federalist ostrich that you are.
okay
wokism is 5-10 years ahead there.
based!
i've seen mcdonald's there that charge white people a special tax for their "privileges"
i say the same but it seems critical race theory isn't even taught in schools, not before college / university anyway.
in short, the world is revolting against something that does not exist. kind of like the q-anons.
they are way ahead of everything. this is what makes them so dangerous.
i see it as an advantage for whites on the other hand, you have to stay away from their shitty food.
this is wrong, they teach that punctuality and meritocracy are eurocentric and colonialist values in several public schools.
the crt is not taught as a philosophical theory to children of 8 years old not.
except that its assumptions are definitely when they make kids "calculate" their racial / gender "privilege" in math class.
i refuse to cry for a multi-millionaire who lives in europe.
since when has it been quebec-libre's job to defend the rich?
villeneuve has no respect from me following the pandora papers.
there is also laurent duvernay late that the qsistes do not like. because he did well, comes from a wealthy family, and sets an example by going to help in the health system during the pandemic. which shows that you can be rich and talented and have good values. qs communists don't like it.
qs have a hit-list, let's not hide it. jacques villeneuve is the most recent and before it was lucie laurier for his links with pkp (before the pandemic). and what about the channels between qs and the plq (david sisters) who make sure that the main instigator of the student demonstrations, jean charest, remains very poor ...
can't believe jf lisée got cuckolded so easily.
i can't wait to see a government under qs: denial of democracy, poliburo, individual lynching of party enemies, lack of transparency ... enough to inspire the chinese communist party.
conclusion: if you find your rent too expensive, it's jacques villeneuve's fault.
jacques villeneuve, i don't give a damn about the guy either, but we must avoid making the match between him and the rich. if we follow this reasoning, we should base our archetype of the poor on the social assistance fraudster when we know full well that this is not the case. cultivating animosity towards the better off means shooting each other in the foot collectively, more particularly for a state like quebec which must constantly increase the inflow of money to feed its bureaucratic beast.
so is this qs way of proceeding entirely acceptable?
so we should plunder the rich for the simple reason that they are rich?
they probably have the ldt * toxic masculinity * texts already written, waiting for the right time. there's a whole comms infrastructure back there with ramifications everywhere and people fall for it every time.
poor little pitt. they don't even want to let him do his tax avoidance in peace! 😭 / s
villeneuve attracts my sympathy less than the others. first of all, he doesn't live in quebec, so we don't give a damn about whether he pays his taxes or not. the downside is that we are also opposed to his opinion on tuition fees. is gnd's grudge justified? i no longer remember the impact of jacques villeneuve's statement on public opinion, so i couldn't say.
leftists don't like professional sport in general. i understand the argument a little, i agree that more money and resources are being put into it than would be reasonable. but from there to shit on the sportsmen themselves that seems a little intense to me ... whatever a situationist would reply that the sports marketing machine uses the positive image of sportsmen to suck more resources from society, and that this action of the capitalists makes sure that the sportsmen become "fair game" .... entk it is complicated ... i can not reproach the sportsmen for agreeing to promote their sport, in spite of the financial consequences that this entails for the society. ultimately it's up to the people and the government to put on their pants and say no to the excessiveness of the professional sports industry.
what would you say that françois legault publicly lynches you because you oppose him on the 3rd link?
yes
what culture?
what do you get out of writing negative bullshit with every post? take your meds, it's pathetic.
quebec is america's bs we live behind no culture or literature it's hard wake up
you owe us a solid troll ... otherwise i don't know what rock you slept under instead of educating yourself, but we have a culture, a literature, a folklore, a history of our own and our own urban legends. have you never read a book? been to cegep? you wake up.
it is also necessary to remind young people and have a will to revive the collective memory.
to each his own opinion. i am proud to be a quebecker.
so you are very mean you
"quelle culture" refers to the criticism of the new citizenship course published in the newspapers last week, in which we questioned the existence of a quebec culture.
the "without culture or literature" refers to the durham report.
it amuses me to see the negavotes. the sarcasm obviously does not pass!
it was sarcastic.
that makes 2 posts with the same type of comment "quebec bashing" little elaborate and free to interpretation that only you understand.
you are on the internet and in all likelihood you welcome this kind of comment which openly attacks a nation under the pretext of an obscure reference. you must be a misunderstood clown, must be believed.
ah, thank you, here my ⬆;)
so let him step back on his immigration threshold of 70,000. otherwise they will lose my vote.
reality catches up with these esti clowns
bahahahah appart put in criss of old people who smell of cedar there has just lost a lot of it but so much the better for our nurses
[compulsory vaccination: above all, never back down] (
ma'am legault will not be happy! 🤡
paco lebel is 100% right about the journalists / columnists: 100% in the field.
imagine still thinking of voting for the caq. smh.
for who?
if this is the best the pq has to offer, better go out of business.
really a poor clown
good czech bin sa quebec in confinement for christmas.
no chu not racist just wake up.
> wake up
woke!
no woke is the opposition of me
[
the anglo-american term woke (literally "awake")
they remember that he had slaves but not that he stole the lands of canadians.
mcgill university has always been the symbol of anglo power in quebec. as long as this university will continue to exist, frenchies pea soup will never be truly free.
well yes, it makes him feel better, you have to believe
fake on la brule?
seriously yes, this rat hole should be destroyed and the earth burned ...
why not the other rat holes that make up half of quebec?
when you want to exterminate a colonies you have to destroy the nest its destabilizes the colonies and after its dies slowly.
so we would have to destroy quebec? i believe that everyone has something for it.
this is what our governments are doing.
indeed
100% disagree. a pure masterpiece, in my humble opinion.
it is terrifying the country that i will bequeath to my children and grandchildren. we are stripped of our culture and our identity by our politicians. i do not understand what their real objectives are behind such immigration policies.
don't give a shit about the color of people if they share our culture.
at least my great-grandchildren are going to be able to have a go on the job market because they will be part of the visible minority.
/s
when north americans talk about whites, i never know if we should include quebecers ... but hey ... we are all on earth to prepare for a future without us ...
ah yes, to confuse the color of skin with the enslavement of a riot ...
[deleted]
this should come as no surprise since it is well documented. [in 1951] ( visible minorities made up 1.8% of the population. [between 1981 and 2006] ( their proportion increased from 4.7% to 16.2%. at the last available census, ie that [of 2016] ( it is now a question of 22.3% and it will surely exceed 25%, a quarter of the population in that of 2021 it's hard to imagine 2106, but that's what canada aspires to and what drives canada. do not kid ourselves.
so, end of * white problems * (gretapocalypse, drag queens in schools, pronouns to use, cisgender toilets, gender reassignment at 5, patriarchy, not enough pills, etc) not planned until 2106.
it will be long.
pis?
it's normal all the provinces will be out of this bureaucratic hell
to please the international industrialists.
well, the problem is not directly related to immigration, but rather to integration.
in a colony, you need manpower to exploit the resources, distribute them to those who ask for them and enrich those who set the projects in motion. canada is not post-national, as jt claims, it is still colonial. i would even say that the entire planet is more than ever thought of according to this model. at least, it's a seductive dark idea that would support my little dystopian ailments.
as quebecers, we have the advantage of having worked with the colonial project from the start. i imagine that should give us a maturity that other countries do not have.
good luck with that.
i totally agree, but it is not possible if the quantity of returning immigrants is too large.
do the members of haitian street gangs in montreal-north share our values?
a canadian / quebecois who talks about "whites" is not so much the same as an american who talks about it.
there is obviously no black crime, that's a myth.
black americans (13% of the population) do not commit 50% of homicides year after year. this is obviously a lie of the extreme right.
there is nevertheless a big variety metropolis vs city and suburb. try to find a black in my little town, it's almost all white
at this rate, the last white man in toronto will be murdered by a racialized scum in 2084, and those who denounce the murder will be sent to an anti-racist re-education camp.
slavery is freedom. diversity is our strength.
he is right. the green plant is an absolute disaster for montreal. and we can add things that he did not mention: insalubrity, increase in armed violence (while projet montréal wants to disarm the cops!), war against motorists, chaotic management (several former candidates of plante have sued against her, e.g. sue montgomery, julie-pascale provost, etc.).
coderre still emptied the coffers of montreal before leaving and created a budget hole of 500 million in the city. just saying
and a founder of a street gang at the town hall of montreal-north
according to luc ferrandez, it is due to the catastrophic management of projet montreal
"since the last municipal elections, the city's annual spending has grown by nearly $ 800 million"
[
psychological harassment = female toxicity (montpetit, payette, bondil, etc.).
to protect the barrette.
no news
anglade is determined to clean up the plq.
women do politics differently or something like that.
his piggy face never gave me confidence ...
everything there is to know about cop1 to 26 can be found in a very simple graph:
you will wake me up when their top of the bath break will be held on zoom in order to avoid private jet trips of this kind.
notstradamus: "in 2021, it will become normal to use your own face as a billboard for propaganda."
the art of going in a private jet to a climate conference to talk about how to reduce carbon to protect others and also limit the population with vaccines (oops its forbidden to say its)
but we banned plastic straws! / s
after seeing [this] ( and [this] ( i have the impression that ' we will wait a while.
no, the vaccine is not a plot to kill people.
the worst part is that since we set out to use all the oil available anyway, making plastic captures the carbon whereas if we manufacture less, we will burn more oil and release more carbon. plastic is basically not a problem. waste management is. there is no reason for my plastic straw thrown in the trash in quebec to end up in the nose of a turtle.
almost all of the plastic in the oceans comes from developing countries like india / bangladesh which literally dump it in rivers and don't pick up trash. of course there are the beaches and the sailors which also contribute significantly.
it would be much more concrete to help and encourage developing countries to improve their waste management, to ban single-use plastic on beaches and to facilitate / reduce the cost of collecting waste from ships to stop to encourage them to put it overboard.
but hey, money and politics make it better for g20 governments to come up with fluffy plans that only help their own country look good.
in general, plastic _is_ a problem. okay, we're sequestering carbon. you mentioned the problem with macroscopic plastic, but the whole earth is filled with microplastics that won't be gone anytime soon.
toé there, i love you well.
but these microplastics are the result of a waste management problem. the straw that you use and throw in the trash can of a restaurant in quebec has no reason to end up in microplastics in the environment.
it's not the creation or use of plastic that's the problem, it's what we do with it afterwards. plastic is not a problem, how to dispose of it is.
plastic will remain essential to modern life. we need to improve its management, eliminating it completely from our lives would take us back practically to the middle ages. this is not realistic, unlike the elimination of oil as a source of energy.
what bothers me the most about all of this is that we use plastic as an easy scapegoat to avoid taking concrete actions. each year we ban one more plastic thing and it has absolutely no impact on climate change. during this time we have the false impression that things are moving.
you're wrong. tires, for example, emit microplastics when in use. i agree with part of your analysis, but you are missing a big chunk. the very use of plastics leads to pollution. the problem is not just how to dispose of it well.
explain to me how the microplastics generated by the wear and tear of my tires influence global warming?
i took tires as an example, but there are tons of other sources of microplastics.
here it is, signed by a quebecer from elsewhere:
you should "do your research"! there are big blind spots in your analysis.
strange that your answer completely misses my point that all this has nothing to do with global warming, and this, in a thread about the cop26
you obviously haven't read the article.
it contrasts nicely with the hysterical surge of milk that anne dorval had reserved for her, which must be the last memory that quebeckers have of the type.
hopefully the magical sephardic gives balls to the columnists of quebecor.
i envy the level of debate found in france. it doesn't fly high here.
like, dislike, zemmour is a first-class, cultured, relevant debater.
it is also the last (and only) memory that exists of this "anne dorval".
great reset is so great
do we continue to want the carbon tax? i approved of this tax before realizing that the gap would widen between poverty and wealth.
we have no carbon tax in quebec we have the corporate carbon market with california
i am fully aware, but it has been claimed for years
strictly speaking, there is no carbon tax, but [taxes represent almost 50% of the price of fuel] ( markets / transportation-fuel-prices / fuel-consumption-taxes-canada / 18885) including a carbon contribution.
and no report in the thread here. tried to force a connection that is simply missing. gas went down to 60 cents during the pandemic with those same taxes because demand fell among individuals.
and the relationship with the article? gasoline is much cheaper in north america than most of the world, yet i don't see europe blaming all its ills on the price at the pump.
is there no connection to the fact that the less well-off classes find themselves mortgaged by the rise in the price of gasoline? well then.
all goods and food are transported by trucks, trains, boats which consume fuel. an increase in the price of fuel, whether linked to the market or to taxation, will necessarily lead to an increase in the price of goods and food.
no, what i'm saying is that there is no connection between the recent rise in the price of gasoline and the gasoline taxes that were present long before the said hike.
do you think that steamers pay for gas with the same taxes as you? not to mention that it is tax deductible expenses. worse, you won't make me bawl for your less $ 5 a week in your pockets.
your claim is fraudulent. there is no "carbon tax" in quebec. you were poorly taught and you skate.
there are other taxes, municipal etc, but they have not changed recently and have absolutely nothing to do with the current increase in the price of gasoline or food. this increase is very clearly due to the end of less demand during the pandemic combined with much higher costs in wages, a shortage of manpower in food production, etc.
the reason that gas is increasing is because the demand is increasing. that's all. you are part of the problem every time you go to gas.
come down the curtains, i'm not op and there is nothing fraudulent in the claim that taxes are half the price of fuel including a carbon contribution. well, i can already hear you retort, but, but, but, it is a contribution not a tax gna gna gna! yes, indeed and that's why i mentioned it in my first comment to this exchange. the distinction is extremely thin and what is dishonest is to claim that carbon is not taxed in quebec, it is, which is why we were allowed to be excluded from the [federal safety net ] ( after that, if you want to get bogged down in shitty little semantic debates, you are free, but the fact remains that the increased pricing of carbon has a role in the evolution of the price of goods and foodstuffs, a role that more afflicts harshly the less fortunate which can only accentuate inequalities.
and i reiterate, these taxes are not new and therefore have no connection with recent gasoline or food inflation.
this servant of anglos would never have been able to present himself in 2000 but now it is possible, why ... simple, mtl is more and more filled with supremacist globalist anglos who despise the pure wools and their culture. as usual, being a quebec nationalist and being pro-immigration is just pure suicide.
an anglophone third candidate will be supported by the anglophone media.
a third-party francophone candidate will be totally ignored by the francophone media.
then, the french-speaking media, for lack of content by dint of self-sabotaging, talks about the content of the english-speaking media: the english-speaking candidate third.
well done logic. follow wherever it goes later: 2030, 2040, etc.
when will we see the first french-language article on gilbert thibodeau or a return to ma desjardins?
this is one of the dumbest articles i have read in a long time. he explains exactly why his ideas fail, then writes “but his ideas progress” without an explanation.
which of the 36 versions of linux is the best?
shit, i have to read this later! i just bought myself a chromebook, installed ubuntu bullseyes and got to install qgis 3.10.14! i'm pretty proud, but hey, it takes a long time to learn!
also, my job laptop has a graphics card and all, win10 and is not good for free win11 .... so clearly i want to go that way to extend the life of my computer
thanks for the text!
no mention of bsds, solaris / illumos, plan9 ... are you a stallmanian propagandist ?!
i just updated my phone to android 12, i'm not mentally ready for another major os update on my pcs as well. then i have to admit that as i get older i don't have so much patience to switch os completely, i just want it to work.
i don't want to know anything about your shit. templeos for life!
yes
my favorite distro is zorin os. it can look like windows or mac depending on your preference. google drive integrates well, it found all the drivers for my thinkpad and the interface is really nice and intuitive. based on ubuntu.
zorin.com
arch linux, ubuntu, red hat !
this is the ultimate goal!
i was going to answer the same thing: p
a distro that is part of ubuntu, with recent device support and security features. it's not bad for small businesses or just starting out.
arch linux for beginners is a very bad idea.
that's kind of what i got out of my basic research ...
the hardest part would seem to find a distro that allows you to access more packages (software) that are equivalent to what you use with windows.
like the adobe or office suite, forget that ....
fak i'm wondering about my options.
qgis, i need version 3.16 or higher up to date
office, meh .. it's vrm for my hotmail, my gmails are uqam exchange mail (although there is a browser version) i would miss excell.
adobe illustrator, lightroom, indesign and bridge ..... i don't know how well i can navigate ...
skepchup for 3d .... no idea if there are altlernartive
spss, or beyond 20 \ 20 ... no idea.
my steams games.
ma geforce 940mx
this is what is blocking me
are there any alternatives to all of this?
the alternatives export to pdf? (i must manage to integrate myself with other professionals too)
i have the crack versions at worst, it installs on win10 under vm?
but ooff, it would save me the purchase of a laptop ... and i would learn.
basically, what i would need is a 20 min zoom meeting to talk about it
i admit 😅
yes, i think vm would be a good idea, but it sure takes hardware resources (ram, core). in any case, that's what i do and there are also people who manage to put the suite office (for example) in "seemless" mode. that is, the application is running on the vm, but it is as if it is a normal application. for games on the other hand, i think there is a problem in vm, because of hardware acceleration or something like that. but if it is, the games are already compatible with a little luck.
for sketchup, there is freecad, it seems to work well and i think once learned it's better than sketchup, but i have stopped learning it for now.
i think that indeed, excel is less replaceable. there is the free excel, but it was less good on windows. but maybe on linux is better.
otherwise, there is nothing preventing you from doing a dual boot and using windows in vm for light use (like for excel) and booting windows for games and having all the resources.
for the adobe suite, i don't know what the deal is, but i heard that they (at adobe) have versions of their software for linux ... but nothing planned for this software for the general public.
if your laptop is on a hard drive (and not on an ssd) it would be worth buying an ssd of sufficient size, it gets cheaper and cheaper and it would boot a lot faster.
on discord? but it is sure that i am not an expert in transition to linux
i did some research and i think it would be easier for me to boot linux with a usb key for a while and see for later. i think this is correct for the discord, i'm not going to take your time while i'm still in the research stage.
anyway, i forgot the password of my bios (i had changed it) and well .... no idea how to get around that to request the boot by usb key
haha... (#not)
edith: i remembered that!
but thanks!!
> another important element, the supreme court brought the human rights tribunal to order on the scope of its jurisdiction. "the action for discrimination is not, and should not become, a claim for defamation", conclude the majority judges. a defamation suit is in fact the responsibility of the superior court of quebec. moreover, jérémy gabriel could have brought such an action, recalls the supreme court.
it's rare that we have good news like this.
what a relief. my country is a better country today. we were still hot in a 5-4 decision. esti that i was afraid.
great, but the fact that the decision was so close is worrying.
surprising as a judgment in 2021 but excellent news.
i don't know how long it's been since i saw such good news, especially when jeremy started yelling psq he had lost $ 35,000.
the reason jeremy didn't sue in superior court was because his lawyers told him he wouldn't win when the human rights tribunal wins almost anyone.
my instinct tells me that the judges of quebec have made the difference.
yes and no.
it is clear that the number was completely out of place and you have to be a fool in & @ # & to believe that words like this are unlikely to end up in the wrong hands.
but from what i understand (what i'm claiming, let's say i read very little about the subject just as i didn't read this lapresse post) the supreme court had to seek to instead avoid creating a precedent that could seriously endanger the freedom of expression of those who have genuinely thought-provoking content (such as attacking a politician or a politician).
in jérémy's case, it is clear that it was very defamatory with these certain truths and these distortions of the truth.
apartment ... it's a bad game to play for jérémy. but don't be too surprised at the supreme court's decision. i think she's doing a good job here (although i think ward has gone a bit too far).
(but i'll definitely try to find out more about the decision 😅✌️)
[deleted]
do we know who voted on which side?
you know i had never wondered about the origin of the judges of the supreme court of canada.
i'm a little surprised, and not really at the same time.
i find it funny that people were there: nah, not in canada my man on a controversial post the other day.
looks like no. 4/9 confirmed. wew.
not surprised
is it really a surprise, and that no one suspected? 😅
no, i was sarcastic. it's an old screech full of garbage that has stuck us for decades. nothing too low for him and his gang.
trump is part of his gang. 😉
rofl! this is still a thing?!
fucking hell
don't worry boys - me and my entire class would vote no even though we weren't born yet in 1995 :p. also, just to rub salt on french nationalist, hey we speak english 95% of the time even though we go to a french public school ;)
you have a shadowban, contact the admins.
the colonized par excellence
why am i seeing him then?
because i approved it manually.
you have a gift my child!
no childbearing and let in 70k immigrants per year ... what a great social project.
we have to go back [to the electoral discourse of the caq] ( to realize that these immigrants will be better off welcomed, better integrated and better francized than the previous ones. 70,500 is very little, barely the equivalent of the city of granby and each of them will be entitled to a personalized course. it's because our nationalist government is doing a hell of a good job!
70,300 will be vaccinated nurses.
are you me or is this site relatively not a reference?
every time someone puts a link from this site, it seems like the text sucks ...
what, horizonquebecactuel white genocide? ah well i will have seen it all.
but seeing that you broached the subject, it tempts you to talk about why quebecers do not want children since the 80s?
oh no, aren't you tempted to discuss economic insecurity? ah well, too bad, anyway doctor al-bashari is treating me great so one way or the other, i just don't see it or your famous suicide.
is it weird that even though 300,000 didn't come in that the labor shortage is still there?
wake up caliss de tabarnak.
it is a text from radio-canada, le genie.
it is simple since 1980 the government has been supporting immigration on the backs of quebec workers.
do you think that immigrants live on the arm of quebecers and have such a point that they have fewer children?
and what do you base yourself on to say that?
based on these years that we are currently passing, they have brought in thousands of them and have a shortage of manpower with which they are currently living in the gangs there? the social assistance that the government takes from our paychecks.
there are 239k adults and their 292k children who receive 2.7 billion per year.
compare that with $ 13 billion in federal equalization. 357 billion gdp and provincial government revenue of only $ 122 billion.
ah yes, also the fertility rate has not exceeded 1.8 per woman since 1975.
immigrants are not on the bs and are not the cause of our problems.
but shhhhuuut, don't tell them, otherwise their bubble of victimization is too broken :(
the worst part is that if your fear of the "great replacement" well the bs and giving security to your people is the best way to encourage them to reproduce.
although a few immigrants on the bs have babies, those who benefit the most are those who already live here.
especially that complaining because immigrants have consenting sex and make babies with white people or not. it's just sad and you show how stupid you are
you should change your translator and learn french.
i admit it was pretty dreadful, i corrected it.
but you're in the field that it's a translator, it's swipe + autocorrect because i write with just my thumb.
it's okay, no big deal.
and yet i do not see the fault, it is true that it is revolting. the chinese also build railroads in africa which seems to escape the french youth.
wokism at its best.
you think differently !! i'm not listening to you. i cancel you even if you are right or not.
other sequence
ahahah mange ta banane.
the day you see a teacher reacting in the same way in quebec. the human will be able to teleport.
you know.
it is because talking about the chinese in the congo * is so tiring *.
“shut up and eat your banana” is not “think differently,” it is objectively a racist insult. it is certain that the series seems to create straw men, but should not fall into the trap either.
"strawman: the series"
ha, a man of culture!
somewhere in africa, a chinese man named lao yang is still wondering where his gravel truck has gone.
i should have written in my post that the banana sentence is unacceptable.
but we must admit that the purpose of this video is to demonstrate that students cannot argue. can't think for themselves. it's just what the teacher says that is true.
it's 100% racist, but in the context, without putting myself in the guy's shoes either ... you've got a crazy woman who screams racism for nothing and try to give you shit, " your mouth and eat your banana "that's probably the right answer ...
it's not easy to explain, you're in front of a madwoman who is 100% sold to an idea and who wants to know nothing ... make it your goal is to send her to shit and there isn't much better ... in the context of ... that ... the goal is not necessarily to be racist (his probably but in any case ...) but to tell him to be patient as effectively as possible ...
it remains an unacceptable phase but in my opinion it still depends on the context ...
what is it from? roads of the impossible on youtube? (good docu that also to see the state of dilapidation of the infrastructures that the europeans have left in africa ...)
empire of dust. zero fucks given par le dude.
why silence him? he was the best independence activist we've had since a nasty butt! it is important to remind quebecers of the contempt that assimilated angloids have for us.
out of curiosity, the tweet in question said what?
the enemies of our enemies are our friends
all together against censorship!
nasty 🤣
too bad, i was starting to appreciate him for his frankness.
did you bring it back yourself? lol
unfortunately, i was banned for a long time from his page ... i wrote to him that his tweets were vomit, it was not that bad :)
silence him? it's not banned, it's an old tweet that has been forcibly removed. but it is certain to stir up the mardé.
good question, i don't remember. probably one of those where he says quebeckers are fundamentally inferior.
yeah, i've always been of the opinion that people should fall victim to the stupid rules they're promoting.
it's not racist, being from quebec is not a race !!! / s
an excellent philosophy
another time, another way of life.
recall that this man was the second of pierre elliot trudeau, who ordered thefts, arson and attacks to put them on the backs of quebec nationalists.
fuck off, chrétien.
he was aware of the horrors that were going on under his nose with residential schools. he decided to do nothing.
for those interested, he has just published a "last chance" tweet.
i don't like any, but for the moment it might be plant.
coderre is a crosseur of the same species as charest, pierre trudeau, chrétien.
plante annoys me, but coderre even more.
balarama...
pourquoi balarama quand on a [bananarama](
no idea.
at the beginning we had ralliement which just vanished.
it wouldn't have bothered me to vote '4th' option but at least to have something serious.
currently i really don't know. coderre has reaffirmed french in montreal that's already it, and he talks about security, at a time when it is being shot at the corner of my street.
plante is very sucks i find and i find his team really weak. his ads that seem to be banging are downright stupid or impractical, like the pink line or the baby box. it's just miserable. nothing was done for the blue line when we bought near by expecting new stations, and then none of the winters when plant was in power the sidewalks were cleared of snow and ice.
a post of mayor / prime minister / president should be someone with an uprightness and not someone who pretends to be an influencer or a starlet. it's not someone who does their business and who is good at what does, it's someone who leads and we want to follow. the story tells us about jean drapeau or camillien houde who led the city in a firm and efficient way and then we saw that tremblay, applebaum, coderre and plante.
i don't even know if bourque was good.
but in short, all that to say it's hard as an election.
i also have the same problem, but i prefer ensemble montreal.
gilbert thibodeau, for the lol.
i hate her but i would tend to vote this plant. a mayor woke or not with no great power anyway on these matters. but as far as municipal prerogatives are concerned, i prefer to have an npd woke in charge rather than a corrupt liberal.
the patriots must stop their noses and vote for coderre.
if the plante woke is re-elected, the spvm risks being disarmed and definanced by 2026. montreal will become a battleground.
coderre, no choice. he is anti-woke and is a better manager. he reaffirmed the primacy of quebec and of french. by comparison, [plante wants to place a street gang mole in montreal-north city hall who wants to define the police.] ( sanction-the-most-serious-seen-his-scandalous-conduct)
fung ho?
i vote for dolarama
why balarama when we have dolarama 🤣
why ?
yark
what about a street gang mole?
ish, coderre is not so much less woke than plant, he is just more hypocritical than she is on these issues. it supports stories of unceded land as much as it does plants.
[deleted]
are you okay there?
we'll enwash the orange cones
comment?
i don't know it, but it's going to wash them.
i think that if you call yourself a quebec nationalist, it is important to fight against the divisive woke ideology of valérie plante. not to mention his anti-car stances.
and then coderre seems to me to be more pragmatic, unifying and he makes the city shine better in the world.
also, his weight loss, at his age in addition it shows a facet of his personality that i admire.
he is running as mayor of the borough, isn't he? let's hope that the citizens of montréal-nord will have the common sense not to elect him. it is clear that for the plant it is more important to fill your grid with bingo woke than to do background checks on your candidates in the boroughs. she's a bitch, but it's still not as bad as the gang of corrupt liberal rats and wretched developers in coderre. between plague and cholera, i chose cholera, the chances of survival are better.
if will ever gets elected, and he tries to screw up the shit in the police department, i hope he will get screwed by his subordinates and the existing police hierarchy. do we still have an ounce of righteousness and courage among our people to get us out of trouble in this kind of situation?
small test that i suggest you do.
ask people what "kosher" food means, then "halal" food. i can assure you that the vast majority of people will be able to outline it.
okay, now ask them what it means to "eat lean". i bet the majority won't even know what that means. yet "lean eating" is part of the catholic religion and our ancestors have respected it for centuries (for those who do not know, it means depriving yourself of meat and animal fat, it was done every friday, but the fish and seafood are permitted).
another interesting exercise is to probe to see who is aware of ramadan and the fasts it involves, then probe the same to find out who is aware of lent and the associated fasts.
by obsessing over "diversity" and celebrating it ostentatiously all the time, we forget to celebrate and even remember what we are or what we have been.
emptying
> by obsessing over "diversity" and celebrating it ostentatiously all the time, we forget to celebrate and even remember what we are or what we have been.
you guess that's not the point.
i take this opportunity to stress that this religious control at the source of food constitutes a symbolic occupation of the territory.
in addition, what can only be described as blackmail requires retailers in certain neighborhoods to verify the presence of one of the certification acronyms on the products. for manufacturers, the threat that their products will not be accepted by retailers leads them to agree to pay the annual inspection fees of their production lines. some even decide to dedicate a permanent position to it. these fees are ultimately passed on to the consumer, regardless of their religion. method of financing much more subtle than the catholic indulgences so denounced.
correct, but it is also present in other sectors. for example, many people may enumerate judges of the united states supreme court while being unable to name a single one of the canadian version. there is an interest in the "elsewhere" which has been built at the cost of the "local" in many spheres (political, cultural, society, religion, etc.) and the impact can easily be seen for those who still keep a down to earth.
check your fridge and pantry for everything marked cor.
for 1% of the population.
> method of financing much more subtle than the catholic indulgences so denounced.
subtle and exceedingly well structured.
so well structured that it serves as a basis for halal certification and as a reference solution for the design of the ultimate certification, the one that will perpetually give the nest egg, the certification of * diversity *. people have no idea of the breach that was opened in the past and will never see the fissure of the future coming which will have both hands in their wallets and their lives.
it is one of many. it indicates the yeshiva which manages the territory where the producer is located.
in a normal society with functioning police and justice, this mafia leader would be behind bars.
commit illegal acts? well correct. denounce them? unacceptable! / s
charest flaunts pelquist ideology in the public arena.
shut your mouth, jean charest.
dirty tie-up bandit. crosseur without soul.
he's not wrong.
it is clear that the first guy who goes there must expect to be beaten even if he is innocent. imagine the scandal if the first or the first 2-3 trials lead to acquittals ...
[
if he's not a doctor, it's a well-crafted hoax.
it was taken out because it's not a doctor and it's a bunch of nonsense.
you should inform the [college of physicians] (
he had just been interviewed on a cogeco station, before the interview was also censored. is he a secret mossad agent?
no, in the sense that it is an identity theft.
so sorry, i clearly misunderstood.
is it true? this is not quite what emerges from the [article in the sun] ( derange-8bf5b708e1af7c348619e498e0eaefb8) or [tweets from patrick lagacé] ( to his place.
the article of the sun is really scary. is it the role of the college of physicians to play inquisitors in the scientific debate? as a professional this doctor has the right to have his opinion and to share it with his patients as long as it is reasonable. let's say, i would understand that a doctor who would tell homosexuals that aids does not exist would have his license taken away. that would not be reasonable advice. but to doubt the validity of vaccinating children against covid, that seems quite reasonable to me.
the college is a mafia that many have denounced for years, but their power generally manages to silence them. dissent is not tolerated.
it's not like we have a huge amount of resources. there are 30 billion barrels on the island of anticosti, recoverable at 5%, so 1.5 billion barrels recoverable. quebec consumes around 380,000 barrels per day, so in the best case around the equivalent of 10 years of resources at the current rate of consumption. the reality is that it's stupid like the moon to burn oil, it's much more useful to use it to produce all the products that are necessary for our modern life: bitumen, oils, plastics, synthetic fibers. , etc.
as long as it is bad for me, let other countries drain their resources while we have the means to import. our oil will not run away, it has been waiting in the ground for millions of years, it can wait a few more decades.
what i find more worrying is the fact that we do not have a strategic oil reserve. that it would be important to make a screeching one.
the fight against climate change takes priority.
what is recoverable at 5% will be 20 or 30% in a few years. and you forget about old harry and the shale gas / oil.
there is an urgent need to create wealth to get out of our dependence on ottawa money before it is too late (minority francophones in quebec because of the migratory drowning wanted by the federal government). it is all linked.
"quebec's per capita emissions are the lowest in canada, at 9.4 tonnes of co2 eq, or 52% below the national average of 19.6 tonnes per capita."
[
"importing natural gas generates 300% more ghgs than if quebec produced its gas with new clean technologies."
do you take that or your 20-30%? from a hat? we have no idea. no i find that there is no urgency precisely. on the energy side we are able to provide ourselves, and yes i agree that we should reduce our imports as much as possible, but oil is too precious to be used mainly as a source of energy. let other nations squander their resources for short-term gains. you don't seem to realize it, but our beautiful green dams need petroleum lubricants to function, as do our electric transformers which are bathed in oil. it makes me laugh at the ecologists who talk about "energy transition" as if the problem was limited to energy. no, the entire industrial system needs petroleum products even if all the energy was supplied in a renewable manner. i am 100% serious when i say oil is too precious to burn. every barrel we burn robs future generations of important essentials.
if quebecers do not have enough shells to achieve independence despite the economic consequences, i do not believe that it will magically change all of a sudden if we are richer. wealth encourages idleness, not courage.
or we could stop using natural gas, period.
shale oil and gas fields were impossible to exploit 20 years ago and now new technologies (financed among other things by the increase in the price of hydrocarbons) have made the us energy independent. . the general principle is the same everywhere.
if quebec were as rich as alberta, we would already be independent.
we don't use it much already. electricity is hegemonic in domestic heating.
we could also stop taking the plane, stop buying products transported by fossil fuels (e.g .: all food) and stop using products made from these same hydrocarbons (e.g .: steel, materials). plastics, synthetic fibers, pharmaceuticals, cosmetics, waxes, glues, solvents, etc.).
we could also go back to the 18th century and let the majority of humans die.
are you a petroleum engineer? you don't know what you're talking about otherwise. under the best conditions with modern techniques, the recovery of shale oil is always below 10%.
[
this is a fine example of magical thinking in your business. you blindly assume that technology (which you imagine to be magic) can do anything, while the laws of physics are immutable. this view of things is typical of a certain right which has thrown us into the ecological mess in which we find ourselves.
packages from independent countries are not self-sufficient in oil. you can't buy a pair of balls.
by the way, i came across this old can radio article:
[
basically, legault gives up nothing at all, finally it is mainly gas which is there and according to the prospector its exploitation would not be profitable under the current conditions of the market.
in fact, society should be rearranged in order to stop being dependent on international trade. self-sufficiency is necessary.
and what percentage of this shale oil was recoverable 20 years ago? 0%? what tells you that it won't be 20 or 30% recoverable in 20 years?
glad to hear you say it. so we agree that quebec should be self-sufficient in gas and oil to the extent possible?
quebec should get rid of hydrocarbons as an energy source, period.
and the money grows in the trees.
> the fight against climate change is a priority.
why not?
if we want to be sovereign, that's one more step. a truly free quevec will have no equalization.
listen, go ahead if you want it's just going to make us more money in our pockets, killed manitoba and prince edward island and possibly killed alberta when no one wants oil ...
this is good news for consistent sovereignists.
1. if we reopen the constitution, we can destabilize the canadian regime (see meech).
2. our dependence on ottawa money is one of the few strong arguments of federalists.
jason kenney and his united conservative party may be extremely unpopular, but his referendum is a successful bet which is great news.
further proof that democracy is lacking.
[deleted]
why?
how does that help the provinces?
because it proves that the majority of people are too ignorant to comment on subjects like that.
as long as it can just be good for quebec nationalists. if the outcome forces a constitutional conference, then this is a great precedent for us regardless of the outcome. if albertans cannot get the support of enough provinces to change anything, it will fuel alberta separatism, which is good for us. if the albertans succeed, then either quebec gets screwed, which is good for the separatists, or we trade a reduction in the program for more autonomy, which is also good for us.
in short, the only losing scenario for quebec nationalists is one where the referendum remains a dead letter.
if they are really trying to change the constitution, i vote for us to side with alberta just to mix them up when they find out that their opponents are the maritimes and manitoba. it will be very difficult for kenney to explain if the enemy isn't the "fucking frogs."
lol, the angloids are too belligerent and chauvinistic to see this logically. they got it into their heads that hydroquebec sells its electricity below the market price, i broke my head explaining to them that the electricity market is not the same as the oil market. ..that you can't ship a barrel of electricity. that an electric dam has no variable production costs, just fixed costs (it costs no less to operate at 50% capacity than at 100%, which is not at all true for oil extraction). there's nothing that fits, neither ass nor head.
what a sculpture of marde. is there a single sculpture or a single monument built in the last 30 years that is the least bit drinkable?
we would have built three bronze statues on slab that would have been 1000 times better.
seriously, who are the morons on the montreal monument selection committees?
tell me about [an abomination of 35 tons] ( montreal.jpg) which is in fact only a [vulgar sketch] ( pocreau-port-montreal-croquis.jpg) kid on the corner of a table. just listen to the author's claims:
> the idea was to make a signature gesture that would both welcome people, without obstructing the view of the river, and highlight the port architecture, ** but which would above all cite the legacy that will have left jeanne mance, marguerite bourgeoys and marguerite d'youville in matters of health, social development and education **
no, but it is because the guy is delirious! he used the magic wand tool on three prints retrieved from wikiepdia. is he kidding us or what? for comparison, here is [the monument to the only maisonneuve] ( _dsc07657.jpg) erected on the place d'armes in 1895. 1895 ... then we would have to believe that in 2021 the cream of our art is this three-dimensional graffiti which claims to quote the legacy of three of the greatest ladies in the history of montreal and by extension quebec? let me doubt it. if there is no question of cronyism, the blind man in charge of approving the sculptures must be fired.
modern art
4000 working hours ...
...
pis ca donne ca?
welcome to the world of postmodern art, where aesthetic dysgenism rules. any asshole can do something ugly, but it takes licensed professionals to create subsidized ugliness. one can easily imagine the revolving door of the tartists who are on the selection committee for a while, before exchanging their places with another tartiste who took part in the competitions. ji scratch your back, you scratch my back ... when it's not i suck your seed you suck mine in beautiful sessions of monetary and sexual sixty-nine.
the turkey of the face is the citizen, whom these same tartists despise with all their might from the top of their ivory tower filled with virtuous people.
it is difficult to imagine the sums incurred to obtain ... ca. however, this is far from a first. you have to see [the three rusty sheets] ( which serve as a fountain at the palace station.
the weird wheel has montreal-north too, but at least it can pass for ... kekchose ... 4000 hours is around 2 years ... 2 years of 40-hour weeks ...
i just wonder how long it would take to get something out of the dump ...
it is that it becomes slightly doubtful this mania of the government to file the honest citizens for ends of which it does not know the legality. is it a compensatory excess of zeal? in quick succession we are breaking our teeth by procedural defect against the mafiosi, bikers or scum so we fall back on doctors and nurses under the guise of a state of health emergency? at the very least, and for once, it really reminds us of the darkest hours of the last century, to paraphrase philippe couillard.
dystopique
the college of physicians is there to protect the public and police its members in this regard. it also preserves under this pretext "their market" by promoting the shortage by the wall erected in front of the immigrant doctors wishing to work in their profession. better for the common person not to be able to see a doctor than to deal with someone who does not know by heart all the trendy pills here.
in practice, all these doctors are employees of the ministry of health but enjoy the status of independent associate, have no supervision other than another senior doctor administering the strictly medical side of the hospital. the problem of hospitals is one of resource management and it varies from one hospital to another depending on the quality of administrative leadership, as the government has just discovered (duh ...).
in private practice, the general practitioner is not accountable. he fills his appointment calendar and invoices his acts to the government, which to date has only been able to proceed by financial incentive. in the previous government of the doctors of couillard and co., it was very conciliatory, "between colleagues", is not it, with financial incentive and bonus to the key and we see the result.
now accountants look at columns of numbers and see holes and ask questions. i cannot be against, even if it is a diversion from their catastrophic handling of the health crisis, which is another debate.
> he wants to give these names to the leaders of the regional authorities of the
health for them to meet them, but he says he does not know if it is
legal or not.
wow. just .... wow.
it's like donald trump but with passive journalists.
i am of the opinion to bring the doctors back down to earth, but i am also of the opinion that this authoritarian tendency and these pseudo-doxxic practices will have harmful consequences.
i think you are greatly exaggerating. the government is the employer. doctors have enjoyed an exceptional status and an incredible balance of power for decades. we select a handful of students each year who, once they enter the program, are "settled" for life. very high salaries (more than their ontario counterparts!), possibility of incorporating and working for yourself without having to pay for office space, supplies, employees, etc. working conditions can vary from excellent to poor, but isn't that the lot with most jobs?
having said that, i have always received excellent service from the network. on the other hand, if we train doctors at _gros_ price, that we pay at _gros_ price and who want to have a job 3 days a week, sorry but i pick up. any employer would do the same. just because it's not legal doesn't mean it's immoral. i find your comparison really daring.
and yet is it not the government which itself dictates the conditions that lead to failure and then frantically begins to finger it? the remuneration of doctors is the responsibility of the government. ditto for the number of admissions to medical schools or all the constraints that surround private practice. it is quite brazen to blame the doctors in such a context. if quebec doctors earn more than their ontario counterparts while working less, it is not the doctors' fault. it is the fault of the fake asses of the catherine-de-longpré building which dictate the rules of the game from their ivory tower.
and since we are in the customer experience, we cannot speak of excellent services when the government closes emergencies across the province. let's see, it's not just that it takes forever to receive the most basic of care, but it sucks. the hospitals are dilapidated, dirty, practically gloomy with their endless renovations that never end. in front of the emergency room door the flag is in tatters and cigarette butches litter the floor. is it also the fault of the doctors? and it's not to absolve them of everything, but they really are the perfect tree to hide the forest. it would be better for the prime minister to collect the names of the senior leaders of cisss and ciusss rather than those of the doctors who work within the population. believe me, it is enough to open an organization chart to understand that they too are paid at high prices and for not much tangible.
> we select a handful of students each year who, once they enter the program, are "settled" for life.
i will go further and say that the grades are only important for those who come from poor backgrounds. there are several who are clearly dunces and who get their diplomas and their right to practice anyway because they have the right parents.
two things:
first of all, we agree on several points, but i find that you are going very strongly with your comparison to the couillard.
finally, doctors have very powerful unions and lobbies. to say that "it is all the government's fault" is as ridiculous as the other way around. doctors can (and have) hold the public and / or the government hostage. the ceos have their responsibility there, like many other actors in the system, but the doctors know very well their political weight and use it. just seeing how the state treats other healthcare professionals in comparison.
how
and precisely, it is enough to note the little that the government grants to other health professionals. it is far from being an example. they are by far the lowest paid in the country. the more things go, the more health services become a mirage despite the fact that they cost us $ 1b per week. at the end of the day, the person responsible is the one who spends the money, not the one who receives what is owed to him by law. this is why i maintain a healthy skepticism about the government which boasts of having obtained a list of doctors when it does not even know if it can legally use it. it sucks too, at least it doesn't inspire confidence.
cronyism and nepotism go a long way in life. and when it's not enough, if your parents are rich enough, a nice big donation to the university will give a boost.
i really liked this collection. it's been over 10 years since i read it and i still remember some tips:
* * your newspaper ostie * to describe his amazement when his letters are not withheld at le devoir.
* the french foodie praising poutine and the reaction of * sushi suckers *.
* call someone a donut, get a dozen in the mail, and try their hand at calling someone a lobster.
* * women in gold *.
>before moving, i thought my french was pretty ok. like most ontarians, i took french from grade 4 to 9 and then continued my lessons until my first year at mcgill.  
>  
>during my first-ever trip to the tim horton's at the corner of sherbrooke, when the cashier said "bonjour hi," i foolishly responded with "bonjour."  
>  
>if you cannot speak fluent (and i mean fluent) french, do not say bonjour. you're wasting everyone's time and the cashier does not want to hear you struggle through your cute little "est-ce-que je peux avoir... um... un cafe... avec... sugar." just swallow your pride and say "hi" so everyone can get through their day.
calisse, again our ostis of colonized montrealers who do everything to accommodate the blokes of ontario. criss if you want them to learn gotta force them to practice, we don't care if it takes 30 seconds longer to order his osti of tim hortons drum juice.
schwartz: overrated
mcgill > concordia
are you montrealers who are not cuckolds? too many starbucks and office jobs.
nice write-up. it all started with expo'67, really. quebeckers of all stripes discovered the world they had invited and liked it. they sampled foreign food and liked it. ethnic cuisine found a clientele and montreal never looked back. before that there were a couple of french restaurants, and those in the chinatown. and the queen elizabeth's restaurant for very special occasions. there must have been the local eateries on st-laurent, but each kept pretty much to its own. a couple of places on decarie blvd, ruby foo's and di tomaso for the ndg, hampstead and tmr crowds.
i agree with you 100% but if you've never been through a restaurant rush, it's hard to imagine how much you lose your pedagogue spirit when it happens, everything becomes ridiculously frantic. that said, in a shop or in a business where the pace of work remains more or less unchanged throughout a shift, i admit that it is essential to encourage the use of french.
yes, these cuckold hostesses are slowly killing quebec with their attitude of submissive slaves.
all over the world people try to help you in english if you speak english your eyes. i just want to understand me ...
i love your analysis! for many, expo67 put montreal on the map and i find it interesting that it put on the map of many montrealers the other cultures that were represented there.
the girl is not a tourist, she is a resident.
it's a very good thing to replace this shameful propaganda course with something that looks more like us and above all will be much more useful.
a course that will define what a good docile quebecois?
as long as it's not another form of propaganda
it will be another form of even worse propaganda that will sully our heritage with woke delusions and the unbearable hypocrisy of the caq.
why not define the scoring system of a social credit while doing so 🤦🏻‍♂️
if it can be instrumentalized, that's what's going to happen. i would have opted to bring back the home economics course: if you do a course to sell ideological salad, expect your opponents to also have control of the same course later. you might as well learn life skills instead ...
la caq woke ? lol
the whole assembly is in a woke delirium called great reset
eh boy
translation / summary: the amish gathered at the start of the crisis to drink from the same glass to catch disease. people got sick and now they say they are immune. there is no data on this given that they do not take tests because it only has disadvantages to take covid tests (the government that orders to stay at home). they also refuse to go to the hospital (even when they have caught the covid), among other things because they cannot have guests. according to the interviewer, it has been the best year, economically speaking, for them.
based.
full audio show with sonia mabrouk and mathieu bock-côté:
very well expressed. i myself have already drawn the parallel between these two ideologies. for me, wokism is a new form of communism.
ah yes, another member of the community "chooses," who sends real french people to prison like hervé ryssen for having told the truth about their mafia which is not really a religion.
as if socialism is bad. mbc is a big navel.
> as if socialism is something bad. mbc is a big navel.
wokism is 100% shit.
wokism is a term that the conservative right has created to derogate from the word evolution and respect for others. but sorry, the poor white ti of america does not feel awkward when they can not say, scuse, vomit his xenophobic and sexist thoughts and then blame that his freedom of expression has not been respected.
but listen to your mbc, tva pays it well to fill your head with narcissism navel-gazing thoughts. this is the best and the 1% love you!
> word evolution and respect for others
if you call the cancel culture "evolution and respect for others ..." you have a damn problem ...
without being "the conservative right" if you are not able to see bullshit there at the least sacrament, stop taking us for cellars and try to pass yourself off and your religion as perfect when you have it [damn it like that] ( is happening.
evolution and respect for others ... chalice ... or ca? your osti of religion is not capable of respecting "others" because any "other" who thinks not the same as you are is a nazi screeching ... sacrament. it means that we will come back with your definition of "woke" ...
it’s weird, when it’s bad, it gives itself beautiful definitions all the time ... "evolution and respect for others ..." where did you get that definition of mogol? you know, if you ask a nazi, what does "nazi" mean, he won't tell you "it's a genocidal asshole that should eat shit" he too will find a nice definition.
evolution and respect for others ... worse you come to talk about "white ti" worse of "xenophobes and sexisms" there is not a cat osti here who has said nothing about the color of skin or what we a between the two legs. we beat ourselves up. if we beat ourselves up a little less it is osti of mustard eaters who must at all costs talk about skin color and penis. criss that it must be tiring to always think of a big black penis crunch 24/24 ... worse i say that as a woman a little fucked up ... sacrament moves on.
american white does not exist. a quebecer is not an algonquin (yes, some pass for "american whites") who is not a texan who is not an ontarian.
call it woke or not, the phenomenon is very real.
if you talk about cancel culture as being to veil your face against the infamies caused to indigenous populations (for example) or to say to yourself that feminism has caused the end of the culture of the housewife and who no longer makes your sandwich when you want it. i tell myself that you can cry that i will always be there to drink the tears. do not try to play the victim in this story, because by dint of making him upset, ask yourself instead if the hat suits you. if not, then why are you crying? who are you really protecting, your ego? your salty tears taste like sugar to me in this story. :)
religion is a game to wash the mind of placebos thoughts. a movement is not a religion if you don't know what the difference is, i think it's you who is stuck in one.
i like it when you compare wokes to nazis, well done for your godwin point. otherwise you are just proving what i was writing, this term was only created to make people who think about change look bad and those who have an evolutionary thought.
> if you talk about cancel culture as being to veil your face against the infamies caused to indigenous populations (for example) or to say to yourself that feminism has caused the end of the culture of the housewife and who no longer makes your sandwich when you want it
what are you talking about? it has nothing to do with nothing ... you sound exactly like someone shouting bible verses on a street corner not fucking report so much that you are indoctrinated ...
> religion is a game to wash the mind of placebos thoughts. a movement is not a religion if you don't know what the difference is, i think it's you who is stuck in one.
your "movement" is a religion, the little there is plenty of waste that is done worse you are completely blind worse you see nothing but the good worse "of respect for others" worse you think yourself better than the others by this you do samblant not to squeal trans, natives, women, muslims, gays, lesbians, blacks, chinese and ugly fools osti of 900 lbs with a penis to pick up a couple of fucking points ... shouting your bible verses on a street corner with people who are snubbing so much of you bullshit ...
it's a crunch of religion when you are not able to deal with the criticism and you put out your chapter on the natives of fucking nowhere to try to convince yourself that your bullshit is worth it ...
it's a religion when you have to heal the same worse that any "slippage" makes you screech. a doctrine and stupid dogmas that's your religion.
> i like it when you compare the wokes to the nazis, well done for your godwin point. otherwise you are just proving what i was writing, this term was only created to make people who think about change look bad and those who have an evolutionary thought.
again, where do you get this from? i'm talking about your definition of "woke" as being "evolution and respect for others ..." it doesn't come from someone neutral doing it, eh? i said that a nazi doesn't see himself as a bunch of junk either ...
you may try to take yourself for an "evolved" but with evolution comes a critical spirit that you certainly don't have ... a sense of humor and self-deprecation that you certainly don't have, to be capable of. to debate what wokeism kills worse to be able to think for yourself and not go out of business on the natives who have no screeching of report except to take out another verse of your bible.
evolution? truly?
so much prejudice against me is funny. i am more critical than you and seeing how you see a movement as a religion is pathetic. i see that you are turning over everything i say and that you interpret it in your own way. you play the tolerance card by saying that people who seek equality are excessive. cool man, i'm starting to understand you well, the one who was in "the school of life".
but as you keep answering me that means that these people are bothering you because of what exactly, the big 900 lbs with a penis? it's you who lacks critical thinking, not me. a + man i'm done investing my time with you and this topic. ;)
since the person needing the dog's assistance was not with them, i have a hard time understanding the decision of the person court.
discrimination is accepted now so no empathy for them 🖕🏿
it's a mira dog. the owner of an establishment does not have the mandate to determine whether or not someone is disabled enough to need it (this is called a diagnosis). for volunteering for mira for years, i will spare you the crazy stories i have heard and witnessed.
why?
agree in principle, but the disabled person was not present, so as far as i am concerned, the status of the dog changes from guide dog to pet.
i think it's ironic
this is what i just told you; how do you know if someone is disabled or not?
ah ok lol
** authoritarianism is when you want to tell others how to live. **
if you want to force trans pronouns on people and punish them if they refuse, you're a left-wing authoritarian.
if you want to ban pork in school canteens, you're a leftist boss.
if you want to impose the ideology of systemic racism, you are an authoritarian on the left.
while...
if you want to ban abortion, you're a right-wing authoritarian.
if you want to ban gender neutral toilets, you're right-wing authoritarian.
if you want to force jews to eat pork, you're a right-wing authoritarian.
if you're a white supremacist, you're a right-wing authoritarian ...
**most**
if you just want to ban racism, sexism and discrimination or holocaust denial, you're just a good person who knows how to live and who wants a peaceful society.
** the authority prohibits and imposes **
** basically, to not be an authoritarian, you just have to live and let live **
except that doesn't mean that we have the right to do everything ... you can't buy yourself a nuclear bomb or pour chemicals in a lake ...
what this means is that you have to respect what the neighbor does so that he respects what you are doing ** as long as what you are doing is legal ** ... and that when your neighbor makes a illegal act, you let the police and the judges deal with it instead of revenge yourself.
** the government is authoritarian because that's its job **
when we vote, we choose people to carry the authority of the state. they are given the role of authority for 4 years. there is not a society without authority, there is not a society without limit to freedom. well it exists but it's called somalia ...
if the government exaggerates, it is replaced after 4 years at the next election.
jordan peterson has often been accused of being a racist and sexist villain of the far right, but in reality he only opposes leftist authoritarianism.
he tried to warn us. he is fighting for freedom of expression! but despite everything, the government still adopted bill c-16 (making it illegal to use one pronoun rather than another) ...
"but if left-wing authoritarianism has been in the blind spot of psychology for so long, how is it coming out of it now?
in fact, says philippe, “this debate has existed for a long time. but it's just that we didn't have hard evidence of the existence of authoritarianism among the progressives ”. partly because the tests were biased, and perhaps also because the radical left was not as visible on campuses at one time.
"i think we see articles like that appear because we are starting to notice the violence and authoritarianism that comes from the left," said philippe. we have more striking examples than 20 or 30 years ago. we see left-wing students who will put the name and personal address of a teacher with whom they do not agree on social networks, who will lecture their teacher in full class, and we do it. saw with what happened at uottawa [where a professor was suspended after a student denounced her on twitter for using the word nigger in a class about words offensive to certain bands] . we are not in democracy, we are not in inclusion, we are in authoritarianism, just like the right. " "
> mr altemeyer himself said: “i have yet to find a single socialist / communist who has scored high on [his scale]. the authoritarian personality of the left is as rare as the teeth in a hen's beak. "
could this guy say that kind of nonsense without letting out a smirk? forget it, he's not a researcher, he's the greatest actor of all time! here is a beautiful demonstration of the danger represented by left activists within academia.
the left shout their hatred of the ultra-rich, but they follow the ultra-rich like gurus and demand more technocracy, more authotitarianism ... the left is simply deeply hypocritical.
an elegant, intelligent, fair and precise commentary.
bravo.
the mere presence of an authority is not authoritarianism. authoritarianism is when authority tolerates neither dissent nor questioning, and recognizes no limit to its action.
an authoritarian personality is precisely one who refuses to accept that people can act differently from his preference, contrary to his ethical or moral sense. a religious who wants to criminalize behavior that goes against his religion just as much as the atheist who wants to tax churches in the hope of pushing them into bankruptcy and harassing preachers because they convey messages contrary to his beliefs are just as bossy because they cannot tolerate people choosing different lifestyles and will do anything to force them to change their behavior.
> what that means is that you have to respect what the neighbor does so that he respects what you do as long as what you do is legal ... and that, when your neighbor does an illegal act, you let the police and the judges take care of it instead of revenge yourself.
> 
> the government is authoritarian because that's its job
it seems to me that there is a certain confusion between authoritarianism and the monopoly of violence.
the job of a government is to run the country, not to run people's lives, what they say, what they wear, what they do to support themselves. the constitution exists to limit the government, not the people.
>
if the government exaggerates, it is replaced after 4 years at the next election
in any case, the liberals exaggerated en masse and the populace still kept him in power for 15 years.
he is opposed to any authoritarianism to tell the truth.
i told myself the same thing.
we live in a cartoon.
yes quite
for the first time, cormier-denis saturday on october 23, 2021 will take place directly on the nomos-tv.com site at 4 p.m. (10 p.m. in western europe), which will bypass gafam censorship.
it is not necessary to subscribe at the moment, but the access will become chargeable from december (minimum amount of 5 cad per month, more if possible).
the site is still under construction, but it is possible to play the videos in the background, which is a plus compared to youtube.
the live link: [ danemark(
alexis cossette-trudel is no more censored ...
i hope they will keep the saturday live free otherwise i think they are really shooting each other in the foot unfortunately. they do a job of immense quality, but to attract new people it would be difficult.
cossette-trudel still has access to paypal.
this is the new gimmick of anglo supremacists, use the mohawks to shit on pure wool.
very interesting. it seems to me that this argument was published here in the last days. the author may be with us, who knows!
it is true that it is weird, that it is "mtl not ceded" when it is literally the territory which has had the least contact by the natives of quebec, the anglo-liberal liberals who want mtl to remain in the federation in the case of an independent quebec are those who defend the most this absurdity, it seems to be it is to remove more and more the quebecitude of mtl.
a bit like balarama with his plan to make mtl a bilingual city.
"the canadian charter of 1982 and the courts did not retain this treaty of alliance. it nevertheless provided a vision of the territory where the french settlers rightly occupied the laurentian valley, which seems to confirm the few enclaves of domiciled people. autochthones (the villages of the region of quebec, trois-rivières and montreal). "
in fact, is canada wanting to impose the theory of unceded territory on us? if we consider that quebecers of french-canadian descent would have been conquered, subject to the authority and reorganization of treaties (which happened), then all the territories negotiated by the french (except those of the mohawks) have been invalidated?
the local equivalent of these lobbies (english plural of an english word) is not as influential. “they” do not directly control our media, for example. this delay is explained by the fact that before the quiet revolution here they sided with the english power where they slowly built their influence despite the mistrust towards them.
it is only with the francophone maghrebi immigration that french speaking co-religionists, therefore with a possibility of infiltration, began to arrive here in numbers. but the enmity between sephardic and askenazi resulting from the mistreatment of the former by the latter in israel stood in the way of any coordinated action for some time.
during the last government of the parti quebecois separatist, however, a certain abitbol had acquired the position of responsible for relations with ethnic communities. the leader of the most influential jewish lobby in quebec is a certain david ouellet, of quebec father and israeli mother. his father was a scholar who learned hebrew for his research in the "holy land". gerber, a local askenaze millionaire married a quebecer and gives his opinion, predictably, on our affairs from time to time.
a few influential quebec intellectuals were co-opted to control perceptions and published approved accounts of the jewish adventure in french canada, the main one being pierre anctil of the university of ottawa. an aunt of denise bombardier worked all her life for jewish textile bosses in montreal and spoke a little yiddish, creating the root of a favorable prejudice in the columnist and writer. she now appears to be surrounded by jewish friends. another columnist ran one of their fashion magazine here and for a time converted to judaism. mathieu bock-côté has made his home in france not only because of his talent but also thanks to his friendship with alain finkielkraut.
their influence was therefore such even around 1990 that a speech by pierre péladeau, founder of the quebecor empire, before a chamber of commerce in which he cited as an example the solidarity of the community earned him a concert of accusations of anti-semitism. in the french-speaking press. the stupidity was taken to the absurd point of accusations of nazi sympathies because of his love of bethoven's music.
the mere publication here of this relatively objective inventory will probably earn me the usual accusations of anti-semitism.
edict: mbc would still be in a relationship with his first wife.
if there is one country that is clearly under great jewish influence, it is the united states. little reading suggestion:
[
for france, yes there are a lot of jewish media figures, but israel does not control their politics as tightly as the united states. at the time of saddam there was still a lot of collaboration between france and the iraqi regime, which was the sworn enemy of israel. france was selling civilian nuclear weapons and reactors to iraq, which israel was quick to bombard:
[
censorship is serious, but not as serious as fully capturing the conduct of a country's geopolitics. if the jews would control french politics as much as that of the united states, france would never have collaborated with saddam's iraq and would have joined the coalition in 2003.
i have never heard of, seen or witnessed this type of reality anywhere in north america. it is a purely european debate.
mbc's wife is a jewish israelite? he would have to inform his wife from montreal then.
> mathieu bock-côté, who made his nest in france not only because of his talent but also thanks to his friendship with alain finkielkraut, now has a parisian israeli spouse
isn't that karima brikh his wife? i don't think she's jewish, on the internet it says her father is algerian and her mother from quebec.
no jewish power in the usa or canada? let's just talk about the united states: aipac, adl, jef besoz who bought the washington post, zuckerberg, the boss of twitter, biden's cabinet. hollywood. not to see does not mean that there is not.
he first had a young quebecer, then i saw that he had this news. i imagine she travels with him? but hey, it seems to be docked in paris for the duration these days.
the radio-canada site in an article from 2016 tells me that they met in 2011. i look at more photos and i too would still be with her ...
there is no semitic debate in north america like there is in europe.
do you have a credible source?
because his wife retweeted an article yesterday about mbc, so it seems like bullshit your story.
of debate? no, indeed. the real boss is the one who cannot be criticized.
well thank you for informing me of my mistake.
so some kind of jewish conspiracy would control us?
let's say some of them are extremely well positioned to advance their agenda, starting with the rotschilds, whose funds control the bank for international settlements in basel, switzerland, the central bank of central banks. amsterdam's jewish bankers funded olivier cromwell's seizure of power in england and he rewarded them giving them the city of london, a legal entity similar to the vatican. wall street has become an annex (goldman sachs and the others). jacob schiff funded lenin in 1917. the zionist movement extended wwi for two years by bringing the us into that war in exchange for the balfour declaration for the creation of israel, which was finally made in 1947. hilary clinton's mentor was saul alinsky. and years on. the "frankfurt school" which founded modern sociology, as now taught. the zundel trial in canada in the 1970s. to name just that.
the left loses the center
> moreover, ms. dubé deplores that this teaching program seems to have been carved from scratch "by politics", which is "incompatible" with the rigorous approach normally put forward when creating teaching programs. , she says.
so she should be happy to withdraw from the ecr course, right? oh wait, she loves education to be "politically carved out of pieces" but only when her politics decide.
"teacher sabrina jafralie, known for having advocated censorship of books containing the word 'nigger', also sees the abolition of this course as a nationalist victory."
ecr must be deleted
the * bugs * mute for 18 months reactivate when ** their ** little world is jostled. take a good look at the post-pandemic world: it's only just beginning to emerge from the earth and some already have microphones and cameras immediately.
well no, it's not politics to say that there are more than two sexes or that islam is a religion of peace. it is the truth ... because it is i who say it.
/s
yes and it shows. inversion of values, decadence, sacralization of atheistic materialism, cult of ugliness, etc ... quebec is dying slowly and too many of us like to masturbate in the stupidest arguments of the new atheism. we often deride our motto with a certain lightness, but in this case i believe that there is reason to have a real questioning. what should we be so ashamed of about our pious and fruitful past? is there a future for atheistic quebec?
quebecers absolutely want to keep their language, but they seem completely indifferent to what that language expresses. the faith that is expressed in our language has been replaced by the obsession with the language itself.
at the end of its life, the union nationale opposed many of the language laws imposed by the parti québécois. they agreed that french was the national language of quebec, but it was just not as important to them as all the other elements of quebec culture. there's a line from one of their election platforms in the 1970s that said something like "french is our language, but it's just a way to express ourselves." the implication was that for a language to be useful it had to have something to express.
i am beginning to understand their position. because language is a tool, it can be used to express the meanest trash, and as long as it's in french, you don't seem to care. we just accept it as part of our culture.
we talk, but we don't say anything, except for the fact that we are saying something. we might as well be silent, and our heritage might as well be dead. i pray for the lost souls of this province.
we have a rather bizarre relationship with christianity because of our history, but most quebecers do not understand how it is an important foundation of our culture and the values of our people.
in my opinion, anti-spiritualism is a problem. exercising moderate spiritualism and embracing our collective metaphysical values would probably be better than living in the eternal nihilism of post-modernism. without being a theocratic or religious society, it is a central aspect of the identity of a civilization and if we do not have ours, others will impose theirs on us.
there is nothing wrong with being a moderate christian like the majority of our ancestors were. be charitable. be a good neighbor. to forgive. take care of your family. not be an osti of a hedonistic degenerate and respect others. there is nothing in there that is dangerous.
personally, religion ... not capable ... whatever religion it wants, i'm just not capable, it comes in through one ear, it goes through my brain and i have the impression that half of my brain bursts before it comes out the other ...
going to waste one of my days off watching a guy in a jacket tell me that all the fun in my life makes me go and get fucked by the devil in hell. . it can eat its tank of mard just a little bit.
worse there is the world just talking about this ... they try to tell you bullshit so that you "understand" and the more they come out the more it makes me want to sacrifice babies for satan. just because it sounds more fun ...
the "jesus loves you" chalice ... if he loved me that much he would squeal my patience because he's like an ex who doesn't want to loosen up (literally) and he gets on my nerves ...
just not able.
consciousness in us is his god. consciousness !
why celebrate a statue and ancient dogmas?
grab magic mushrooms while camping esti instead of going to church lol
holy based-a-roni
i am trying to find a link in your unfounded text between religion and the french language. i can't find any. you can save your prayers for the religious who killed indigenous children for their gods
to add to your point, quebeckers and i include myself in it are particularly ignorant of christianity. for decades a work of undermining has been carried out which has completely dispossessed us of all religious heritage. dogmas, prayers, feasts, processions, even the holy scriptures, we simply do not know and understand nothing of these millennial traditions. it is therefore all the more distressing to see our own people wallowing in moral superiority by wiping their feet on our history when their understanding of it is superficial at best.
you don't seem to really understand what religion is, nor to be able to tell the difference between the religious institution and the religion itself. you don't seem to know the difference between a healthy relationship with religion and fundamentalism.
you just don't seem to know anything about religion, i understand you hate it if you catch up on netflix and reddit.
i invite you to inquire because as nature abhors a vacuum, our propensity to have religious beliefs is not exclusively dedicated to the great organized religions or to properly identified sectarian movements and it will not go away because 'we reject traditional organized religion.
religion is not, as is presumed, just a product of the undereducated generations of past generations.
i'm telling you this, i'm not religious, it's just that you throw the baby out with the bathwater, and clearly out of ignorance.
cheerios friends.
> i am trying to find a link in your unfounded text between religion and the french language
what i wanted to say is that a culture which is defined mainly by its language has nothing to say, which is why it chooses to define itself by the way it says things rather than by the things that it does. 'she says. at one time, this form of expression consisted of saying the prayers given to us by the blessed mother the church. as its influence erodes, and people leave the small towns in the countryside, we find that there is hardly anything that is both valid and distinctly quebecois.
the nationalism that lévesque, parizeau and bouchard gave us has no expression, only a means of expression. it's like they've wrapped a christmas present nicely with nothing inside. so we leave the gift where it is, making sure no one touches it, and we insist again and again that this empty gift belongs to us, and no one else.
> you can keep your prayers for the religious who killed indigenous children for their gods
if you think genocide is purely religious, you're a jerk.
damn your thick, keep swallowing the cheap twitter propaganda.
ps: there is no greater killing of native children than their own parents, and the natives are bcq more christian than the whites, go get into a reserve with your hateful speech against christianity we'll see if you don't do it beaten up by the own natives, typical ignorant white left.
it's true. there is a big problem too. religious institutions are easily confused with religion. but christianity is not the vatican. it's not the pensionat. that's not what a pastor said to do.
there are rituals, believers and dogmea, but you don't need to be controlled by someone else to be a good christian.
a king can still eat a pawn, but the pawn has control over his soul.
very largely religious.
man has used religion to do his dirty work since the beginning of time.
so whether he is puppet or not; they committed the act and they bear the blame.
this is wrong, the greatest genocides in history were committed by atheists. yes, there have been religious genocides. but it is not proportionately representative to realize it to associate it with religion.
and if it's not religion, it's politics. and if it's not politics, it's culture. or the race. or colonialism. or a number of other things.
you are not taking stock of religion. you take stock of the fallen nature of man.
as a result
this means that all your communications on truth social, due to chinese law, must go through a server operated by the chinese government.
this is the reason why facebook is banned in china, because zuckerberg refuses to pass its data traffic through chinese communist party servers.
it's a bit ironic that his site is administered in china when they wanted to ban tik tok
he teaches law and he is not screwed to know (or does not dare to say it) that the obligation to cede the lands in an explicit treaty comes from the royal proclamation of 1763 and that quebec having been colonized before, this obligation was not applicable.
moreover, to be on "unceded" land, someone must have been able to cede it. it would seem that the lands of the st.lawrence valley were not under the exclusive possession of any nation, several nations competing for these lands (hurons, iroquois, algonquins, etc.) as hunting grounds at the time. of the arrival of the french.
when a state takes possession of land, colonizes it and imposes its law on it, and the other states around it sign a peace treaty, then those states abandon their claims to those lands and recognize the sovereignty of the state that owns it over those lands. -this. it is the basis of international relations before the introduction of the league of nations, they are not just eurocentric standards as some claim, all the nations of the earth have operated on this principle for millennia, because it is the only way to do it that makes sense.
in short, by the great peace of montreal, all the signatories mutually recognized the territorial possessions of the other signatories and their rights over these lands, which includes the french and the territories they inhabited and controlled.
in addition, it is really not strong of him to defend this lie by reminding repeatedly that the message has no political or legal ramifications. "yes, i say it, but not really in the end, it's just custard."
porridge for cats. and this man teaches law at udem. to hear him, one would think that quebec was populated by millions of indigenous people who could be found everywhere. we know it was not.
at least the author respects us by admitting to us that he knows very well that this is all a circus, first-class hogwash:
> whether the mohawks occupied the territory of montreal or not; whether they are descendants of the st. lawrence iroquoians or not; that the territory was rather occupied by the anishinabeg; it does not really matter for the declarations of territorial recognition made in 2021. these declarations are a mark of recognition and respect for all indigenous peoples. the mohawk nation is generally mentioned since, although it would not have been here in 1642, it is there today and has been there for at least 500 years, well before the creation of the canadiens hockey club.
i am you the only one who still understands the concept of being conquered means that your lost
he finds the way to delegitimize quebec because here there have been no paper treaties in the european way as in the rest of canada. we could examine the legitimacy of these treaties signed in the roc, if they were honorably respected ...
before the conquest, treaties were made between amerindians and french and they were honored, sometimes at the cost of blood. what was the great peace of 1701, if not an amerindian-style treaty with a continental scope?
does this gentleman have the sources of his words? i would like to believe it, but his words go against the historical consensus and the archaeological evidence found so far, among other things the desire to establish a colony when the primary motive was purely commercial long before the establishment. of a colony (with the agreement of the first nations).
if one is based on the royal proclamation, all the territory of the valley of the st-laurent is clearly identified as being the "province of quebec", therefore no cession is necessary on this part of the territory. same thing for the territory of "rupert land", so there would be only one band between the two where the land cession requirement applies. whatever i imagine lawyers are capable of making it all a million times more complicated.
i have a question for you to which i have not had a clear answer.
if we consider that the agreements between first nations (excluding the mohawks) with new france were invalidated following the english conquest of 1763, then not renegotiated, then the discourse of unceded territory would be true?
this is hogwash. he pours out the same moldy argument as that of the vp of the youth wing of the plc, namely that the truth is not so important. both say it in black and white.
i do not think so, because the treaty of paris specifies that all the rights of the king of france go to the british king, and moreover, the need to obtain the cession of the territories in the royal proclamation explicitly excludes the province of quebec.
and if we put ourselves from the point of view of the british authorities, the pacification of the first nations following the conquest is a recognition of british sovereignty over the territory.
so the lands currently ceded would be those granted during the years of new france?
the goal of canadian-style multiculturalism is to reduce quebec culture to "one culture among many." trudeau sabotaged canada in the name of the fight against quebec nationalism.
there are some truths that we cannot hide ...
it's all well and good to say that multiculturalism is wrong because many ethnic groups and cultures hate each other to the point of going into civil war, only prevents the closure of borders and rigid laws such as dismissing women. veiled who refuses to remove the veil, that will push quebecers to become really racist like the nazis and he risks having deaths among the minority because of extremist group. the human race is too stupid to use true authoritarian power without succumbing to corruption even though that would be said to be the only way to protect the country. frankly, it's been a while since for me countries and borders have no longer any value. it's just a geographical delimitation to better find your way around the world. digital air has literally broken borders.
i would say that trudeau sabotaged "the canadas" in the name of "canada" he wanted to create. both nationalisms suffered, french canadian and english.
so would you be okay with us joining the united states as an american state? borders are useless after all.
multiculturalism is the extremist.
[here is the press release] ( in its entirety and in its original language. unsurprisingly, it's a bunch of whines and nonsense typical of these outlaws. the silliest thing, however, is that [the land claims] ( of the kahnawake mohawk council are common knowledge. this is of course the territory of the seigneury of sault saint-louis [shown here] ( by the council using google maps. however, if the land claims of the mohawks of kahnawake are based on legal titles from new france, obviously it is not their ancestral territory and they are not the first occupants. hold on tight because it's shocking, but it looks like the mohawks of kahnawake are from the mohawk village of [kahnawake] (
 this village would even be located in, hold on tight, the town of [mohawk] ( in the state of new york. incredible, right?
the mohawks have just rekindled a wrong fire.
if the mohawks want to convince us that it would be a good idea to give them more land, maybe they should start to cleverly manage the one they already have? do we need more illegal dumps? more casino verreux? more trafficking in weapons, drugs, tobacco? more pot micro-dusters and cigarette shacks? i do not think so.
the mohawks have a big lack of basic citizenship, fortunately they are by far the worst among the amerindian tribes of quebec.
as long as we don't replace that with a [crt] court (
will the new course on quebec culture be less indoctrinating? i have doubts. the politicization of education, i'm in the middle of it (the university department where i work is undergoing more and more ideological invasion).
let children be given the choice between nationalism or multiculturalism without imposing one or the other on them.
don't give me a heart attack.
as if printing money as they did to "get out" of the financial crash in the spring of 2020 had consequences ...
"everything has increased"
except salaries.
he is or the dude who said, 1 or 2 months ago, no problem we have the money printing machine
this is what happens when you blow up deficits to buy votes (trudeau). the bank of canada prints a phenomenal amount of money to finance these expenses.
that is why i am against the carbon tax. it was a good idea until we understood that the lower classes suffer the most because gasoline (transport) is a necessity before being recreational.
move around, move around. nothing to see here.
it is mainly the ipc because of the cost of the measures, but we are never going to accept the reason and we will just pay and live in denial.
in this thread: people with no idea of economics think printing banknotes influences the amount of money in circulation
in ottawa
i am not an expert in economics, but they will not leave the tickets lying around in the dust right?
the banknotes represent less than one percent of the real money in circulation, which is generated by interest on digital money. printing more just increases the percentage of digital money with a material counterpart but does not influence the economy.
can someone tell me with a smart answer, what percentage the vaccine decreases transmission.
in the sense that .. if i have the covid and i am not vaccinated, what is my percentage of transmission, compared to if i am vaccinated ...
thank you
i have a 5 year old and i will not get her vaccinated against covid, even if she has all of her other vaccines. not right away anyway. the data is not large enough for this age group. i had a reaction to the vaccine and i don't want her to have heart problems too. especially at 5 years old i am sure that she would be unable to tell me that she is in pain. recently she had pneumonia, she didn't feel but said she was okay and it hurt nowhere. she didn't have a fever, nothing, she just made cough and choke at night (i had to hold her upright so she could breathe). imagine if she has a pain in her heart, she will feel nothing and we will see nothing ... and at 5 years old she will not be able to tell me if she is in pain anywhere.
i'm sure not everyone understands that, having doubts and not wanting to harm their child.
if the data goes in the right direction several months from now, maybe ...
anyone who hasn't become a government computer program in the past 18 months would instantly tell you no, no way, you have to be delayed.
the majority are programs, we write a line of code, we press enter, the media propagates it, and the programs exactly execute the line of code, so i don't have any surprises anymore.
at the restaurant, put on your mask when you walk from your table to the toilet, but not the 3 hours that you spend laughing at the table, talking loudly, changing, french whoever you want, but dare not stand up without a mask , covid is waiting for that.
as logical as:
children, only one death between 0-19 years in 18 months of pandemic, he was 19, so none of them (apart from very rare exceptions, but a society is founded on the majority and not on the exceptions , that's democracy) so we make them take a risk for others for sure. between grandma and a child, i apologize a thousand times i love you gm but it's you who jumps down the cliff.
we have seen with the vaccine astrazeneca banned in canada, moderna in iceland, denmark, norway, etc ... that we are bullshit to believe that vaccines are safe and effective lol ... 3rd vaccine in 1 year soon ... i have never had 3 meningitis vaccines ...
the 5-11 year olds and even the 0-4 year olds are in the sights of the caq.
yet the chances of a healthy teenager being hospitalized as a result of covid appear to be lower than the chances of developing heart problems associated with vaccines.
yes.
why did i receive a negativote! ?? /:
in fact, there is the possibility that the vaccinated are in fact more contagious, because the vaccinated would select more contagious variants, while the unvaccinated would have the contagion attenuated, since they have a greater chance of transmitting the original disease less. contagious.
as the vaccinees would select for new variants, there is more contagion and this would help to increase the variations of the circulating disease.
if we look at the stats published daily by quebec, we see an 85% decrease in the chances of being infected, and therefore of retransmitting the virus.
in terms of the viral load of a vaccinated vs unvaccinated person, some studies suggest that the initial viral load is the same, but not all. it's not exactly clear the difference in the level of contagion. one thing that has been shown by count is that the vaccinated person remains contagious for a shorter period of time due to the fact that they clear the virus more quickly.
it seems to me that it was around 4x less
yes.
because there is no convincing%
and trump's account [it's already hacked] ( ...
this is normal, they are hosted by epik hosting ...
[epik who got hacked about 10,000 times] ( ...
epik is the same incompetent guy who hosted atm before hackers stole 100% of its "encrypted" content and spread it on the internet ...
go over gettr ..... the art of pitching your allies under the bus.
i imagine all those kicked out of social media for various reasons will migrate to this platform. results? facebook and twitter will become more and more woke in the absence of resistance, and any other alternative will henceforth be held by a very virulent right which will not offer better to ordinary people.
let's keep our fingers crossed that truth social destroys each other with facebook.
governments must imperatively develop sovereign internet spaces. three american companies handle the majority of communications throughout the west. democracy finds itself overthrown.
it is so obvious that it is an unreliable application, a little elaborate site, very uncluttered. like gab, lots of glitches / bugs / hacks can be found from day one as if by design, the site was made to steal information from people registering on this site.
in fbi parlance, it's called a honeypot.
> i imagine that all those kicked out of social media for various reasons will migrate to this platform. results? facebook and twitter will become more and more woke in the absence of resistance, and any other alternative will henceforth be held by a very virulent right which will not offer better to ordinary people.
it's going to keep everyone on their side and reinforce their collective bullshit in echo chambers ... when we want to prevent the world from saying what they want it to be true or not, instead of debating it , it gives closed communities where the most fucked up get together ...
it's already done in the communities involved in video games if we want an example: resetera ... hyper woke, it takes personal data to have an account so that they can hold you "responsible for violence" if you say that a woman with a penis is not a woman ... when a kotaku type bullshit speaks of "lack of blacks in witcher 3" or protests against the fact that mario is not gay, it often starts from there. .. this is the 4chan for those who want everything gaming to be an 800 lbs gay transgender black islamist down syndrome in the name of "diversity"
entk, it just reinforces the bullshit in the head of the osti of fuckées ...
> facebook and twitter will become more and more woke in the absence of resistance
this one, you have to work it out a bit.
tas 12 years old is not possible
in fact, they just put a "skin" on the free and "open source" app called "[social mastodon] (
this fact [has been confirmed by the creator] ( of mastodon social ...
except that the terms and conditions of social mastodon do not allow to do what trump did with ... in fact, trump will be obliged to publish and make available the source code of his site, such as the mastodon open source license. obligatory.
if trump's social network is shutting down, it's probably because he was sued by the authors of mastodon for breach of the user license.
it also means that trump didn't really spend any money on his site except for cosmetic touches.
speaking of which, resetera was being watched by the us congress as an agent of radicalization. i don't know if this is still the case today.
there was a clash of the two clans on the same social networks. without this confrontation, social networks will become increasingly important echo chambers, leaving the silent majority from which we are suffering considerably. u / keres666 explains it well.
ta doose i ses pau peauussi
> except that the terms and conditions of social mastodon do not allow to do what trump did with ...
>  
> if trump's social network closes, it is probably because he was sued by the authors of mastodon for breach of the user license.
wow, looks like i can predict the future ...
​ [
i can only take your words on this, as i avoid social media like the ~~ plague ~~ covid-19 (aside from my comments on reddit and imgur).
however, i am confused about the clans named here.
the moronic right, the neo-fascists, the white supremacists, the terrorists, i recognize them quite easily. subtlety is not their thing.
on the other hand, the "woke" loses me a little? from what i've read, to be "woke" means "to be alert to racial prejudice and discrimination".
exactly
wokism, see it as the extreme left. the far-right and the far-left are taking up more and more space, and now that they will no longer be able to confront each other directly, the silent majority will be fooled.
> to be "woke" means "to be alert to racial prejudice and discrimination".
this is the definition that a woke gives himself ... himself ... for a terrorist him is generally not a terrorist, he is a "god warrior" or something like that ... in his head he does his wrong for the good ... the good of his religion, his country etc ...
a "woke" for the normal world, it's as if you take that "being alert to racial prejudice and discrimination" but which makes it an inquisitionist religion where they are looking for "heretics" who have ideas even just a little different from theirs and tortures them in order to eliminate them , de facto views etc ...)
worse when i say "just a little different" i'm not talking "must kill fifs" vs. "the gays are normal" ... you just say that your aunt does not see this, two guys who try to make themselves vomit with their tongues and eat their faces ... and a woke will tell you that "you're just a dirty nazi crisse"
a "woke" does all this to feel better or to feel better than the others ... a "woke" is the worst kind of person that exists ... he scolds blacks or women or gays that he thinks incapable of defending himself without him ... a gang of weak minorities who need his help!
a woke changes his mind as he changes his underwear too, but always for the worse, he thinks that mike ward's joke on jeremy was screeching good, except that he must be hypocritical psq jeremy is a "victim" ... often it takes about 30 seconds before hypocrisy sets in with a woke ... he "liked" something 2 days ago but in the meantime he learned that the affair he loved has become transphobic because of a message on twitter dating from 2015.
the woke has the same screeches of faults as "the stupid right, the neo-fascists, the white supremacists, the terrorists" except that his bullshit is so far to the left that it joins the right at a given moment, if you don't think exactly like him, you're a nazi, a bad time worse you deserve the "consequences".
what do you see as a solution to this rise of extremists? i admit not having an answer to present.
ah, speaking of the wolf!
hello u / keres666, u / versat1l was just talking about you. in good, i assure you.
> you just say that your aunt does not see this, two guys who try to make themselves vomit with their tongues and eat their faces ... and a woke will tell you that "you are just a dirty nazi crisse "
this is a very specific example. i hope that didn't happen to you.
> he "liked" something 2 days ago but in the meantime he learned that the affair he loved has become transphobic because of a twitter message dating from 2015.
bill cosby was my favorite comedian for much of my childhood and teenage years. i listened to the cosby show, i had tapes of his comedy shows ... since i learned what kind of human he really is, i stopped listening to him. people can change their mind when they learn something new. it's normal.
> the woke has the same creaks of faults as "the moronic right, the neo-fascists, the white supremacists, the terrorists"
bof, the "both sides" never convinced me. in charlottesville, north carolina, there was a fascist right-wing protest and a counter-protest. one of these white supremacists rolled into the counter-demonstrators with his car, killing a young woman and dragging her body for several meters.
but i agree with you that the extremists, the violent and the ultra-radical, it is rotten regardless of the political ideal defended. it destroys the debate.
the first thing was the clash of the two clans, now it's just going to get worse
> this is a very specific example. i hope that didn't happen to you.
no but the idea is that if your steps 100% with a woke, you are an enemy. i took two gays as an example, even if i think they can do whatever they want, it's not sure ... if it doesn't mean aunt me to see a bdsm parade, for a woke, it's of nazism.
another example, if i see a black man being pulled over by the police, if my reaction is to try to find out why and to have a context and worse of the info before i get an idea, worse than that is not immediately shouting at the police officer "eille crisse de pig du pig, nothing is done by a racist" i am a nazi psq the first thing that comes to mind is not "racism!" but "i wanted to know what happened"
for a woke, the context does not exist. we must immediately jump to the most fucked up conclusions.
> bill cosby was my favorite comedian for much of my childhood and teenage years. i listened to the cosby show, i had tapes of his comedy shows ... since i learned what kind of human he really is, i stopped listening to him. people can change their mind when they learn something new. it's normal.
it's worse than that for a woke ... it could be a 10 year old tweet that was just a joke (kevin hart, james gunn) or just [not being really lesbian] ( dc / news / batwoman-ruby-rose-not-lesbian-enough-backlash-gender-fluid /) it could be for bullshit hosts too ... like the black representation in a game based on [polish medieval mythology] (
it changes super fast too, as if they scold themselves about what they claim to defend and just want to show others how they are "better people" [as guy nantel explains.] ( // youtu .be / 3cjq0kno1zi? t = 224)
> okay, the "both sides" never convinced me. in charlottesville, north carolina, there was a fascist right-wing protest and a counter-protest. one of these white supremacists rolled into the counter-demonstrators with his car, killing a young woman and dragging her body for several meters.
i'm not saying that they are not fucked up too, but that's a patient who decided to do this ... but when we talk about cancel culture, worse that its organized in a group to ruin someone ... scuse but i think it's worse just because it's a personal attack by a gang of people who think it's a good idea, not just a crazy screech ...
lately (and that's just because it's pretty cool, there have been other cases, including a [game developer who also committed suicide] ( 590091-night-in-the-woods-alec-holowka-died-sister) after false accusations and being "canceled") dave chappelle in his last netflix show talks about a transgender woman who was his friend, she understood that jokes are jokes ... she defended it online, but the wokes beat it up. they pushed her to commit suicide too ... by doxxing and harassing her ...
i think it's worse than taking in a tank and picking up someone at random ... by what they torture the people they attack before and push them to commit suicide ... calvary ...
> but i agree with you that the extremists, the violent and the ultra-radical, it is rotten regardless of the political ideal defended. it destroys the debate.
this is also a woke, it wants to know nothing of a debate ... it is he who is right and let you talk "it's dangerous" and "it's violence" ... if you do not think exactly like him, it gives nothing to talk about ... you are just stupid and farme ta yeulle the "racist / sexist / homophobic / transphobic / islamophobic / etc ..."
this is pork kidney!
/goodbye
what i'm going to say is boring, but there is nothing unfair about this redistribution. if quebecers have a problem with that, there are two solutions:
1. make babies
2. independence
if you don't want to do either, don't complain.
we are not following minister lebel. the quebec deputation will go from 78 out of 338 to 77 out of 342. our representation will therefore go from minority to very slightly more minority. and then? do you join this country of the initiative of the century and of unbridled migratory growth? so assume. it's all the more funny to see a former prosecutor affirm that quebec enjoys a particular status in terms of representation. but no, obviously. we have a minimum number of deputies stipulated in the constitution like all the other provinces and that is it.
either we accept mass immigration that votes for the liberals or otherwise we lose our demographic weight within the federation, faque these the same thing in both cases, little by little we disappear.
exactly, we accept our fate that quebec loses representation or that we choose independence, we must stop crying injustice.
what is interesting about the changes of seats is that we see one of the rare somewhat concrete political manifestations of our minority in the regime. it should concern all french canadians in the country. that's 1 seat less for french canadians as a whole, and the rest for anglos.
i am cynical and i believe trudeau will give a little treat on this issue. it would be a perfect ottawa maneuver: legault can present himself as a savior, the effective minorization remains and a good part of the people will be fooled.
at the same time, it presupposes that all the seats in quebec are french canadian, an eventuality that never materialized and whose window of opportunity is narrowing day by day. we want to save the furniture while the house is on fire. going from 23% to 22.5% of the deputation is practically insignificant. to tolerate being placed in a minority in one's own national home, on the other hand, is irreparable and this is what is happening before our eyes.
current federalism is just shoveling ahead. the problems are known, the solutions exist on both sides, but the political class chooses the status quo, which actually benefits a handful.
nothing prevents the federal government from fighting body and soul to promote and demand french across the country, from requiring the provinces to fund french-language educational institutions across the country equal to what we are doing here with our so oppressed minority, etc. nothing prevents ottawa except the people who sit there, for whom it just doesn't matter.
and nothing prevents quebec from leaving and doing its business. we are caught in a small gutter between two possible histories where we vegetate while flattering our ego with fine speeches and great laws that will protect us, without however wanting to leave this debilitating well and really choose a path of history.
i think bock-côté is right. that legault would have the political capital to achieve independence. in a way it seems to me that most quebecers just expect a "chef" to decide for them. a minority get bogged down in endless intellectual debates, yet the majority of the people would most likely follow independence if that was what was decided. besides, the beginning of legault's speech yesterday smacked strongly of bourrassa.
> i am convinced that quebecers do not want us to go back to where we were before the pandemic. they want us to consolidate the advances we have made. they want us to fix what is broken, to renovate what is worn and above all, to seize the exceptional opportunities that present themselves before us.
> in my 2018 opening speech, i said that our adversary was fear. the fear of change, the fear of failure.
> after everything we've managed to do, i think the fear is largely gone.
but the danger that awaits us now is the temptation to stand still, resignation and inaction.
> i am convinced that if we put aside this temptation and put ourselves into action, nothing can stop quebec.
> to paraphrase president kennedy, instead of asking ourselves what quebec can do for us, let's ask ourselves what we can do for quebec. and, by adding the goodwill of 8,600,000 quebecers, we can do a lot!
> the battle of our lives, this long battle that we have fought against the virus, is not yet over. we will have to remain vigilant, and exercise caution and foresight. but i am more confident than ever since the start of the pandemic that the worst is behind us.
> and i am convinced that it is time for quebec to project itself into the future.
it can be interpreted in different ways. only time will tell.
a caisse populaire manager in a health emergency will become a caisse populaire manager again after the pandemic. it is written in the sky which subjects will come back and how the caq will break its teeth. we have serious short-sightedness in the media. as worse as qanon who deified trump.
possible.
it was 60 years ago can you come back from that colonizers? iphones didn't even exist, the world has changed. come back and turn your land over to the first nations (and vikings).
there will always be people with such bad immune systems that they can die from the slightest cold. it's normal that double-vaccinated people can die anyway, the vaccine trains the immune system but does not do the job for it.
news articles about double vaccines who died when they were surrounded only by masked and vaccinated people, is not what will attract government grants. this kind of article like this is published to encourage action, and may not even have been written by the journalist signing it.
reading the article, it's not even clear if there is a possibility that the employee caught the covid virus from the customer and not the other way around. from a journalist point of view, it is very poor quality to insinuate such serious accusations without evidence, by getting away with saying that we will not mention the company and the employee since the link is not 'is not demonstrated (but we say that "everything suggests" without justifying anything, it is really very bad faith).
instead of blaming the vaccine that didn't work and didn't protect it, they blame the worker who isn't vaccinated. society has become ill. i have never heard this kind of story with the flu, with the flu it is the children who are the vectors of transmission yet we never vaccinate the children to save the old
> the journal could not scientifically confirm where the contamination came from, for which we do not name the company or the employee, but everything indicates that the hypothesis of the family is true.
* science * in brief:
* if the family says so, it's true.
* the vaccine only works if everyone is vaccinated.
🤡
so let's see you! 🤡🤡
well done, an extremely sick person died from covid after being vaccinated twice. a. clearly the vaccine is unnecessary. / s
seriously i should have read the entire article. i thought it was going to say the same thing as tv. at the news, they said it was the employee's fault, that's what i understood. my intervention is no longer worth anything.
> instead of blaming the vaccine that did not work and did not protect it, they blame the worker who is not vaccinated. society has become ill.
society has become ill. yes but not psq y blame the guy not vaccinated ... if the world had taken their vaccine before the efficacy waned, it would be fine.
well no, zézu protects me.
have faith in science, trailer park version
my coup d'on did you misread? even on the news it said that it was the man at the door who infected the man. basically, they haven't checked whether such and such a person really went to see the family on such and such a date or they don't believe the family to be the victim. there are some who do not do their journalistic work well.
extremely ill? you mean he had a big health problem in addition to his advanced age? i did not know. at the same time, i thought the commentary was going to make the group happy. it looked like proof against the vaccine. the majority of people in this group are antivax.
why has efficiency decreased?
> at the same time, raymond doré had to be hospitalized to undergo several health tests, in particular for his arrhythmia and because of a few episodes of pressure drop.
they start the article by saying that he was "in good shape" but it is clear that this man had serious health problems.
the variants that are happening in the unvaccinated world by licking their face.
as expected, just before the elections
and they're going to do a nice "mission accomplished" for us [like bush on the aircraft carrier] ( 04 / rtrs0m7 / original.jpg)
and instead of making the decision to have our children vaccinated based on medical considerations and their interests, we will do it under duress because legault tells us that this is the only way to end his dictatorship (roman definition of the word , appropriate)
the despot legault continues his work, deciding in a totally arbitrary fashion that the vaccination of children is essential to overcome the health emergency. anyone who looks at and analyzes the statistics at all understands how there is no longer any urgency right now and that it should be lifted already. of course, the sheep will only see fire and approve of it.
there is nothing that will be lifted ... we just transfer the social pressure on the backs of the kids who are able to squeeze the lemon from the unvaccinated.
this is a completely unscientific criterion. children aged 5 to 12 are not at risk for covid. none have died of covid in 19 months of the pandemic, and they represent less than 3% of hospitalizations in the fourth wave, less than their demographic weight even if they are not vaccinated and the majority of age groups are older. aged are 80 +%.
he is only looking for an excuse to stop the health emergency ... just before the 2022 elections, so that he can campaign with a people "grateful" to have been released.
me created it when i got it.
the health emergency and vaccines, they do not care. it is the digital identity that they are aiming for. all this to make the.
how could digital identity be used?
if the id is linked directly to the government to collect information on your preferred habits (scanner in restaurant, gym, grocery) we can create a user profile and this data can be sold for targeted advertising.
will there be restrictions on certain locations when there is a scan? due to the age of the person, the status of the person. example the person has not paid a ticket, these taxes.
if there is permanently plotting (which i doubt the jurisdiction of the government).
is the government going to be able to charge you per kilometer. your carbon tax?
if you have any other suggestions. i'll take it. because for the moment the implementation of the digital identity is the only logical reason for the relentlessness on the unvaccinated.
children should not be vaccinated
[nothing justifies the health emergency.] ( we are witnessing a play serving to hide the real threat to the health of the population, namely our health system. health and its ever more frequent wanderings.
again the old cowards who try to scare the people of followers. and it works. what a people of sheep. legault is a moron, but if you look elsewhere, most countries have pretty much the same restrictions .... the sane minority who chose not to get the vaccine for whatever reason are right, but wrong ... .90% of followers, it was scary. good luck to all ....
2022 its will be your 3rd dose that you should take
i don't understand what went through the minds of lawmakers when they created this emergency measures law to think it was a good idea that only the one who benefits from these extreme powers decides when, how and for how long he will use it. without limits, without debate, without justification.
the romans had a similar law but it was not the "dictator" who decided when it was over, it was the senate and they had a lot of debate. 2500 years later we have regressed so much as civ :-(
when the children are vaccinated, the anxiety and covid paranoia of the 45-year-old quebecois matante will decrease. this is his real criterion for ending the state of emergency.
yes, exactly all it is to implement the digital control company. all the provinces have the same plan. fusion of biological, digital and physical. what is human interaction and human freedom will only be privileges and digital data that the government can switch on and off in a second
law passed in 2001 by bernard landry not long after the attack on the twin towers.
the funny thing is that the matante is probably also booking a vacation in the dominican republic (with a vax rate probably in the 20%) or has already left with her rv in florida, where she said the streets were littered. of corpses barely a month ago.
he's got to have a bunch of hypocrites in there.
we still suffer today the authoritarian abuses passed in the name of september 11 as we will still suffer in 20 years those passed in the name of the covid
landry was perhaps too humanist to believe that a future premier of quebec would abuse it so much and that the checks and balances would let him do everything for 2 years.
damn, he was one of the few pms in our history that i respected ...
haha how much will it cost to whom we cry for peace for the rest of our days ... give the indians a blank check that decides the number and we never talk about it again.
well, he must have had an office psychopath in his pants at the thought of harming this man with impunity.
pfizer is the most expensive criminal company to pay in us history
we really wonder what the result will be! the suspense is intense.
why push so hard to immunize children when they don't need it at all? (almost zero mortality rate with covid). the non-logic of the covidists continues.
cool. worse?
the children will be able to be inoculated and we will be able to stop the distance courses so damaging for them without turning the schools into hatching nests.
because it makes money for the billionaire ti-namis of politicians trudeau and legault.
as for ordinary people, they are irresponsible and totalitarian scoundrels who support whatever authority does as long as they are promised a nanane ... even if it turns out to be giving them something back. they were taken by force in the first place.
does it seem obvious to me?
no but, negative iq, okay.
no, explain.
by the way, you have a shadowban. communicate with admins.
[removed]
it's not me who put you a shadowban. contact the admins.
we must abolish all animal exploitation
but not human exploitation?
"nantel has plenty of good ideas! for example, if radio-canada believes it is relevant to put a warning before an episode of la petite vie which could be offensive, why not also put it before these programs" which promote intersectional theories in which more than 90% of the public does not recognize themselves at all "?"
i love this proposal! warnings before the broadcasts of pénélop mcquade and marie-louise arsenault? absoutely!
i enjoyed his interview with everyone talking about it on his book. i will probably get it in the next few days.
at some point it'll do ... the wokes give themselves all the rights if you don't say like them ... it's made serious ... harassment, death threats, assault ... it's not normal it creaks.
it tries to be justified by "yes and everything trans who die every day because of words" or sacrament? "the media doesn't talk about it because they are trans" no y'n not talk about it psq there is not ... calvary, it's a crack of mental illness their business ...
when the establishment finances you at all levels, you're not the resistance, you're insurgency controlled
are we going to have to pass laws against historical revisionism to put an end to this fad?
> they have their place in our universities as much as a former policeman who would have leaked information to members of a street gang would have his place at the town hall of a city grappling with serious crime problems.
touched flowed!
otherwise i don't share richard's enthusiasm. this latest craziness of unceded territory will pass like a letter in the mail exactly like that of the [native american cemeteries] ( that had rotten the series. the native american is sacred in our time, practically deified. it is the perfect antithesis to the cankers of humanity that are the westerners. note that neither of the mayoral candidates opposes this stupidity. on the contrary, they adhere to it and even fully for coderre. the caq, which so often claims to be nationalism [does not dare take a position and send the record back to the municipal] ( % c3% a9put% c3% a9dematane-matap% c3% a9dia% 29).
breathe in ... breathe out ... it's beautiful you're safe the "wokes" won't come and eat you.
who are you talking about * specifically *? you give fairly specific examples but you don't say * who * did this.
same thing for martineau, he blames the * wokes * but does not say which group or which person is at the origin of this pressure vis-a-vis the ch.
commentary revealing bigotry and small-mindedness. the trans reality has always existed but i do not think that it is via the chronicles in martineau that you will be able to get an enlightened idea.
everything you list (harassment, death threats, etc.) are things that minorities (homosexuals, immigrants, natives) experience every day, but you will never say anything about it. on the other hand, if mononc'martineau talks about it, it screams drama ...
it's a screeching of mental illness here ...
well, civilization is going to collapse long before we can do anything. in terms of resistance, although quebec is literally at the forefront of this ideological war, we are lagging behind the others, such as france, which has decided to act before. i do not see how quebec will be able to survive such a burden.
speaking against it has become too much of an electoral headache.
you think you have substance but you only generate wind.
i'd rather be eaten than watch the fall of civilization in front of me. the west did not endure 1400 years for nothing.
he calls the woke movement. i understand that we want names, but targeting individuals has never made it possible to defeat a hegemonic ideology. ideology must be overcome on the ideological ground.
> who are you talking about specifically? you give fairly specific examples but you don't say who did that.
if you read the article and listen to the column, you can't say that a penis shouldn't be in a women's locker room at the gym. otherwise you pick yourself up with death threats.
> so just for asking that trans women with male genitals be excluded from women's locker rooms, a university of sussex teacher was subjected to a cabal.
>  
> the attacks on her were so violent that the police advised her to use bodyguards and install cctv cameras in front of her house!
commentary revealing schizophrenia ... when you see imaginary indians who are being beaten on every street corner ... it is a collective hysteria where we see bebittes everywhere.
> every day
hyperbola? these people are certainly experiencing harassment, but will not make it seem like it is everyday. above all, don't try to pretend that this is normal in a society where you can end up with thousands of dollars to pay in compensation if you get caught doing such a thing. quebec is probably the most welcoming place on the planet at this level, we have no lessons to learn from anyone, especially not from the americans who want us to import their social problems here.
martineau is certainly belligerent, but he is nonetheless psychically unbalanced in the manner of wokes, that is to say an ideology driven by both antisocial and hypersensitive people without the control of their emotions.
if there is discomfort, it is here, the mechanisms of projection of the wokes on groups of individuals perceived as stereotypically inferior are edifying.
i find you thick butters quite a bit. can we criticize the excess of political correctness? yes. but if all it takes for your civilization to crumble is that a gang of excited people start doing land reconnaissance and using fucked up pronouns, well it's because your civilization was already down . if there is really a decline, then the ideological drifts that we are currently seeing are a consequence and not a cause.
sussex university .. uk ..? in the sense, not in canada, and especially not in quebec?
reporting "virtuous" (that is, showing how willing you are to obey the "authority" in place) is one way to feel important without having to do anything.
ah yes the woke way of reasoning ... someone is bullied every day = everyone should be bullied on a daily basis as well.
the tolerance clan is awesome.
what a strange chronicle that ultimately turns out to be an unsolicited candidacy as an advisor to the prime minister ... it is clear that if he liked discussing demography with lucien bouchard, he is very sparing of details in the pages of le devoir. and yet between [2001] ( & searchpr01 = population & custom =) and [2016] ( = 01 & b1 = population & custom =), the proportion of maternal french speakers fell from 58% to 49% in the city of montreal. same phenomenon within the metropolitan area where we observe a drop of [67%] ( = pr & code2 = 24 & data = count & searchtext = montreal & searchtype = begins & searchpr = 01 & b1 = all & custom =) at [62%] ( cfm? lang = e & geo1 = cmaca & code1 = 462 & geo2 = cd & code2 = 2466 & searchtext = montreal & searchtype = begins & searchpr = 01 & b1 = language & tabid = 1 & type = 0). so all of jfl's great awesome strategies to protect french montreal stronghold are worth absolutely nothing if anyway if it crumbles from within what it seems unable to see.
it is all the more stupid as the observation is made by itself as soon as we look at demography in the slightest way as the main interested party in another era. the overwhelming majority of quebec's population growth is migratory and montreal as the largest city in quebec receives the overwhelming majority of immigration. in doing so, immigrants represented 34% of the population of montreal in 2016 while they only represented 27% in 2001. for the metropolitan area, it is 23% in 2016 against 18% in 2001. then it is 2016, i can't wait to see the state of the disaster in the 2021 census. unfortunately the repercussions of such demographic changes, whether on french, the electoral viability of nationalist and / or sovereignist parties, national cohesion. strictly not interested in jean-françois lisée. at least maybe it will interest him, but only behind closed doors if he gets his job in the pm's office. in the meantime, what he lays in le devoir reminds us why he bit the dust in the 2018 election ending up with only one seat of having no mp in the greater montreal area.
it is pissing to see the english twisting like pretzels in an attempt to deny that it is genocide. and probably one of the most complete genocides in history, two-thirds of the population has been wiped out.
since it is difficult to read on the map, here is the deportation order pronounced in grand pré by the future major general then colonel john winslow:
> i have received from his excellency governor lawrence, the king’s commission which i have in my hand and by whose orders you are convened together to manifest to you his majesty’s final resolution to the french inhabitants of this his province of nova scotia who for almost half a century have had more indulgence granted them, than any of his subjects in any part of his dominions. what use you have made of them you yourself best know.
> the part of duty i am now upon is what though necessary is very disagreeable to my nature. make and temper, as i know it must be grevious to you who are of the same specie.
> but it is not my business to annimedvert, but to obey such orders as i receive and therefore without hesitation shall deliver you his majesty’s orders and instructions viz.
> that your lands and tenements, cattle of all kinds and livestock of all sorts are forfitted to the crown with all other your effects saving your money and household goods and you yourselves to be removed from this his province.
> thus it is peremptorily his majesty’s orders that the whole french inhabitants of these districts, be removed, and i am through his majesty’s goodness, directed to allow you liberty to carry of your money and household goods as many as you can without discommoding the vessels you go in. i shall do everything in my power that all those goods be secured to you and that you are not molested in carrying them and also that whole families shall go in the same vessel and make this remove which i am sensible must give you a great deal of trouble as easy as his majesty’s service will admit and hope that in what every part of the world you may fall, you may be faithful subjects, a peaceable and happy people.
here is [the list of all deported male acadians] ( at grand pré as recorded by this execrable gallows game. we are still waiting for the maple leaf on the peace tower to be half masted to underline this genocide, the precursor to the founding of the modern maritime provinces.
monstrous
is there a higher resolution version?
i'm just waiting for the day when i could put in its place irl a woke that would try to blame me because i'm white and it's my ancestors' fault that everything is wrong in the world 🤔
without falling into acute victimhood, the acadians are in solidarity with the destiny of the natives. after all, it is thanks to them among others that many were able to escape deportation by pushing themselves into the woods!
america will be english at all costs.
[deleted]
my point taken in the context of the time is quite correct.
have fun with your crazy extrapolations on the meaning of my point.
if only the street gangs aroused the same indignation as those who were resistant to the vaccine passport ...
really nothing to do with immigration ....
well no let's see there is 1 that kills! the other ... fuck it kills too, and unlike the other, it gets worse from year to year
rather communitarianism and failed integration than immigration as such (this concerns 2nd-3rd generation descendants)
we should almost have a subreddit just to document that and call it something like “the bestiary” or “shit canadians say”.
well, that's a good thing, the more they imagine that we are racist monsters, the more they'll be patient and stay out of quebec. good riddance.
i know that the comment of many is going to be "we without tabarnak" but
seriously i see this kind of thing happening more and more often
on this kind of platform, the hatred of quebec is becoming more and more
several mainsteam and acceptable in the english world.
my god i read the reddit thread and my eyes are bleeding ...
a good example of anglos who shit on quebecers while saying they are so "tolerant".
disgusting
must see the bright side; hopefully they might want to get rid of us! no need for a new referendum! win-win
another angryphone playing victim and moving to another province.
so i clicked on 3 of the links at the top. qq1 show me your worst comment because i see absolutely nothing bad
it exists, it's r / quebecbashing.
you will tell me when you will have created it
...
no way you really said that
do you think we can make hate speech complaints or some hash? tse by being a cup would you be her change something?
if by “this kind of platform” you speak of twitter, i assure you that it is not particularly hatred of quebec. it's just that the entire platform is dedicated to hating "the other".
> me, the hatred of quebec is becoming more and more
>  
> several mainsteams and acceptable in the english world
so much the better, it will eg wake up a couple.
rarely have i seen so many upvoted racist comments on reddit. it must be because it's good racism!
of course i said so. should we thank their crazy neighbor who harasses them, thanks to his action, how many insignificant hipsters in ontario will decide to stay at home rather than go pollute the mile end or the mont royal plateau? what impact will this have on rents for quebec families? we may not realize it, but the mentally retarded who harassed this insignificant couple of twitchans may have done us a great service thanks to the magic of the internet.
honestly, a site like reddit does not care ... twitter is going to ban the world for hate speech against pure wool, but reddit forgets that.
until you have a different skin color you can't complain
i will say it
and most certainly get me down vote or even ban
but the real problem of quebecers is not racism
it's xenophobia
and it's so internalized in the culture that you say stuff like that and you don't even wonder.
of course racism is part of xenophobia but quebecers simply do not like "others"
to say
it's good that they think we're racist so they're gonna stay home is clearly one of the dumbest things i've ever heard hahahaha
but when you ask why quebecers hate foreigners, we'll tell you
"nononon it is the fault of the english there is like 300 years blah blah we are not racist esti"
in the meantime, i was chased and tried to run over in the suburbs, my high school teacher called me mamadou all year round and told the parents of students not to keep up with my better grades than them.
meanwhile people walk in my neighborhood and say in my face to their children that people like me are thieves
and so on.
i'm not even an immigrant i was born here i grew up watching bagpipes and eating shepherd's pie, i have certainly been to the sugar shack more often than you and have been to apples far too often.
unfortunately for me i am black and these people do not like foreigners. no matter how angry you cry injustice and quebec bashing or even anti-quebec terrorism if you want it will change absolutely nothing.
i was talking more on twitter or a complaint to the police or something like that, i don't know she lives or but if she lives here it might be feasible, right?
as long as you don't express yourself as a hysteric who pisses everyone off, we have no reason to ban you.
> of course racism is part of xenophobia but quebecers simply do not like "others"
indeed, i don't like "the others" who come to quebec to anglicize the place, to tell us how we should live and to vote liberal with soviet majorities.
> saying it's good that they think we're racist so they're going to stay home is clearly one of the dumbest things i've ever heard
bin, montreal is taking the path of toronto by gentrification caused among other things by the increase in the number of square heads who will live there because they cannot afford to live in toronto. before they dared not come because they were afraid of the separatists, but now as the threat is less credible they are coming to settle in large numbers. failing to have enough balls to separate from the country i am very happy to see another seven o'clock emerge who will prevent them from coming to piss us off at home.
> in the meantime, i was chased and tried to run over in the suburbs, my high school teacher called me mamadou all year round and told the parents of students not to keep up with me despite my better averages than them .
what you say is deplorable and i hope it will improve in the future. out of curiosity, what part of the tribe is all this happening in?
good charge in good standing against the nebula of professional activists subsidized by ottawa. especially since the canadian anti hate network ignores [its own mandate] ( are you relying on the charter? on the criminal code? so get your fingers off your nose and take your case to court cowards! we have had enough of scoundrels like sébastien roback who are the low-level mccarthyists of cyberspace.
acd, the only pure wool that calls things by their real names, is a change from the cuckolds of the parti québécois or the bloc who are still beating around the bush.
we talk to you about mathieu bock côté and cyril hanouna
probably for the same reason acd accuses them of defamation without going to court.
in the meantime, these "cuckolds" are at the front.
bock-côté is not french ...
i'm not sure he uses that exact term. especially since hqa does not seek to ostracize the caht from cyberspace, that the two organizations do not have the same vocation and that only one of them is subsidized by the government, it does not hurt whataboutiste.
exactly
technically it's an ad hominem, but hqa just makes it victimize itself by having their crisis as soon as they are reminded how rascist there are in addition to having really fascistic tendencies. good debara anyway.
so hanouna isn't either if i accepted your answer? eric zemmour either then?
french values are going very well with you
around here is debating his non-humanity; we are almost certain that they are octopus men
sorry? i don't speak octopus.
when a person does not have a spine or a brain it turns into an octopus
mathieu bock-côté, cyril hanouna and eric zemmour from octopus. interesting.
> the ~~ québécois ~~ french canadians, as we know, know how to survive, but struggle to assert themselves.
ftfy
obviously, a people who refuse to recognize their own existence no longer has any breath of life and even less will for power.
this is exactly what he does by referring to "québécois": survive. french-canadians = assimilation in canada in the common perception (a world where it is normal to be dominated by english-speaking canadians). unfortunately, we had to get rid of this name to take the next step in our national emancipation. we have no interest in coming back to it outside of expert circles (ethnic statistics, etc.).
the next step being our minority in our national home? you don't have to mess around, survival is the work of french canadians. quebeckers are ultimately trying to negotiate the terms of their disappearance.
emancipation came with the quiet revolution, but there were still significant assertions that had not happened before on the same scale.
yes, but what emancipation? it is not the particular status, it is not national recognition and it is especially not independence. we have given ourselves laws, laws that can be repealed just as they repealed their predecessors. these laws are passed in the parliament itself elected by universal suffrage. if we lose control of demographics, we lose control of parliament and our precious laws will be repealed. then it is basically the culmination of the aborted masters of the quiet revolution.
we escaped independence at 1%, something unusual and unthinkable before 1970. bill 101 has arrived, collective enrichment, the need for affirmation, and so on. there was a national awakening allowed among other things by the updated "quebec" identity. to define oneself as canadian is to define oneself in canada, a territory conquered by england. it perpetually brings us back to this point.
precisely, we escaped the independence which was nevertheless the expected result, supposedly inevitable of the quiet revolution. quebec identity is in a state of advanced decomposition as a result of our inaction and cowardice. before 1970, that is to say, there was no question of a referendum, but it was to be replaced in one's own country which was an unusual and unthinkable idea. unless there is a major paradigm shift, we are doomed to louisianization which is the legacy of the quiet revolution.
it is very severe as an observation. why this aversion to the quiet revolution more exactly?
because she didn't accomplish any of her goals? we have two or three transitory and ephemeral trinkets to masturbate collectively, but precisely as soon as the french canadian hard core is downgraded we will end up like in new brunswick or louisiana. the worst part is that i am convinced that our leftist and deadly intelligentsia will still find a way to make mileage on the myth of the great darkness by explaining to us that progressivism orders us to disappear with dignity.
independence being the goal?
defining yourself as canadian would have made it possible to do so?
beautiful window on the absolute nothingness represented by the thought of patrick lagacé. what a lack of restraint on the part of the chief confiner, the alpha licensee ... especially since he had already sketched out a solution to the shortage in the health system, let the unvaccinated die like dogs! patrick lagacé is again revealed to be a small and petty being who has the nerve to denounce the repercussions of the policies of which he is a supporter.
just remembered that the first covidiot was pat lagacé who did not believe in the virus at the very beginning.
patrick complains about the lack of employees in hospitals and chslds.
also patrick: "we must squeal at the door all the unvaccinated!"
to all those who complain about patrick lagacé: have you read the article? what he says is that it is no accident that we end up with creaky social services, it is due to years of neglect and cutbacks by various governments. and he's right. you complain about the supposed "nothingness of his thought", but from what i see, if there is a thought that is empty, it is not his.
indeed.
he joined the left fascist clique of guy a lepage, his little clique who make porn with minors. guy who says he only works with people he is close to, luc wiseman, his producer for a long time, gets arrested and washes his hands of it as if he had never been involved in tlmep.
pat is just a tool of something bigger and vile, he sold his soul and probably his body too. a real raptor which causes immense damage to society. torches and forks should be making a comeback, it would do a lot of good.
and i also notice a small scam in the text: when he talks about hospitals in abitibi-témiscamingue, he omits to say that the madness of covid is almost absent in this place, the opposite of montreal.
for someone strong on the "antivaxes that drain our services", this omission is viciously tactical.
the other day, in his column, he compared them to "terrorists" and "executioners" who take the "innocent" hostage.
negotiations following the victory of a yes? lol.
independence cannot be asked for, it is seized by force. a people is liberated and that is all. i have watched the history and development of civilizations of nations for millennia, and few countries ask for freedom.
they tear themselves away from the yoke of the dominant country or government and proclaim themselves free.
i have so many examples to provide that i am running out of time. the revolt of congolese slaves in haiti with jean-jacques dessalines, the overthrow of apartheid and the new mixed south africa, the fragmentation of the nations of the former ussr and so on.
and in the examples i have just cited, you will tell me that they are not situations where the line is neat and clear leading to national independence, and that is precisely the point. each culture, each people, each society personalizes its taking of freedom with the means at hand, without asking for it.
to follow the hypothetical scenario of a post referendum of the victory of the yes, why consider that quebec would end up in an unprecedented economic crisis?
with so many potential economic partners, it's hard to believe that quebec would be alone in the world.
and would foreign interests established in quebec for years leave? surely. would immigrants who are new canadian citizens surely leave for ontario?
they leave for fear of experiencing a major economic crisis in the new quebec, and believe that it will be better for them to face the uncertainty in ontario, to seek the error.
in any case, the separatists and separatists have nothing to fear since the margin which separated the yes and the no is so thin, that ottawa fears that an upcoming referendum will make the yes pass by a thin margin, despite all their efforts. strategies for manipulating the results of this kind of ballot.
you're right in that sense, if we become a country and mtl votes at 55% to join canada, are you going to let them do it? of course not, it's the same for ottawa, thinking that they will let canada be separated in two by an independent quebec, the only viable nonviolent options is by a major boycott and a disobedience which will piss off the federal government so much that the roc squeals at us, the only time we have done something similar is at the time of the conscription when the english passed a law which gives the option to the rock by a vote of all the provinces the right of us screeching out of confederation.
i should really deny myself and write the text on the negotiations that i want to write for a few years. you don't seem to understand that negotiations are necessary in order to decide the details. for example:
* for prisoners in penitentiaries, do we have to redo the trials? how will the transfer of powers take place?
* how will citizenship work? dual citizenship for all residents of quebec? forced to choose between the two citizenships?
* when does independence take effect, and what will be the last fiscal year in which quebecers pay canadian taxes?
* how is the army divided?
several transfers of power will have to take place and good faith negotiations between quebec and canada would be beneficial to both countries. but this is precisely where i expect it will go wrong: canada will not want to negotiate in good faith. the idea that canada has of "negotiations" is the partition of quebec under various pretexts, demands for financial "reparations" and the isolation of quebec on the international scene. it would then be imperative for quebec to denounce these negotiations as not being in good faith and to achieve independence unilaterally.
interesting. the worst thing is that quebec is really close to having a referendum winning even by a margin of 1 or 2%, despite the fed's maneuvers to discourage quebecers from voting no.
it will eventually go to yes if it continues. it scares them very much, hee, hee, hee.
a comment that lacks seriousness, sorry, i pick up.
however, i commend your effort.
why do you say that?
because there are tons of precedents? the idea that we must, for example, re-trial mom boucher to confirm her imprisonment is slightly delusional.
i'm teasing you. your commentary is rational, cerebral, and unfortunately too intelligent for an emotionally charged subject.
indeed, it will have to be addressed what you say, but in most new countries, generally, the new nation engages in a cold war with its ex-oppressor to make sure that it is the end, then later the talks are over. initiate.
precedents about what? are you responding to the correct comment?
on the accession to independence of a state, legal continuity, the duties and obligations of successor states, etc ...
okay, and why would my comment be lacking in seriousness because there are tons of precedents?
among other things your retrial story, it looks like you pulled that out of your magician's hat.
in reality, your comment is very serious, but if i take the side of the separatists and or separatists, it is not, do not forget that generally, they prefer not to speak to canada the day after a yes winner.
it is a custom, even when india separated from the united kingdom, the republics in ruptures with russia, to name only those there.
cold wars, no dialogue were necessary to mark the beginning of true independence.
then later we will chat.
half-life is like the referendum: we risk waiting a long time for the 3rd!
i'm the freeman, he's dr. green.
go get your crowbar asteur !!
frankly, a psychiatric institute is not a summer camp, come back. worse, it's not the same case as turcotte, the lady was in psychosis.
amalega in jail for a mask because he wanted to shop in peace, as killers are released.
another feminicide
amalega is in prison because he broke the law and refused to pay his fines. this woman is not released, she is going to a psychiatric institute.
yes beautiful this justice or those who do not wear a face cover are more punished than the criminals
amalega is in prison because he broke the law and refused to pay his fines. this woman is not released, she is going to a psychiatric institute.
frankly, a psychiatric institute is not a summer camp, come back.
let him start by firing antoine richard, who was a real estate agent and who crossed his clients who were not selling enough by buying the houses himself and freaking them out himself with the bidding up instead of putting them on the market.
as for each of the ostis of measures ... after what will it be?
let him dream.
"the canadian anti-hate network, a far-left english-canadian organization funded to the tune of $ 268,400 by the trudeau government under the" program of action and the fight against racism "(which should be renamed" program d 'action against critics of canadian multiculturalism'), launched an operation of political repression against nomos-tv in order to censor any quebec nationalist speech that does not go in the direction of the prevailing political correctness. "
... and voila, as long as the pure woolens seek to organize themselves against the overpemacist ottawa anglos and endless immigration, the ontario pigs are quick to shut everything down.
in any case i can tell you that in france we would have preferred to welcome mr cormier dénis rather than mathieu bock côté; it is a monster of culture and beautiful rhetoric your acd
wait a minute ... didn't he suspect that nomos' crusade would fall like this? it's impossible, i refuse to believe it. he can't be that stupid.
after having sought and seen their opinion on trans and some other social issue, it won't make me sad, and in the end he has other french defense group that looks a little less like a closed right, already when people start to use terms like anti-fa, those rare people who in the end you are really a group that defends everyone's rights and are rather navel-gazing and only their vision of things is the right one, which is really not the right way to defend a point, if sovereignism is ever revived, it must not be due to the hatred of the anglo or the roc, but for a common goal of society, this struggle of languages is useless and a language does not change a culture, its takes more than a language to change a way of thinking, of loving or of hair.
in your place i would be much more afraid of the popularity of netflix and other made in usa stuff that comes to mind their vision of things than of an enivitable loss of french in america in the centuries to come, already made more than 150 years that he tries and french has still not disappeared, it takes a lot of time to do this kind of thing and will be done naturally by all this american cultural invasion, by their expression and folklore which is more and more present. the fight is not in the right place and in the wrong category at the moment
[deleted]
nomos' youtube channel didn't need canada anti-haine truc to get shut down. to believe otherwise is almost certain disillusionment. it was written in the sky. pointing to this organization in particular, and pretending it was surprising, serves to feed the stingy audience with ideological propaganda that fueled daily outrage (and even beyond). there is no worse political recovery in the genre, quite up to what one expects from a site like hqa which likes to manipulate the truth to the point of no longer appearing credible in anything. .
why "pure wool"? now it becomes a matter of purity?
you surprise me that we continue to lose the fight for independence ...
an ideological monster above all who has little respect for the facts as long as it serves his cause. you already have henry de lesquen, they are exactly the same.
he knew clearly that he was going to end up taking the banhammer in the face, that's why he always said that if ever the whole channel disappeared from youtube to go and see on odyssey.
criticizing radio-canada, which produces drag queens' shows for children with our taxes, does that count as "transphobia", i imagine?
i want to, but there is absolutely no question of the quebec breed at nomos. their doxa is the french race of america, french canadian to the limit.
lol why are you downvote?
100% reasonable and smart post
the cahn boasts of having successfully censored nomos and guys like henry de lesquen, who goes beyond nomos, are still on yt precisely because they have not yet suffered this type of campaign from the antifas. (or the french antifas don't understand that you have to complain in english to be heard by yt) ...
already mixing transgender and drag queen shows a great ignorance of the subject and even, what does it do? its not doing porn, its doing what to see drag to the child? with these best shows for children with pirate, talking dog, green monster etc, what is the difference in the end fundamentally? if i would put on that touching, talking about ass and stuff like that, then i'd have a reason to complain, but just complain because i don't like show dragging, it's a waste of time. and i repeat to you or teach a drag is not a trans and yes to want to manage the life and the contents of certain just of their kind because for you these not "normal", even this it is entirely is transphobic, but well i would not ask too much since you do not seem to know the difference and which is very likely that you are full of false judgment and prejudice on the subject in the end.
it is the only one that would not exist according to those who hate it. we can go and live in china for 50 years and we will never be a chinese. the same is true almost all over the world. except in quebec! the french-canadian identity would be the only one that is completely porous.
i am not a french canadian. i may sound and sound like it, but my parents are germans. i would be disrespectful, aggressive and a little nono if i tried to pretend to be cf or worse, that cf doesn't exist because i would have complexes about my own identity or being uprooted. québécois perhaps, at the limit, but it is a new category invented very recently, and which, as our friend showed us, does not want to say anything if anyone can claim it. in general, boundaries mean nothing if they do not delimit anything.
his comment also seemed to say that the independence of quebec will be gloriously done with the help of people of all origins and all colors and that it will be a bright future. i wish him good luck. foreigners do not give a damn about sovereignist demands, which seem to them to be precisely an ethnic whim of the “french race in america”. even today, apart from baroque music concerts, there is nothing whiter than a pq convention.
henry de lesquen is far from knowing the success of nomos. acd speaks to the french because it brings them a breath of fresh air that the catholic-royalist right has not had for some time. before making himself known in france by his famous viral video on french expatriates, he himself was more moderate in his words and much less theatrical, i myself liked to listen to him. with that more nuanced tone it certainly would have gone better, but he has overstepped that limit many times since, leaving a series of opportunities to banish him desired by his enemies. was all that theater to attract cliques worth it for this risk? the price is dearly paid. i have no doubts about nomos' sincerity, but they need to stop the toxic marketing, and that goes for hqa's fake news as well.
i am against giving puberty blockers to children. it's criminal.
yet the pq are the first to do all the intellectual gymnastics imaginable to dissociate themselves from the ethnic question and the issues of demography 😂 but hey, they reap what they have sown with their voting intentions on the way to being lower than those of the pcq.
we are the unfortunate witnesses of the twilight of quebec civic nationalism. contrary to expectations, the abnegation of the french canadian ethnic barrier did not generate massive support from foreigners. the perpetual lamentations following the factual and undeniable speech of jacques parizeau did not know how to instill the long-awaited reconciliation. we are in front of a field of ruins. then it is entirely our fault, the sovereignists painted themselves in a corner. faced with the irrecoverable costs already incurred, they have no other choice but to project themselves into this fantasized quebec with why not boucar diouf and djemila benhabib as prime minister as president. an interculturalist and post-national eden that would finally free us from multiculturalist and post-national canada! but it does not turn on anyone, even more and as you mentioned in the overwhelming majority of foreigners whose addition to us should be saving. unfortunately op deleted his comment, but that won't happen guys, we'll have to do otherwise.
the thing that always annoys me with “our ability to integrate” is how such a thing is measured. what statistical criterion is used to determine whether someone is integrated or not, and how do we determine the maximum number of integrated people that the system is capable of producing in a year?
* it is absolutely correct to be anti-quebec! / s *
there are already integration classes, french courses available. many go to these courses because they are paid, but without interest because people in their ghetto manage without french. as soon as they find a job, they drop out. there should be a scoring system for all of this that is used to adjust the number of immigrants admitted in the next cycle. the trade-off would be between the score and the available budget: bad score, less money, significant drop. bad score, more money, less drop, etc.
and put the brakes on the family reunion. immediate family ok, but cousins and brothers-in-law no. especially since if they cannot come by themselves, they are less interesting for us, likely to remain bullets.
[deleted]
it cannot be measured objectively. roughly speaking, our "integration capacity" is the number of immigrants that we are able to welcome until the disadvantages of immigration become more important than the advantages. as we will not all agree on the nature of these disadvantages and advantages, all points of view are equal and it becomes a matter of public opinion. if we don't give a damn about the survival of french, if we consider that the ethnic enclaves are a source of diverse wealth, and if we hide from housing problems, then * sky is the limit * ciborium!
to complicate the whole thing, this famous "capacity" is not just a number, it depends on the origin and the quality of the immigrants. if all the immigrants were like boucar diouf or jean pascal, i would say come back in 100,000 per year no trouble, big-replace us as much as you want! if it was all freddy villanueva and adil charkaoui, i would tell you that we had 1 of each and that it is en masse.
i do not know if there is a certain extent. but there are countries where you can clearly see the symptoms of the harm caused by exceeding this capacity.
we can see it in the very diverse diversity of groups of "buddhist" rapists who repeatedly rape young christians in england.
or even the same buddhists from the parisian balieux.
or the same boydhists who behead history teachers or destroy christmas markets, for example.
well, it's not just buddhists and it's true that not all buddhists are extremists and a good number of them fit in well (i'm thinking of my friend who opened a super cool shishtaouks that fits in really well to the life of a local québ with his family), but at the same time i really do not want to live in a civilization where it is normal to be beheaded by a buddhist because i showed a drawing of boudha in my class.
there is probably no precise and objective measure, but we can definitely say that an individual who denies the quebec nation and seeks to destroy it is not integrated.
okay, don't make the mistake of giving too much importance to the legality of the thing. when the hour h arrives i have no doubt that the english will not get caught up in the flowers of the carpet regarding the constitutionality of seizing montreal in whole or in part. it will be the strongest pocket. the repatriation of 82 was not legal and that did not prevent them from doing so. tell yourself that it is ottawa that appoints the judges who decide what is legal and what is not. this whole rule of law circus is just a gigantic farce of which we are the turkey.
yeah but at some point, to justify what number the government should admit each year, you have to be able to measure that notion of "integrative capacity" and create a formal definition of that thing. as long as we do not measure, we remain in abstractions, in principles. otherwise it gives rise to cases like the caq which improvises by canceling immigration files yet under study or which changes its mind on the number. if we pretend to be pragmatic on this issue, then we are just supposed to take the pulse of reality. we do not make a policy just on the basis of a feeling and an impression.
truly the friendliness of buddhists, non-ironically, is a myth. sri lanka and burma are not super tolerant and are very buddhist. so it's not really a good antithesis to we-know-what-religion-yet.
you can measure a bunch of socio-economic variables, the fact remains that there is no canonical way to interpret them as there would be in the natural sciences. for example, taking the unemployment rate among immigrants, suppose we set a threshold beyond which we start to reduce immigration. some will say that if there is more unemployment among immigrants, it is because they are discriminated against. we could reply that it does not matter, if this particular ethnic group is discriminated against, it would be better to reduce the number of entries while mentalities evolve. others will say that it is because their training is not adequate and / or not recognized. others will say that they were chosen badly, that we should favor candidates more suited to manual work rather than academics, etc ...
repeat the same trick for all the socio-economic comparisons you can imagine.
it is impossible to define a precise figure which would describe this "capacity" according to a panoply of socio-economic indicators. first of all because these indicators are difficult to interpret, their interpretation is muddled by the ideological biases of all stakeholders, and these indicators are incomplete anyway! can we measure today what the legacy of mexican-quebecers will look like in 50 years? we have no idea. it can be something wonderful like it can be a bloodbath of crime.
moreover, how do you decide to favor one indicator over another? we must go there according to our values. nationalists like me will say that we must look at the evolution of the french language and favor secular muslims over more religious muslims. the boss of the montreal chamber of commerce is against all that and says that we just have to look at the growth of the gdp.
so in my opinion, the least worst solution is still to ask the population once every 4 years whether they prefer to vote for a party that will reduce this immigration or for a party that will increase it. (assuming obviously that this debate can be done in a normal way, which is not the case at the moment).
it is not true that we can leave everything to the experts in politics.
it's just because we have the right to talk about buddhists and not about a certain other religion without sounding like a racist when it has nothing to do with race but the ideas in people's heads.
are you the only one who thought who was white?
sounds suspicious to me. "message:" is translated as "a message:" in google translate. wouldn't it be surprising if balarama used a computer in french?
the message is hard ... it's funny it hits all the right words ... looks like the guy who wrote this had a hate checklist to write so that the other would have pity and could use it to his advantage.
[jos montferand? (sic)](
i see people saying maybe he sent this to himself ... no need. receiving messages from crazy people on the internet is not news. i get threats like this about once a month and i'm not even a well-known personality. i imagine that plante and coderre have their mailboxes full of them.
jussie, that you?
work with tpls long enough and you will find that there is nothing special about it.
i would be surprised if he did _not_ receive hate messages. the guy all the same evokes the partition of montreal as well as the definitive bilingualization (anglicization?) of the island. then all politicians have always received it.
but what bothers me is the presentation. i imagine they will say that it was not balarama who took the capture, but a volunteer who went through the messages and who uses the interface in french.
if i'm not mistaken, he posted this stuff before he went to the police. the reverse would have been logical.
[removed]
borderline personality disorder. these people are extremely "insecure" and have great difficulty dealing with their emotions. this manifests itself in exaggerated manifestations of vulnerability in order to force others to prove to them that they are loved and in disproportionate attacks of aggression when they believe themselves to be the victims. these people are eternal victims and spend a good part of their free time planning their moves.
> the massive opposition to the bill can also be explained by a very revealing statistic on the vision maintained by the anglo-quebecers on the nature of quebec society: 82% of these disagree with the statement according to which quebec is a nation whose official language is french.
82% of anglophones in quebec are in total denial of reality and that says a lot about their position.
this is why it is dangerous that we become a minority in quebec (around 2040), we will be back in the 60s.
dubé backs off! at least it shows that a number of his advisers have both feet on the ground ...
although desirable and predictable, this last pitfall of christian dubé's short term as minister of health is catastrophic for him. this is the second time he has had to go back on his supposedly unwavering word on this one measure. it simply no longer has any credibility whatsoever with the public or with health personnel. especially with its small revolution which is at this point a bitter failure that we recruit as far as lebanon to replace our guardian angels of yesteryear. in any normally constituted state, the minister should resign.
finally they are breaking their teeth on something sanitary. they must realize that their power is limited.
who is going to take the november 15 date seriously now? they'll keep putting this off until the covid calms down on its own.
the demand for hospital staff will increase between now and the peaks of demand in winter, which is what usually happens. it's not just infections that increase in winter, even heart attacks are more common in january.
it was the right thing to do. another failure signed caq.
hahahaahha
should decaliss the dubé have played with the mental health of several people
*laugh in unvaccinated*
it was predictable from the start. we are governed by incompetent little accountants.
imagine professional orders now! 🤡
[removed]
we'll see !
it will be like the 28-day challenge which has become the 332-day challenge ...
[doc mailloux]( joined the battle!
it would be the end of the line that the order of nurses does not retreat!
me too.
either he persists and collects himself as a perfect cuckold.
either he shifts to november 15 and confesses his total vassality.
in both cases, the reputation is screwed up for years. to paraphrase yvon deschamps, * the orders, kossé that gives? *
i wouldn't even be able to name the left youtubers.
on the other hand the left like you are able to name me all the nomos videos, you had a weird obsession, go outside for a bit, it'll do you good.
the cosmopolitans will not stop this great movement.
i can name two for you guys of illegal sex (i like them when they shit on the star system, but otherwise they are solidly in the dumbest go-left there is), guillaume wagner (not so close to the terminal phase that illegal sex) ... i have no others that come to mind quickly as well.
lol your movement is 3/4 of the french catho-conservative accounts adc represents nothing here. the last time he did the election he even ended up behind the pot block after the pot was already legal lol.
it's a cellar, pellets counters do not pose a greater risk to the public than convenience store clerks. if it were limited to pharmacists in hospitals, it would already make a little more sense.
the height of absurdity would be that the order of engineers or that the bar board! crisse are we in a kafka novel or what?
so if an order is missing (eg order of chiropractors) for whatever reason, it could still come up on thursday and say everyone has 2 hours to get their shots if not out?
if * science * has not changed, there are 8 weeks between 2 doses?
to eliminate from the system pharmacists who do not believe in medicine, what a tragedy! i guess it will hurt homeopathy.
the worst part is that the people approve of it.
dude, at pratt and whitney, we were warned that they want to make it compulsory everywhere, as in the united states, (they are two vaccines before december 8 or décalisse) and that to keep my
job which is remote, from my living room for 18 months, yes yes, i will have to follow the vaccination schedule approved by the fda concerning the booster shots ... basically i have received 0 doses to date and if i want to keep my job i will soon have to receive 3,4,5,6 ... who knows. the funny thing about this is that p&w is in direct communication with the government. they know exactly what's going to happen well in advance, whenever the big bosses give us info on covid it is easily 3-4 months ahead of what the population learns. the compulsory vaccine is coming soon everywhere, they are going there step by step to prevent everyone from revolting at the same time.
science says 21 to 28 days ... here 8 weeks 😂😂😂
do you know pharmacists who don't believe in medicine?
it is not because you do not want to take preventive medication that you are anti-medication
not that much. it's just the media.
it's got to be happening everywhere ... the world has gone crazy ... i bet there's a bunch of hr jerks rolling their balls thinking about the feeling of power they'll feel in vaccinating the recalcitrant by force drette in the tabarnak eye!
it has nothing to do with the health of their employees, it is the firms that are closest to the udders of power that are leading the charge, first the big names in silicon valley then the military-industrial complex.
it's a political lift back to politicians who grease their paws with billions in public funds
it's not a medicine, it's a vaccine. the most effective way to not find yourself in the hospital for a week blocking a bed if you are ever unlucky. like the pertussis, tetanus, or measles vaccine that everyone has had.
i mean, the covid vaccine has already been tested on more than 25-30 million people in canada, it's starting to be time to stop doubting or being afraid of it
the media are good at their propaganda, but people still buy into everything and don't ask themselves questions.
its still a preventive treatment, saving serious beds? even after 18 months are there not enough beds? what about people who get injured in soccer or skiing should these sports be banned there too to save beds? what about cigarettes, junk food, obesity? these people occupy a lot of beds. your argument to save don't stand up, especially since more than 80% of the population is vaccinated and more than 95% of the population at risk. if there is a problem with beds, it is not the unvaccinated who are responsible, it is the government
if we are wondering about the safety of airplanes, can we work in the air? if we prefer the car or the train than the plane for certain journeys, is it anti-aircraft? firing all the people who have questions about the safety of planes, would it help save people?
> like the pertussis, tetanus or measles vaccine that everyone has had.
remind me, if i am vaccinated against pertussis, tetanus or measles, should i be afraid of catching them through contact with those who are unvaccinated?
do not?
wow, it's almost like the comparison is lame ...
it's not exactly the same.
well yes, you are taking a slight risk to save those who are more sensitive who cannot for medical reasons.
what do you want, there are those who have the female dog, who don't give a damn about other people, or who don't believe in science. at worst, i just hope i don't crash into an auto accident near them because i might burn in my tank, tse, being slightly reckless to save someone isn't given to everyone.
it is because these vaccines really immunize, these new type of rapid vaccine with high income potential are not really vaccines which immunize besides one speaks not even of immunization but of “protection”. it is more a preventive treatment of serious form than a vaccination actually. instead of making a real vaccine that would take years, they made an rna solution and broadened the definition of the word vaccine to include it. afterwards, i'm not saying that it's bad, maybe people at risk will benefit from this temporary protection but we have to stop wanting to administer it to everyone at all costs.
you cannot protect others by vaccinating yourself against covid because vaccines do not immunize you, even vaccinated you can still catch and transmit covid and if it has been more than 2 months since you received your doses, your protection has already gone down. this is its scientific reality. you have to stop comparing to cars, you need a license to operate a motor vehicle and a highway code. must stop comparing the mask to the belt, confinement to red lights and the vaccine passport to the driving license, what is the next step to compare the social score to the points of the driving license?
"it's a private company 💅"
nomos videos (including direct ones) can be accessed on odysee.
[
in any case it was a sacred discovery for us frenchmen their capsules
he knew very well what he was doing, going beyond the limits without any restraint, nuance or consideration in the scope of the words. his videos have no doubts about it for me. the suspension was visible light years away.
let this racist drain video channel die. the world will be better for it
cormier-denis who says in his facebook message: "long live the french race of america."
and then you come and tell me he's not a supremacist?
lol eat mardet ethnos-nationnaleux.
i think the problem is knowing if it's a platform with an editorial line.
> 19 comments sharesavehide
it's hard to understand certain references when you lack culture.
[
i don't care whether he is supremacist or not, i agree with him on several points. the intellectual bankruptcy of official canadian conservatism, the bankruptcy of left-wing sovereignty, the absurdity of wokism, the great replacement. take some and leave some.
ah yes, so you are morally superior.
like nomos in fact?
the worst part is that yes it is
not complicated to be morally superior to people who support the mass deportation of everything that is not white and french enough.
1. nomos is not a content sharing platform that aims to be neutral.
2. yes, nomos has a clear editorial line: immigrants poet poet and shit to trans. no one is saying the opposite. you misread if you extrapolated that i believe nomos is neutral.
the stake, and i try not to speak outside my hat because i am not quite knowledgeable on these subjects there, is that according to the law of many countries, the fact that youtube is or no editorial platform changes things legally, including penalties for "hate" content. if youtube is an editorial platform, that means that google takes responsibility for what is published there. this means that in some countries, it would be google that would be prosecuted in the event that “hate” content is published on yt. google fb and twitter are in a bit of trouble, because if they start to over-select or censor the content that is posted, it becomes easier and easier to argue that they are editorial platforms and their legal responsibility to the content that is put online is increasing. something the same.
no, the peak of human civilization is not necessarily today. it can be yesterday or tomorrow. to say that your morality is superior is false since your civilization, being western democracy, is no longer the first power, it is china and ethno-nationalism is widely applied there.
no morality is superior to another, it is like saying that values are superior. your morals are simply anchored in more hearts than mine.
to be on the right is not moral.
philosophical level must still that your ethics is based on certain criteria, i would still be curious what logical reflection can lead you to want to deport people who a prioris it is considered as the only crime to emigrate to quebec. otherwise their ideas respond to their prejudice against these people and not morality or ethics and then deserve to be treated as what is shit.
morality being the rules of conduct being directed by a society, a society which has conservative values will have such values as moral so the right can be moral.
mbc is a white fascist and supremacist. let him eat my seed.
high level bullshit
he said what and who is it
systemic racism?
why is that?
i have no idea what you mean
i have never seen her in my life. 🤷
i haven't read anything from this author, but i have already seen some films inspired by his work, which i had found not bad at all.
"the least proud and harshest people in the treatment of minorities in canada are ... whites.
they are less than 45% to say they are proud or very proud.
we wanted to get them to be ashamed of themselves. it is largely successful.
and the others ? are you well seated?
arabs, filipinos and all categories of asians say they are proud of the way various groups are treated over 70%. "
who doubted it? 🙂
on this question, the ankle boots speak louder than the lips. the peddlers of systemic racism can bellow as much as they want, it is quite revealing that their alleged victims are hanging over here with both feet. 80% of immigrants selected by quebec are [from asia or africa] ( are they masochists? is our racist society playing 4d chess importing so many potential victims? or is it possible that we are being made to swallow some porridge for the cats?
it is even more striking if we take the case of repentigny. entre [2001] ( =) and [2016] ( = begins & searchpr = 01 & b1 = visible% 20minority & tabid = 1 & type = 0), the black population so pitied in the media has grown from 520 to 5880. so, or is it systemic racism? all i see is black people who choose to live in repentigny because it is the best available to them as to many of us. if this innocuous suburb of the northern crown were so oppressive, then they would stay in these urban neighborhoods where they form the plurality.
well i am not proud of our treatment of minorities either. however, it's for very different reasons if you know what i mean
suddenly, the solution of re-immigration does not seem to me such a bad idea ... for whites: that they exchange their places with immigrants, everyone finds its account!
no, i don't see it. could you clarify your thought?
i think that our minorities are being treated far too well for our own nation's good, especially anglophones.
france speaks more * frenglish * than quebec
the difference is that france is a colonizing people, not a colonized people. they don't have to fear their own demise.
france has linguistic comfort.
also with a mastery of french which supplants the average of quebecers
lol
the game is over, we will lose 5% to 10% of nurses when there were already 5% missing. this is what the protection of the vulnerable is worth in the eyes of the nursing order. i can't wait to see the update on ~~ service breakdowns ~~ the reorganization of services and the inevitable call for scapegoats.
and no one in the media reacts.
is covid-19 part of the oiiq exam? the order of c. dubé too? since when?
there is a margin of difference between the employer who gives 0 hours and the order which suspends the permit. we have just made an osmosis between 2 completely different entities.
they were already suspended, what is the point of suspending their license ... if i am forbidden to heat ... taking away my car license will not prevent me from heating any more.
it is more than obvious that all this is deliberate, they want robots, i say it again, françois legault is led by the vision of klaus schwab
perfect.
good deal. they are sources of contagion rather than healing. it is part of the expectations of a person working in the field.
personally, i look forward to my tax credit for service breakdown and lack of care!
i risk waiting a long time on the other hand ...
professional orders are creatures of government. the provincial government can put them under trusteeship whenever they want. all it takes is a call from the minister who tells them "suspend the nurses' license to practice otherwise i am crying out for you" and they will do it. it's still brilliant on their part, it allows them to fire them in a roundabout way that will be more difficult to contest as wrongful dismissal.
they react. they applause. journalists are completely out of whack about covid. you just have to see what they say to each other on twitter, it's a hysteria of total hysteria.
it serves to avoid prosecution for wrongful dismissal. without the license suspension, nurses who were suspended indefinitely would have had recourse against their employer, but by suspending their license, it allows them to be fired because they no longer meet one of the conditions necessary for their employment. it really is a bit of a piggy bank.
it's funny how we are told more about guardian angels lol ...
they can't robotize much yet, but they can pretend that a billion a week is not enough. imagine collecting the money of 8 million quebecers without providing anything in return or even better: that they do not even want to ask for something ....
yes, but will the robots be vaccinated?
unvaccinated people in health care are tested 3x per week, so only they have a clear answer as to whether they have covid or not.
someone who is vaccinated is not tested, and can spread covid as much as an unvaccinated person.
your opinion?
if the vaccine had been shown to be effective against transmission, i would agree, but it's the other way around. it's been more than two months since the director of the cdc (american public health) admitted that the vaccines did not prevent the transmission of the virus. and many studies have subsequently confirmed this: the vaccinated may be a little less likely to be infected, but when they are infected, they transmit the virus almost as much as the unvaccinated ... and in the less often they are symptomatic, so they can pass it on sneakily without knowing that they are sick. and in the end, everyone will probably go through it.
in this context, it does not make sense to suspend the unvaccinated ... especially if they have a previous infection which gives an immunity superior to vaccine immunity.
it should be the same amount of time as it takes to get a family doctor!
nasty vicious blow. brilliant but vicious. on the other hand, the next generation will surely take this into account and change careers. if you're still one call away from under the bus ....
also, i have the impression that not taking a vaccine is a devious form of having a vacation in an ost environment: suspension on the 15th, taking a dose, taking a road trip in quebec, taking the 2nd dose, leaving traveling south in winter, come back next year and re-register. as long as playing dog, as much as it goes in the 2 edges.
we went from narrative * dozens of antivaxes to iss that threaten to collapse our health system * to * there is no problem putting out hundreds of doctors and thousands of nurses *.
in a week.
i still can not believe it. we were even served a calculation in the style * 1 unvaccinated at sis = 4000 surgeries postponed * or something similar. and now, no more problem to ride staff shorts? doctors in tele-medicine in 2020 are better in 2021 because of what? the pandemic is over without our knowing it?
just ..... amazing.
i wonder if they really believe it.
i know there is nothing more cliché than drawing comparisons to 1984, but i think it really applies in this case. winston, a journalist from the external party, is obliged to play the regime's cheerleader on pain of being sent to the gulag? here the gulag would take the form of the excommunication of the sect of the virtuous to be placed in the same basket as the convidiots, antivaxx, and the * terre-platistes * ...
i would bet $ 100 that when they announce that they are investing in robots, anglade will go wild for a decade that it was his idea 😅
they will * vaccinate *
none of your business.
how what?
i have 7
ben let us see the economic right pushing even more than the “bobos of the left” for a massive immigration.
thank you, father, we'll see if my biological clock gives up on me before i finish my studies.
it's your position that is ridiculous. you can absolutely be a nationalist and not want a child.
what relationship with the left?
you are in a good position to divide quebec, a shame for a "nationalist".
what if i have 3?
ark what marde sub
because of a survey on if you have children? your gift ben sensitive.
true
stop pissing off the people with your mongolian fantasies. it is not because you are not free to be a fool that quebecers are not free.
> no freedom of expression, no freedom of movement
it's funny, i still have the right to say what i want and go where i want.
> a totalitarian government
you don't know what a totalitarian government is. you should be ashamed to say such a thing.
can we not imagine that the popularity of the government's liberticidal measures is a manifestation of our political status? we don't care about rights and freedoms because it's been 150 years that we haven't decided anything. ottawa appoints our judges who dictate case law. the canadian charter adopted without our consent takes precedence over the quebec charter. it's hard to blame someone who isn't interested in what they have no influence over. nonetheless, it actually gives a very poor political culture in this area.
but isn't independence what is best to shake things up, to have a fundamental debate on all these fundamental issues that escape us or that we take for granted? remaining extras in our own history will not improve things, on the contrary.
in my opinion, the people should start seeing their freedoms and rights as coming from themselves and not from the government.
we should first know the definition of freedom. individual freedom is the power to influence your life circumstances without outside interference, especially when it comes from organizations.
we're pretty fucked up now that people are convinced it's okay that the government has the right to take your job away. you could say that this is justified because of the state of emergency. the problem is, the government has no interest in ending this state of emergency as it gains power and money. so it makes sense to expect the government to go further. it didn't stop at restaurants, gyms and movies.
perhaps our only way out would be to grow a culture of freedom in the months and years to come. those who are fed up with repeated government mistakes will see the light.
> should a new constitution also be created ...?
yes. this is point # 1. independence allows us to write a democratic constitution, unlike what we have now. the canadian constitution is not a democracy.
and yes, if we stupidly copy the model constitution that we have now, nothing will change. and even, seeing the reaction of quebecers, ready to sacrifice their freedom without asking questions, i wonder if i would want to live there.
to the irish, as far as our independence is concerned.
what is being free, what is freedom? you confuse freedom with privileges.
you have the privilege of saying what the government lets you say. there are many limits on religious expressions, in particular bill 21 and hate speech, in quebec city they fines insults, they prohibit sentences they deem inappropriate. in the us they have the first amendment which guarantees freedom of expression, an inalienable right by the government, the only limit being calls for violence. you have the privilege to go where you want if only you take your 2.3 n + 1 doses and wear a mask, fill out a questionnaire and outside of the curfew and confinement and the color zones lol
quebec has a charter which acts only to protect citizens among themselves, or if the government violates it outside the framework of the law, but however the latter does not limit the power of the quebec government. the canadian charter does not really limit the provincial power there is section 1 and the notwithstanding clause which makes almost all the other rights of the other sections limitable by the government. in reality there is no charter that really protects rights and freedoms as in the united states with their amendment. a constitution should not only grant basic rights to the people but also restrict the government from limiting those. quebec also appoints its judges in the province of quebec. the only other court that has jurisprudence on quebec is the supreme court, many of whose judges are from quebec. when is the last time the supreme court limited quebec?
no need for independence to create a quebec constitution! british columbia has already done this as a province. in any case, we already have the quebec charter of rights and freedoms which has constitutional value in civil law.
the sentence should be changed from free quebec to independent quebec, pcq if quebec becomes the largest independent prison in the world, that would not make it a free quebec.
lol i'm not going to argue with a cellar osti who calls the vaccine passport the "juice" passport. criss drain, take advantage of your freedom to shut your big eyes.
> in the usa they have the first amendment which guarantees freedom of expression, an inalienable right by the government, the only limit being calls for violence.
the people of the united states are a people totally different from everyone else on earth in terms of values. for them, their rights come from god and oneself, not from the government. that's why freedom is really alive there.
the united states has a constitution that grew out of the enlightenment, we have a constitution that grew out of multiculturalism. for example, it is difficult to deny that the charter does not sufficiently protect rights in matters of religion or the use of english. this is surely not what we aspire to, but it is the state of play. then it is explained, we only name the judges of the court of quebec, our court of first instance. the judges of the superior court and the court of appeal who have the final say are appointed by ottawa. ditto for the supreme court and examples of obstruction fuse. the repatriation of the constitution without the consent of quebec, first of all. after, law 101, the reference on secession, the multani case, the inevitable legal setback of laws 21 and 96, etc ...
to be a good player, the counterpoint would be to say that our appointments to the human rights commission are also atrocious, which i grant you more than enough. you have to be lucky.
no, the quebec charter is not a constitution, it does not limit the government, it is used only in the card of the law, what limits the government it is only the canadian charter: canadian constitution> provincial law> charter quebecois
"north korea is freer than quebec"
> which calls the vaccine passport the "juice" passport.
lol !
take advantage of your privileges before your juice passport expires and needs an update
well that's his freedom, a freedom that the government can withdraw at any time is not a freedom but a privilege. a freedom or a right must be inviolable.
the united states is very multiculturalist, the amendment protects american rights better than the canadian charter which in no way limits the power of the government. the government here can restrict the freedoms of speech and religion and demonstrations without any limit even the right to a jury or the presumption of innocence can be withdrawn. for example in the road safety card the police must first witness an offense before stopping the vehicle and request an identification given the protections provided by the 4th amendment, in canada the police can stop n 'anyone, without even there being an offense for verification purposes which flouts the presumption innocence. i find that if we really want a free quebec, we must first have a free people, having privileges that the government can give or withdraw as it pleases is not being free.
it would help a lot in the political debate in the west if zemmour wins.
indeed, that would show that it is not by electing an idiot of demago like zemmour that we can straighten out a country
it would do a lot of damage to the condescending well-thinking forced to question itself, like the election of donald trump.
okay, because someone offers better?
literally anyone zemmour is nothing, he doesn't even have a program. his only argument is "muh immigrants not well".
it's a bit normal not to have a program for someone who is not a candidate.
an ode to the invader, both the imperialist french lady and the asian restaurateur for whom the protection of the french language is as reprehensible as the measures to fight against covid19.
every time the new york times does an article on quebec, it's pro-liberal tea towels.
> ms. le dubé, the english bookshop owner, said that, being from brittany, where the breton language had declined rapidly in the 20th century under persecution from france, she understood all too well the importance of preserving a nation’s language.
> but, she quickly added, “why can’t different languages coexist?”
ah, well yes, with a name to sleep outside like * le * dubé, it could well be a french jug from france. especially speaking of the coexistence of languages, it would be necessary to look at the history of the decline of the breton language which obviously escapes this dirty leftist despite its claims. it's simple, the mother tongue is a zero-sum game. see, in pierre trudeau's home, english and french coexisted. as a result, her boy is an incomprehensible chimera who can only express himself in simultaneous translation.
for the rest, it is really a big bunch of nonsense typical of the anglo saxons' inherent racism towards the french. french would be reductive, a language for the poor closed to the outside world, etc ... frankly, it will get their balls broken by those left behind who masturbate in front of states where the stupidity of proud and assumed unilingualism reigns. bill 96 would be against bilingualism? when you can cite the article that dismisses the teaching of english at all levels from elementary to college, we'll talk about it again. otherwise, they should better take inspiration from quebec, which juggles skilfully, at least as much as possible within the canadian straitjacket with national unilingualism and personal bilingualism.
that neither nor, it is u / chamotruche which gave birth to r / quebeclibre, we do not embark legault in there!
> if he is truly lucid, he will have to dare to admit to himself the following: this mandate under the sign of caquist omnipotence will perhaps paradoxically be the last spasm of quebec nationalism, before the demographic revolution initiated by the liberals and their massive immigration policy does not compromise for good the political balance of power of the historic french-speaking majority by condemning it to gradually become a minority.
la langue de bois translation: the great replacement will lead to the dispossession of french canadians in the only state that is theirs. see, it's not that difficult to name the real without having to bother with a broomstick in your ass. understand me, mbc is basically right, but he handicaps himself greatly with his cowardly form. especially since freedom and legault government do not go hand in hand, it will take more than half fig, half grape texts on the historic french-speaking majority to move things forward.
the jdm clique fantasizes day and night about the repressed sovereignty of françois legault. i believe that this can be seen as a form of unacknowledged denial.
legault is a federalist.
here we have reached a stupefying level of propaganda
i do not see legault making a country with its brown stockings of counters of bins. but there are plenty of boomers who believe in it ...
it's a theory that serves no purpose other than inserting a trojan into society to destroy it. adhering to it will lead inexorably to the cluster of white privilege as well as all the other militant theories with a deconstructionist (ie destructive) vocation. it is a very serious sociological pandemic which corrupts the structure.
nothing to say about this text, it makes perfect sense. but why do i have the impression that if the author had been called guillaume tremblay this same text would never have been published on the whore of the rue st jacques? a big thank you to stephan for his text.
"if you don't share my ideology you are racist."
- efeminine neo-marxist city dwellers who have never lived outside their ideological bubble who justify their existence as social parasites by putting themselves above the supposed working class they are supposed to represent. the most hypocritical bourgeois in existence who would have been the first to be shot by the red army or sent to a cambodian labor camp.
this is what i believe too. each of these theories are based on each other and form a circle. authorizing one will authorize all the others and it is also via this tactic that everything is advanced (a presses b, b presses c and c presses a).
one of the great regrets of my life is that in 2003, i did not vote for this man who is probably the premier of quebec whom i have respected the most in my life, bernard landry. at the time in a phase of teenage leftist bidding, i voted for the ufp, of which i was a member.
my vote would not have changed anything, but the fact remains that i will always regret not having voted for him when i had the opportunity.
ironically, in 2012 maria mourani obtained the title of patriot of the year from the société saint-jean-baptiste. "she deserved her award for her past actions, but to claim that the canadian charter protects the quebec identity, we would like to know where and how," said mr. beaulieu.
the grand chief of the cree nation of quebec, ted moses, paid a heartfelt tribute to bernard landry during his funeral.
[
i want to be against multiculturalism, but it's far from one of bernard landry's best moments. the guy pompously nods in a discussion, but he does everything to be a type one asshole for the next seven minutes. her massive argument that must rally maria mourani is that many progressives in quebec, including many muslim women support the charter of values, in doing so it is not discriminatory. truly? what a lousy appeal to numbers and typically quiet revolutionary authority. oh, the progressives! as amir khadir turns the hood of the union of progressive forces. here is the barometer of the acceptable in the mind of bernard landry. that and all opinions are valid in a democracy, but i'm more certain to be your friend now that we are more in agreement. how small of him. in hindsight, this kind of unpleasant mother-in-law comments foreshadowed the current twilight of the parti québécois, which has not changed since.
ufp? could you explain to a young person of 18 what this is? 😅
landry respects the person and attacks the argument. i think it's a good example to (re) take. it almost doesn't exist anymore.
union of progressive forces. the precursor party of quebec solidaire, wanted as an alliance of several movements to the left of the left. imagine qs but 10 times smaller, it is also the ufp which designed the structure of "no leader but 2 co-spokespersons" still in place at qs.
what were progressive ideas in 2003 compared to what they are today? i guess the woke movement didn't exist back then, right?
the party's focus was more on economic issues and on anti-globalization, that being said, the woke roots were already visible even if we weren't as far as today. in particular, the obsession with splitting any position in the party in two in order to have a man and a woman sharing the post. their platform was a grocery list including all the demands of "marginalized" groups without any concern for realism or pragmatism. like, i had seen a resolution adopted suggesting to cede all the territories claimed by the first nations to them, without considering that many have been inhabited for more than a century.
already at the time, it irritated me and it made me quit the party after 1-2 years.
thanks for the very informative response! i didn't know it went back so far :)
ah yes, alter-globalization, i remember that. we are a bit bored of it.
that is the problem. when journalists want to cover a topic they know little about, who do they call? other journalists, media they consume, and therefore the point of view they propagate is the point of view of media journalists loved by local journalists themselves, as if the journalists were neutral, impartial and objective in their cover.
it took me 2 minutes to discover that france inter, the media for which their guest works, is a radio for left-wing intellectuals. i'm not kidding, i'm not inventing anything, it's their former director who describes them exactly like this: "... for patrice bertin who was the editorial director," it was decided that france inter should become the radio of intellectuals of the left, since europe 1 is on the right and rtl a popular radio ""
others consider it a radio station of parisian bobos, defenders of the elite and slayers of the populists.
in short, the guest of radio-canada represents a media with a very clear editorial line opposed to zemmour who will not hesitate to slay him when he can. honestly, i don't know zemmour too well and can't comment too much on who he is, but i think it's clear that the presentation here is biased by a highly questionable guest choice.
this is also radio-canada's # 1 bias laundering tactic: inviting "experts" who will say what journalists and the cbc want to hear. thus, the radio-canada journalist can continue to claim to be neutral, impartial and following the rules of journalistic ethics while giving a platform to someone who is biased, biased and who is there to sell his salad and misinform the public. , allowing to circumvent journalistic ethics rules. "well, it's not me who said that, it's my guest!" who is it that chose this guest? don't make me believe the reporters at rc have no idea what their guests are going to say before they invite them.
anything that radio-cadenas does not like is classified as far-right.
the center is far right in 2021.
zemmour oscillates between the traditional gaullist right and the ultra-right. for the far right, they should take a look at henry de lesquen, zemmour is very moderate in comparison.
hello, i don't know him at all. could you tell me a little bit of the truth about him? the little i hear is that he's racist, sexist, and worse than marine le pen.
i didn't even know why we were talking about him this morning ...
not that radio-canada is the case for a lot of everyone.
h2l never had 10-15% of voting intentions.
i don't know him well either. i know, on the other hand, after a short search that he is a jew of north african origin (that does not automatically clear him of accusations of racism, but all the same it puts in context his relationship to the nation and to the french identity) , whose parents chose france at the time of algeria's independence and is a right-wing commentator who does not hesitate to say controversial things to daily broadcasts for several years, he was convicted at two repetitions of remarks violating the law in france, but the law is very strict in france.
he is being talked about because he seems to be heading for a presidential campaign and a poll has said he could make it to the second round against macron.
my comment was aimed more at the fact that radio-canada will seek as an "expert" a political columnist from a media qualified by its own director as "radio for left-wing intellectuals", a guest who will certainly not present the information in a neutral and impartial manner, but will attempt to present it to the benefit of its ideological point of view.
so what?
thank you!
he is totally unknown outside of 18-25, unlike eric zemmour who has been a media star for 15 years.
my little finger tells me that among these 30 doctors who have been reassigned to montérégie, several have a beautiful house in the west-island and they will be forced to take the bridge to go to work instead of just 10 minutes by car. with that in mind, it's easy to find the money to hire a reputable lawyer ....
to date, i have seen no case where beliefs have prevailed for 18 months and it is not about to end. in this case, the smell of money and special interest is overwhelming. when the pandemic is over, we will see the return of the farce turkeys: the quebec public to whom the media will describe julius gray as * a man of conviction who never flinched *.
and the turkeys will swallow as they have very well swallowed the total desertion of their institutions as stipulated in an article in le devoir. make no mistake: many * people of conviction * currently silent on the potential breakdown of service in health and the very possible cause and effect relationship on mortality will not hesitate in the * post-pandemic * universe to tear up their shirts and cry murder if law 21 or whatever prevents someone in high school from dreaming of pursuing studies in one particular field among many others.
crisse it costs society more than $ 400,000 to train a doctor in our subsidized universities. in addition, they make a salary more than 8 times the average salary in quebec ...
the least that these doctors can do is give a little help to those who have paid for a large part of their studies.
finally, the man of all fights, the crusader of fundamental rights stands up to defend the right to practice of doctors! ah, well no in fact, he protests against the unconstitutionality of reassigning 30 doctors from the island of montreal to the montérégie, not that of laying off the 600 unvaccinated doctors.
really, the silence of the scoundrels of its kind has stuck in my legs since the beginning of this circus. especially that in normal times, it is not a weakling who is used to bending before the will of the government. it goes up to the barricades for law 101, the kirpan at school, law 21, law 96, etc ..., but the unraveling of democracy and fundamental rights under the aegis of health hysteria? bah, no, it's irrelevant. see, what drives this rude mutlculturalist moralizer is the font size in commercial signage, not freedom of movement or medical confidentiality.
hey, he's just doing his job of (((chosen))).
or la la, how stupid. it wants to play the white knight defender of the poor amerindians, but it is scheming in isolation from their ivory tower. we can see that the intention behind this umpteenth rudeness is the national dynamiting and not the advancement of the amerindians.
hahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha
hahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha hahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha
[deleted]
the last fad i heard from qs voters: "first nations are multiculturalists"
🤭
hey, i don't like wasting money but i'm 100% ok to pay for that, we are already paying for budgets 3 ~ 4x too large for the education systems in indigenous communities which allow us to have a primary and secondary education largely in their languages. like french in north america, indigenous languages are a very fragile cultural wealth and must be protected. apart from the friends in ottawa, we have nothing to gain from the disappearance of these languages and from "english for all", and without the efforts of the last decades to preserve their languages, most young people would be able to speak english in communities in the north.
lmao they are literally the most ethno-nationalist people on the american continent.
another example of yesterday's "dangerous disinformation" that has become the news today.
small enigma for all:
trudeau bought 35m doses for 2022, 30m doses for 2023, and 60m doses for 2024, with the possibility of doubling the orders, and this, ** in mid-april 2021, when we did not even have still started vaccinating people under 60 **, [ctv news link] ( 1_5399696.html).
how much do you think they did not already know in april and that we have been bullshit for 6 months?
do you really believe that a prime minister buys 125-250m doses of vaccines without intending to use them? if you tell people that two is not enough before they're even vaccinated, no one will want it. if you wait until they have made the journey, and that you tell them that it is a little further, the majority will only say that they have already done 2/3, going back is more complicated than to continue. then 3/4, then 4/5 ...
to believe what a government says is to believe in the story of a magician, distracted on the left while the action takes place on the right.
> but protection against the severe form of the disease, hospitalizations and death remains important.
... if the two vaccines were taken 3 weeks apart, otherwise, it does not decrease more than the others.
🤑🤑🤑🤑🤑
to add, the term * adequately vaccinated * has never been set in stone, leaving the possibility of a transfer from * x doses * to * x days since the last dose *. it makes sense in a way because it would be ridiculous to force catch-up doses on a "latecomer".
the average citizen has no idea of the gulf between media swelling, government decisions and the finality of the pandemic.
exactly what my doctor told me i asked him a lot of questions, he thinks that there will be multiple recurrent injections each year as the immunity decreases. with the variants too there are chances that there is a variant resistant to the vaccine and a new vaccine will be needed again. 🎰⏰💉🔁
for how long? how effective will the vaccines be after 1 year?
it's clear. from the start, the use of the term "adequately vaccinated" opens the door to the third dose and all subsequent ones.
> i think we don't have to prove that systemic racism exists. i think it's [up to the prime minister] to prove that it doesn't exist
the reversal of the burden of proof is coffee for a law graduate!
> constant awashish says he is disappointed, but not surprised, by the reaction of the prime minister, who persists and signs by still refusing to recognize the notion of systemic racism.
i don't like legault. but i will never be on the side of these people.
the problem in quebec is that we end up with a definition that includes ** "state racism" **, ** "institutional racism" ** and ** "systemic discrimination" **. you can't just approve of it like that. we put everything in the same boat with this canadian definition there.
if in the case of the natives we can really speak of conscious and unconscious ** "racist" ** biases and prejudices in the system as well as in society, the same cannot be said for other ethnic groups.
for the most part, the conscious and unconscious biases and prejudices of which they are victims are ** "systemic racial discrimination" **, either fueled by xenophobia or ignorance due to social norms as obese people can be victims of grossophobia or ignorance of society in the face of their needs.
in general we speak of ** "systemic discrimination" **.
indigenous people are becoming the federal state's golem against quebecers
these people should be jailed on tens of thousands of false charges which they all have to prove to be false or until they remove the silliness they said.
[removed]
cool that makes more sense. except that the canadian-style definition of systemic racism you're talking about looks a lot like the definition of systemic racism in france. i believe that the definition of badly shaken systemic racism is not just the canadian definition. i understand why i can't get along with others.
you are not the only one who noticed ...
no. i just don't like the caq. doesn't mean that i support multicultural baba-cool weirdos.
any criticism of the dear leader is not a plot to undermine quebec's national identity.
i'm just saying that man because i don't spend my time educating myself on the definitions of this concept abroad.
i mean apartment the american system - and yes here i'm really saying the ** "american system" ** - is still so messed up (not to mention their way of doing with their gerrymandering).
the american definition of systemic racism is potentially much sound than its application in canada. in canada, we speak very clearly, or at least for the most part, of systemic discrimination.
but on the american side we are potentially much closer to state racism, supported by habits of questionable systemic discrimination, in its definition.
here apart from what concerns the natives, there it is necessary to let go of the gas with the combination of the words "racist" and "systemic". tobacco, esti ...
[removed]
i was referring to the idea of “systemic racism”. it has nothing to do with natives except for the fact that one native in this article supported this stupid idea.
systemic racism is the notion that there is racism in institutions whose mission is the good and improvement of society. medicine, police, education, politics.
the difference with normal racism is that the consequences are usually more serious. ex: letting someone die in a hospital vs being insulted in the street.
it has nothing to do with the natives or the québécois, but it can very well be found in our institutions ...
a system can have racist policies or racist people, but a system cannot be racist. if a policy is racist, or if a person is racist, it must be discriminatory on the basis of race.
quebec policies do not discriminate on the basis of race. therefore: there is no systemic racism in quebec.
legault was right on this point.
it doesn't have to be explicit like in nazi dictatorship and politics during the adolph hitler era for it to be considered systemic racism. in my eyes, from the moment a system cannot prevent people in positions of responsibility from being racist and the bureaucracy too complex messes up the mess to the point that it facilitates racism, i call it systemic racist . however, organizations tend to try to resolve systemic problems, social and individual crises. except that you have to target the hot spots on several types of angles at the same time for this to work.
this is not just systemic racism, it is also a conspiracy theory that claims that any inequality between two ethnic groups is necessarily the product of racism. and this without providing a demonstration to prove it obviously.
systemic racism also comes with its antithesis: the notion of privilege. white privilege, privilege of this and that. the concept of privilege as used by anti-racist activists is really a form of reverse racism. why ? because it uses the same logic as racists who judge an individual based on their group membership. you are white, therefore you are privileged / profiteer. you are black, therefore you are an idiot / thief.
the notion of white privilege is based, among other things, on the difference between the average income of whites and blacks. it is true that this gap exists, but you cannot use this fact to judge an individual when the variance between individuals, all races combined, is much greater than the inter-racial variance!
this is precisely what i do not understand. how an inequality between two groups of different race, religion or ethnicity, can not be the result of racism. at the base, in the beginnings of the history of the united states, (i speak also of the 13 colonies) there was slavery and if the blacks were poor, it was good because they were exploited at the base. . except that now, the country's architecture and operations still have the scars of segregation and therefore it will take time before the number of blacks in black neighborhoods with paying jobs is finally at a level equivalent to those of white, even if nowadays the difference is fading more and more. well if you are talking about a case, where a community containing both whites, blacks, asians, magrebi, indians ect, in short a neighborhood or a village have problems because of a band of bureaucrats who take advantage of 'them and the system, but let these victims think directly that it is because they are black when in this case it is a coincidence, i understand you. i can imagine that it's not always racism that is the problem, but to hear you speak, systemic racism doesn't exist, never existed and it's just a conspiracy theory. invented by bobogauchists. the indian who died in a hospital because of a racist who didn't give a damn, is it systemic racism or a social problem? and seriously, what is the difference between systemic racism, and a social problem that makes many racists work in responsible jobs?
the story as told is hard, but i'd be curious to hear the other side. because it happens that medical specialists behave like spoiled children. i'd be curious how far away from their office was the nearest printer connected to the network ...
the damned mania to standardize everything, that is a beautiful bullshit too. it makes buyers' lives easier, it can be okay when it's applied well, but it tends to be applied to all sauces to the point where it takes away all the flexibility.
we need to stop wondering who should pay more taxes and focus on where all our money is going.
in this case it is quite important. this is who will ensure the compatibility of the printer, change the cartridges, check when the printing is not working. small, cheap printers don't exist in hospitals, that's why everything is networked precisely so as not to have one in every office.
they probably didn't want to understand anything so a questionnaire approved their request to satisfy them but there they are complaining precisely because their request has been approved ...
well it's pretty obvious, in the pockets of the rich ....
it's no better if the managers give in to the blackmail of the spoiled children, once they have shown that they can have a printer, the other babies are going to want one too.
it also seems clear that these doctors did not need to print stuff in industrial quantities, because by their own admission a $ 200 printer from the wholesale office would have done the job.
do you think it was a wholesale office clerk who pocketed the profit from this printer?
according to the article they did an email chain with 16 people and all capital words to express their dissatisfaction and probably someone gave in to stop being planted and sidneyed by these doctors.
but it is not a manager or an it clerk who has the power to put a doctor in his place.
jdis that in the sense that the money clearly is pumped enough should perhaps be focused on that instead of always looking for ways to tax the rich. no use pumping more cash. but you are more concerned with wanting more in the machine.
well then you answer him that his majesty just has to raise his august behind of his chair and use the printer in the hallway 25 seconds away from his chair. let the printer pile up requests until it gets close and can print all of its stuff at once instead of going back and forth.
but cutting expenses and services is already the only thing they have been doing for 40 years. there are so many cuts in the health system that all the professionals described elsewhere or in the private sector. go see the different services, there are just skeletons left, whether it is hospital, old people's home and schools.
cut in health, we did not go like 30 billion to 50 billion in a very short time
ok what service do you want cut? i think that oncology doesn't have to pay off, neither does cardiology. the knees, the hips more prostheses they are stuffed with oxycodone instead.
also, the private medical sector obviously increases the costs to the public enormously, so we are making it illegal.
cut ... criss the money is there. 30 years ago the money is there. we have custodians. it doesn't just apply to health but health has the budget to deliver the goods. $ 6,000 printers, meme yen stories ain't hundreds you don't see go by.
have you ever forgotten the $ 38,000 table on the north shore?
there are people who have both hands in the candy dishes. i'm for a ministry and every day i see thousands fly away.
it's a really funny headline, someone reading it will feel like duhaime tried to start a petition and she didn't raise or something. when we read the article, we realize that the title should have been "caq rejects petition against vaccine passport supported by duhaime", because in fact, that's what happened, duhaime arrived with the fifth petition with the largest number of signatories in the history of the national assembly (118,000 signatures) and the caq has just used its dominant position to block any discussion on the subject.
118,000 people, that's 1.39% of the population of quebec.
the caq spent 23.8 million during the last election campaign, the liberals 24.2 million.
the problem that duhaime will face in the elections is that the health crisis may well be over and that the mask and the vaccine passport will no longer be a topical issue. a large part of his supporters are only there because of the health passport and restrictions.
no way it's over yet. hatred and segregation continue to mount despite "the vaccine working". there are people right now who are abusing their power to force people into medical treatment, there is no real proof that the madness is going to end.
you dream in color if you believe that the health crisis is to end before 2025 ...
118,000 people for a petition is not bad. to compare, in 2011 the petition for the resignation of jean charest had 250,000 signatures.
if the vaccine works, then why are people so afraid of getting vaccinated that they are making the government threaten to suspend latecomers from their jobs? by the way, the virus mutates so quickly that i understand that the government wants to end it as soon as possible for fear that a new strain requiring another type of vaccine will emerge.
there may be other parties that will be a little more moderate if it still lasts next year. we can already see the qs and the pq being more preoccupied while the plq plays the game of "the caq does not go far enough" (screeches that anglade just seems to play the game when she speaks, not capab).
having said that, i think the pcq will have other angles. but it worries me how much the vote could be divided and the caq could pass majority with like 30% of the vote.
if the vaccine works, why does the government need to force everyone to take it? as far as i know, i don't need my neighbor to be vaccinated against rubella for my own vaccination to work ...
qs and pq start talking about it because duhaime eats their votes.
the pcq had a good program under pennyroyal but no one to hear it there is a crowd that can reach many people
basically you don't care that people die through their fault while you are protected. i'm giving up.
oh yes, respect the individual right of free adults to refuse medical treatment. so much 2019 from me. what a boor i am.
so basically you like the status quo and the return to normal does not interest you. super 👍
there is nothing normal about forcing medical treatment on its citizens.
nothing normal to dismiss professionals and suspend their accreditations because they defend their physical integrity.
nothing normal in making the freedom of movement of individuals contingent on medical intervention.
i changed my mind. let them let the anti-vax do what they want even if he gets sick. no, but it's not possible! there are nurses, (the kind of people who give vaccines, who are willing to quit their jobs and go broke just because they're too afraid of making themselves sick by being vaccinated. picking up at their door would put them up against the wall but no, they are so afraid that they prefer to go to the street. now lawyers have pushed the government to wait until november 15 for compulsory vaccination and in addition, there is recently had a case of an unvaccinated health worker that made people sick. they are also worse than veiled women who prefer to go to the streets instead of showing their faces in the workplace. - they no longer have the excuse of religion, no it's really a phobia of the vaccine. there is no longer any solution. quebec is screwed up. the health passport is no longer useful. soon there will be a civil war between the anti-vax and the vaccinated.the problem is that the government will take the entire population hostage while not everyone is vaccinated. it will take years for everyone to become resilient enough, even the unvaccinated, for the virus to no longer cause illness in intensive care. my biggest fear is that the virus will have time to mutate due to unvaccinated people who get sick too easily, and then we will have to administer another dose of vaccine which because not everyone will be vaccinated will. let the virus mutate and we will have to start over and over again until the population goes wild and it turns into a civil war.
... i would answer but i can't get any meaning out of this salad.
english canadian philosophy
impose its language by the force of the market: halal
impose its language by force of the state: haram
heaps of waste-island mardes screaming for nothing as usual.
"already struggling to obtain english services in the eastern townships, a region that has seen a dramatic drop in the number of anglophones and their institutions, bill 96 further exacerbates their problems."
😂
> not to follow political news. la joute, at lcn, does this job remarkably well.
plug in the first paragraph. it becomes fat because it allows to deduce the rest: from * plugage *. we were promised the equivalent on [télé-québec] ( and it always ends with the same thing: we * plug * first and then we'll see.
speaking * plug *, i advance the hypothesis that richard martineau is going to plug * singer masked * in a future column in the style * political parties are like the singer masked at tva: they sing during the elections and after the vote, they are revealed. *
apart from "tout le monde en parle" and a few little-known programs on the "savoir" channel, there is not much in quebec to really respond to the curiosity of quebecers regarding certain complex subjects. there is nothing to meet the need to educate yourself on a hot and / or complex subject. we are always caught picking up pieces here and there like a puzzle to try to form an opinion on a subject.
a weekly program capable of delving into this and presenting viewers with different points of view thanks to multiple invited intellectuals and professionals would certainly do good in quebec.
we would have something else to do on the weekend than talk about the cellar or the bitch who looked badly to "everybody's talking about it".
translation: bock-côté wants a platform that will allow him to reach an audience who is not normally able to read his columns and who is especially not able to understand and detect the fallacies he uses in profusion .
so let's debate!
creamy or traditional ~~ disgusting ~~?
bock-côté simply wants quebec to equip itself with a culture of debate as it is used to in france.
i fear that our mediocre offer in this area will keep it longer in france.
let me go shave and brush my teeth.
then i give you a big beak.
your comment is so perfect
salad ? ouash
don't tell me you want their old bread burnt on the outside and soft on the inside?
yuck.
we must be the only people in the world who finance their own assimilation.
when i studied at john abbott college, there were droves of francophone quebecois who attended and were excited to develop their english language skills.
the job market they were preparing for is one where travel and english language skills are necessary. where a career may take them outside of quebec.
in any case, the concept that quebecois students should be denied access to english language training is quite barbaric. why should students be forced to have skills only useful in quebec? why should students be limited by the career availability of a limited quebec market?
it just takes a square head like you to believe that you have to go to a cegep in english to learn it like everyone else. are you unable to write in french in a clearly french-speaking sub? it would still be necessary not to lower oneself to communicate with the bouseux of quebecois in their local patois. all the same. i'm always happy to talk square-headed like you, it reminds me why we have to come together to resist your arrogance, disrespect and chauvinism.
it's always funny to see anglo pseudo-leftists who have their hearts set on anything and everything while supporting the cultural chauvinism of the anglo-american business class. it just takes a fucking english "communist" to care about the "market" of jobs lol. crisse the quebec conservatives are more to the left than you.
i could have started in french, but i wanted to see if you have any hatred for another quebecois. obviously you do. you hate bilingualism, you hate bilingual quebecois.
you deny the reality that francophone children in quebec can lose their career goals if access to training in english is not possible. denying people the opportunity .... it takes a square head.
> i could have started in french, but i wanted to see if you have hatred for another quebecois.
when i work on an english canadian sub, i do it in english because i am civilized enough to speak to people in their language when i am able to do so. but apparently, like many anglo supremacists in the west island, basic citizenship is not that much of interest to you. showing a minimum of respect for your fellow quebecers is optional.
>you hate bilingualism, you hate bilingual quebecois.
i didn't know i hated myself.
immediately the big words: hate of this, hate of that. is that how we learn to debate in the dump of english cegeps?
> you deny the reality that french-speaking children in quebec can lose their career goals if access to training in english is not possible.
you seem to ignore the reality that there are english classes in french-speaking schools, and that the teaching of english is of good quality. the same cannot be said of english schools in relation to the teaching of french.
> deny people the opportunity ....
the only ones who refuse opportunities here are the english and their chauvinism which prevents them from stooping to learn other languages, and who use their dominant position in the capitalist market to impose their choice on the rest of the planet. but apparently, as a so-called marxist it doesn't seem like a wrinkle on your pocket.
unless by "opportunities" you limit yourself to "business opportunities", which would be a funny call from a communist!
what do you think of the new measures proposed to limit the enrollment of francophones in english cegeps?
it is insufficient and there will be a lot of perverse effect. i don't really like the changes in bill 96 concerning cegeps. the best would be to extend bill 101 to cegeps. alternatively, instead of limiting places in english cegeps, we could have forced these cegeps to give a percentage of their courses in french on pain of losing their funding, like 50% of the courses.
also, i would like the government to force professional orders to apply their language requirements more rigidly. according to the law, to be an engineer or a doctor (and other professions) you have to demonstrate a knowledge of french, but in practice these requirements are often bypassed. professional orders should be forced to apply their rules.
i remember his comedy shows when i was little. it was funny and still very smart.
it pains me that he passed away. my sympathies to his family and loved ones.
martineau could have put it in context because at the moment, he is not citing anyone. this kind of technique is sterile and tiresome.
* this gang there, like there there, you guys there, the kind to say that like .... *
i have the impression that we are giving too much visibility and importance to the wokes and their movement.
i don't think i'm an atypical quebecer, i live on the far outskirts of montreal and i've never met anyone who fits the definition that we can read of wokes.
it may also be a question of the circle of acquaintance. i am not denying anything and i do not want to generalize.
this concept is totally outside my reality.
the answer to this nonsense is if it's not that bad, they won't mind if it is ended.
according to legault it would be that in the heads of people and these people would not be part of institutions nor of organization / associations.
if you want to know more about wokes, here is psyhodelic [ danemark( a specialized youtuber in dramas and he's one of the biggest and most popular youtubeur in france. basically a woke these are privileged groups of people who screw up for nothing because they are too fragile and have the government, but are stupid enough to demonstrate to force the government to come and help them and save them all in not giving a damn about the government's mouth. in short, the extreme left who are all so strong and crooked that they do like the extreme right without realizing it. by the way, i don't know how many in the quebec libre group believe in the theory of the fake 9/11 attack, the chemtrails, that the covid was manufactured to regulate the population, to make money on the vaccines on the back. people, the big replacement ect, but in any case it demeans the group in my eyes because i have seen videographers who have debunked conspiracy theory in such a professional way that i believe more to debunk it from the stars than those who say that the vaccine got dangerous.  but i like this group all the same, you always have to keep your reservations and remain flexible in your approach. at least i try more and more. good evening.
according to chantal guy, none of this exists
the title is an opinion held by no one.
wokes are above all a storytelling of the status quo.
but they still refer to a real movement even if it is only a caricature.
for me a "woke" is someone who acts like a person who has just learned at 18 what racism is and says a specialist the next day and believes that the rest of the planet has never think about this.
it's the equivalent of the "i am a virologist" syndrome which has taken too many people by storm for morality.
are you referring to that? [ journaldemontreal.com/2020/09/11/une-virologue-chinoise-pense-que-la-covid-19-a-ete-fabriquee-par-lhomme) honestly, given the dirty tricks that governments have often done, this is one of the cases where i am unable to judge who is right or who is wrong, if it is true or wrong ect. the question is no longer to judge whether it is scientifically possible, but whether they have done it or not. by the way, your definition of woke also works. like, i've read a lot of things about the problems of this world and every time i want to make a youtube video of it, i hold back because it would come out too much of the genre (the government and the people are too cowardly selfish and stupid and it is impossible to save the world without using violence, but by using violence it will give reason to the frustrated which will start the cycle of violence again etc. so, i have to study more to have a vision of clearer together and find the spark of common sense in the world so as not to be fatalistic.
no no, i was referring to the point that since covid appeared 80% of the internet claim that they have a long knowledge of virology which makes their comments that of someone who knows what they are talking about and not someone who just read something and copy and paste it.
there are of course people who know what they're talking about, but having that attitude for morality is pretty much my definition of a woke.
woopsi. a little less fun there are sanitary measures? we are a gang of conspirators to have anticipated this from the start
i have the impression that this will be the real cost of the pandemic. a generation of lost and overprotected children. worse all that under a government supposedly nationalist moreover. i have the impression that quebec political parties like the word but not the thing.
no really ? who would have thought
i'm going to sound brutal, but seriously, today's human being is a real wimp. if you are not able to study without having friends and feeling surrounded at all times, if you need not be in your room to study on your own without being too tempted to go on the internet and so be focused, if you are depressed just because you feel lonely when you had no problem in life before confinement, then you just weren't cut out for high school period. to go to university, especially for masters or doctorates, you need discipline and mentality, or at least, intelligence and memory above average. a century ago, only the rich or the genius could afford higher education and prestigious trades. most were doing a trade they learned on the job as a child from their parents or doing manual labor. now, everyone whose ancestors of a century ago were bordering on poor for ages must be limited to learning intellectually demanding trades because technology evolves so quickly that it is already becoming too complicated for the company. modern man who has hardly evolved brain for 2000 years to function well. result, some people commit suicide because they are riddled with debt and have not had the energy necessary to succeed in their court and thus bail out their debt thanks to the good salary of the trade. and then also, if humans are not able to deprive themselves from time to time of human warmth without turning heartless and neo-nazi, it is also because they are not evolving enough to live as in the future and know where and when to fully enjoy social life. well i say that when i did not manage to finish cegep, but i assume i am fragile. but compared to the stress of school, feeling lonely is nothing. at least i took a step back and i see the social problems coming well in advance. good goodbye.
> during the passage of the "duty" friday, the head nurse of the emergency of the hospital of suroît, ** carine durocher **, had only slept three hours.
you can be sure that she will be the target of retaliation. the shortage is a direct result of the presence of psychopaths in management who have no supervision.
i can't believe that our elected officials are stupid enough to believe that an anti-strike law would allow them to not have to meet the demands of nurses.
it should have been, invoking this law is an automatic defeat of the bosses and nurses get what they want period.
they want robots, it's really simple.
what i don't understand is how all the pressure is on the nurses' backs. go to any factory that operates 24 hours a day, if the boss is unable to find staff to fill his night shift because he is too moron to arrange his schedules, the boss will bear the blame. if he ever tried to go to the guys on the floor to force them to do extra ** obligatory ** time, either he would get kicked in the ass (literally in some circles), or he there would be refusals to work for health and safety reasons (it is dangerous to be half asleep in a factory).
but it looks like in a hospital it's the other way around, the boss can be as incompetent as he wants without ever being worried about anything. if a boss can't find staff due to lack of budget, neither he nor his boss is to blame. it doesn't seem like the joy of working in an environment of good women. looks like no one dares to say "no, eat some shit and deal with your troubles".
some will probably say that the hospital had a communications department and that it broke the regulations by not going through them.
it's not over, especially for france. 😅
> and the book is strewn with such idealistic nonsense. however, that doesn't take away from the messages rand wants to get across, specifically that a society that favors cronyism over meritocracy is heading for disaster, and that objectivity is not only a good thing, but necessary for life.
i feel like there are a lot of people out there who actually believe in his nonsense. for example ayn rand imagines a world where monopolies and oligopolies are evil and small businesses are absolute good. except that in real life, monopolies / oligopolies are inevitable in certain industries where the capital requirements are gigantic. you will never see a family oil refinery, an sme that builds 5 gw dams, or a mini steel mill. some industries are by their very nature oligopolies.
then, his notion of rational selfishness is completely stupid. in real life there are lots of situations where the collaboration of actors is necessary to maintain a common resource when it is necessary to manage negative externalities.
[
ayn rand had a huge political impact, one can agree with some elements of his critique of socialism, but his idealism about capitalism is wrong and has created a lot of damage, especially among our neighbors to the south.
i like to remind people that she ended her days on welfare.
throughout all of this, let's always remember: jeffrey epstein didn't kill himself.
where is the link to the 3tb archive?
there is no information in this article!
for 3 terabyte you would expect more details than
"former formula 1 champion jacques villeneuve owned companies and trusts in tax havens even before he started his career in formula 1, reveal the pandora papers. mr. villeneuve did not respond to inquiries. radio-canada questions because it is currently in dispute with revenu québec. more details will be revealed on the enquête program, thursday at 9 p.m. on ici télé. "
does he really think i'm going to go buy a tv just to see a story?
i feel that there are some who will be killed by 4 bullets in the back.
what i remember is that there are 0 names of us politicians
at first glance, it looks like the current western government apparatus has been redacted. nothing newer in the west other than tony blair?
i see jacques villeneuve, shakira or criminals on the run but it does not control anything. even the very bad trump is missing ...
it’s more corrupt here, look at all the articles on the “corrupt of the trump” finally it’s just nonsense like “he asked the secret service to investigate the son of biden, here were always in the 80s with the mafia which deposits cash bags to our liberal politicians.
this is raging madness.
with clear data that infected vaccinees are almost as able to transmit the virus as uninfected vaccinees (a recent british study found that after 3 months, astrazeneca vaccinees transmit the virus to their contacts as easily as non-infected people. vaccinated and vaccinated pfizer have just 10% less chance of transmitting it), it is clear that the vaccination passport has no scientific justification.
but science has crunched for a long time at the bottom of the jacques-cartier bridge because no one is listening to public health or the government.
it is a political measure, based on the management of government communication that politicizes and moralizes the crisis by blaming scapegoats for its own failures. in their speeches, the unvaccinated are clean steps, those responsible for the covid crisis, traitors to the community who "delay the group", and it is the duty of every citizen to spank on them as soon as possible and to make their life impossible. and like all such talk, vaccinated moderate people who refuse to participate in this persecution are viewed as negatively as the unvaccinated, because hatred is a civic duty just as much as vaccination.
the real disease that infects quebec and that scares me is not covid, it is the unhealthy and authoritarian hysteria which is well, much more widespread and which does not seem to go away.
> even the fact of being unvaccinated "constitutes both a serious reason for terminating an employment contract and a just and sufficient cause justifying a dismissal", we can read there.
it is staggering to see how this government is breaking down the labor code with regulations and decrees. this is all the more so considering the silence of the fourth estate and the unions. especially when we are talking about a purely political decision that does not emanate from a recommendation of public health, a decision which surprises surprise exonerates the personnel of the ministerial offices to submit to it, it is not strong. it must therefore be understood that for the caq and the plq, attending the work of the national assembly is not essential in our democracy.
the health dictatorship is now well and truly in place. those opposed to vaccination will no longer be able to express themselves. this is very serious.
> people who do not meet this condition and whose presence
is required between the walls of the national assembly, at its center
reception or in the adjacent pamphile-le may building ** can therefore be **
** suspended without pay, with the exception of the staff of the offices of the **
** ministers. **
once again. are we starting to make the link with the exempt police and dismissals in health * in the midst of a pandemic *?
anyway, we were able to pass the pill of making 600 doctors disappear as normal and that the telemedicine of the first year is not an alternative for the second even if the hysteria is the same. so we can swallow anything ....
sorry, but i totally agree with threatening to fire someone from their job if they don't get vaccinated. after all, it's their fault that people die from covid-19. i firmly believe in that. at least 10% of people in quebec are children in their heads who make efforts only when they are punished. on the other hand, the government has not made responsible people feel guilty for not forcing people to be vaccinated. and then i find that the people who call guillaume lemitivierge of all names go too far. and then i do not understand how an unaffected vaccinee can transmit the virus since he is not affected by the virus, therefore does not have the virus. to transmit the virus, the virus must be in or on his body. so he is infected, even though his body is strong enough to fight it. anyway, they decided on a 3rd dose and i'm going to take it [ (
this
at 80% vaccinated, do you think it's still not enough? there is absolutely nothing to justify such measures at this rate.
strangely, i don't see anyone using the same argument for the flu.
> at 80% vaccinated, do you find that it is still not enough?
many of these people won't be satisfied until everyone is triple-masked in their own home and then quadrupled (by receiving weekly boosters, of course).
unfortunately, many of these people run our government.
🏴󠁣󠁡󠁱󠁣󠁿
as you can see, the supposed "quebec flag" is not supported on your internet access.
le supposé "tag sequence combining 🏴 black flag, 󠁣 tag latin small letter c, 󠁡 tag latin small letter a, 󠁱 tag latin small letter q, 󠁣 tag latin small letter c and 󠁿 cancel tag"  ne donne pas un drapeau du québec.
and have a look in the keyboard, your choice does not include a quebec keyboard and dictionary separate from the french one in france.
"however, individual vendors do not support every available flag on their platforms (because there are 5,000+ sub-regional flags), which is why not all appear on device keyboards."
so this is another essential step to be a country, to have our flag emoji supported in our computers.
i suggest that we ban any operating system that does not include the quebec flag emoji from 2050!
[deleted]
i eat my roast pork.
if it's a joke, it's not funny.
if that's no joke, the current setup looks great on me and i couldn't give a better fuck.
we are supposed to use the french-canada configuration that exists, not miltilingual canadian which is an aberration
i'm talking about on-screen keyboards as we have in our phones, not physical keyboard. this keyboard always includes an autocorrect dictionary and this is where the quebecois distinction is important.
this configuration is totally atrocious. use french - canada instead.
where is the "ù" on the keyboard of win10? what i found best is the french keyboard (canada) but it doesn't have the "ù" ... in fact it and the cms do it with alt gr on the visual keyboard but not the real keyboard ...
i wish you a delicious meal! cheers !!
me i warmed up [leftover pot roast] ( miam!
i'm fed up with being autocorrect with a french dictionary from france and i don't see why we don't have our own flag emoji.
texas has its flag emoji 🇨🇱 🇨🇱 🇨🇱 🇨🇱 🇨🇱 🇨🇱 so why not us?
[deleted]
linux...
[deleted]
on the french (canada) keyboard the ù is in the same place as the è and the à. you do the grave accent key, followed by the letter you want to have.
it's not texas but chile
real quebec words and turn of phrase (that the french of france will not want in their autocorrect) like
achaler
within
champlure
char
foufoune
frencher
frette
kid
whistling
and many other joual words that we never write but say.
i am also on linux and this configuration is available.
thank you. i will try this.
ah well damn business
i was talking about the emoji, on linux it is possible to change the font and insert it without creating new custom configuration files, and under openmoji there is the quebec flag inserted in the unicode under open source, it is even better than on other operating systems like microsoft, apple also offers compatibility with open moji.
focus more than necessary after the ignoble jfl paper in the pages of le devoir. i warmly recommend that you read the guest's book, * duplessis his milieu, his time *. it is an extremely accessible work which counterbalances the general hysteria that surrounds the historiography of duplessis.
the quiet revolution and its consequences were a disaster for mankind ...
in fact his book to martin lemay is * in defense of maurice duplessis *. the other book is by other authors.
thin then: p
emerge?
one of the worst universities in north america since the evergreen college scandal.
their knowledge is corrupted by wokist theories.
ottawa must be destroyed.
francophobia in quotes?
all the conquered peoples have always had traitors \ collaborators in exchange for economic favors. the liberal party which was the party of the patriots and la presse which was for the struggle of the patriots understood this well and allowed themselves to be bought off by the english.
betrayed by himself.
first, better working conditions for "essential workers" then immigration, we have no choice because we have stopped having children but we could give preference to francophones who come to quebec. the americans are putting on the streets thousands of french-speaking haitians who have been house-trained in the usa since the earthquake. yes, surely he screeches out those who are the least profitable but it is precisely the freaks of burgers and adult diaper changers that we miss. we should welcome them with open arms ... but after we drop the minimum wage to $ 15, the regular work week at 35 hours, 1.5x universal overtime on a voluntary basis, no more paid february leave and health insurance that covers teeth, eyes worse which is really obtainable ..
in the meantime, employers can lick their legs
nothing new, it always has been.
not really, the patriots were the union of the liberals and the conservatives, after the banning by the english of the patriotic party 2 new parties appeared the red party (liberals) and the blue party (conservative).
> but we couldn't be as bright as nathalie normandeau and not know that between roche, the liberal party fund and the subsidies it gave, not a return lift, but a real ferris wheel, well oiled. innocent, nathalie normandeau? criminally, of course. but she was the conscious and enthusiastic cog in a merry-go-round that reeked of patronage and political cronyism.
well said. the liberals are responsible for their own turpitude.
the other parties have nothing to offer. the liberals have understood absolutely nothing and are even working hard, the pq is not able to convince people that separatism is a good idea and qs remains the controlled opposition party that takes the idealistic vote. and no matter the bother, the management of the legault pandemic is the envy of other provinces despite the failures of the system at the start. of course they do not say it loudly, since it is a sin in the roc to say that quebec is doing something correctly, but it is obvious that they think so.
legault left to lead quebec for several terms at this point. and i think it will stay that way until a political renewal.
we produce electricity for 2 or 3 cents per kwh, we sell it for more than 6 cents us. yes, this is a good deal.
what?
[$ 800m per year over 25 years] ( the only problem is that we will give a participation to the mohawks of kahnawake. besides that, it seems like a good deal.
i hope that the price we sell them will at least increase with inflation and that they keep us enough to replace all the oil we consume with electricity?
if it's still $ 0.06 / kwh in 25 years, it's not a good deal
that's 40 million a year, for electricity it's little, very little
this electricity replaces coal-fired power plants there. it's the most environmentally friendly thing you could do with it. pollution has no borders.
if our production costs remain the same, so if we avoid getting bogged down in wind power, that doesn't change much. especially since in 25 years the agreement will expire and will have to be renegotiated, i would not be overly worried. the advantage with such an agreement is that once the connection is established, it stays in place. in 25 years, everything indicates that new york's electricity consumption will have increased. however, for this same period, they will not have developed the capacity delivered by hydro-québec. in doing so, they risk being more dependent on our own and inexpensive production capacities.
but it is certain that our costs will increase just with inflation
thanks to hydroelectricity, it is quite relative. we have no inputs. once the dam is built, the operating costs are minimal compared to other production methods. this explains why newfoundland still benefits from churchill falls fifty years after its operation despite the fixed price granted to them by what must be the worst deal in history.
i am one of those who thinks that bill 21 has gone too far, so i am sometimes tempted to side with those who criticize it. however, i cannot be on the same side as the people who shout “systemic racism” in this country.
they are cultural parasites who can only destroy and deconstruct everything they come across. even though i don't agree with the government on issues like this, if i have to choose between the caq and the media, i choose the caq and it's not a very difficult decision to make.
i read joyce echaquan's coroner's report evoking the notion of systemic racism, without however being able to delve into the concept, the evidence and the context of the definition. again, no practical demonstration.
to note the opinion of the population divided into two equal parts on this notion, it is necessary to realize that the concept of systemic racism is pure and hard semantics, we are demonstrating it here in quebec without that anyone is able to give it an abstract meaning. it is impossible that so many experts, almost half if it is considered good, have been so indoctrinated with wokism in independent proceedings.
in reality, it is not systemic racism, it is semantic racism, and all the answers are correct.
for now, let us simply condemn the racism suffered by too many aboriginal people.
instead of wanting solutions, the left-wing persists in these nonsense.
worse if that's not it is to give cash to corrupt reserve chiefs, never a political solution, never a real investment, finally it seems that they want the natives to remain in misery to continue their political agenda and win votes.
nothing new in there
drive a big cone of traffic up your ass. thank you and good evening.
the summary of the report is:
[
basically, the coroner seems to say that the racist prejudices of the caregivers led them to believe that the lady was withdrawing from drugs (without having sufficient clue to believe it) and that this hypothesis led them to take medical actions which have harmed his condition. i don't think the question of whether the mistakes of the nurses and the doctor directly led to his death or not is that important. the prejudices of nurses and doctors have resulted in clinical errors, which is not acceptable regardless of the consequences.
but once again, i do not see the purpose of "systemic" racism when it seems to me to be a case of racism at all. the "system" reacted swiftly by sacking the offending nurses as well as the director of the facility, now the attending physician can be expected to be reprimanded as well.
there is indeed a definition of systemic racism. the reason they never want to give it away is because once you know what it is, you know it doesn't apply very much in quebec.
systemic racism is all the social phenomena that place one or more races in a position of inferiority. it is different from more direct racist acts like hate crimes. it includes institutional racism, national supremacist myth, economic conditions, prejudices, etc. yes, it is certain that there is a little in quebec, but compare it with the united states or even simply with the roc and you see immediately that it does not compare. worse, in canada, if there is a group apart from the natives who are victims, it is the quebeckers. but, of course, the people who push the hardest for an admission of guilt on the part of quebec would be the first to deny everything altogether if we showed them that quebec is much more the target than the perpetrator.
i also come to the same conclusion
yes, the system reacted quickly ... once the victim was reduced to hiding his cell to film and share the situation and it went viral. do you think this was the first time this had happened and joyce was the first victim? the community claims to have made numerous complaints. if it weren't for the viral video, the system would still protect the nurse today.
if quebec is to blame, ontarians can feel better. so the roc is doing everything it can to make us feel guilty ... worse the liberal and qs cellars in quebec want a large bunch of victims to vote for them ...
the chalice of a woman with a beard who leaves outraged when legault speaks of the member for jaques cartier who went to squeal in a blm rally to cry that because of law 21, law 96 worse, joyce we are all racists. .
when it cries because "the day should have been for joyce" i just beat it up a bit more.
it hurts so-called leftists who do not understand the importance of preventing employers from hitting their employees out for no good reason. do you think the hospital should have crowned the two nurses out on a simple complaint without any other proof? without a gradation of sanctions or a history of previous complaints about the same nurses? the labor movement has always fought against arbitrary dismissals, among other things because employers used it to get rid of unionists and workers who opposed the bosses.
it is a good thing that the victims are taking responsibility for themselves and that he succeeds in making a difference by providing irrefutable proof of the bad actions of nurses. but you instead of being happy that the lady stood up, do you think we should go back 100 years on labor law because it would be unfair for the victims to take their own situation in hand?
it's no wonder that qs is getting closer and closer to the plq, you are the useful idiots of the neoliberals.
if you find that the system has protected nurses, compare with the american police organizations. a policeman can gun a guy for no reason, filmed from a to z and get away with a lifetime pension for post traumatic shock. this is a system that protects its world to the point of absurdity.
[
now i can't wait to see the sanction that the college of physicians will give to joyce's attending physician ... if there is one caste in quebec that enjoys systemic impunity, it is certainly the physicians.
wow! it's perfect!
i am astonished to note that his analysis of wokism is not completely exact (he confuses minorities with impostors who use minorities for their cause, he gets tricked).
zozz
he will have to find other registers than islamism to campaign because his list of themes is too short at the moment to propel him to the second round.
i don't really know what it would mean to recognize the amerindian languages as official languages. anyway, law 101 in no way limits their use.
where i agree with the amerindian representatives, is that the media have reported kafkaesque situations where anglophone amerindian children in the care of the dpj could not go to school in english because their parents had lost paperwork to prove they had been educated in english. in these cases, i would expect that we could show flexibility (but that's asking a lot of the bureaucracy i guess ...).
do not
i would like to say yes, but is that equivalent to providing all services in native languages? understand the dilemma ...
otherwise, yes, let's help them preserve their culture.
yes, and we would also like the amerindians to take charge and participate in state revenue, but we should not ask for the moon.
what does it mean?
do they want to allow deputies to speak mohawk in the national assembly? do they want the government to translate all legislation into seneca? should we hire an algonquin interpreter for every clinic in montreal, just in case a native alogonquin speaker comes in?
this is what it means to be an "official language" here.
i don't think they know what they're asking for. they just want token bullshit.
they already have their own territory where their language is recognized.
you have a frankly reductive and disgusting vision.
mostly very ill-informed.
do not.
eh ? on what planet exactly?
and yet native american lamentations are nothing but a tissue of lies. to quote the [charter of the french language] (
> preamble: the national assembly recognizes the amerindians and inuit of quebec, descendants of the first inhabitants of the country, the right they have to maintain and develop their language and culture of origin.
> article 37: nothing in this law prevents the use of an amerindian language in the education provided to amerindians.
or are they the systemic barriers? or is it the questioning of ancestral rights?
and yet many natives in the army are disgusted with their own people because they are incapable of getting out of their misery.
are you doing the cellar?
> the ministry reassessed the heritage value of the building, taking into account the fire which severely damaged it last february.
after the manor of mascouche, that of ste-marie. we have a great recipe for destroying heritage, it looks like: destroyed without asking permission and then excuse yourself and everything is correct.
a new day, a new abandonment of the built heritage!
> the sûreté du québec also considered that the fire that occurred last february was criminal.
the owner must not sleep since knowing that a dangerous arsonist is prowling!
/s
i agree with candidate coderre on this one, but i still have his flag smearing on my heart:
> coderre said he’s proud of the outreach he did during his tenure as mayor, which included changing the city’s flag to place a white pine in the middle, which symbolizes the unity of the five nations of the iroquois confederacy.
really, why should we put the symbol of iroquois unity at the center of the flag of our metropolis? to remind all those those bloodthirsty scalpers during the lachine massacre? to recall the assassination of corporal lemay? we don't have to come to terms with sinful outcasts. see, as for me, it is rather them who should put a fleur-de-lis on their flag and why not adopt french.
what an ostia of a pile of mustard ...
now the majority of movies are calculated to make money off the backs of fanaticism. and it gives the completely crappy star wars postlogy in the scenario which does not respect at all the continuity of the first 6 films or even between them others.
i don't know if you've watched, but we are talking about quebec cinema, which is too often the other extreme opposite of the example you are giving, that is to say, monolithically depressive and niche. we have a real cinema problem in quebec.
i think what doesn't help is that the cinema here runs on government subsidies, and those in control of the subsidy programs are politically correct matantes who don't want violent movies, or movies. with "reactionary" messages that resonate with people's real lives, they want progressive films, celebrating diversity, inclusion and peaceful conflict resolution. so we have films designed too often as public service announcements.
u / fafarlouche had mentioned the 7 days of talion ... [the film received no subsidy] ( . if it weren't for the name of patrick sénécal and his very popular novel attached to the screenplay, it would never have been funded.
moreover, our best directors flee the country as soon as they can, think of denis villeneuve, yves simoneau and xavier dolan to name a few.
i more or less agree. i agree that quebec cinema does very little genre films: action, science fiction, horror ... however, you have to be realistic. quebec will never be able to make american cinema. we will never have hollywood or the military to make american-style films.
sorry, i misunderstood the video. you talk about films, like, dawn the child martyr, the 7 days of retaliation, 10 and a half, my daughter my angel. my daughter, my angel, i didn't listen, but the others did. sorry, but i love hard drama since i was an adult because i'm a cynic who watches documentaries on human psychology.
the entire culture in quebec depends on subsidies, otherwise we would be the same as the rest of canada. knowing that other cultural fields subsidized from the same source are just as flourishing, i really doubt that political correctness is the cause, even though it is true that the artistic community of montreal is fueled by leftism with a politically correct flavor. .
as far as cinema is concerned, i accuse it of purism, that is to say a clique of elites who strive to preserve their art in the most inaccessible way possible (snobbery). we observe the same phenomena almost everywhere, especially in dance.
vincent guzzo is in a way the only one to publicly criticize this exclusive purism.
i think that we should also look in the links between people and the turnstiles between industry and government: it would not surprise me at all that someone authorizes a grant because it is for his brother or his sister's husband who works in the production of which the uncle does part of the work.
we have made believe that we could only have a father, his daughter and his son-in-law to lead the sq, the upac and the special investigations among 7800 people, i imagine that we can do the same thing in the very tight artistic milieu renowned for the * couch casting *.
i remember that in an article i read on the internet, we mentioned a movie where a child dares to say that you need a permit to have children and that if you are not able to take care of a child , we do not or we are not allowed to have any. i don't remember the title of the film or the exact sentence, but it was controversial. precisely because the film is right and that it puts people's heads directly into their problem. like, human nature is too stupid to protect children without being punished and controlled like children by not respecting freedom like in a dictatorship. it’s me saying that.
xavier dolan is not a big loss.
i think there is still a happy medium between what is being done now and hollywood. it's not true that all of our films have to be dramatic films in which nothing happens with a homosexual protagonist. there is a way to make good movies without spending too much money, you just need good ideas.
and yet we've had crazy, bon cop bad cop, and the last tunnel, so it's wrong to claim that we can't settle for anything other than a story of a depressed trucker looking at his mirror for 2 hours.
the dramas you list are about the only ones that have worked for 20 years, and the most memorable. it is about others.
there would be other ways of distributing these grants without involving a panel of failed and consanguineous artists. why not give all citizens cultural coupons. it would be a kind of monopoly money that would be exchanged to pay for shows / records / quebec films (which would allow them to charge more). it would work if you are part of the artist union, you can exchange these vouchers for money. so we get rid of elitist panels and it is the public who choose what is worth subsidizing or not. we could exclude comedians from the system since they are not in dire straits.
just one question, are you for or against the covid-19 vaccination. do you think covid-19 really exists or do you think it's an ultra complicated plot? i believe in covid-19 and i am for vaccination. i say that because i noticed that you are much more virulent in your words than the rest of the group. i am ranked 2nd in my opinion in terms of the harshness of the remarks. or first i know i could.
like it or not, we have to admit that his talent has convinced the whole world, while riccardo trogi and yves desgagnés fail to convince the 6 old cockroaches in the department of political science at uqam.
give me some examples of dramatic films that didn't work please?
it would not work because quebeckers spend an average of $ 9 per year on culture of all kinds, including local ones. we are definitely not consumers, which is why cultural funding in quebec is based almost exclusively on subsidies.
unfortunately culture in quebec does not have the luxury of choice. all artists who apply for a grant receive it most of the time, so it would be inappropriate to deprive artists in order to favor others when everyone is already favored. the problem is not there.
the harshness of words is one thing, but what about the harshness of your mind?
i have received my vaccines. what is this madness?
the eternal mbc in all its contradictions:
> a particularly virulent ideological offensive is waged against the people of quebec, against their right to see themselves as a nation, in fact, against the role of the historic francophone majority ** in its definition **, against its deepest roots.
the definition of historical francophone majority is french canadians. what do the strong demographic winds or the gravity of the situation matter if we refuse to name the real? this identity constipation has paralyzed our nationalists for ages. gregory kelley is from quebec. balarama holness is from quebec. howard galganov was also in the same capacity as guy rocher or frédéric lacroix of this world. afterwards, nonsense of the french-speaking historical majority type ca joins falardeau on the ridiculousness of identities in * phone. the portuguese are not portuguese-speaking portuguese, they are portuguese, period. so let's stop procrastinating, reaffirm our french canadian identity, call for the assimilation of foreigners in our midst and only then can we really think we can face the situation. otherwise it is lost in advance.
it was not a mistake on the part of mbc, it was quite intentional and in line with the civic vision of quebec that it is making for itself. using "french-canadians" with the visibility he receives (largely the most influential intellectual in quebec) would be counterproductive to him, he knows that the rehabilitation of this term aimed at designating franco-quebecers necessarily implies a reappropriation. mental to the canadian "we" in the federation, something which the separatists have tried to put behind since the quiet revolution. the goal, in my opinion, is above all to be able to sympathize with quebec populations of different ethnicities by sending them the message that the majority of the country is under attack strictly because it speaks french.
the québécois / french canadian dilemma has nothing to do with joining the canadian nation since it no longer embodies anything. ultimately, french canadian ca sonne facho in a country where immigrants are [praised as more legitimate than citizens by the pm] ( -interview/). quebec federalists do not identify as french canadians. quebecois on the other hand is quiet revolutionary civic nationalism. it is nationalism with a clean slate and a dagger in the back for our brothers from other provinces. this is what the federalists claim, right up to justin trudeau, this proud quebecer.
as soon as we have to talk about franco québécois, we sink into delirium. this means that there are also anglo quebecers, italo quebecers, sino quebecers and arab quebeckers. then it shows. assimilation is at a standstill in quebec. a people who do not know how to recognize themselves cannot arouse adhesion no offense to those who are still paralyzed by parizeau's speech.
it has nothing to do with the canadian nation effectively since it is first a question of adherence to canadian federalism above all else, and therefore as a result the regression of the efforts of the separatists to endow those who formerly identified themselves with "french-canadians" from an identity universe distinct from the previous one, which marks the beginning of a collective mental construction making it possible to consider the suggestion of a society and a soil that are theirs.
for the use that the population has made of it recently, "french-canadians" refers de facto to any french-speaking canadian from a french-speaking community, from coast to coast. the ethnic reference of the term of the time is no longer sufficiently explicit today to hope to see the population distinguish a franco-canadian from a french-canadian.
with a view to making quebec a country, this qualifier does not meet the needs at all when applied by ordinary people since necessarily "canadians" = canada = federation, the rapprochement could not be more obvious.
claiming no identity is an identity in itself, that is to say that post-national canada does not derogate so much from the fact that its citizens fit into the traditional national gentiles such as italian-canadian, arab-canadian, anyway. make the canadian identity clear to everyone). this also applies to quebec, according to its own parameters (french language identity, secular, etc.), as in the manner of other societies applying their framework as well (anglo-quebecois, hispanic-american, arab-french, sino -italian, which does not derogate from the identity that we have of the country in the foreground).
and yet, at the time of the french canadians, we already had an unwavering collective mental construction and fully our survival. it had nothing to do with canadian federalism, on the contrary it was a defense mechanism in total opposition to canadian aims. the worst part was that it worked, hence the drama of quiet, self-destructive revolutionary nationalism.
you lose me when you embark on the "french-speaking canadians of the french-speaking community". but what gibberish. french canadians are the descendants of the settlers of new france and their heirs who assimilated there. once we accept the facts, the distinction between french canadian and franco canadian is quite natural. franco-canadians are contemporary french immigrants and their descendants. it's crystal clear as water, you can hear it by ear. everyone knows that the guy who tells you about whv is not french canadian.
then really your last sentence leaves me perplexed. all the groups that you enumerate precisely derogate from the identity of the countries in question. let’s see, sino italians: p we are sinking into multicultural delirium and that does not apply at all to a state like italy which practices blood law.
oh well, aren't there 2-3 chinese in italy? it is not to say if it is good or not, but to say it for the use that one wishes to make of it. we are able to say that wong is studying in rome, the catholic capital. it does take a term, italy does not become more multicultural.
it is much more, hundreds of thousands of chinese work in italian luxury factories. however, they are precisely chinese and not sino italians, hence the distinction.
so you would go for "anglophone quebecois" rather than "anglo-quebecois"?
i would lean more for english.
and the french-speaking * french majority? *
these famous manipulators, intolerant and racists who claim to be victims of manipulation, intolerance and racism. suzy kies and will prosper know a thing or two about it.
annamie paul is the face of contempt. she deserves all the harm that comes with her actions.
good riddance madam "unceded territory".
> according to several sources, annamie paul wanted to be paid as much
than a federal mp. the amount would be around $ 175,000 per
an.
it always comes down to that.
you should go take a look at the green party sub. annamie has not even really resigned, she said "she would start her resignation process" ... which clearly means that she wants to negotiate her resignation for hard cash! you have to have your forehead all around your head anyway! in the same context, i have the impression that even john james charest it would be kept a little embarrassment!
she does not resign so that she can say that the next leader "occupies an unceded position"
erin o'toole is currently being shown the door for having minimally adopted positions more to the left.
in principle, i would personally support such an alliance. but in real life, it would be hard to square that circle. right now, there is not much overlap in quebec between the bloc electorate and the conservatives electorate besides the fact that both electorates are mostly french quebecers. the bloc electorate is a mix of far-left to center right quebec nationalist, including hard-line separatists and some progressives. the conservatives electorate is mostly what we call the "metallica right", i.e. right wing quebec anti-nationalists which could lean toward the ppc and [wish they were american]( there is also the fact that the hard-line separatists could ditch the bloc if it allies itself with a federalist party.
it's true that if we were all rational voters, the alliance would make total sense, but unfortunately rational voters are kind of rare...
you can see the reception your proposal got over in /r/quebec. the propaganda against the conservatives with regards to abortion is extremely effective, especially considering how quebecers feel about religion in general. i hate the religious right just as much as them by the way, it's just that im sufficiently informed to know that they are very unlikely to take over the conservatives and advance their agenda. but if it were to happen, i would not support an alliance with hte conservatives.
besides, from an electoral point of view, the fact that the bloc and cpc electorate don't overlap much favors some kind of un-official "non-agression pact" arrangement rather than an alliance.
i do not think this can ever happen in any case. there could maybe be a coalition between cpc and bq as mathieu bock-côté mentionned throughout the campain, but that would be after an election, not during.
they will never run as a single party to 'add' the voter bases that is simply impossible.
it could be interesting and politically expedient but this won't happen, not in a hundred years. there are no precedent for coalitions in canada and even then the bq is curtailed by a cordon sanitaire.
i will add that, in my opinion, the easiest part of the quebec electorate that the conservatives could target is anglo quebecers. these guys are red tories at heart who vote liberal out of habit and old patronage relationships for the most part. conservatives could get them easy peasy if they threw quebec nationalists under the bus. a lot of them are starting to think that the liberals take them for granted. but then the conservatives will have to wonder : "do we actually want these corrupt mofos inside our party ?"
i think this is broadly correct.  there should be a quiet understanding that the bloc would support a conservative government for a budget and queens speech.  the conservatives will give quebec money and autonomy, and the bloc can go back to its voters and say that it did what was in the best interests of quebec (even if it was not in the interests of canada).
actually, op meant to ask:
what's going to take for the conservative party  to elect more officials in quebec?
the answer is a french speaking québécois, like maxime bernier could have been.
according to the rumors, vincent guzzo is tempted to take the job where he'd probably be an anti-establishment candidate. knowing how his business suffers from the pandemic, alberta would likely praise him. since he's also a french speaking québécois, he'd surely get considerable gains in his own province too. adding to that, he's quite religious, pro-life and hated  by the left to attract the media's attention like donald trump did previously.
this is the problem i see with the conservatives targeting anglos:
right now, the conservative party is trying very hard to appeal to quebec nationalists.  it promised quebec more control over immigration policy, and o'toole was deliberately very quiet about bill 21 and bill 96, unlike trudeau or singh.  this is why legault basically endorsed them this time.  
if they want the support of anglo quebecers, they would basically have to go in the opposite direction: oppose more francisation measures, laïcité policies, favor federal integration over more autonomy, etc. 
this would just make them seem to be reversing all of their policies, nobody would trust them, and they would lose any progress they made with nationalists.  and i don't think people in beauceville, bellechasse, or quebec city will be very happy with a conservative party platform on quebec that looks like it was drafted on the mcgill campus.
it does not seem to have worked well their campaign of seduction. i wonder if it was not a question of candidates. when i see that the conservative party has tried to recruit josey vaillancourt (who hosts the program of doc mailloux), that inspires me no confidence. she is very nice, but she is abysmally ignorant at the political level! it shows me that the pcc is recruiting post candidates outside beauce. that they want monkeys trained to raise their hands at the same time as the whip, nothing more.
i do not think that the conservatives can court the red tory vote and the quebec nationalist vote at the same time. we are no longer in 1970 when federal politicians had all the time to say one thing in english and to say another in french, the old thing no longer works. the reality is that the red tory vote outside quebec is more numerous than the quebec nationalist vote. a party that has a choice between the two will necessarily favor the first.
it is appalling.
shawi lol, female dog offspring from members in good standing of the christian jean fan club it's 100% sure.
i invoke the law of retaliation here, the class is adjourned, thank you all.
one, all public schools are rat holes full of problem cases, two, an autistic person has nothing to do in this kind of place, the fault is completely on his mother.
one is the fault of those who assaulted him, two, autistic does not mean deficient.
three, is that a reason to assault someone?
in the minds of many, being autistic is a heinous crime.
question: are multiculturalists canadian nationalists? because the multi according to the constitution is our identity.
a couple of anglo supremacist groups on facebook, what a site of marde besides, much worse than reddit.
[
[
[( ͡° ͜ʖ ͡°)](
living a long time in the waste island has a direct impact on mental health. the constant exposure to the canadian unculture, tasteless flavor, has been shown to be a direct cause of atrophy of the brain, particularly of the frontal lobes.
damn, that burn was almost as good as your grandpa
i t7mn
8 g
u m mnu ih. mpj6 j hh
[removed]
💯 💯
oi not my fault i was born in an italian-english family:(
[deleted]
i would say yes.
it's a good thought to have, but if we remember for example the two referendums, especially that of 95, the anglo narrative and strategy aimed to use “multicultural” communities against the quebec identity.
it's sublime and wonderfully inexplicable without the context.
calis that i laughed.
considering canada is supposedly a post-nationalist, multicultural country, i would find it weird. also, federal institutions are mostly bilangual and pretend everything is ok.
i speak fluent english. i studyed in an english college, got a university degree in an english university. i have written books in english that i sell all over the world. i play games in english, watch movies in english and i have friends that speak mostly english. i speak english at work. 
your french is garbage. you haven't learned shit. just like your arguments are garbage. 
so, good sir, pretty please, with a cherry and some sugar on top, shut the fuck up. no one needs your neanderthal opinions about who we are, and about what we think and about how we act.
i literally do not give a single fuck if you speak english. but i will fucking die with a rifle in my hand and tenfold the corpses of my ennemies around me if it will mean that my children, my grand children and their grand children get to keep their identity, their culture and their language in their own fucking land instead of yours. that is what assholes like you do not understand. just leave us the fuck alone. what does it matter if we have our own identity? what is so special about you that we all have to kneel and pay respect to your culture, to your moors, to your identity and your language and abandon our own?
you don't know shit about oppression. my grandfather was the man of the house at the ripe old age of 8 because his father died in furnace, burned alive, because the english thought of him as sub human and made him work in horrible and fucking dangerous conditions so he could provide the scraps needed for his family to survive. 
don't you fucking talk shit about oppression because you live on our land and we just ask you to do us the decency of addressing us in our own fucking language you ingrate fuck.
also, not sure if you're better at math than french, but statistically speaking, quebec is the most bilingual province in the canadian federation.
so it's a fight between nationalists.
same thing for separatism, the 2 camps are because in principle canada was a british colony, the repatriation of 1981 is in itself a separatist act.
the best way to prove someone right is to file false reports against them. as someone did in this case.
[deleted]
[deleted]
are we surprised? what a shitty university ...
systemic racism does exist against french canadians
what's new??!!!
what did you expect ?? !!! are you tired of getting pissed off on your nose ?? !!!
you never had a place in this country. transfer your studies to quebec. it's not complicated. at some point you have to wake up. french canada is dead. only quebec can guarantee development in french. new brunswick is the same thing. the level of assimilation is incredible there.
english canadians know one thing that many quebecers refuse to admit: canada is not our country, and they are no longer shy about making us feel it.
for these pseudo-intellectual bastards, bilingualism means speaking english - or - french (sigh ...) like, for those who are not intelligent enough to learn any other second language. because everything is better than french and nothing is equal to english. let them go to hell.
thanks for the post, but you really have to stop all caps titles. it reduces the credibility of a post all of a sudden.
edit: i'm stupid. the original title was capitalized. it is therefore legitimate. long live the free quebec.
hey, eh? it's almost as if the canajun federation was founded by the nazis ostis of the orange order to wipe us off the map.
almost! but almost! we are lucky that we have the licheux of square heads to explain to us that this is only a myth.
he copied the title as it is written in the article
i copied the title as is.
my post does not need credibility since it is only a link.
ah! so my apologies
> however, according to several documents that i have been able to consult in the archives of the foreign office in london, two of the judges who took part in the fateful decision of september 1981 - chief justice bora laskin and his colleague willard estey - had secret contacts with the federal and british governments. they transmitted information in real time that needed to be kept confidential in order to help trudeau.
it is very serious if it is true. it could overturn the decision and force another judgment to be held.
> the reason for the closure is the shortage of workers. \ [... \] two unvaccinated workers will have to leave on october 15 with the imposition of compulsory vaccination and another
to retire.
🤡
however, this kind of closure also happened before the pandemic.
but now they're going to blame it on the scapegoats of the day.
it would be too much to ask for competent managers, apparently, it is better to loose everything.
honk honk!
what were 3 employees close to closing?
[
[
enjoy.
the reality is that all of these people you describe are not victims who want to fight against oppression or whatever, but generally extraordinarily privileged, perverse, and deeply handicapped people emotionally and psychologically.
do you think that the asses who have never lived a day of physical labor, or who have never even left school, with their parents helicopters who perpetually eliminate all direct consequences for their actions, are endowed with the slightest empathy or the ability to help others? good joke.
they treat the poor, victims of sexual assault and minorities like pets. and like a good little cult, when they feel guilty about it, they just add it up, because the only thing that interests them is to feel accepted even if they behave in hyper-destructive ways, like big babies. those they claim to want to help are simply not part of the equation.
also, the amount of scammers, predators, rapists, pedophiles and others hiding in the "progressive" movements is frightening, and the truth is that those who join them are social failures looking for any. social validation possible rather than having to look in the mirror, admit their wrongs and grow up.
this is what happens when people prefer to get rid of their children anywhere rather than raise them.
based
take a deep breath and release your tension.
remember that humanity is a tribal species that seeks to protect itself from threats it thinks it recognizes. she is often wrong, but if it works for her, you won't make her change her mind.
everything that happens on the internet is happening in our heads and at some point, we have to stop fighting against mills or strive to debug other freaks.
since this answer could be written by anyone or anything, do whatever you want with it or actually tell someone who can hear you.
welcome to my world, bubba.
number of my banns from different sites:
youtube:17
facebook:3
reddit:56
twitter: 103 (no that's not a joke)
basically you're saying that sexually abused women who have often thought about suicide are just big, rich, spoiled, spoiled babies who deserve their fate. i suspect that most of the bobogauchers are from high society and which pollutes real social struggles. however, there are some who are really in pain, who have had a really difficult childhood, and even they get angry in their way of blustering. i experienced mild intimidation, but mostly rejection from authority figures when i was a teenager. i had depression or burnout because i suddenly had to learn to work super hard at school because my good memory was no longer enough. youtube and light schedules saved my life. i could listen to the episodes of the series of my childhood that i missed, do my rite of passage to listen to real horror fake, learn sociopolitics, philosophy and existential questions, the critical spirit the criticism youtubeur ect. i also had a burnout depression because i did not have the naves strong enough to spend my day studying despite my 14 hours of classes in cegep for 3 years. my parents are dead, and now i work 3 days a week in an adapted woodworking factory which sometimes works at full capacity, with poor people and a modest salary just enough to have the internet, a good computer and m, buy cheats. i have financial aid, but i have to be careful. it made me work out, lose weight and gained some muscle mass, i got in training close to being athletic, the best looter in the factory and that makes me proud enough to feel good. i was not athletic at the base with excess weight, but now i am thin without having an abdomino. like the stress of performance and the tendency to have memory problems if you don't study constantly even if you learn quickly at the start was even more painful than the little arm aches of effort. in short, my life was in turmoil. too much privilege on one side and too much difficulty on the other. i have asperger's syndrome therefore social problem and adhd. i know what depression is even though i haven't thought about suicide, so don't say we're heartless babies. ok most bobogauchers are babies, but they risk having depression if they learn what it is real life and one day suffer the real difficulty in the face. now is the time to truly help them and help them for redemption. for a slightly cyber-addicted person, i am physically fit. i once saved a person from suicide on the internet by calling 911 and the police tracked him down and put him in a psychiatric hospital. bullying and suicide make it a personal matter, even if i do little because i don't have it. sorry if i'm rude, but the way you spoke of bobo-gnawers can be interpreted very badly by those who are really in pain. sorry goodbye.
i couldn't have said better
pill red
the problem is, i am convinced that there will be no one on earth here before 2100 because of nuclear war if humanity does not double its iq by 2050.
> basically you're saying that women who have been sexually abused and who have often thought about suicide are just big, rich, rotten, spoiled babies who deserve their fate.
not at all.
i'm saying that the victims are in fact used by the privileged to line their pockets and make socio-political capital, and that many so-called sjws like those you name (feminists, wokes, vegans, etc. .) will only help and work for their cause only if the victims happen to have the "right" political opinion, allow them to make money, or have their completely dysfunctional ego validated.
in other words: we revictimize the victims in the name of social justice, and any help we offer them is only very superficial. the real objective is to exploit them to make capital, not to defend them. you only have to look at where the vast majority of donations go to the vast majority of "charity" organizations of all stripes: in the pockets of the founders. most people who need it will never see even a fraction of it.
and believe me, i've been activist for several years, i've seen how it works behind the curtain, and assaulted women who are threatened with rape and told to shut their mouths by feminists because they don't hate men all day long or because they have been attacked by a "feminist", there are a lot of them, unfortunately. there are also homosexuals who are ostracized because they do not vote for the "progressives" or do not support pedophile or transsexual ideologues, people belonging to minorities who are treated as traitor to their race as "uncles. tom "and others because they can't stand black lives matters and all the rest (hah! more like" buy large mansions ", when you see what they do with the donation money), as well as immigrants who are threatened with being deported because they do not support vocally the "good" parties like the liberals.
in fact, there are entire industries built around abuse, discrimination and violence which believe me to run into the billions of dollars and those who primarily profit are the ones who think they are the "saviors." " of humanity. these people have no interest in actually helping anyone get away with it.
in other words: bobogauchers, as you call them, exploit, manipulate and abuse those they claim to defend while posing as victims themselves to divert attention (and money). i have no doubt that there are some in there who have gone through difficult things, but on the whole it is no different from the priests who sold indulgences to vulnerable people at one time, and that is not. definitely isn't an excuse for their unhealthy, toxic, and hyper-destructive behavior.
most victims of abuse do not become abusers themselves, quite the contrary, and i think it is a serious disrespect to them to claim that we should let predators run rampant because "they have had difficult childhoods, the poor ti-pitts ". tons of people have had issues and difficulties in their lives, and have worked hard to get over them rather than using it as an excuse to hurt others. to claim otherwise is essentially to protect and justify those who have abused them.
in short, i do not target victims of abuse, no, quite the contrary, and if you felt targeted by my comment, believe me it was absolutely not the case (hoping of course that you do not don't abuse anyone either), in fact i agreed with you, i myself have been totally sick of all these people for years. and congratulations on your ride, for what it's worth, i know how hard it can be to get out of it or even just keep your head above water.
incidentally, i say it like that, but it would help him read you and answer you if you broke your wall of text into paragraphs. i understand that your mental state is not at its best at the moment (my sympathies towards your own difficulties), but do not jump to conclusions too quickly about what you are being told, it will help to have a discussion.
it is a more and more widespread impression that humanity is running to ruin ... the most fascinating thing is that everyone has their own ideas on the issue. there are those who think that we will get by or that it will pass to us; there are those who are preparing for collapse; there are some who will do all they can to profit from it; there are those who imagine that we are on the verge of a great spiritual awakening; there are those who think they can find pragmatic solutions ranging from degrowth to space exploration, including more or less freedom; there are even some who will watch it all as if it were a great show ... it's difficult to know who makes the most sense in this whole story ...
i conclude that we can just approach our difficulties with the means we have, but that we have to talk to each other and take the time to listen to each other to get out of our little cathedrals. i dare to believe that the madness of one can be the safeguard of another.
i understand your concern, and i understand this feeling of wanting to solve a problem, of identifying the difficulties, but we will not solve anything each in his corner overnight. you have to rest and reconnect with what lives.
there are days when i walk around and see the blue sky, then the surrounding air feeds me. i am glad that it is still possible to appreciate the contrast between today and a fully anticipated post-apocalyptic scenario.
the problem is with you, not with reality. it is psychic or psychological, i could not say the origin of the disorder.
i understand you. it's just that the part where you treat the bad bobogauchery (woke, vegan, feminist ect) i got them wrong. in addition, my mental health has been stable for at least 3 years. i even passed my father's mourning without too much difficulty, unlike my mother's, which was hard.
my parents, i was adopted, were in their 70s and i felt their health was deteriorating, so with my father i had time to prepare myself mentally.
so, if i understand correctly, it may be that the feminism groups i tried to join are probably part of a group administered by bad egocentric people who lie most of the time about the severity of their suffering and who ban as soon as possible. that they see that a person begins to wonder? phew i thought it was i who was a heartless egocentric man who knew nothing about the suffering of a victim. no wonder i got my twitter account deleted. since i seem to have a lot of experience with social struggles on the web, i subscribed to your account. so, if you don't mind i would like us to talk to each other from time to time, the kind of advice to suddenly report on questionable content on social networks like channels that psychologically harass people with depression.
and then, if i am to believe your say, there is absolutely no point in trying to cheat groups to communicate better, massively report dangerous content in a targeted manner, or bypass the bureaucracy to solve problems without wait for the help of the justice which is too slow. there are some who do it on purpose. when i think i ended up hating victims who make the worst choices possible to the point of feeling that only a good banging humiliating enough to make them want to murder and fight could wake them up even if it means going to prison or risking your life to get out. seriously the sjw gives a very bad image of the victims. you give me hope. with the documentaries on evergreen, psyhodelic and other reviews, it opened my eyes.
i'll have to review my whole strategy. hi.
finally, i hope that a group of scientists is preparing a top secret preservation plan. when i learned that covid-19 was ravaging the earth, i was borderline happy. i expected tens of millions of deaths in poor countries and therefore less people, less pollution. at the same time, i wanted to cry because i felt sorry for people, but i told myself that without a catastrophe, human madness would wreak more havoc. i am desperate to get there. must one day find scientific works which will comfort me on the fact that scientists have found ways so that humanity does not disappear despite enormous devastation. sorry, i'm sorry to say nothing i'll stop. good evening.
in fact, it's easy to understand:
in the militant sjw / wokes movements, there are only two types of people: manipulators and manipulated. nothing in between.
good chronicle.
i know some of the books i'm going to talk about will be less popular than others, but i want to share them anyway, especially when it comes to books that i consider important like this one.
it's good. i read all your columns.
"last week, mr. blanchet spoke with the 'sympathetic' premier of ontario, doug ford, about a possible interprovincial summit on health transfers, long demanded by the provinces."
what is the relevance of a federal government if the representatives of the provinces negotiate among themselves? this model proves once again its uselessness.
meh, duceppe hadn't done the same thing at one point. it had given absolutely nothing if memory serves.
caliss that her immunization status was none of our business.
he says he's going to get the shot, which is great.
but he made a choice to wait for the quebec vaccine, which is also very good, except that in our society, when we make a choice, we assume the consequences.
he is ready to assume the consequences for this fall ** but he wonders why his employer cannot wait until winter to continue his contract when he will be 100% vaccinated. **
this is the problem, that his employer tells him, "take your time and come back to us when you are 100% vaccinated", but there he is in the unknown because his employer does not clearly tell him that his place is reserved for this winter.
if everyone were reasonable, we would be in for a shambles!
i cannot find the statistics, but immigrants do not vote as much for the liberals as anglophones. yes, they vote much more strongly for them than quebeckers, but that does not come close to the fanaticism of the english.
first, it is not so much anglos and allophones as our own migration policies. the newcomer, he has no idea how things work in quebec unless it is explained to him in a good framework (i met french friends who did not even know that quebec was francophone).
second, integration (or even assimilation) is possible and relatively easy to set up for whoever wants it. in quebec, immigration has been so instrumentalized that we ended up believing that integration into canadian multiculturalism was inevitable, while we too can use our immigration against canada, like a resource.
then, from this perspective, there is a lot to do. personally, i believe that the regionalization of immigration is the only real opportunity, it satisfies both the integration / assimilation criteria, the lack of manpower / precarious economy of the regions, and de-clutters montreal. it suffices to set up with companies in the regions a pan-national hiring program with unparalleled employment conditions and other incentives, such as, for example, rent paid in advance for 3 months or considerable discounts on the job. buying a house. everything is possible made there. by raising the criteria for acceptance, there is seriously nothing that can prevent us from doing so except force. to believe that the economic immigrant wishes to go to montreal, in a communitarized ghetto, to remain poor, is completely false. people from all over the world would be willing to die just for having a good job in the regions, so with other big incentives he can only accept. there is absolutely nothing wrong with asking the immigrant for something in return, because that is all he wants, and we ourselves will reap his contribution to the precarious economy of the regions. we need a plan "the great seduction" organized by the provincial government with the companies of the regions. it's an ultimate combo, everyone wins.
as for anglophones, it remains difficult to blame them once again with our politicians who give into patronage. the first thing to do would be to fund cegeps according to the demographic weight of anglophones (real people, not allophones) so as to redirect to francophone cegeps.
this position, which consists in placing the blame on an entire group, for causes that are not within their remit, by instrumentalizing them for exclusively political ends, is reprehensible.
this is not correct at all! as a 2 year old immigrant, i haven't voted yet but i'm trying to find out more about politics here in quebec.
i am closely related to the quebec bloc and other parties as well. but of course i would vote for parties in favor of immigration and integration.
after all, in trying to become a quebecker, i want quebec to embrace all those who adore french but who are also bilingual, because it is necessary for the economy and therefore the future of quebec.
whichever party is in favor of this, and honest with a good, trusted, strong and young leader, they will have my vote in the next election.
just see the inventory [since 1994] (
boucar diouf was honorary president of the national day and he often spoke in favor of a more sovereign quebec, not to say independent.
the president of the pq is [dieudonné ella oyono] ( immigrant from gabon.
there were dozens of bloc québécois and péquiste deputies who were from immigration, [maka kotto] ( for example ...
so i'm not sure we should put all immigrants in the same boat ...
** in fact, it's up to us to convince immigrants, people who often celebrate the independence of their country of origin, that we need their help to create an independent quebec. **
quebec is already the most bilingual province in canada, with a rate approaching 48%. i don't know what more you want, it just weakens the culture more than anything at this rate.
which proves that immigration can work if it is properly supervised
> in fact, it's up to us to convince immigrants, people who often celebrate the independence of their country of origin, that we need their help to create an independent quebec.
you will give us an account of your sovereignist pedagogy among the greeks and italians: p
it's all a matter of selection and quantity. it is a mistake to assess the potential of mass immigration from its best elements, one has to judge on the basis of the average element. however, the average element is multicultural who vote liberal and who are very sensitive to the risk of economic instability inherent in the process of independence. which is logical, when you flee a country to improve your standard of living, you will necessarily have tendencies rather to the right on the economic axis and be sensitive to what can affect this standard of living in your adopted country.
the majority of "greeks" and "italians" have been in quebec for several generations, they are not immigrants.
we must arrange for immigrants to join the francophone community and not the anglophone.
in order for them to join the french-speaking community, we must be welcoming and we must give them the desire to live among us and not among the anglos.
i often talk to people of all origins and i talk to them about independence and telling them that to be "québécois" is initially a choice they make.
unfortunately, some tell me that no matter how hard they try, some quebecers will never consider them one of their own ...
if we want independence, we have to increase the size of our gang and that means opening our arms to everyone who could help us become independent, including everyone.
if we don't do that, in 100 years we will still be wondering why we are not a country.
> the majority of ~~ "greeks" and "italians" ~~ * "english" * have been in quebec for several generations, they are not immigrants.
just more of the same. sovereignist pedagogy has not worked on anyone for 50 years. we have to face the facts and stop masturbating in front of political beasts. for twelve years we have put forward the fiasco [maria mourani] ( what's the point? the pq collapses under oyono and maka kotto has deserted him since his defeat. it no longer has a seat in montreal or laval. this is the legacy of sovereignist pedagogy.
> we must arrange for immigrants to join the francophone community and not the anglophone.
the best way would be to block immigration from more english-speaking countries like india, china, black english-speaking countries, etc.
> in order for them to join the francophone community, we must be
welcoming and we must make them want to live among us and not
among the anglos.
i would say it looks bad. we do not set an example with the quantity of colonized among native quebecers, no one wants to integrate into a community that rejects itself.
> unfortunately, some tell me that no matter how hard they try,
some quebecers will never consider them one of their own ...
the law of least effort will always favor canada: it is a lot easier to be considered "canadian" in the multiculturalist vision than to be considered "quebecois" in our more assimilationist vision for some or multiculturalist. -conditions (aka interculturalism) for others.
i also have the impression that there are a lot of misunderstandings created by the fact that the word "québécois" is used in several senses but without specifying which one. i am quite convinced that the majority who would not consider a well integrated immigrant as a "quebecer" in the ethnic sense of the term would not be in favor of a national preference policy like the fn for example. basically, we use the same word "quebecois" to speak of the french canadian ethnicity of quebec, to designate the citizens of quebec territory, or to speak of all those who are "culturally" part of the nation. a series of misunderstandings ensued that federalist political crooks had learned to exploit with all their hands.
> if we want independence, we must increase the size of our gang and
it means opening our arms to everyone who could help us
become independent, including everyone.
this is what i do personally, and i agree with the ideal. but i'm a realist (or a pessimist, depending on your point of view), so when i see the forces at play, i consider that a strategic retreat towards natalist policies would be a more productive path ... albeit politically unsaleable?
>movement montreal, which became a political party this year, would seek constitutional powers for the city from the federal government to make it a city-state with access to the taxation levers currently controlled by the higher levels of government, he said.
except that the federal government does not have this authority. since this would be a constitutional amendment that would change the powers of quebec, it could not be done without its consent.
another transparent attempt by the english to try to evade our laws.
when you let anyone in and you finance anglo rat holes like dawson, that's what it gets.
nice! he will divide the codèrian vote
i do not yet understand why this shit town is not yet under supervision.
what is interesting with the english-speaking press is the ability to offer third parties a neutral voice. they cover holness as a credible candidate with no apparent bias. the guy can say anything or "divide the vote", it's not important: we let him speak that's all.
in the meantime, has anyone seen thibodeault or desjardins in the french media? no, it's plante or coderre and shut up: we decided the fight for you.
at what point does it become an option to drop montreal to save the rest of quebec? when gangrene starts to take hold, at some point it is necessary to amputate. nothing says it's over forever then, a reconquest is possible we never know what history has in store for us. anyway, in the long term, the big cities will be fucked up either by the fall in agricultural yields due to climate change or by the energy contraction, so it is possible that montreal will become a drag rather than an asset for our enemies.
the sovereignty of montreal. well then.
i have been to dawson. it is far from being a "rat hole".
do you really think the pseudo-rhodesian partitionists vote for coderre?
uh, he's closer to plante.
for which motive?
if you want to bankrupt the province of quebec, sure you can impose more measures on montreal. the last time there was a crackdown on montreal, the city of toronto came into existence as a great deal of wealth left quebec for ontario.
holness gets covered by the gazette because his "city-state" plan is to be able to exempt montreal from bill 101 and other such provincial laws.
they say it's to have taxing powers, but anyone with two neurons knows it's to exempt montreal from bill 101 (and certainly bill 21 for that matter.)
more than for plante anyway
the guy is downright a former candidate for projet montreal.
financial. they've been meeting all the criteria for a long time.
plante gives them precisely what they want, why wouldn't they vote for her?
on the community side, he is definitely in the plante camp.
🤷‍♂️ i don't think projet montreal is doing very well in angryphone areas, but i could be wrong. it is perhaps above all that coderre is their man
because people are trying to make believe in an anti-vax conspiracy to obtain bogus medical exemptions, i believe in setting the record straight. these zombies are soon going to prey on the people who ** cannot ** take the vaccine in the name of orthodoxy.
it is a totalitarian ideology. there will be no satisfaction without 100% vaccination.
it may end up like the kidnapping of dogs to take walks during the curfew: big swelling in the media but 1-2 possible cases across the province.
after that ?
the 3rd dose.
or maybe penalties for the last vaccinated. who knows.
47 fine pure wools killed by nyc dogs, never forget it ...
silent when afghanistan is reconquered by the taliban, it is again 1 month later against the * patriarchy * for another international subject.
the archetype of the western white feminist is quite a specimen.
astonishing coming from a matriarchal society
it makes me laugh at the ecologists who believe that a world without ghg emissions would look like a big open-air hippie town ... feminists will be very happy to have strong men to help them ...
see if they are unable to snag their tampon in the pacific ocean.
is the patriarchy in the room with us right now?
is it in france or quebec? because if it is in quebec, they should be reminded that quebec society is generally and predominantly matriarchal. anyway, what has that to do with the fact that the planet is warming up?
and yet the afghans' carbon footprint is exemplary. especially since being all in black discourages overconsumption, so it is nothing to understand.
the real problem is overpopulation. the poor have only to stop having children if they do not have the financial means to raise them. the same for idiots so that we stop making adhd children with memory problems. in this way, we would be able to live as in the year 2000 with only 500 million people on earth. otherwise, all 8 billion humans should live as in the middle ages, so resources will become scarce. but no, having children is a very strong animal instinct for humans to use pseudo-morals as an excuse not to admit that they are idiots. worse yet, the slightest thing that an elite dares to use their authority to force people to do smart fakes against their will like one does with children, not only does it turn into a civil war like it's about to happen. with covid-19, but the elites will be corrupted by power and become nazi. the only solution for me is that we create fallout superbunkers with lots of working humans, plant seeds and animal embryos preserved in criogenization to repopulate the earth as well as all the intellectual knowledge and worth the entertainment in underground internet servers. in this way, if we ever manage to reason with ordinary people, at least part of the population and of civilization will protect themselves and hide while the rest of the world is screwing their heads. we wait for the foolish to self-regulate in a catastrophic way then we repopulate a little. well we risk having to start again every 1000 years, but it is the price tag to survive when we do not evolve the brain. it feels so good to let go of everything i have on my heart without risking being blinded to everyone and nothing. on twitter it was impossible. thank you so much. bye.
on r / quebec, the last time i said that we should go back to pre 1950-60 consumption levels, they negotiated with me and gave me a list of green communities in quebec if i really wanted to live ecologically. well, yes, because sustainability is living in isolation with proto-marxists, in a communal hut that sinks when it rains and a community that borders on sect and is dying of venereal disease because it practices free love.
i never understood why no one thinks of [these images] ( )&d when we talk about a world without ghg emissions. the west is truly disconnected.
i realized late in life that "patriarchy" is the name feminists give to world-eating capitalism, to the english regime and to the white world of the west. i think here they are aimed at blaming "man" in its universal sense, which includes woman, who is capable of so much stupidity.
we can only criticize the world with the tools we have. the diagnosis may not be exact, but they are not the only ones to point to the same ailment.
if we classify countries from the most patriarchal to the least patriarchal and we look at the per capita ghg emissions i am willing to bet that the correlation will go in the direction that more patriarchy = less ghg emissions. it's simple, most poor countries are rather patriarchal compared to
in the west and emit less ghgs, say with the notable exception of the gulf monarchies. so, assuming the two variables are related (which they don't, but these idiots seem to believe) then it would take more patriarchy to fight global warming.
if i understand correctly, it is the annual march against global warming in quebec. it's a pretty popular walk and people take the opportunity to talk about causes unrelated or winding to do with climate change.
i don't quite understand what the purpose of this march is, the government is not just tolerating it, they are letting them organize things. what are the words? blame it all on the government and the institutions.
i am of the opinion that walks like this should be there for networking, otherwise it is completely unnecessary. gather thousands of people, why not take the opportunity to talk about a solution ... like these young ladies who have found the solution to all their problems it seems ...
it was up to the climate in montreal. wokes aren't going to reason, they don't care. they use these causes to exercise their totalitarianism which stems from an internal rage projected by hypersensitivity or personal psychic disorders. they pass the motif rationally, but the source does indeed come from an unfulfilled irrational need. according to freudian qualifiers, we can qualify them as real neurotics.
it costs less for the heating ... you squeal outside in your black tempo shelter in the sun and you could fret.
well, it's hard to give an exact year that you would have to go back to to be really sustainable, because in reality the situation is completely different. we have sustainable electricity, even in the 1950s and 1960s we consumed a lot of hydrocarbons and we would eventually have to reduce that to zero (which will inevitably happen one day given that the resource is not infinite). autarky communities are fine, but i don't think they're communities that can survive in a context of general collapse where there will be a lot of predation. in short, it's complicated.
if there is anything constant about green speech (and others too), it's this:
* if someone somewhere can live simply, then it is possible for millions of people other than me. *
it's a classic. to paraphrase the other: * ideologues are very generous with other people's money but little with theirs *.
yes, horses make dung, but it's already better than 250 cars per minute on the décarie highway. listen, with the resources we have there, either we consume everything for our little comfort until the planet becomes unlivable, or we make sacrifices. no more buying a plasma tv a year, and having goddamn cars everywhere. no more building dirty condos or dirty outlets in every little corner of the forest. in the spring, we eat radishes.
but nobody wants to do that so we're just going to hope that one of the foolish parties in ottawa, indebted to the polluting big money, have a magic solution and not think about it or repeat tatas slogans until it be 35 ° c in january.
yes they are very good at establishing newspeak.
environmentalists, through their intersectional obsession, are killing the weather in this individual cult of * i-me-me, * with labels visible all the way around.
sonia mabrouk, what an incredible journalist. she makes all her guests sweat.
as a reminder, the united states is currently deporting illegal haitians who had gathered on the banks of the rio grande, some after having transacted through several latin american countries. first of all, it is clear that the very natural response of the biden administration contrasts favorably with the one we adopted during the roxham road saga. respect for borders is the primary responsibility of a state. it is valid under joe biden, it is valid under donald trump and it is also valid under justin trudeau. note that not having fulfilled our duty, we now find ourselves as a welcome land for these marvelous barefoot goings.
this unsolicited arrival of haitian politics in montreal is all the more unfortunate as each of the interventions collected by radio-canada are without tail or head:
> i cannot believe that in 2021, the [people from the] first [black] country who got their independence from slavery, were still being treated that way,
> they're sending us back to slavery, and this is unacceptable
- frantz andré from solidarité québec - haiti
treated that way? pleasure? the deportees crossed an entire continent to enter illegally in a country where they do not have the right of residence. what was the expected result? that they all immediately receive a green card? the citizenship? a stay at the hotel like with the happy cuckolds of canada? as a reminder, what the first black republic did with its foreigners at independence, well, was to massacre them. so we have to come back, these people are not reduced to slavery, they are expelled to their country.
> we're asking the canadian government to clearly state that they're against what's going on in the united states at the border between mexico and texas
>we want them out of the core group. we want them to say they will not to interfere in haitian affairs, because that's the reason why people are fleeing haiti.
- jennie-laure sully from solidarité québec - haiti
indeed, canada should speak out against mass movements of illegal immigrants via the rio grande. the best way not to get pissed off by border officials is to travel in good standing. unfortunately, i don't think that's quite what the lady has in mind, but we have to stop messing around. if it hadn't been for those idiots massing around what instantly became an open dump, there wouldn't be this psychodrama. then after thinking that haiti's setbacks would end if and only if canada withdraws from the core group, i have serious doubts. on the contrary, haiti is a country amply capable of self-sustaining bananization without the intervention of anyone.
> she sent me pictures and videos of people sleeping on the [ground], without food and water," andré said. "she was detained and has since been deported to haiti.
- frantz andré from solidarité québec - haiti regarding a mother of two young children
ah, but it's really stupid. do you arrive with an outstretched hand, unable to meet your most basic needs? but what is this circus? bon will make the deportees find their networks in haiti. as long as you're on the brink of death in america, you'd better be at home, at home.
the subject of the pandemic is not covered in the article, probably due to the fact that we would not like to raise [certain questions] ( psaki-nemesis-doocy-catches-question-vaccinating-migrants.html). like what the whole is 95% political and literally without logical continuation when one advances various groups of interests.
2021
a state can no longer have sovereignty over its territory since the very notion of territory is a white imperialist-hetero-patriarchal sin.
the cure is a large dose of undocumented economic immigrants, which in itself is a universal good.
praised be orthodoxy.
praised be our saviors.
the united states is doing absolutely nothing wrong with this evil. any supposed country would do the same, which is obviously not the case with canada.
> treated this way? pleasure? the deportees crossed an entire continent to enter illegally in a country where they do not have the right of residence. what was the expected result?
the third world (not just haiti) is beginning its post-pandemic transition and will not wait for western silliness, especially with a potential risk of a return of trump in 3 years. time is running out and you have to get in as quickly as possible.
on the ground, this will result in a citizen carded with a qr code who will be confined to residence if their vaccination is deemed insufficient while a refugee who has jumped the fence will walk around without hassle.
i repeat, the third world has 2 years of catching up to do and can no longer wait after the west to settle its pandemic file. the post-pandemic race for life is underway and the covid will be classified as an urban legend in the humanitarian convoys that will be mobilized and in full acceptance that the game will be worth the candle, fully aware of the double game of political decisions.
haitians are fleeing both a natural disaster and armed violence/political coup.
when you shut your doors to refugees, as an extremely wealthy and capable nation, you are immoral.
since a vaccinee can spread covid like an unvaccinated one, the real reason for the government decision lies elsewhere:
> and in a context of a serious labor shortage, quebec does not want staff to fall ill due to inadequate vaccination.
there. the government therefore wants employees vaccinated with permanent ost who * die a little but not enough to stay at home * because vaccination reduces serious forms including "taking a home break". of course the patients are going to be exposed to * snot a little bit but not enough to stay at home * but since there will be no more testing, it will be hidden as it should be. the patient could even be blamed for the outbreak if they are not vaccinated! ingenious plan!
also, * symptoms + vaccination = go back to office anyway * is most likely going to be the modus operandi over the next few months.
> “unvaccinated workers had to be tested three times a week at this time. why, all of a sudden, it doesn't work anymore? asks the general secretary of cupe-quebec, frédéric brisson.
> "we could take rapid tests every day and that would prevent us from losing more people!" », he suggests.
mind you, it's not a stupid idea. if the goal is to prevent the proliferation of covid in patients, confirming the negative status of staff vaccinated or not is the bare minimum. unfortunately, minister dubé previously confirmed that [the tri-weekly screening is in fact only a disguised coercion measure] ( -non-vaccinated-health-workers-will-have-to-be-inoculated). like what it is not this government which will deliver us a small revolution of the common sense!
everything that revolves around the theme of covid has been completely disconnected from reality for at least 1 year.
an exercise in political communication with a largely imaginary problem whose sole objective is the political survival of the government in the crisis.
* valérie plante reiterated that montreal is a safe city, and that its administration is not the one that will define the police. *
🤡
when you're in the right gang, you can swallow everything and its [opposite] (
it's a big hit. coderre's response remains to be seen.
i can't smell her !! ..
no more than the big coderre ...
we are badly taken in taba…. caught between this sneering woke who forgets to give his speech in french and a fat federalist who wanted to send immigrants who voted bloc back to their country.
founder of a street gang in town hall, everything is fine
"defining the police" means financing another kind of quasi-police, less violent but much more expensive.
nursing automation is not for tomorrow ... and even if it was technically possible, would we really want it?
ok
do you think they have anything to do with what we really want?
surprisingly, if we listen to the directors of google china, microsoft china and the world economic forum, by 2025, in certain industrialized and comfortable countries like canada, the estimates are that about 50% of the population will have to reinvent themselves and reorient themselves. even if they are wrong 5-10 years old, it is sobering.
ah yes, * them, * those who control everything around a table in a dungeon?
i prepare for the future.
the first time i saw the "video games and violence" link was around the columbine days when jack thompson and tipper gore blamed the massacre on games like mortal kombat and doom. it lasted for a while until september 11, 2001.
then, it was difficult to find violence in microsoft flight simulator (and even to know if terrorists had access to it) and we decided to talk instead about * mental health * and * imbalance * to avoid talking about other subjects. .
even during the days of daesh: mental health, lack of medication and radicalization online? yes. video games? never saw anyone blame gta when someone ran over pedestrians in nice or postal for what was being done in raqqa.
but with the end of daesh and the return of the angry white man, we can go back to our good old politically correct habits: blaming video games and the rest of the culture around the angry white man (including him), something no one wanted. approach when it was the other boogeyman.
what i find funny is that when it comes to video games, the wokes and the right join in their bullshit ...
they have the same arguments whether it is normand lester, jack thompson or anita sarkeesian ... whether it is that "the goal of gta is to kill for points" or the goal of hitman is to "kill protitutes for to score points "it is the same chalice of connierie which comes from cellars which do not have any idea ...
there is a video on youtube which explains it anyway not worse: [ danemark( this the most pissing off is those who defended the games against jack thompson who wanted to ban gta and bully [(adam sessler] ( and fox news when the another crazy woman started to whine when mass effect had a sex scene with a blue jerk ([geoff keighley] ( it's made super woke and worse it has changed sides ...
it's always easier to find something to blame than a problem to solve ...
so does he ever blame mental health disorders or social media room echoes?
i always avoid his personal opinions.
good, and he adds more almost immediately in the next chapter. he says that in the first two months of 2020 there were 55 mass killings in the united states, which he defines as killing 4 or more people. in the next sentence he says they killed 74 people in total. doesn't lester know how to count? 55 times 4, that's a minimum of 220 deaths. not surprisingly coming from someone who seems mortified by the idea that people can own guns, come to think of it.
in addition, the phenomenon of serial killers is to be called into question after reading the book "programmed to kill" by david mcgowan.
all serial killers have a very specific recurring pattern - sexual and physical abuse in infancy, senior parents in the elite / cia / us army, sent to mental institutions at infancy for long periods without specific need, very close to top drug cartel leaders, very close to police chiefs and high ranking in the justice system, killings and accusations known and not taken into account by the police for long periods, killings with major evidence demonstrating the implication of several other actors during the murders and rapes, trial clearly biased to put the most murders on the back of a person, continuation of disappearances and murders following the arrest of the individual.
thirty years ago when he was on tv i thought he was a scary old man. it hasn't improved.
normand lester, jack thompson, same fight!
the last person i would trust to form an opinion on the united states is normand lester.
1 year after trump's defeat in the election, the big bad orange man occupies an ever-growing part of his sick and paranoid mind. just go read his texts in the jdm to see it.
he's just an overwhelmed old man who doesn't know how to find reliable information on what's going on south of the border.
i can't blame him, it's complicated. the world is changing and the traditional media (which i prefer to call "depraved media") such as the nyt, cnn and other major american channels are hate factories and delusional propaganda that have far surpassed the fox news of bush's time in this matter. .
normand lester should retire and be content to do his crossword. his blood pressure would benefit.
maybe later in the book, but certainly not in this chapter.
you would probably need to read it all to cement your opinion.
precisely, i tell myself that if he tells nonsense from the start, how can i trust him for the rest?
quite distressing chronicle of jean-françois lisée where the latter draws us up yet another historiography of duplessis based exclusively on the slander of his fiercest adversaries. it is necessary to be consistent. if georges-émile lapalme and gérard pelletier are indeed the guardians of good and truth, jean-françois owes us their reading of rené lévesque and independence. ah, but no, in this case they are at best liberal crooks, at worst traitors to the nation! what wouldn't we do to maintain the myth of the tyrant duplessis ...
it stinks of selection bias and screening this column. oh how we love to tell each other the fables surrounding the terrible, despicable corruption of unionist governments. it's not to piss off, but these practices were common at the time. the national union was corrupt as was the liberal party of quebec or their respective incarnations at the federal level. especially in 2021 we are far from having solved this problem, we will think more specifically of the liberal party and its $ 100,000 ministers, so we should calm down with the great satan duplessis.
then after that it returns to the cult of the quiet revolution that jean-françois identifies as the zenith of nationalism. but where does this stupidity come from? especially since being at a time when we can take stock of the quiet revolution, it is clear that this was an exercise in national deconstruction. we exchanged our french canadian identity, conservative and fruitful for another quebecer, progressive to the point of ridicule and in advanced demographic decomposition. it is difficult to see the gain for the nation. especially since it is sickly by joining the path that quebec has taken to the rest of the continent:
> when other north american states built professional public services, opened universities, socialized medicine, nationalized their hydropower, legislated against work-related accidents
ah, yes, minnesota nationalized its hydroelectricity and socialized medicine! no, that's quiet revolutionary fetishism. this clearly does not apply to other states in north america. it makes you wonder if he's doing it on purpose or if he's stupid. besides, it's very bad to know the story. harnessing the bersimis, manic and outard rivers, essential precursors of james bay, this is also the heritage of duplessis! does the north coast mean something to jean-françois? okay, so no two cents a ton, no north shore and by extension no railroad leading to the heart of labrador, no romaine, etc ...
i hope that in the future our good thinkers will be able to give it to him by basing the historiography of his political contribution on the words of stéphane dion of this world.
always a pleasure to read your comments full of common sense and culture.
> the notion of consent is well defined by law, according to alisa lombard.
> the lawyer of mi'kmaw and acadian origin is piloting an application for authorization of class action on behalf of some 100 survivors of the practice in saskatchewan and manitoba.
> she recalls that bodily autonomy is an inalienable right recognized by the canadian charter of rights and freedoms. and that consent must take place in the right environment, at the right time, so that the patient can properly assess the risks, options, consequences and benefits of an intervention.
it had been a long time since i had read such a speech.
at the same time, a friend of the beneficiaries is on sick leave because she is currently pregnant. her union telephoned her this week to advise her that she would be suspended next month if she did not take her second dose of the vaccine… even if she did not set foot in her workplace for 8 to 10 months.
this friend wanted to wait until the birth of her child to get her second dose.
it could be racism ... but it could also be that it is not really racism, just "accidents" on the general population.
but in the case of peru, [it's not that accidental] (
otherwise, it seems to me i've seen a couple of stories like this on reddit (i'm not saying it's 100% true). one that i heard, the person reported that the doctor had returned from vacation and resorted to "shortcuts" without asking permission (to get rid of the task as quickly as possible) which caused the person to has become sterile.
in any case, there is the will to reduce the human population. this is one of the reasons that makes me shy away from modern medicine. in my opinion, it is not for nothing that the pill is so pushed, despite its drawbacks, that it is not well to speak out against abortion, that feminism and the lgbtq + movement are so popular, i doubt. may these movements (as intense as they are right now) have anything positive to form strong families. but hey, it may not be these movements that are the cause of our social problems, but society as a whole which does not seem to support the difference of opinion, despite being more and more multicultural, among other things because of the internet.
i hope they will get redress, even if it cannot replace their pain.
> rachel decoste has just been hired by the national film board as the new “director, diversity, equity and inclusion of the national film board of canada”.
this is not a real job, it is the canadian equivalent of the political commissars of the soviet union.
these parasites cost a fortune
[classic] (
the worst: a director. not a specialist or auxiliary, director. so de facto a secretary in * diversity, equity and inclusion *, employees in * diversity, equity and inclusion * under his direction as well as a possibility of interns in * diversity, equity and inclusion *.
just wait a few months and boom: a payroll that goes up to the million, courtesy of public funds.
i wonder if there really is a nationalism that is not ethnic. what are we defending, a few nuances of civil service? as soon as i am answered "french" or even "our values of tolerance, diversity and inclusion", it becomes "ethnic."
it absolutely exists. most french nationalists embody it very well under their universalist notion. according to henry de lesquen, eric zemmour is illegitimate. only, are there more french than zemmour?
the principle of integration based on adherence to common values, in other words universalism, is one of the most beautiful promises invented by man in our history, and an immutable civilizational pledge. legitimacy by blood is highly reprehensible for those who want a functioning society based on merit.
i think there is a distinction that i make and that you do not: that between race and ethnicity. ethnicity refers to culture (software), race to unchangeable characteristics (hardware). zemmour's nationalism is strongly ethnic, precisely because he advocates the “assimilation” of foreigners, the sustainability of a french culture which would change very little and the fact that certain cultures, such as islamic culture, are incompatible with france. . there is no more french than zemmour because he is a product of ethnic nationalism.
with de lesquen, it is above all racial nationalism. ditto for nomos tv, (to take an example to which you will be sensitive) which generally falls into racial nationalism. cormier-denis always talks to us about the french-canadian breed. he talks about a genetic right to live on our territory. zemmour of a cultural right.
even if one defended universalism, universalism is (ironically) a notion which is exclusive to a few western peoples and therefore strongly "ethnic"; culturally marked and differentiated. civic nationalism, if it really exists, would be really just the mutual tolerance of people who are ethnically different, even opposed, under the same functionary marked by borders, without a mold or common cultural project, which would make it an ethnic nationalism. civic nationalism can ultimately be the canadian project. post-nationalism does not exist. it would just be anarchy.
in greek, if i am not mistaken, if we are interested in etymology it would be * dêmos * (civic belonging to the city) * ethnos * (people of the same origin, without racial connotation) and * genos * (family , by extension race).
indeed, i have always considered ethnicity as encompassing both culture and race. i agree that the debate here is primarily terminological than anything else since we understand each other on the basis of assimilationist principles.
on the other hand, and this is where the shoe pinches, the proclaimed ethno-nationalists do not have the same definition. they do adopt a racial nationalism which they call "ethno-nationalism". so how to derogate from this term if the hard core confuses race and ethnicity?
i totally disagree with calling canada any nationalism other than post-nationalism.
otherwise for the rest we seem to agree.
> otherwise for the rest we seem to agree
give in or not, we're here and we're not going anywhere.
we conquered and colonized this land and we drove out all forms of opposition with peace, war, trade and bribes.
the other peoples have been squeezed, surrounded and their form of life is no longer viable, they will live at our expense until a new identity and a new way of life is forged. or they will flee to the far north until we catch up with them.
we're not monsters, we're ready to buy peace for as long as we can. when the crumbs we give them are not enough, they can tell us by blocking a bridge or a railway for 2-3 weeks with illegal weapons. we can hope that there will be no injuries and that each generation that will live through it will do what it takes so that it does not happen again in its lifetime.
the best we can hope for in all of this is that we will be able to live in harmony at an arm's length with respect and that the indigenous cultures will survive under our tutelage and one day will become prosperous. but that day will not come in our lifetime.
before asking this question, we should first of all ask if the territory of montreal is claimed by any amerindian nation. the answer is no and that is the end of the story. it is an animal mimicry which animates the peddlers of this smoking theory.
hey, quebec belongs exclusively to the descendants of the french and not to the anglos of the waste-island or to suppose natives who in general are not even.
would probably agree to recognize those who were allies ... the mohawks were at war with everyone ...
tayeule colon. go back to france fuck you, fucking white trash.
are the mohawks not claiming it?
ironically, the mohawks bordering montreal were originally our allies, themselves converted to catholicism and established in the wake of the jesuit and sulpician missions. it was only after the british conquest that our relations with them became messy.
your a little snot flowing from your mouth
the three mohawk tribes bordering montreal claim territories adjacent to those they already have, but not the island of montreal. kahnawake claims the territory of [the seigneury of sault saint louis] ( kanesatake claims a portion of the territory of [the seigneury of lac des deux montagnes] ( akwesasne claims [the village of dundee] ( at least, that's the official demands. after that, nothing prevents a nut from claiming all the americas from ellesmere island to tierra del fuego in the name of oral tradition.
why are white men always defending colonialism? strange 🙄
wasn't there a mohawk chief who said that montreal was mohawk territory at one point?
aren't you some kind of troll?
it's not impossible, empty statements cost nothing. for example, denis coderre asserts that montreal is unceded mohawk territory while valérie plante asserts that it is unceded amerindian territory without specifying a claimant nation.
but china had not arrested them under false pretenses in retaliation. no sir. / s
but ... but ... china had sworn that they were locked up by normal process and not by retaliation for the arrest of meng wanzhou! would they have lied? no! no, we've been told for 18 months that only conspiracies can believe that a government is not telling the truth. it is surely a coincidence then.
quite repugnant of the chinese to make false arrests on the other hand.
they should have threatened to kill innocent americans instead of canadians, anyway because they are the ones who are asking for the imprisonment of huawei's daughter, we still have a lot of grumbling about this company of snitches.
but we could perhaps inflict one last little humiliation on the chinese nation by comparing how they treated our pies versus how we treated their pie.
but canada had not arrested meng as a political prisoner. no sir. / s
the chinese only imitated the americans at their own game. what was she accused of? to violate the us embargo on the sale of telecommunications equipment to iranians. in the name of what this embargo should engage other countries than the usa and their allies? in addition, this is not the first time that the united states have used their law extraterritorially to extort billions of dollars from european companies (alstom, and siemens among others) supposedly in the name of anti-corruption law which are never used. against american companies. the american justice department behaves like a highwayman, as much towards the geopolitical adversaries of the usa as towards their allies ...
yes, the chinese acted like hypocrites, just like the americans.
what are you talking about? the united states had issued a warrant against her, we have an extradition treaty with them. what, do you think we stopped her to be tough? to demand a ransom? to have more rice? send, enlighten us, explain canada's motivations to make her a political prisoner.
they sold goods to a country that was under embargo. it's pretty clear cut as a crime.
noshitwatson is right, it is the modus operendi of the americans to use bogus or real charges against competing companies to take directors hostage, threaten hefty fines and ultimately promote the takeover of his companies by american interests. this is what happened to alstom.
she was clearly a political prisoner for the us from the start, and canada fell into it as an amateur. laws and tralala are fine, but at the geopolitical level, the laws mean nothing except for our little boyscouts
/s ?
in the name of what should the embargo against iran engage all the countries of the planet including those who are against? she didn't sell them uranium enrichment centrifuges, but fucking cell towers ...
you haven't answered the question at all. you just repeated that she was a political prisoner.
**why?**
why? there are plenty of reasons, including america's insecurity in the face of an uninhibited china which was taking more and more economic and geopolitical weight in the world, without always complying with the hegemony of the financial system imposed by the us. (eg doing business over-the-counter with iran)
so no reasons. just "poor chinese princess who did nothing" despite the fact that canada's judicial inquiry determined that the charges against them were credible. not to mention that you are not even saying that it is canada but the united states that made her a political prisoner. not to mention that she herself confessed her wrongs to make an agreement with the court, which led to her release.
and what else? are you going to tell me that taiwan belongs to china? that tibet has always been a part of it? that nothing happened at tiannanmen square in 1989?
ps: canada is just stupid and complicit
if the charges were credible, the us would not have made an agreement to drop charges. note that this is not a “plea bargain”. it is certain that they must save face a little by making him say "i too should have been nicer"
for taiwan and tibet i don't really see the connection with the discussion.
>however, as part of the deal, meng confirmed that the statement of facts in the deferred prosecution agreement are true. those facts include that she misrepresented huawei's relationship with skycom to hsbc, according to court documents. if she says or implies otherwise, it could violate the terms of the deal and result in her prosecution.
it is literally a "plea bargain." and i mentioned that because you are repeating chinese propaganda. just miss you saying i have a phone.
false, it's a deferred prosecution agreement
"if ms. meng complies with all of her obligations under the dpa, **the government agrees to dismiss all the charges against her**”
interesting subject, but the trailer does not tickle me benben.
while the french-speaking quebecois, supported by his journalists, is hunting for the latest veudette who thinks wrong, the english-speaking is already elsewhere defending his interests.
when finally the francophone will be at the table to address the subject of the french fact, he will be 15 moves late and already defeated. this dynamic has been present for decades and will continue to be so and produce the results we see.
did you know that guillaume lemay-thivierge was not vaccinated against covid? scandal!
worse, the other squeals madly in ottawa "our brothers the taliban" she's still the why because she's a woman, a muslim, a taliban.
worse there is marwah rizqy ... tse when you're there to be late, you say bullshit like "he just his job psq it's a man" when you have yours to fall back on a quota of nounes udders of "racisé" with a name like "marwah rizqy"
well, let's see, it's much more than the legault would lose face if he were to consecrate it outside. education was supposed to be the top priority of his mandate and his minister lost the confidence of the community. nothing to do with the fact that it is a man.
i don't like at all what that indicates about the caq's approach to their way of managing their ministers. there is no course that can prepare someone to be a minister. no matter how much you take someone who has technical expertise and management experience, that won't necessarily make a good minister because it takes someone who has an overall and long-term vision in addition to 'have the human qualities necessary to be a leader. so, since you can't prepare people in advance, the best approach seems to me to be rather liberal in promotions and demotions. we must give the runner a chance, but do not hesitate to degrade him if the results are not there. legault's stubbornness in leaving minister roberge in office tells me that the caq favors appearances rather than results.
seriously the debate is at a high level there
kakistocracy.
mysogyny should not be a mere accusation lightly thrown at the assembly. the last to wear this label was none other than gerry sklavounos (plq), we saw where it went. according to this logic, marwah rizqy is in the worst boy club in the assembly.
i imagine that dominique anglade will have to wipe this blunder again.
it's actually maryam monsef, and she just lost her seat.
the worst? we are the ones who pay their wages ...
ok la yes, but not before, but what i mean is that there are quite a few who keep their jobs in politics just because they fulfill a quota ... and let's say that the "marwah rizqy "and" maryam monsef "are both part of it.
watching the video, i don't really understand why the police chose to challenge the man in question. if he looked like a rapper in brand-new brand-new red or blue linens and the knee-length pantyhose, that would be understandable, but the guy didn't really have a street gang look other than that. 'be black.
it is normal for the police to profile people according to whether they look suspicious or not. i have nothing against the fact that they profile blacks who dress like street gangs and heat luxury tanks, as long as they also disgust quebecers who dress in headrush / support 81 / jacket. motorcycle gang and the notorious italian mafiosos. this does not exclude the possibility that ill-trained police officers have too easy profiling towards blacks. the least thing in this context should be to do it in a civilized manner and be more patient with them considering that with the number of false positives they have, it is normal for innocent black citizens to end up losing. patience. ideally, they should learn to make fewer false positives as well by better targeting the truly criminal element of the black community.
very good news in my opinion. it's probably going to affect the whole world.
honestly, i find that a bit bashful as a policy.
perfect, fuck apple, die in your vomit steve jobs!
worse, the eu wins helpless bureaucrats would have been doing this years ago, not waiting for apple to announce its plans.
worse the consumers, you guts to give your money and power to a company like apple that buggers you all the time. you are the perfect example of why democracy and capitalism are ridiculous utopias. the general public is far too lazy and ignorant to be the informed and rational individual upon whom these two ideas depend.
should be passed in 2022 afterwards, member states have 2 years to adopt it and companies 3 years to comply. in short, we will meet again in 2026 if all goes well.
say no to usb-c chargers! several researchers have found that usb-c chargers can make you stupid. studies have shown that not having to watch the direction of the grip makes us more dumb, just like watching spongebob squarepants. in addition, its round shape gives off magnetism that could spread through the fingers of vaccinated people, which would give bill gate full control of humanity. the people of medieval greece [tried to warn us] ( .jpg) that satan would one day try to control the usb port.
why?
capitalism a ridiculous utopia ... oh boy ... i didn't expect that
i don't see the point of mixing politics with technological development.
it is not technological development but consumer protection. they force standardization.
imagine if they would force all computers to run latest windows for security.
or some other bullshit like that.
ok a better example imagine in the 90s if they had forced all computers to have an rs232 port for serial peripherals. ok it was the norm back in the day, but imagine if we would be stuck with obsolete standards like that, your macbook or your thinkpad which is 4cm thick would be forced to have a serial port which is 8cm by 5cm.
to standardize an already standard connector is to be illiterate in technology. there are reasons why hardware designers will use a standard port and reasons why they will use another port.
it is certainly not ginetta of the dutch socialist party who has her say on this.
precisely, i do not like this idea.
windows is a product created by a specific company. usb-c is a format.
requiem for a beautiful heartless 👌
haha sick
more sabrina boudot please.
i don't know what i am seeing.
mr. marcel martel!
yenk once at the chalet ...
i listened to it no later than last night! this movie is epic!
what the fuck is kevin spacey doing there? lol
[this] ( gws-wiz-hp)
it's gildor roy it seems to me
je sais. i troll this sub on the regular :-)
imagine a world where the federal government would mind its own business. we wouldn't waste any time with this kind of meeting and negotiation, the excess tax points would be sent back to the provinces and there you go. that would solve a good part of the "sovereignist problem" for ottawa.
sorry i'm fabulous.
mr. kelley takes us for fools or what? if the original law 101 did not have the notwithstanding clause, it is because it was made before the trudeau charter ... moreover lesvesque had no gene in invoking the notwithstanding clause, he did so for all laws of the national assembly from 82 to 85.
i have an echo of the spaniards who say "speak american" if usa.
i'm not sure what to think about this.
it is a bit of the mustard but it was also the mustard when english was super dominant in quebec in the 70s (according to my father)
your fixation on french is a mental illness. either that or you are intolerant as the english claim. you will choose.
we will stop defending our language when the english have given up imposing theirs on us. i understand that not everyone has learned the history of quebec properly, but we should understand that the only reason that the english today deign to grant us a minimum of respect is because we stopped being pummeled on our feet with bill 101 and the separatist movement. the only reason your english colleagues in the army don't treat you like a frog considering your poor english skills is because of the respect imposed by the separatist threat. so you better be a little more grateful to the language freaks and read norman lester's english canada black book to see that the separatists didn't appear by magic or because we stood up. morning with the urge to eat roast beef.
just like the algerians' fixation on the arab, for example.
we are the largest francophone nation in all of the americas. for the rest, there are plenty of other countries and territories where complainers can go and ~~ speak ~~ impose their english as they have always done.
i know people familiar with the history of quebec for whom all this is in the past and we must "help each other, work together, not always look at old quarrels". often these people sincerely believe that ancient history does not influence their daily lives. that it's over is a thing of the past, so we can put it aside.
not completely wrong, but extremely superficial analysis.
loi 21 *cough cough*
the english in the rest of canada are the equivalent of americans who think canadians live in an igloo. they forget that quebec exists and that still has french people.
they don't give a fuck about quebec. if you tell them about quebec just like everyone else in quebec, they grew up thinking that quebec hates canada. and in quebec we grow up being told the english hate the french.
results 2 groups of ignorant people who do not talk to each other and still quarrel. and the majority of english people would tell you, split up if you're not happy, yen don't give a damn.
the english women that i frequent do it because they are afraid that i want to separate myself from canada suddenly?
you include the roc because of stupid media. quebec media represent no one and the same for anglos.
> results 2 groups of ignorant people who do not talk to each other and are still arguing.
there would be no quarrel if we did not speak and if we ignored each other. it is precisely because we talk to each other and because the english want to impose their model of society on us that we are always in dispute with them. the story of the two solitudes is a political myth created by the laurentian elite (anglo and franco) to maintain the illusion of the possibility of canada's existence if only we spoke and if we made the effort to understand each other. in an ideal world, this might be true, but in reality, the rest of canada is only ready to accept us if and only if we adopt all of their anglo-protestant ideological software. their so-called tolerance stops dead at the level of ideology, which is, moreover, far from being neutral or universal.
for them, to impose a language by the force of the market = halal, to impose it by the force of the state = haram .... but this is only valid as long as the market favors english. when the market favors mandarin, then it is perfectly acceptable to use the power of the state to strengthen english.
for the services ok ... no problem ... we should be served in french first ...
for the products ... i have seen "cannot ship to quebec" because the instruction book on the computer mouse screech that i want is not in french ...
if you need an instruction book in french to say not to put it in your ass ... i don't give a damn.
jdis that jdis nothing but it could be that the francos are sitting at home on the pcu and that walmart pogné to hire anglos?
i want to see the complaints ... please and slap a slap behind the heads of the plaintiffs
eat mard.
why?
please confirm that this is probably true.
because i already imagine that has a majority of ridiculous complaints made by white heads.
benefit from confirming that it is problem true!
no, quite certain that we are dealing with a bunch of traders pretending that they are unable to provide services in french in quebec.
for that i want to see the complaints ... not true that i will settle for% shits and accept.
i will have a true opinion then at the sight of the complaints if there is of what of founded.
i must admit that i agree on this point. the number of complaints does not count, it is the number of founded complaints.
they may be all founded but i will not trust quebecor to tell me.
> let's say it in today's words: if the historic francophone majority continues to decline demographically, quebecers will become foreigners and a minority at home.
we will appreciate the tributes paid to one of the greatest in the nation, but we see that it was not for nothing in front of this quote. are quebecers exclusively francophone? are they exclusively from this historic majority? no, obviously, since the benevolence that mbc cannot violate requires that paul mukendi and adil charkaoui be quebecers in the same way as the heirs of this so-called historical and french-speaking majority. québécois means absolutely nothing. he is a gentile in the same way as a canadian. so we have to stop messing around with praise for duplessis and the survival of french canadians. already and especially for guys like mcb, it doesn't exist any more french canadian. so how can we survive if even our most conservative intellectuals no longer dare to claim to be part of the nation?
how who can say that it is the delta when no detection test detects it. the tests will say covid or not covid.
with my experience with the media which are perfectly capable of lying by omission, the only info i will take is via static canada. and already from what i see it is only an increase *** proportional *** and not *** overall. *** so no more `` young ''
more propaganda. i won't get vaccinated until they stop their psychotic propaganda.
this is what i read too: no test detects it and you have to send samples to some very specific labs for manual verification. it's impossible that all the thousands of tests are going to be analyzed this way.
he is right. you can rest assured that the more the english howl about a measure, the more effective it would be.
not at all! shut! we must not deny the impression that the roc is on a crusade against the qc (it pays off politically)
delete this post quickly !!! otherwise the media will start to talk about chsld again and the quality of the air in schools should not be !!!
> this interpretation, which angus reid shared on twitter on wednesday, is based on the votes cast for the bloc québécois in the september 20 poll. because in absolute numbers, the votes cast compared to 2019 have decreased, he said about these data - which are still preliminary.
and there you go. they believe it was correct because quebec did not vote overwhelmingly for the bloc. it is the logic of the thief who believes he did nothing wrong since he was not shot. you have to be deeply immoral to believe that the absence of negative consequences for yourself justifies what you have done and that says a lot about the opponents of laws 21 and 96 in the roc.
an anglo who says that an anglo did nothing wrong when she used her moderator position during the only debate in english to directly attack quebec and its citizens?
what a shock. what a surprise.
he's right: ** the issue should have sparked a much bigger uproar. **
that's nothing, he says openly that law 21 is racist in this tweet:
what a fool this angus reid.
i'm starting to believe it. the reddit sub is as big as my pocket and 80% of the post is on that or french.
as i said yesterday ... it's not mcgill who will defend us and vote bloc ... it's not outremont who will defend the french ...
they are screaming at us. with us.
fools will remain fools.
we can always count on the square heads of ontario to tell quebecers what quebecers think ... not paternalistic at all ... / s
i hope their polls will lose credibility.
truly? i counted on the first page. of the 25 posts, 6 are on the situation of french in quebec or on bill 21. and that is following an event that brought them into the news. that's 24% of the sub for 2 subjects who made the front pages in the last two weeks.
i don't think we're "hysterical." i just think you mind that we talk about it. you would probably prefer that we shut our mouths. let us protect the * canadian unity. * let us * speak white. *
it could certainly achieve the independence of the panties of many women.
where is it from?
if he's one of those who revere schwab, forget it monom
not at all. he may not be elected.
what an unconscious: the head buried in the wall without realizing it.
the federalists were driving only on the sentence of parizeau said in 95 and now, after 25 years, they now have access to a new documented argument, experienced by all and ultra-fatal: management by decree which has been rife for 18 months.
make no mistake: everyone knows that after a winning referendum there will be uncertainty and that is exactly what is happening with the covid. conclusion: the current management will be the permanent management of an independent quebec and that, no one could guess before because everyone was based on initial scenarios where democracy was functional with a balance of powers.
and the pq fell for it. now any no campaign is going to be based not on one sentence but on real dealing with dictators in shorts that everyone has seen go by. who is going to want to make a country with this?
the main interested party's facebook page.
the post-pandemic on the move.
> i learned about sexism, racism, homophobia, transphobia.
>  
> i spoke with women, gays, blacks, blacks, arabs, trans, fat people. i read.
>  
> i realized that i was part of the problem.
>  
> i realized that my neutral benevolence was no longer enough.
>  
> i have become a little less stupid, a little more aware.
>  
> i decided to get involved, actively, with my male friends, to take them with me so that together we learn to no longer be part of the problem. it's true, but it's not a chance , it's a privilege: a pyramid of privileges. i became aware of it gradually in recent years, through reading, meetings and introspections. i worked to understand these privileges and to understand how, without knowing it, instinctively, i protected them. started to deconstruct myself.
i would rather say that she learned to translate the speeches of the american leftist into french.
without a bad pun, it's sad to see a regional flagship weakened like this.
seems to me that the industry had a few bad years during the said decade, which doesn't help ...
the problem with the ccp is that it operates in an excessively hostile media environment. the anglo-canadian media are very strongly progressive and demonize any resistance to "woke" initiatives.
faced with this, a party has two options:
1. the first is to comply with the media consensus by approving or silencing its opposition to all these initiatives, becoming de facto a party for which one votes only when the voters find that the plc is going too far, but it is only gone. postponement, that a delay before the plc regains power and relaunches its reforms.
2. go on an open war against the media, the trump approach, what. which can sometimes be a winner, but which is a scorched earth tactic that damages the social fabric.
they have turned their backs on part of their base 🤷🏼‍♂️
i want peace in the world
i will still wish him good luck in his efforts
why do they go private, then?
just draw a smile in their face and presto! that's it.
> “bonuses are one thing, but nurses want a better working environment,” he explained.
* based on the vaccination campaign. * ..... are we moving hospitals to tents in parks?
i have the impression that the bloc is more relevant today than the pq. the first has found a new raison d'être at the federal level in the defense of quebec's interests within canadian unity - from nation to nation - while the pq has not managed to get out of it. objective of independence purely at the provincial level.
still, montreal won trudeau ... it is not mcgill university that will defend us from the filth of canadian woke ... it is not outremont that will defend bill 21 or the protection of french ... .
when parizeau spoke of the allophones and the anglos which made us lose the referendum, the world turned upside down ... but the proof is, if they stopped taking themselves for a jew or an arab first and then wanted to become quebecois. the bloc would be much stronger ...
they don't want to know anything about letting us have our country, but they want to move theirs to quebec ... being a muslim arab refugee from syria who lives in canada ... quebec for them does not even figure in the case.
just want to wear their turban and be a teacher, quebec can eat shit.
the jdm remains a large echo chamber disconnected from the field. reading them, the bloc was going to hit 40+ seats, which is totally out of proportion.
in their place, i would begin to question the representativeness of the audience. one could even wonder, in some minds, on the fact that the jdm would be a tool of political propaganda. at this point, the thesis of not knowing its readers well is not defended.
yet euthanasia is permitted in qc….
and let's be honest, the pq has gone very woke. politically he must be quite aligned with the bloc, but it is a question of perception. the bloc looks * tough * and therefore gives the impression of defending national interests. the pq has chosen a leader who doesn't look much more mature than gnd and is making sarcastic little stories about social justice. the only reason the caq won is because it is pseudonationalist. or at least, she pretends to be nationalist in the speech.
the modern pq seems incapable of playing on federalist ground. let go of the economics christ, stop saying that an armed people is a bad thing, and stop trying to apologize for the accusations of racism that come from the durhamists. talk about freedom. talk about independence. talk about republicanism. talk about justice. talk about survival.
it still remains to be seen how legault will try to play his game well in his autonomist policies ... if he continues to lose face, the pq will be able to capitalize on this and possibly take back an important part of the nationalist vote. but it's still too early to tell.
it is also that the interests of the caq have been transferred to the bloc. the pq without independence, it gives something similar to the caq on the purely identity component.
canada is a country whose multiculturalism is a state doctrine, so it is imposed on quebec, whether we like it or not.
all newspapers are like propaganda outlets. i think the jdm was enthusiastic about the idea that it would be a wave of bloc, a sea of bloc. i find that the third most important party is not bad, for a party that is almost just a party protesting against canada.
> in their place, i would begin to question the representativeness of the audience.
representativeness or perhaps even quantity. would we have made a pro-bloc swell based on a single event only to be listened to by only a few people? if so, does that mean that far fewer people listen during quieter times? in short, could it be that the reach of some media is worse than estimated?
convincing no one in a crowd is one thing, but if no one comes to listen ...
the pq is still part of a social democratic tradition, difficult to see wokes under the cover of their formerly progressive clothes. their progressive wing is appreciably exact to the moderate wing of qs that gnd represents well, where their conservative wing represents the nationalist fringe of the caq.
the plq has exactly the same problem, namely to distinguish itself from the separatist joust.
have no multicultural have our culture in quebec, montreal has no culture montreal has no more history, montreal is neutral.
get out of montreal and go to the regions you will see that french dominates and french culture is anchored and other cultures are not imposed on them.
the fact that an "anti-regime" party is the second opposition group says a lot about the state of the regime. however, we like to avoid this question in the mainstream media.
> all newspapers are a bit of propaganda outlets.
no, drop the cynicism. the media that wants to report the information does not do in the ideological propagation compared to certain "media" on youtube whose name i will kill. if you go with absolute relativity, everything is propaganda or nothing is, this is the best way to kill any constructive process.
as for the journal de montréal, in their place i would deepen my market research.
it's quite monolithic
> their progressive wing is appreciably exact to the moderate wing of qs which gnd represents well
is the moderate wing of a party that usually borders on the extreme really moderate? the last time i read their program, they really wanted to create kinds of collective farms in the regions. they also wanted, "by all means", to end any form of discrimination or systemic inequality.
it is hard to see gnd in the role of the moderate. in 2012, the guy was making revolutionary speeches. that he has gone gray prematurely since does not mean that he has matured, or that he got rid of his little leninist tendencies. my roommate often makes me listen to his capsules on fb and it still seems to me to be from the far left (abolition of inheritances, printing money ad infinitum, anticapitalism, etc.).
(anecdote by the way, i have already passed him, gnd, while passing through a demonstration in a park. suddenly, i had something on the level of the chest. i say to myself “what is that?” and i look, and it's gnd. he's tiny in real life. that explains a lot.)
> their conservative wing represents the nationalist fringe of the caq.
eh, precisely. and this “conservative” wing abandoned the party to vote caq overwhelmingly in the last elections, hence the arrival of the pq. the caq has been able to mobilize those that the pq no longer serves since its turn to the left after the monumental failure of pauline marois' “secularism” measures.
you are really obsessed with nomos.
look, i would love to let go of the cynicism and live in the whimsical and somewhat rosy world of those who still believe, in 2021, in journalistic impartiality. “the media that wants to report information” generally wants to report certain information that sticks with an implicit ideological line. sometimes we are surprised, and we say to ourselves "wow, i wasn't expecting the jdm to talk about it". but in general they make more or less ideological choices, which could be called editorial choices, and yes, that's a bit of propaganda.
listen, it is not the death of a man, to have to keep in mind, by reading la presse or listening to radio-can, that these are federalist media in order to be able, by a little intellectual effort , to distinguish between things, to qualify and fill in the gaps with other sources perhaps. vice versa. we have to try to find out why we are being presented with such and such information rather than another, and why we are talking about it one way rather than another. i don't see how that kills the constructive process. there is no question of pure relativism here.
it goes everywhere, especially the more the media is ideologizing. we must also keep in mind that there are some more rigorous than others. horizon québec actuel is not famous famous, vice either. it's called just consuming your information with maturity. it is much smarter than believing that certain media are pure, 100% non-political, detached from the quarrels of this world and good and perfect, and that they can be read with the same confidence as the believer who reads revealed texts.
as for the journal de montréal, in their place i would go into a lot more depth.
sorry but no, i refuse to subscribe to this intellectually dishonest perspective of absolutist cynicism.
we find exactly the same thing, that the world is not black or white. unlike, you chose pessimism, where i am rather optimistic.
absolute impartiality does not exist, you recognize it well. only, your position seems to hide a form of disappointment, as if the initial observation of objectivity was a dimension imposed by default, as going without saying, but that the discovery of inconsistencies in the purity of the perceived process had triggered the denial within you of the original belief, that is, that impartiality should at all times be unconditionally pure.
this is the whole error since objectivity is nothing more than a conscious effort of abstraction, and not a preestablished unconditional consciousness, which at the same time condemns infinite relativism on the question arising from cynicism. . the only thing absolute is that there is nothing absolute.
the media will continue to ramble that the pq is dead in every interview, and quebecers will not vote for the pq.
the caq will win quite intense the next elections, probably a record
sometimes, legault imagines that his popularity in quebec gives him the right to give advice ... except that ... his popularity comes from 2 phenomena:
1. there are opposition leaders the world doesn't like.
2. there are opposition leaders the world does not know well enough yet.
during the next election, pspp will be able to assert itself in front of quebec as a whole. for those interested, pspp is extremely knowledgeable and it will show up in the debate.
as for anglade, she is not friendly even if she is still competent. she's the kind of person you would trust to organize your wedding but would not invite to the reception.
for québec solidaire, it is a waste of time because their stubbornness in only calling themselves a "spokesperson" instead of leader causes them to lose credibility.
i would not be surprised that in the next elections we see the pq recovering. not enough to win, but certainly enough to win many seats.
they don't listen to pspp anymore
i hope you are right and that pspp will raise the pq. i really like his interventions and his positions, but the media seem to completely ignore what the opposition parties are doing and seem to want to give up the pq. jean-françois lisée spoke about his difficulty in getting talked about in the media, how they seemed to want to maintain a narrative that the pq was on the verge of death and that was all they wanted to talk about with him in interviews.
honestly, the media in quebec are pitiful. and even at the political level, they do not cover the positions of the various parties, they cover politics like a horse race. “have a good xxxxx release today, one that should earn him a few votes. he spoke well and everything went well… what did he say exactly? crazy, but it looked good. ".
i like pspp, but i do not see at all how the pq can go up the slope in a reality where the cleavage is no longer on the separation of quebec (this is also the reason why the plq is destined to lose feathers as well).
unfortunately, despite all expectations, i see qs gaining ground every day. if they do not form the official opposition in the next election, it will be for the next one, while they have nothing to lose - just this week, françois legault gave them a gift in spite of himself by designating them as credible opposition.
the only thing that could block the rise of qs would be a debate on the internal management of the party and its spokespersons who obey a nebulous committee, but even there it seems difficult to stop them given their tenacity.
wokism will be partly responsible for the cleavage that forms between nationalists / conservatives and multiculturalists / progressives.
the pq is practically last in the region of quebec. it's dead the pq. bold prediction here: duhaime will elect almost as many mps as the pq at plus or minus 2 or 3.
> jean-françois lisée spoke about his difficulty in getting talked about in the media, how they seemed to want to maintain a narrative that the pq was on the verge of death and that that was all they wanted to talk about with him in interviews.
things that stood out to me at the time:
* the visit of the backstage of cogeco by lisée where he surprised patrick lagacé in meeting * buddy buddy * with gnd.
* gnd who complained that the qs media bus was empty but that the latter said it was * well, good *.
* gnd who confessed to a public broadcast that he was placed in the media in a position against the pq and only against the pq and that he was told that he had to live with it.
this is where we realize that there was a whole script to replace the pq by qs within the media (the 2 joined more or less the same electorate) and that it was well organized.
i think you are doing a very bad analysis. qs painted itself in a corner with its multiculturalist, anti-secularist positions and all the rest. look at yesterday's electoral map, by and large, qs can only hope to make gains in the ridings won by the liberals at the federal level. the anti-nationalist position of qs will never convince the nationalist voters in french-speaking quebec who vote bloc at the federal level and caq at the provincial level (or pq before).
and it must be said again, if the caq loses ground, it will probably be in favor of the pq.
the probabilities of this scenario are lower than those of seeing qs lose ground to the benefit of the plq and the pq, the only two parties which are really lagging behind and which no longer seem at all in the know in their respective missions on the separatism. without sovereignty, the pq no longer has a raison d'être. without federalism, the plq no longer has a goal - this can be seen particularly since the arrival of anglade in search of a party fight, from there even identifying itself as a nationalist. - what are the caq and qs made of? half sovereignists, half federalists. they are chipping away at the plq and the pq in lack of independent debates. if qs does not sabotage itself on the way (by its internal dissensions), it should normally become the alternative to the caq's proposal, that is to say a party of babyboomers, for babyboomers, by babyboomers, enough to curl quite a few people on the way.
yesterday's results concerned the federal vote only, they are not at all transposable in 1: 1 to the provincial otherwise the bloc would have won the majority of the votes, while the caquists are as many defectors as much to the plc, the pcc as 'in the bloc, while qs defected at the same time to the bloc, npd and plc. the provincial vote is expressed in a context of ... provincial vote.
the federal vote still means a lot more than you think.
nevertheless, you seem to forget that there has always been a very important rural nationalist francophone vote in quebec. this nationalist vote has always been expressed for over a century now. and to believe that this nationalist vote would magically be transposed for qs in the next elections ... it is highly improbable when we know the slightest bit about quebec electoral history. i repeat, where qs would have the most chances of making gains is by taking advantage of a drop in the plq to sneak into other red counties in montreal, otherwise no. in 2022, qs is even very likely to lose counties, including jean-lesage, rouyn-noranda-témiscamingue, and possibly taschereau and sherbrooke (although the electorate is more favorable to qs in these two counties, i admit). i really don't see where you can see any major breakthroughs for qs.
a more likely scenario that is likely to happen is that if (i mean if) ever the caq continues to disappoint the nationalists, some of them would likely return to the pq. otherwise, it is true that it would be bad omen for the pq if it cannot capitalize on it.
what is this bitch still meddling with?
kind of turkey who speaks out against “hate speech and amalgamation” by wearing an acab sweater without seeing the irony.
defamation suit? i hope so.
obviously the text was written by a pie which seeks to smear blanchet on everything and anything. was he a parliamentary goon? it is a political role. nothing scandalous about it. in politics, it plays hard, it's not a matter of sexism because your interlocutor is a woman lol. besides, christine st-pierre had a tendency to yell and insult her opponents, which blanchet did not do. ¨not certain that she is in a good position to reproach blanchet with much except for being a formidable parliamentarian.
it is confirmed that blanchet was not driving during the arrest for drinking and driving. he was chatting in his chariot, i think. history long resolved.
worse, the ensaf haidar affair has nothing to do with the fact that it is a woman.
what, a manager dares to defend his client in front of journalists? scandal!
y'know, the accusations coming from a group that has been denounced as being politically motivated and publishing lies?
safia nolin studied law?
a madwoman who says madness ...
"it's the hetero-cisgender white man's fault!"
- a mad woman who wants to blame someone else for his misfortune.
the same allegations are about justin trudeau and joe biden, but since they are progressive ...
although i believe everything that is said when obviously he was a whole crooked it is known to all.
this is not the way to do it.
defamation but if no prosecution, it's the truth for me: we pursue libel nobodies for much less than that in quebec (drunk pruner on fb, mailloux vs awada, etc.) and we will leave a charge of sexual assault hovering calm?
lawsuit for defamation but if none is filed within 2 weeks, i will have to de facto consider this to be true .... or that safia is above the law.
no need, it's an "artiss"
yes
she has the right
not you.
she only has a secondary 3 seems there, i can remember if she actually completed it or like she dropped in 3. it seems i think.
there is nothing wrong with being a solid parliamentarian and chatting in your tank. for the rest, it's éric lapointe and not him. there is nothing solid about what is reported against yfb.
why not me?
secondary 4-5 is sexist
the guy is a weirdo and was arrested for drinking and driving. there are stories of coke ... aggression ...
don't know, ask safia, it's a mad screech that will explain this to you in woke ...
she will get you out of the reasons that have to do with the patriarchate, cultural appropriation, veganism and her pink razor ... it won't make sense but she will explain to you the why and how you are a mischief because of something which happened in 1721.
which means that she has the right because she is oppressed and you are not.
the stories of coke and aggression are unproven. an anonymous post on fb. it's no more than a post from a user called xxpen15 \ _420xx on reddit or whatever. no real person has denounced yfb.
when it comes to drink driving, you have to read the whole story. he was not driving, but he was in a vehicle. it's illegal, but we agree that getting into your tank and chatting with someone in peace at a party isn't as bad as driving hot.
you dirty it for hearsay.
the media receives millions every month to portray him as the best prime minister in the entire universe. it is not this intervention that will stop the symphonic.
as soon as i asked to vote conservative, i'm going to suck a couple of billions for the liberals' third link.
by explaining that i don't need the daycare money i was de facto spitting on.
i have never heard of such a stupid result. if at least that was the result after the compulsory election after 4 years, i would say okay, people just want the same back. but no, we weren't even forced to go to the election. we could have done without. and we end up with a parliament practically identical to the previous one. big waste of time, big waste of public funds. all because mini-pet thought maybe he had a majority.
a completely unnecessary and costly election, to achieve essentially the same result as in 2019, with a few commas. very depressing.
legault loses this election, he will have to answer questions.
the media do not seem overly concerned about the possibility of russian influence in the elections or the popular vote. it must be said that when our horse wins, it's always for good reasons!
cringe
phew my count remained block and the conservatives did not return.
party !!!!! but we can shit on trudeau for a stupid useless election wooooo!
edit 
811k votes for the donald trump party is super worrying but we can not hope to have to deal with this horror for another 5 years.
the world had inke a wake up
legault?
bernier is here to stay. this party can cause surprises. brian gallant said it well yesterday: there is an equivalent in his province and they have steadily increased to elect 2 members and 12% of the vote i believe.
the worst thing to do would be to ignore and denigrate bernier and his "ideological revolution".
the good news is that there are now more bloc seats than liberal seats in quebec.
yes, he wanted a conservative government so badly that now he is losing face and will have to get out of the mess he got himself into.
the ppc is an ideological party, which does not serve it in the canadian electoral system which favors regional parties or serving community interests. urban party, rural party, nationalist party, party which serves the interests of minority ethnic communities, etc. the ideology is more widespread among the population, which is detrimental to the election of deputies.
the ndp is an ideological party, and with 18% of the vote it elects only 24 deputies out of 338.
the pandemic has breathed new life into the ppc, but i'm not sure it's going to stick around afterwards. hoping that the next election, the pandemic and the measures will be over. and maxime bernier is stubborn and ambitious, but his talent does not match his ambition. his english is bad (much worse than blanchet's) and he is not good at debates or speeches.
it's not a revolution, it's an ideological infection and it's the whore in the south who gave it to us.
his real problem is going to be coming to an agreement with the federal government and trudeau, now that he has publicly bet for the other horse despite the favor trudeau gave him with child care just before the election.
but it also reveals to legault the little influence he has on the population. he reigns as king and master of quebec for lack of major competition, and he benefits from the covid crisis only as long as he does what the journalistic class asks him to do, offering him positive coverage in compensation. but he has little influence on people.
we are not at the time of duplessis when duplessis said in 1958 to vote conservative and the conservative vote in quebec went from 30 to 50%, and their number of seats, from 9 to 50.
indeed. the fact remains that the ndp is still there, hanging on. the ppc may well surprise.
this is what i also think and we had an example with the equality party which had only parked in the english-speaking community of the west island and which won for that reason.
i believe those are the exact words he said.
waste of time and money
is it me or, the more i read the thread, the more i tell myself that this muslim is more honest than the other members?
a fine example of openness from tolerant people.
criss we are on the internet a guy can you be for sharia law and we are discussing together to try to understand each other ... he is far from wanting to be elected as pm there.
i have several colleagues from immigrant communities and if they all have one thing in common, whether it is haitians, north africans or those from sub-saharan africa, it is that they are all anti-lgbt. at best, they disapprove, but they have to tell them that what homosexuals do in their beds are theirs alone. only romanians seem more open.
he's very honest, hats off for that. who are the other members?
edit - somehow i wonder if he's not a little naive and believed that people are actually for multiculturalism, beyond the surface slogans.
it should not be emphasized that islam has an astronomical rate of fundamentalists and that their doctrines are more totalitarian than those of other major religions.
it would be ... annoying for someone to find out.
members of the thread generally, i don't have any particular answers in mind. they have an extremely naive view of the "* poor oppressed minorities" *, especially the wokes. i can't imagine the shock of adherents of the theory of systemic racism by reading a fundamentalist islamist ...
anyone who has read 1984 or aldous huxley's brave new world is well aware of what's going on with covid right now.
a masterpiece and a reading that i would consider essential. after reading this novel, my view of the world changed. it is a very memorable and memorable book.
what worries me is that with the totalitarian drift that we see everywhere at the moment caused by the covid pandemic, i can not help but see certain parallels with this dystopian universe.
yes, and the information is so controlled that we do not even know if really enemies and perpetual wars exist, we do not know if big brother exists, we do not know if the enemies of the people exist. it's like in north korea where people think americans are so poor that they have to eat snow and even their children to survive.
after brave new world and 1984, we could read fahrenheit 451. especially since it's topical. the stated goal of the burning of books, in fahrenheit 451, is equality between men. they also say in the novel that burning books is only spectacle, that it is not necessary because people have stopped reading on their own anyway:
“we all have to be the same. we are not born free and equal, as the constitution proclaims, we are made equal. each man must be the image of the other, so everyone is happy; no more mountains to intimidate them, give them a point of comparison. conclusion: a book is a loaded gun in the house next door. let's burn it. let's unload the gun. "
“happiness is what matters. having fun is all that matters. and yet i am here repeating to myself: i am not happy, i am not happy. "
“you don't have to burn books to destroy a culture. just to make people stop reading them. "
“after all, we're living in the kleenex era. we do with people as with handkerchiefs, we crumple after use, we throw away, we take another, we blow our nose, we crumple, we throw away. "
the majority of the french-speaking vote could very well pass for the * invader * vote. *
all the bs that are still on the pcu
integration is a failure. until we are able to properly integrate our immigrants, i will consider the immigration thresholds too high.
the nation before the economy.
which poll comes from?
who are these francos who vote liberal in 2021 ???
such a losers
?
journal de montréal, probably léger marketing.
the bob grattons of our company.
young "progressives" who come to discover "the evil" of minorities.
probably those with pku. the old-fashioned (vote-buying) tactic but personally i can't blame the voters: they got something tangible instead of a promise.
the majority of the non-francophone vote is in fact defined as the allophone vote assimilated to canadian multiculturalism.
link?
as the caq wants to buy the votes of the qc region with its 3rd link for the next provincial vote.
old-fashioned tactic common to all governments. anglo, francos, provincial, federal, red blue or oranges.
it's a good measure to see if the immigrants assimilate or not, and yeah it's not going well.
the caq have lost a lot more feathers which have gained the buzz of the 3rd link is spent with the poorly managed pandemic. not for nothing duhaime is 2nd in the quebec region.
where is the problem, since it has been the best government in quebec for 30 years? don't answer. don't give a shit about your answer.
likewise my dear;)
legault is a very bad person
> prime minister françois legault sees his government as a bulwark against radical elements of society, including all those who oppose health measures and vaccination against covid-19.
should we understand that the opponents of the perpetual state of emergency, the health passport and compulsory vaccination to go to see one's parents in chslds are radicals? it's funny, i would have rather thought the opposite!
make independence and i will follow you.
* radical elements of society. *
here, the caq which takes up the handbook of the republicans of w. bush and their * radical extremists *! just missing the "you are with us or with the conspirators" and we have the perfect throwback to the 2000s!
damn radicals who want the end of government by decree. crazy bunch.
make independence and i will _plaisir_ to vote qs after, just for fun. before, no.
why are those who protested the most against trudeau 20-25 years ago still the real racists?
science has probably whispered in his ear that the common good requires keeping the population in fear.
just a little ...
that?
anything.
not sure that boulerice really falls into this category.
because it was rotten there the riot police couldn't intervene. according to a 9 foot tall policeman who came to piss at the mcdonald's during their demonstration.
i understand that he was present but from there to say that he is an antifa activist? it's a bit like seeing trudeau in a mosque: the guy is not an islamist, he is a vote whore.
it's still fucking insane to see the dude with communist extremists.
a bit like joly veiled in a mosque. they are vote whores.
i wouldn't go to a bar without a vaccine check .......
they want to abolish the restrictions on opening hours, not abolish the passport.
reading the article helps.
it's certain. the untouchables must stay on the sidewalk.
why? it hardly reduces your risk. it is better to stay at home if you are still too much at risk.
and not go to the emergency room without a covid passport !!
i don't want unvaccinated idiots to incubate and propagate variants! pov con !!!
at 85% of the population to adequately immunize, it is simply not worth the effort. it's not polio
i have never been told that all my principles / rights could disappear overnight.
indeed. on the other hand, we live in the same media swelling in september 2021 with 85% of the population vaccinated as in april 2020 with 0%. no need to weigh the pros and cons of compulsory vaccination when delirium has taken over.
they will only be available to say no to law 21 and 96. the system is arranged as it is not possible. take a good look at af goldwater who is going to be backing up * human rights * people who have been silent for 18 months but now very angry with the * language police dictatorship *.
the federal government will also offer us a demonstration on september 21.
we call them ... temporary privileges!
media swelling. i love your expression.
the media has operated with the same propaganda principle for decades, it's crazy. never revisit or upgrade their way of doing things. anyway, tell yourself that most people don't watch news on tv anymore, they have internet, and often don't even get tired, they won't read covid news.
it is a matter of time before all the media in quebec (tva, v and others, change their mode of propaganda). we no longer listen to you guys tva, wake up!
we read the media game well today, but remember that most journalists have no carte blanche and no green light to publish the way they want. control of the media rests with the government and powerful lobbyists.
like taxes?
i refuted the theory of systemic racism until it was time to watch the debate in english.
well, it does exist, but not in quebec.
i don't quite understand what you're trying to explain. i just point out the fact that french canadians are mainly from continental europeans, which are germanic peoples mixed with latins. the majority of english canadians come from the british isles, which are genetically predominantly celts, sometimes mixed with germanics. in alberta the first settlers were mostly slavic immigrants.
i'm not even telling you about the religious cultural heritage (catholics vs protestants)
our cultural heritage is very different. our roots do not grow in the same soil. it doesn't mean that one is better than the other. it's just the reality of it: we are different. and there is no harm in that the difference.
this is one of the reasons why i refuse to recognize systemic racism in quebec. do you mean systemic racism? start by talking about the one maintained towards quebec.
i have already described systemic racism as being the set of social phenomena which result in placing one or more races in a position of inferiority, which includes institutional racism, but also the supremacist national myth, widespread prejudices, economic conditions, etc. let me tell you, the national supremacist myth? it is extremely widespread among the english, to the detriment of quebecers. full of prejudices about us. and yes, institutional racism exists towards us. why do you think it was necessary to specifically state in law that it is prohibited to do so? because the english are constantly trying to do it to us. and all these things are by far much more present among the english towards quebeckers than among quebecers towards any other group except perhaps the natives.
so, recognize the systemic racism against quebecers and we will talk about it again. until then, keep your hypocritical accusations to yourself.
so, instead of collaborating with other minorities who are victims of "systemic racism", we prefer to play "kissé who causes the most pity". it is not because some do not recognize the discrimination against francophones that we must necessarily inflict the same fate on others.
french is not a race
our minorities are better treated here than elsewhere in canada, in the usa and quite a bit everywhere. it's as if the americans started teaching us anti-racism lessons (oops, they already do) even though they were the land of slavery, segregation and ku klux klan.
it was a breed when it was popular to say that the anglo-saxon breed was superior. it was no longer a breed when it became a drawback. the result is the same.
french canadians are genetically and culturally different from english canadians.
are our minorities really better treated in quebec than elsewhere in the rest of canada? i would be very curious to know where this flattering information comes from.
the human is not really a race, we can speak of human plurality but at the cultural and morphological level the concept of race does not apply and is non-existent, it is human pluralities without linked hierarchy. a whole, although the word race is still used in 2021, it is aberrant.
well, fight against racism my little racists.
genetic purity is a myth
it is well demonstrated, particularly among the first nations. for example, the lowest hate crime rate.
yeah, that's why two white people can conceive a black baby. because races are in our imagination.
the word will have to be spread to [héma-québec] (
who is talking about genetic purity?
if you do not understand the cultural dofference between a people resulting from the cultural traditions of the roman empire, from the continental colonization of the germanics and from the catholic cultural tradition vs descendants of the celts, with a danish proto-germanic heritage and a protestant religious tradition , it's not my fault. i'm not really talking about "race", but it is clear that the descendants and heirs of the traditions of continental europeans do not share the same history as those who inherit the traditions of the british isles.
i never said one is better than the other. i like the british civil code better. but in quebec, we inherited the continental civil code because we share our roots with them. 2500 years of history, it weighs on a society and its collective unconscious, whether you are aware of it or not. and that has nothing to do with racism.
it's good to be different. that doesn't mean we can't be friends.
[deleted]
two people of nigerian origin have already given birth to a white baby. 😉
according to biological terminology, to find another real human race, we have to go back to the prehistoric age: men of cromagnon, homo sapiens, where these two cohabited at the same time. example: a labrador and a pitbull
today, there are no longer sufficient differences between groups of our species to speak of human races. the proper comparison would be different groups of labradors, black, brown and white. these differences are known in humans as the "phenotype".
very bad
really shit
service guarantees citizenship!
don't ask what you can do for your country, but ask what your country can offer you.
the idea that the nation thrives on the sacrifices of the citizens is foolish. a nation thrives when it allows its citizens to be better and grow more than would be possible without it. it is mainly a mechanism of collaboration between its members for the benefit of all.
no sacrifice is necessary and everyone's life must be improved for the people to believe and participate.
meritocratic fascism?
oh no, not this pie! sargon is even more cringe than heinlein
there are much better video on starship troopers
the book perversion by verhoeven is excellent. if you want to know how stupidity like what we did in afghanistan can happen, read the book. it is a militarist utopia, a technically perfect and meritocracy rainbow fascism, a complete fantasy.
it would rather be a haitian republic….
*do you want to know more?*
i'm doing my part!
who is talking about sacrifices?
heinlein defines society in his novel as a republic which protects the rights of all, regardless of whether they are citizens or not, and where all can choose to serve the republic to obtain political frankness in order to give value to that frankness. and know the price. those who do not participate in the service have the same rights and are economically prosperous.
this service can be civilian or military and no one is excluded, unless the person does not have the cognitive faculties to understand his oath.
it is a civilization where political life is based on individual responsibility and self-improvement.
you don't make a strong nation with degenerates watching lampornography, smoking weed and masturbating all day. with matantes who call the manager for a little power trip on the store clerk who is just doing his job. or "sex workers" selling their onlyfans membership to a scorched male class everyone's talking about. not with a drama teacher whose only qualification is being someone's son as a leader.
we make a strong nation with fathers and mothers who love their children and who pass on good values to them. with a government that minds its own business and leaves us alone when it's none of its business. by managing our resources like a national treasure and allowing future generations to benefit from our investments in time and money.
and to protect that, it inevitably takes an army. and historically quebec has a very strong military traditions based on the service of volunteer militiamen and a very great natural defensive advantage due to its geography. if small european republics like finland, denmark, switzerland, etc. can remain independent, this is because they encourage and sometimes even require military service.
"service guarantees citizenship".
not
"citizenship garrabt the service."
starship troopers is a war book, but the society in it is far from militarist or fascist.
?
it is the very foundation of their citizenship system
"joining the federal service does not necessarily mean the military, and applicants may be assigned to any field where they sacrifice their time and effort for the federation"
even if they don't need you, they will find something dangerous and difficult to extract a sacrifice. if you survive without crying you will become a citizen. (explained in the book in the section about "right to join")
the reality of restricting the vote to a small elite of veteran citizens will simply descend into the same decadence as any other realm. just this time if with soldiers as kings and they will all believe that he deserves absolutely everything he has and will vote in their interests because "their interests are the interests of the nation" (the nation is me)
you want an idea of where it leads, just look at the spartans, who have become infertile and helpless in less than a century of their prime. a nation of dumb slaves with a military elite does not last.
the spartans had a citizenship system based on bloodline, not merit.
a closer analogue and directly cited in the book would be the roman republic.
[deleted]
i listened to it, there are ideas that do not look 90%, but to give more media space to the green party i feel that it helps them even more.
i cannot repel cringe of this magnitude
edit: omg
[52:10]( because of equalization payments [...] now there's no incentive for quebec to develop "shell gas"
imagine electing an amateur neophyte politician who thinks he is omniscient, well that's him
why are comments on youtube always so positive [when it's just the opposite here]? would professor peterson's nasal voice plunge his followers into a hypnotic trance? would spending an hour and a quarter in maxime bernier's brain allow us to achieve enlightenment?
was anyone here brave enough to take the entire interview? can we get some nuances out of it?
and that would prove what who refuses this pension? would you vote more for him? no, well, shut up your eyes
they are objective allies who can feed themselves, a bit like the caq began to do with qs to destroy the pq and the plq.
i have said it and i will repeat it; maxime bernier is the [wish.com] ( version of donald trump.
ah yes, the very nazi dr. peterson.
yes, he takes us out of the old dead and shriveled memes from 1996. tu ya he could be dangerous if he was good at his job. he could have built and continued on trump's momentum, or at least imitated him. he could even seek advice from the trump campaign (omg nightmares and he talks with jp ouffffff) it's not like there isn't a demand for an anti-establishment policy but it's just so bad even the covidots don't want him
if he had calmed down in the face of andrew scheer, he might be elected prime minister of canada as early as next week. he had only to wait his turn, he would have had it.
at the same time, electing maxim bernier could be the quickest route to independence. a libertarian at the federal level, that does not pose too much of a problem for me if we are ready to occupy the fields of action which he would abandon.
peterson has his merits. it is the absolutism of its worshipers and its antagonists that annoys me the most.
as for bernier, i didn't stop there enough. i asked my question out of laziness, hoping to obtain confessions of respect and reservations; but that is probably too much to ask from the internet.
by default, a government is the "establishment". but bernier has no real plan. he's just a thoughtless reactionary. it's the equivalent of a 4-year-old saying "no" to everything, no matter what. no arguments, no new ideas, nothing. just "no" because the authority says to do something.
i doubt that.
bernier is not a political sleuth. it was mainly his charisma that brought him there ... and that's it. as soon as he opens his mouth, you see that it is without content.
yes it falls into the typical freedom cliché
as much as it is detrimental, i understand why it is attractive.
could we not say more or less the same thing of the various current political figures?
yeah. it's not a light, bernier.
in the short term, that's for sure.
but people like bernier, like bolsonaro, like trump, it's not people who have ideas or plans. they live on anger, hatred, intolerance. they are demagogues.
if we want to be dishonest, yes.
i can say that justin's plans and ideas are poor. that it's dust in the eyes. that he's just a political opportunist.
at least he presents ideas and strategies. bernier is a contrarian who only attracts a radical fringe of votes. he has no political platform. it's just noise.
> "what i want is to offer them, for a certain period, a competitive remuneration, even perhaps higher than what is in the private sector, because we must recover all the nurses that we are capable of to recover in the public network, including those who currently work in the private sector ”, detailed the prime minister.
for reference, the initial salary of a nurse in quebec is [$ 24 per hour] ( ? download = 1) for [$ 33 per hour] ( in ontario. this means that it takes eleven years of seniority to reach the initial salary of ontario nurses. note that after eleven years of service, nurses in ontario are making almost $ 47 an hour. so if we want to talk about competitive compensation, we will have to drop the temporary bonuses of two dollars an hour and take out the checkbook. this situation also applies to all health and education professionals.
> dr arruda opened the door to reviewing the idea of suspending unvaccinated workers.
unless i'm wrong, he's not the one who has the final say in all of this ....
we have reached haiti.
the government must back down before it hits a wall.
nurses with a bachelor's degree are paid $ 5 or $ 8 more than their colleagues with a technique.
doctors are costing us a fortune that they don't deserve. i waited for legault on a firm footing to cut funding for the federation of specialist physicians of quebec, but without success.
it takes massive reforms.
ahah criss that you still have it all wrong ... in the private sector, you are not going to leave the private sector for your offer which is the road to burnout.
yet you bet that he acts as being elected.
cuba manages better
i'm not telling you that it would solve all the problems, but it's a start. i'm not taking the government's side in this story either, on the contrary. it takes the forehead all the way around to call the guardian angel health staff when we know knowingly that they are the lowest paid in the country. one day it will be necessary to realize that the health workforce responds to the law of supply and demand as much as other professions. we have to get out of the crypto catholic concept of vocation. nurses are not good sisters who have taken vows of poverty, they are mothers who must earn to put bread on the table.
this text is revealing. it is easy to see why sovereignists have traditionally had great difficulty in convincing the electorate. the opponents have absolutely no qualms. everything is justified to win. there are no rules, nothing is off limits. we just have to pretend it's normal and respectable, even _honorous_ and then we move on.
a good liberal.
moreover, i have read several times that these interventions do not really have an impact. but why do parties use it? why ask for the support of obama and clinton on top of that ?! so eat the mustard.
obama and clinton.
* foreign interference with the aim of influencing elections * but correct this time around since their mailing address is not around moscow. if nobody is offended in the media, let them at least have the honesty to confess our vassalage.
bravo!
previous episode:
although i would like that, as the other would say:
"crazy me when i got it."
i would be pissed off if the bloc were to become the official opposition again. i believe the canadians would pull their hair out of their heads.
40%? it would be too good to be true. this means that we would have a minority conservative government.
of course, by excluding mtl and laval, which account for half of the ridings in quebec, that makes a difference 😂 the article has surely been removed because it only mentions that at the end of the last line! and probing that certain parts of a province to create a narrative and feed the conspirators is not a very fair game 🤪
it is certain that if the liberals ordered polls which take into account that montreal and laval by saying that it is a result for all quebec or in this case "the majority of the population of quebec" it would also be a very article. biased creating a more than doubtful narrative 😉
so francophones are welcome to you?
it is on i vote block except if there is the slightest shadow of a chance that it will make the tool fit
the survey excludes mtl and laval ...
the bloc, if the poll is true, would have eaten nearly 11% of the plc vote (quebec being the only province where the liberals were ahead at 34% (vs. 30% bloc), which ensured them a minority government).
if the lpc still remains weak elsewhere in canada, then françois legault's wish should come true.
lol, probably why the article was taken down!
the liberals are going to do nothing for us but the conservatives are going to put it in our ass for 5 years.
the game is to have the most members of the bloc and a liberal minority govt to paralyze without letting the conservatives in.
and to see how it is close and how the conservative normie reports their voting intentions, the choice is easy, liberal vote or we get fucked in the ass by harper # 2 and probably the whole country will slip down the cliff with a economic whip lash at the worst possible time.
your statistics relate to the whole country
the game? even the bloc wants conservative.
it's a federal election, it's the only scale where results matter.
electoral prostitution.
i remind you that these two liberal candidates are openly feminists
pretty funny joly after his tirade about women's autonomy
it's easy, we just accuse them of cultural appropriation
unfortunately, it will be a lot of votes won by the liberal puppets ...
this is politics!
votes are priceless.
pretty sickening! in 30 - 50 years, quebec women will be wearing this stinking rag on their heads and men will have their heads rolled up in rags full of lice!
prostitution is illegal according to sharia!
it says a lot about feminism
hilarious
or lost. "our brothers the taliban"
the culture of rape only exists in white and christian countries. it's known.
in fact, you are not wrong, but there are degrees of importance in these actions. one of the big problems, especially in montreal, is block votes in certain areas.
remember denis coderre in 2013 with the hasidic community of montreal.
there are a lot of milesiu who vote en bloc .. it hurts to hear but the political parties, and especially the liberals, are very well aware of this ...
i don't know if you saw him on tva news yesterday it was lunar. he twisted our testicles to explain to us that he was against quebec bashing because the rest of the country is also racist anyway.
["i think the idea that there is only one province where there is systemic racism is not true because it exists across the country"] ( 2021/09/15 / jagmeet-singh-can't-keep-arms-crossed)
i am ready to vote yes for the third time.
unfortunately the immigrant side is not won in advance.
the door was opened to them by the federal liberals.
and for a third time, we will be beaten by money and the ethnic vote.
rectification, the fable of the two founding peoples has never been anything other than a fable. an account that the most naive of us could swallow for a while even if the reality on the ground always indicated the opposite. were they or the two founding peoples when manitoba abolished the french status? then in new brunswick? then in ontario? the two founding peoples echoes the french canadian national myth of the settler people guided by divine impulse. it could go wrong at one time, but it was just wind peddled by those who made the architects of the destruction of their own people. you gotta get your head out of your ass, friends.
that never was the case, but an old story from the conservatives to justify their loyalty to the federal government.
it was obvious ... we shouldn't politicize a virus, it's not from the left / right, it's a virus.
you can't negotiate with a virus, you can't give him money for the hell to fuck ... you can just try not to catch it and if you catch it, you can just try not to give it to the others.
it is the same pattern again and again, the provinces least affected in the past are the most affected afterwards. alberta still has half as many deaths as quebec as a proportion of the population, a likely indicator that there have also been dramatically fewer cases. you rarely have a new forest fire where the forest has already burned.
kenney is really playing a game where he seems to be looking to be hated by all sides, even worse than ford. legault is really lucky that we were hit so hard and so early.
better late than never, but it's really too late.
will it help the conservatives' campaign, i don't think so.
this is the best tl;dr i could make, [original]( reduced by 94%. (i'm a bot)
*****
> alberta premier jason kenney on wednesday introduced strict and sweeping new measures to combat the spread of covid-19 as he apologized for his government's handling of the pandemic.
> alberta premier jason kenney on wednesday introduced strict and sweeping new measures to combat the spread of covid-19 as he apologized for his government's handling of the covid-19 pandemic.
> alberta reported 1,609 new cases of covid-19 on wednesday and 24 new deaths, the highest number of deaths reported in one day in the province's fourth wave.
*****
[**extended summary**]( | [faq]( "version 2.02, ~598626 tl;drs so far.") | [feedback]( "pm's and comments are monitored, constructive feedback is welcome.") | *top* *keywords*: **kenney**^#1 **new**^#2 **people**^#3 **restriction**^#4 **alberta**^#5
a lot of people are trying to politicize covid-19, in short you know them.
it's political, because the way we manage affects us all. it's not because people claim to know they have the best solution for the whole of society.
you compare the deaths of the first wave in the chslds which took us by surprise with the alberta which went to 30 deaths per day in a 4th wave where most of the world are vaccinated and we know the threat. it is deeply narrow-minded and hypocritical.
the conservatives' support for the vaccine passport is part of the reason they are succeeding in extracting defeat from what could have been an easy victory. they have spent the past two years as a very soft opposition and afraid to debate important issues.
the rumor is that a large part of the caucus will resign but they are waiting for the poll so as not to sabotage the federal conservatives with the scandal
especially on the discord 😂
ah yes, i forgot that the official narrative is that the chslds ceased to exist during the other waves and that all the deaths who were there in the subsequent waves ceased to count despite their very large number since the media have to stop talking about it. crisse que chu tanné that the world relies on what they read in the newspaper or hear in press conferences to get an idea and prefer to pretend that the data does not exist. the equivalent of chslds have been the problem all over the world, the main victims are the most vulnerable people, and the virus ends up getting there.
if we were so taken by "surprise", it is because the virus reached us first. so it comes back to what i said, we were hit harder and earlier.
the covid will be declared endemic by the who soon, so any measure will have to be permanent. the conservatives could have forced trudeau's hand to make him admit that the concept of the vaccine passport is ** permanent ** and that given the duration of the vaccine is 6-12 months, it is 1-2 shots mandatory per year if not beubye.
and thanks to the forced vaccination, say hello to the moderna-pfizer cartel (already boosting prices) because the others have no candidates. is this the free market?
the old people have been vaccinated for a long time that's the difference. we did not know the official of the masks, how to defend oneself against the virus, that it was aerosol, etc. there is no excuse for such a high mortality at this point. none.
i understand your point and i believe this will probably be the reaction for a few years ...
but, in my opinion, from the start it's clear that covid will be endemic and that the pandemic is probably like the russian flu pandemic of 1889-90. we are not 100% sure but there is a very strong chance that this pandemic was the appearance of the oc43 coronavirus. it has become endemic and causes colds (and sometimes kills very vulnerable elderly people, like quite a few respiratory viruses), probably because we all catch it in childhood and we have life-long protection possibly renewed. every few years when you are exposed again.
i am afraid, on the other hand, that repeated vaccination will prevent the formation of this lasting protection in those who did not have natural immunity first, or at least delay it a lot. the body tends to remember its first immunity, and the immunity from the vaccine is very limited in its diversity and, it seems, in its duration.
the effectiveness of masks, according to the largest study carried out to date, is 10% fewer cases over 2 months. in short, masks are really not very effective. and a laboratory study confirmed that they practically do not filter aerosols. in addition, neither in quebec, nor in alberta, no concrete measures have been taken against aerosol transmission, probably because against aerosols, there is no way to blame the population like the government does. done for the rest.
we can also note that british columbia as well as the american states of the northwest of [oregon] ( and [washington] ( //www.worldometers.info/coronavirus/usa/washington) are also undergoing a major wave these days. yet these are among the states that have the least deconfining this summer. their common characteristic is that they are in the same region ... regional waves for seasonal illness, that's normal.
we can clearly see the voluntary blindness of the media and believers in the confinement + mask dogma here. when a place that refuses strict containment suffers an epidemic wave, they say "there you go! it proves that you have to confine + hide!" but at the same time, you have a wave of similar amplitude in a place that is confined and masked to death, and that they choose to ignore, because it is contradictory information from their narrative framework. not to mention the recovery of covid as a political weapon against a government hated by the media, the albertans conservatives.
what we don't like to say either is that this kind of wave when more than 70% of the population is vaccinated makes vaccines look very bad. how can we explain that despite such a high vaccination rate, especially among populations at risk, there are so many people in hospitals? that it is more than what we saw when 0% of the population was vaccinated?
do vaccines in fact encourage the more aggressive variants of the virus (dynamics already observed experimentally in chickens with marek's disease) and that it is the vaccinated which represent a risk for the unvaccinated much more than the opposite? and in such a case, we must seek to vaccinate the recalcitrant not to protect the vaccinated (the speech of trudeau and dubé), but to protect them from the vaccinated?
> when a place that refuses strict containment suffers an epidemic wave, they say "there! it proves that we must confine + hide!" but at the same time, you have a wave of similar amplitude in a place that is confined and masked to death, and that they choose to ignore, because it is contradictory information from their narrative framework.
reminds me of an [article] ( from the daily mail where the subject had been discussed. in short, california and florida were poles apart in decision-making, but the outcome was the same.
this tactic of changing places of focus and omerta each week to maintain the narrative becomes cumbersome in the long run. stop beating around the bush and finally admit that it's here to stay.
it's the unvaccinated ones that fill the hospitals there.
anyway your rough opinion is that nothing works even vaccines, yet the correlation is clear between strict and neglectful places on health measures, as demonstrated by this horrible debacle in alberta with a curve that is more akin to a vertical line
florida is a prime example. the media are constantly talking about it this summer to say that it is a disaster because of the management which rejects containment, but this last winter, florida did better than california, yet well confined and masked.
what we see here is a form of popular disinformation on the part of the media, which makes a choice to present only the information which goes in the direction of their usual speech, and to omit the contradictory information. those who listen to the media then get a biased view of reality and develop a certainty that their perception is firmly anchored in reality when in fact this impression is due to lies by omission of their main source of information.
> it is the unvaccinated that fill the hospitals there.
we were all unvaccinated in 2020. why is the rate so much higher today with 70 +% vaccinated than when we had 0%? if the vaccines are effective against transmission, it shouldn't be so fast because the vaccinees should act like fuses blowing the chains of transmission.
> anyway your rough opinion is that nothing works even vaccines, yet the correlation is clear between strict and neglectful places on health measures, as demonstrated by this horrible debacle in alberta with a curve that is more akin to to a vertical line
as i said, you only look at what suits you, only what conforms to your initial thesis. you are like someone studying a cloud of points on a graph, you erase all but two of them, and you draw a trend line connecting the two, to say “there! exactly what i said!”.
king move
still, i find gnd screeching more patriotic these days than legault. the caq is disconnected
waste of time. let gnd bitch, answer factually. woke is overwhelmed, we understand. nothing to gain by calling gnd a woke!
i laughed for a moment, but basically gnd is right, and is much more reasonable in the discussion than françois legault. the demonization of multiculturalism as it has done is reprehensible, it is not fit for a leader. the latter's arrogance really goes to his head. to call gnd a cookie-cutter woke is reprehensible, it could have passed more easily for another qs mp. legault does not suspect that he has just given arms to the party which will very likely become the next official opposition within 8 years.
he continues to be his dwarf of the woods !!!!
> for the pm's office, there are "several definitions" to this term, but a woke,
it would be in particular "a party leader" who goes against "the
interests of quebec ”by not fighting for areas of jurisdiction
provinces.
what will it be tomorrow? * racist * to designate someone who criticizes the government of the day for the management of health?
gnd just has to answer this
"ok boomer"
gnd seems to really care about quebecers, no matter what approach qs wants to do so. legault is mainly concerned with his ambitions. the caq's control over public opinion is so strong thanks to its press conferences and its profound influence on the media that legault believes himself to be allowed everything, and with good reason.
lately, legault has made mistakes. for that, i give 100 points to gnd: legault sees himself almost as the one and only monolithic voice in all of quebec. his polls are going to his head.
> the demonization of multiculturalism as it has done is reprehensible, it is not worthy of a leader. the latter's arrogance really goes to his head. to call gnd a cookie-cutter woke is reprehensible, it could have passed more easily for another qs mp.
but why? françois legault is far from being the most brilliant of orators, but he is right. multiculturalism represents a mortal danger for quebec. as much as i hate the term, it is true that gnd is woke. especially since his exit was a shameless straw man typical of liberal federalists. we divert any stake whatever it is towards a profession of multiculturalist faith. "everyone is quebecois / canadian whatever!" it is certain that it is not bad for a marxist with two balls working within an islamophile and anti-nationalist party. but no, some policies are foreign to quebec, incompatible with its political culture. it is all the more funny that one of these policies is the restriction of abortion which i am sure disqualifies any interlocutor whether in the eyes of gnd or any other elected representative of the an. so we can't discuss abortion, but adil charkaoui is very, very, very quebecois and that's not debatable either. this is the idea of gnd and solidarity.
the positioning of the "independentist" gnd who says that respecting the areas of provincial jurisdiction is not a major concern ... it seems much worse.
some see it as the apotheosis of civilized debate ...
this is also my position on a personal level, but i cannot help but notice that this kind of protest leads to the progressive enslavement of society by corrupting civilized discourse. the positions are open to criticism without condemning the adversary.
multiculturalism, whatever may be said, is, in absolute terms, neither more nor less legitimate than another position. the national assembly is the place where this legitimacy must be debated, that is to say without collectively self-sabotaging with easy qualifiers favoring regression. the assembly should represent the common ideal at all times, without demonizing its neighbor, whereas quebec is precisely based on its ability to generate consensus from one individual to another. it would be a shame to let it all fly into the air and be surrendered to the growing cult of the individual.
the jdm cut the rest of his quote, where he goes on to say that we must focus on sovereignty.
edit: exact quote following the one cut by the jdm: "we have ambition for quebec, we want to make a country [...] we want to make a country, unlike the prime minister."
it is a legitimate point of view which certainly does not deserve to be closed the door by a qualifier for strictly pejorative purposes.
and yet, isn't it civilized enough to call your interlocutor a woke? it's an intellectual process, there is nothing wild about it. françois legault is not a taliban, he does not set gnd on fire. he awkwardly tells him his way of thinking and it is mutual.
as for multiculturalism, it is completely illegitimate in quebec. we are talking about a state doctrine that was designed with the specific objective of dissolving the quebec nation into canadian nothingness. shame on the deputies of the national assembly who agree to this ideology of ethnocide. there is no higher ideal that compels us to reach consensus with those who wish our downfall. on the other side, they do not hesitate to confine our elected officials and our ideals behind a sanitary cordon.
not a legitimate point of view for an elected representative at the head of a party which proclaims itself independent.
"and yet, isn't it civilized enough to treat your interlocutor as a woke? it's an intellectual approach, there is nothing wild about it. françois legault is not a taliban, he does not no fire at gnd he awkwardly tells him his way of thinking and it's mutual. "
once gnd is woke up, what happens next? is he going to call legault a dinosaur in response? or is the member of the ndp, who called alain therrien a racist, not also in an intellectual process?
no. it is an anti-intellectual approach which aims to make the adversary flee to his last corner before the discussion even begins, otherwise i would see myself antagonizing any person wishing to engage in a dialogue to see where it will lead me. .
the question is not "is it bad?", but rather "is it better?"; no, it is not better.
you give your opinion, and that your opinion, on multiculturalism. you do not hold the absolute truth any more than the montreal hipster who claims to hold the monopoly of the good. i share the same opinion as yours, but parliament has a mission to rise above the fray.
the national assembly has a specific role to play in society, it cannot afford to deviate from its ideals. it is a fundamental principle that ensures our sustainability.
you're dishonest, go back and listen to the full extract, not the version trafficked by québécor.
edit: the excerpt starts at 5:35 in the video of your article
let us remind the proud zionist anne-france goldwater that jewish nationalism is quite a bit more violent than ours ...
[youtube.com/watch?v=dpxv4aff3ia&t=338s](
lol the zionists who defend the ethno state of israel but after that it is multiculturalism for us otherwise we are racist.
oula me who wanted to immigrate to quebec
ah the nuances of hqa, the art of putting everyone in the same basket.
alright then.
law 96 = gestapo
vaccination passport = no trouble.
always so strong in logic the big sow.
goldwater is a zionist?
the godwin point is quickly reached.
very.
old christ. if there is one service-speaking french-speaking canadian who has harmed francophones in america, it is he. he and his mentor pierre elliot trudeau are a couple of negro kings who plotted against their own people in the name of durhamism.
the old crust doesn't even see that these people have no idea what he's talking about. he takes out the old demagogic tape to scare the french canadians of another time. it really is taken in the 20th century this popsicle stick.
not even an acadian in the crowd.
speaking of the record of françois philippe champagne and jean chrétien, shawinigan is not exactly glorious. nor does acadia's fate either. this is all the more strange since he seems to be making this speech in french in the greater toronto area. poor guy, leave him alone.
i love the video, there is so much to note that i don't know where to start ...
not even a francophone in the crowd.
but not singh. once again silence from the grave on the part of the ndp on this subject.
the bloc is delighted to see the other parties fuel this controversy.
too few. too late.
singh also: 
but not annamie paul;)
ah well damn, he finally made up his mind!
haha nope
you let the media once again invent scenarios.
i don't want anyone's bubble but there are two things that can really help the domination of french in quebec.
the rise in the birth rate among french-speaking quebecers and independence. the rest is plasters on a problem that is well beyond the powers of government.
> ms. kurl said last friday that the question she had asked the day before had been "approved ['vetted', in english] by several levels in the organization" before being asked.
how to describe this situation other than by an expression which would appeal to the term "systemic"?
does this canadian-english consensus that quebec is racist aim to demonize us in order to ensure the hegemony of a certain canadian model? or are we just clumsy in our attempts at assertion?
beyond bad faith and ignorance, what could possibly explain this proud condescension on the part of our "allies"?
after the renewal of the health emergency, you have to throw a baloney sandwich, no mustard to the plebs to say that we are working for it!
an inability to imagine that there is more than one correct way to prioritize fundamental freedoms when they come into conflict with one another, combined with the chauvinistic desire to see their ideology dominate the entire country. in anglo-protestant ideology, freedom of religion takes pride of place above all others. for them religion excuses absolutely everything except physically hurting people, for a large part of quebecers i think, freedom of religion does not sit at the top in this way and is considered equal or inferior to other fundamental freedoms.
> beyond bad faith and ignorance, what could explain this proud condescension on the part of our “allies”?
durhamism, a form of neocolonialism.
by dint of firing on all cylinders, the national assembly dilutes the impact of these famous unanimous motions. it becomes political spectacle, motions without any significance which do not engage any action on the executive side. if at least the motion would say that the ministry's prosecutors were going to analyze the quebec bashing incidents according to article 319 of the criminal code, that would mean something. but without that, the national assembly behaves like a poodle that barks but does not bite.
in addition, unanimous nom cul eh, make me believe that the deputies of the plq of the waste island would really support this motion if angelade would authorize them to vote as they wish ... a motion is saying unanimous but which must pass by appealing to the discipline party is worth absolutely nothing to me.
canada would therefore claim to be the unifying country of all nations, while preventing them from taking their place ... let us say that it is not without historical reasoning ...
as for the freedom of religion, one can imagine that it helps that a people have already been there so that they choose to be wary of it.
in short, to consolidate the canadian union, we would have to organize our world as they see fit. we would be the ones against diversity because we would shatter the great unifying myth of canada.
the consequences that come with a losing referendum are far too great to make one every four years.
in addition, it really looks like we are threatening separation just to blackmail canada to get more special treatment.
really not the right approach in my opinion.
it's now or never as they say
francopophone, does not mean christian.
you have a point.
what negative consequences did we have in the last referendum?
but i find it better than getting fucked up and saying thank you. all this just to win votes
you can't always rise above those who attack. sometimes the best strategy is to play it at the same level.
the 3rd referendum would not be won because the federal parties would play the game. but on the 4th he would have let their guard down and would have started bashing quebec again.
there is always a price to pay for winning a few things.
i would not be surprised if, in the prairies, an equivalent to the québécois bloc is formed. it would be the beginning of the end of canada as we know it. perhaps a better avenue to encourage them to do so.
it's like the prime minister's promises when he calls an election i promise if i promise you his but only if i'm in power, a coup in power, i never said that.
not much
jean christian
> what negative consequences did we have in the last referendum?
the law on clarity and 15 years of liberal government which have put us to sleep with regard to quebec national issues with all the cooperation of the federal government.
> i would not be surprised if, in the prairies, an equivalent to the québécois bloc is formed.
that's kind of what happens with the new maverick party, but it doesn't seem to be too much money for now. to be continued!
yeah, or do like trudeau did when he promised constitutional reform in 1980 to buy no votes. we saw what happened.
the law on clarity and the far too negative consequences of a lost referendum.
sorry, but i find that weak as an argument. either way, it's better to be clear, isn't it? when i see guy nantel's vox pops. we have a lot of people for whom, we need a really simple question ...
15 years of liberation. ok but it is much more linked to the fact that the pq had nothing more concrete in its platform than the referendum and none of the following leaders with a charisma that can rally people around a social project. and apart from the nationalist question, quebec has not suffered that much. no more than with any party.
ex: jack layton effect vs that of jagmeet singh
in the end, why a referendum? if a party calls itself a separatist nationalist and campaigns with the theme "vote for part x of quebec and we separate from canada" the fact of giving them the majority power with the votes of the majority (50% + 1 of the population) . no need to ask the question twice. they were elected to do
we do not hold a referendum to find out whether we grant the right to the marguerine to be yellow, if we put more money in health or on the roads.
> anyway, it's better to be clear, isn't it? when i see guy nantel's vox pops. we have a lot of people for whom, we need a really simple question ...
we are going to have a problem if many people think, like you, that the law on referendum clarity only focuses on the wording of the question.
part of the law is concerned with a "clear majority" or "clear will" which would be expressed in favor of the secession of quebec, without this "clear majority" it is specified that the canadian government would not enter into any negotiations with the quebec government. this clear majority is never defined, it is left to the house of commons to define what it would be
the law on clarity and the law on the clear majority. i thought it was 2 law
i was responding on the point of clarity. sorry my ignorance
the validity of a referendum, in a democratic exercise, would come much more from international recognition and therefore not fair from canada with this law which has not been tested by the courts. just an opinion from the supreme court.
the supreme court's opinion is more nuanced and also mentions that canada will have to negotiate. to be in bad faith or to negotiate in bad faith could help quebec obtain international recognition.
trudeau has already opened the door by letting us change the constitution in my opinion and i would add lip service to being a nation.
the law is so vague that it lacks precision (clarity) it amounts to saying canada will say yes just if it suits them. this imprecision of this law, which specifies the conditions, ultimately lacks clarity. i am not a lawyer but i am sure these details would be used in a legal challenge.
canada has already separated in a way from england.
i respect your thought nevertheless
> the validity of a referendum, in a democratic exercise, would come much more from international recognition and therefore not fair from canada with this law which has not been tested by the courts. just an opinion from the supreme court. the supreme court's opinion is more nuanced and also mentions that canada will have to negotiate.
the law on referendum clarity was adopted after the reference from the supreme court relating to the secession of quebec, it basically only uses the words of the supreme court and adds a bit of uncertainty. afterwards, quebec adopted the "[law 99] ( which simply says 50% + 1. the constitutionality of this law was validated by the superior court of quebec and by the court of appeal last april. the fact remains that the two governments will have to negotiate.
\> being in bad faith or negotiating in bad faith could help quebec obtain international recognition.
possible, on the other hand it is probable that canada's allies would not recognize quebec if canada does not do so. it would be easier for quebec to be recognized by the international community if the "rupture is made on good terms", ie. if the canadian and quebec governments agree after a referendum, then it would probably be easier to obtain recognition by the international community.
\> the law is so vague that it lacks precision (clarity) it amounts to saying canada will say yes just if it suits them. this imprecision of this law, which specifies the conditions, ultimately lacks clarity. i am not a lawyer but i am sure these details would be used in a legal challenge.
like you, i am not a lawyer. however, if i may speculate, both the clarity act and bill 99 will be in court. in the end, let's hope that the federal government will be forced to negotiate and that it will do so in good faith
\> canada has already separated in some ways from england
since 1982, canada has been fully independent, it only shares its sovereign with the united kingdom. however, this separation was made by mutual agreement between canada and the united kingdom and the process was long
extremely logical. >! / s! <
wow, melanie's video ..
.. it looks like a bad play where the artist has badly practiced his text ..
make me believe that it is not, in fact, someone who told him to say that ... it is not natural for two cents.
pathetic...
and what are we talking about here which declaration.
the liberals are subscribed to fear campaigns, we feel that things are not going well for them when they bring the little guy from shawinigan out of the mothballs.
his teacher: justin trudeau
the favoritism of françois legault towards certain federal parties, where the plc is excluded.
hahahaha ok i thought we were talking about a real somewhat misogynistic statement. is of which ben disconnected.
she can stand up for women who have to get vaccinated to work this yeah.
what are we waiting for to regionalize immigration? how many thousands of dollars will you have to pay per month for a simple studio? how many millions for a 4 room property? how many consequences resulting from growing communitarianism (shootings and violence)? how many millions of people assimilated to the english language? how many cultural venues bought back for condos?
there are not 56 solutions: the establishment of a pan-quebec hiring-to-employment program, all in the regions. this is not only an opportunity for montreal to stabilize, but also to enrich the precarious economy of regions lacking manpower. everyone is happy, it's give and take. this is the only way to bring french back to a position of strength in montreal and to satisfy both our economy, and at the same time to integrate newcomers to quebec as much as possible.
it's not just immigration: there is also national and international speculation and i believe that the transfers of tax credits from "apartment blocks" to the condos of alfonso gagliano, former minister of public works, served as a pivot.
legault had tried but the federal liberals said no.
no thanks. keep them in montreal.
it would mean the end of free movement within canada. do you want to have to ask the government for permission before moving?
part of the problem is, of course, artificially low interest rates. they create speculative bubbles.
oh yes? it seemed to me that it only concerned immigration thresholds, a promise dead even before announcing it.
but what are you talking about? we are talking about incentives where newcomers are rolled out the red carpet like nowhere else, with hiring agreements and follow-ups with weekly help to ensure optimal integration. if you want to go on vacation to niagara falls, you are free, but any immigrant would be willing to sacrifice everything to have access to this kind of proposition.
do you think the current proposal is perhaps better? "come here, do your own thing, stay poor, go wherever you want (so to montreal in overpriced accommodation), but at least you will walk freely in canada?"
a little serious.
yeah, not too much in the news because it is at the same time as bill 21 and the immigration thresholds.
a citizen coup they can go where they want.
why did the plc refuse? it seems to me that the management and the hospitality programs fall under the provincial jurisdiction.
and lose all the conditions and privileges obtained by the incentives of the red carpet program, ranging from housing or property at a discount to bonuses?
well then. i would like to see you yourself refuse such conditions.
because it prevents the "freedom" of movement.
oh yes ... the same freedom without the money.
the lack of personnel worries dubé so much that it imposes the obligation of vaccination on caregivers ... a genius!
> although the covid-19 pandemic is contributing to this shortage of healthcare workers, it is not the only one responsible, said mr. dubé.
- signed the manager
so understand that in the name of protecting the vulnerable, we are going to close emergencies! we are also told covertly that the greater montreal will also taste it sooner or later. it promises.
fake we are going to blame the unvaccinated suspended and even the fault of the liberals
made it i almost wonder if there could not be sued to put the life of others in danger.
\ # dube4prez
i would bet that closing the er is going to cost more lives than if we let the covid run its course. it is completely absurd. the covid is killing a few old people, closing the emergency room will kill people of all ages.
we are going to take the anti-ax cases from the is in montreal and say that it is because of them that the hospitals in abitibi are closed.
it works every time. even after 18 months it still bites.
covid kills a lot more than old people once you run out of intensive beds. and precisely, it begins to overflow.
i look at the state and the occupation of emergencies by the covid it is 30-40%
it would be more appropriate for the old to be inspiring role models for the young.
there has never been a more egocentric generation than the baby boomers.
who is raising these young people, exactly?
denise "d-bomb" bomber splashes with another steaming dung.
for those who haven't understood what she is saying:
she says that instead of listening to people who have the experience and the education to know what, we turn to influencers from youtube, facebook, twitter, instagram to build our opinions.
the problem is that these influencers are generally thick ones who speak through their hats, so that by listening to them, we too become thick without realizing it.
"the culture of me" bill you're 40 years old. even the old is that.
denise bomber ... sometimes she's good, sometimes she rambles. this time, she rambles.
it's true. sometimes she's hit the nail on the head.
this one is in the wall.
we take out the old skeletons.
>
“and today he claimed he spoke for the acadians. well, the acadians said: “mind your own business!” " he added.
wasn't he the one who went to advise great britain to fight the separatist movement in scotland ..?
sacred jean chrétain ...
ha, the same request was made for secondary / primary. interesting. what was it at the time that the school boards told simon jolin-barrette when the caq wanted to know how many people would be affected by bill 21? ha yes: * none of your damn business! *
can't wait to see how it will react for confidential data. the unions will like it. really couldn't work with data from regions instead?
and congratulations to one of patrick lagacé's water carriers who sees no problem in the comments of the tweet ...
isn't this data already known to the employer? also, having an idea of the vaccination rate in schools doesn't seem like such a bad idea to me if it can help bring down some measures.
zzzzzzz pure péquisterie. for guys who revolt that the only recognition of quebec is in an inoperative motion from harper, they do not miss an opportunity to promote the unanimous motions of the national assembly which are worth absolutely nothing. we will have to come back, how long are we going to bawl for a stupid question of shit so often said that the sacred fire of quebec is extinguished in front of our eyes? at the rate where things are going in 40 years or the lapse of time that separates us from the repatriation of the constitution, such a question will not raise any eyebrows.
* a little boost for our friends from the bloc before the end of the federal elections in 6 days and after that we go back to do nothing. *
as the other would say, * quebecers have no opinion, only feelings *. it will be nice to see when the 21st all the media will change the subject in perfect synchronization. suckers!
slack a round there
rather, they should be told to stick to their woke mentality.
i love pspp's strategy, very * reactionary! *
* i rebel, i rise up, i rise up, i rise up, i rise up, i rise up, i rise up, i rise up, i rise up , i rise up, i rise up, i rise up, i rise up , i rise up, i rise up, i rise up, i rise up , i rise up, i rise up, i rise up, i rise up , i rise up, i rise up, i rise up, i rise up *
nice distraction, we prefer to talk about canada's opinion towards quebec instead of delving into the management of the pandemic and how the citizen is doing well fucked up, without any advancement, even the great setback now that we are taming the nurses in times of nurse shortage ...
> three days later, the baloune deflated and we are no longer angry.
where does it come from? people still seem to be in tabarnak. the bloc keeps climbing the polls.
with the who saying it's endemic, the pressure will mount.
[deleted]
i think the who is conspiratorial and that we definitely need all the "measures". there is still 1 complete death per day.
worse have you thought of the variants!?!?
i am not woke. i did not know their other positions taken in the past, but in any case as regards the state of emergency, there is no longer any and we must return to a normal democracy.
[deleted]
theoretically, discrimination against a minority population is a social cause (whether on the left or on the right). for people who doubt the similarity between the kkk cult and pro-measures, just check out the newspapers and comments on the web in general. [here is an example] ( this post is sorted by controversial comments, but even if we put the most positive, it's not so much the better. the post is padlocked and the moderators seem to have analyzed all the comments well to remove the thoughts that are too dissenting (there is really not much dissent). on the other hand, hateful comments ... it seems quite accepted by the moderators. yet the pro-measures are supposed to be socialist and therefore both anti-hate. anyway, what i understand is that just because the rights league takes positions that we don't like doesn't mean they're stupid. in fact, i believe that most of us are endowed with a very high intelligence, but we do not have all the tools to cultivate this intelligence collectively, because we are easily divided by different ideas and behaviors, but also because quebec is losing its community. when people get it into their heads that people are stupid, something is wrong.
a broken clock gives the correct time twice a day.
i asked myself the same question when i read "the league of rights and freedoms".
on average, people outside the big cities are not racist you say?
who is definitely an organization of battery mongolians serving china, but if their statements are admissible to establish a state of emergency, they are admissible to end it.
the right is harvesting the media buzz but the left equally condemns the health passport. we necessarily associate the right because it is also the one that straddles all the protest movements.
this is where you go wrong. the state of emergency will be lifted when leger marketing finds that the science of polling has changed!
this is what i also think: it serves to justify and it serves to invalidate. but i have the impression that it just goes in one direction with our "quebec science" ....
especially since they positioned themselves against containments as early as may 2020, something that all governments have subsequently ignored
group shot from hébert and auger. they used the same fear line in their passage to behind the scenes of power. see the article by c. auger this morning in lp: 
the money ottawa promised is ours. we were already funding daycare. from my perspective, ottawa is holding our money hostage to manipulate us. it is not legault's fault. people do not understand this and get angry with legault, but they should in fact revolt against the federal government which, by chance, has 6 billion _of our money_ lying around and which they refuse to give us.
so tell me why the $ 6 billion would be conditional on the creation of the canadian program? we are canadians and have been paying for our system for decades. we should be entitled to compensation _ no matter what other provinces or the federal government does.
"on closer inspection, it is a sham. there is no commonality between the investments proposed by the liberals and the conservatives in child care services.
in total, the budget the liberal party has set aside for this policy is $ 30 billion over five years. still according to the budget director, the conservative party's tax deductions are 10 times less, or 2.6 billion over five years. "
the arrogance of françois legault to have interfered in the federal campaign could cost quebecers several billion if it happened that justin trudeau was re-elected, something highly likely under the latest predictions today.
ideologically, the ccp is decentralizing. however, the announced plan has too few advantages for quebec, with anecdotal sums at best. mr. legault does not remember the many gifts from justin trudeau, for example the francization of federal institutions in quebec, and the recognition of the decline of french, not to mention the other few billion sent.
would the additional $ 2 billion from a conservative government be worth the gamble of alienating the next liberal government? you had to think twice before interfering.
liberal and conservative dollars? strangely, in reality dollars are apolitical and come from a single source ie your pockets. this is the awareness political journalists need about the $ 6g daycare psychodrama. it seems that some have forgotten that provincial and federal fiscal capacity are communicating vessels. the federal government gives us nothing, we are the federal government. either he takes our money and gives it back to us under conditions, or he borrows it on our behalf. whether the liberals remain in power or not, we lose absolutely nothing, this money or the opportunity to borrow it remains ours. legault is free to use it as he sees fit.
it's a bit legault's fault in the sense that he shouldn't have signed the deal right away, it's obvious why justin rushed to do this before calling the election. legault fell into the trap like an amateur.
> the arrogance of françois legault to have interfered in the federal campaign could cost quebecers several billion if it happened that justin trudeau was re-elected, something highly likely according to the latest predictions today.
meh, legault is prudent. if he has decided to screw trudeau up, it is because he is certain that there is nothing to be expected of him and gains to be made from the conservatives. if trudeau is re-elected, it is clear that he will rain billions everywhere, with a package of conditions for the provinces, whether or not legault supports him during the campaign. the liberals need a big vote from quebec to get a majority, it would be surprising if they turned their backs on the province by withholding transfers or compensation to punish legault.
other provinces have done so. legault signed the agreement because it was to the advantage of quebec.
he signed a document which recognizes that the federal government has too much money and that quebec must be compensated for its efforts. change the way you think. it's _our_ money.
that's what i tell myself, but on the other hand, a party cannot allow itself to be walked on with impunity. at some point, you need a tailored response. you don't have the choice to stand up, and why not be threatening in your turn, otherwise it's not just your support in quebec that is crumbling, but also your base that sees you as a slack.
nevertheless, it remains a political strategy well prepared by justin.
doug ford has yet to sign.
i am okay. on the other hand, it works for one and only reason:
people forget that we are talking about _their_ money. it does not grow in trees. it goes from your pocket to that of the federal government, which then uses it to manipulate you.
urbania who is surprised that there are nationalists, for law 21, from ethnic minorities.
nasty shock for the intersectional feminist, leaving his apartment on the plateau, who sees a nice oppressed race on the poster of the wicked bloc patriarchy ...
see throughout the article how the author tries to reassure himself "but she's for inclusion, so she's still kind"
while we are there: when will an interview of rima elkouri, urbania or other with a person from an ethnic minority and very involved, françois amalega?
do these chronicles just work in a way?
good for me as a “minority” it feels good not to be only represented in the media by anti-quebec wokes.
they are the masters of ideological contortion. there is nothing that cannot be rationalized to keep the same intersectional dogmas.
do not ask too much, they are still digesting the "racialized" of the bloc.
when will they stop their racialist propaganda? that they will stop seeing races rather than people? it's not for tomorrow.
what visible minority are you a part of?
i'm kidding, i don't want to know. i will certainly not start putting identity quotas in front of each name.
latino, although in reality quebs are too.
excellent comment.
he doesn't always aim right, but sometimes he produces beautiful richard pearls.
3 of the 4 sectors where tests are deployed:
* montreal-north
* saint michel
* parc-extension
draw your conclusions ...
they created "a guide for the patriotic voter" with a recommendation for each of the 78 federal ridings in quebec.
i tend to agree, with one exception: i would call for a vote for bernier en beauce. it is not impossible that he will win his seat and it would be good to have a member of parliament in ottawa pushing for a moratorium on immigration, beyond its flaws.
\ ^ \ ^ by the way, this is an article and not a video.
for bernier especially to get him back to debate.
le seul qui dit: listen we are broke... we need to be responsible now.
except that it is counterproductive to vote for bernier since it is dividing the quebec vote with the bloc.
[deleted]
but not in beauce, where it will be played out between bernier and the conservative mp.
> the bank of canada paid in 2019 a dividend of $ 197 million to the federal government, this profit comes from the services that the boc offers to private banks and private investor groups ...
>  
> we make a profit selling debt ...
and 378 billion to pay in interest in 2021 ....
i'll stop at your first point ... go print billions and distribute it. instead of paying $ 5 a pint of ugly i'll pay it $ 100 anyway government will bother me.
stop taking tax from me, we have the printer 🤦🏼‍♂️🤦🏼‍♂️
you paint a slightly too jovial portrait of state indebtedness. a central bank is used to control inflation, not to bail out state coffers. states can go bankrupt, that is to say that they can find themselves in default of payments and see all their sources of credit dry up. we cannot, for example, print a trillion dollars since that would devalue the currency given the mismatch between the supply and demand of canadian dollars. debt is not profitable either and it is quite counterintuitive. we will have to balance the hundreds of millions that the bank of canada brings us with the tens of billions that are costing us to service the debt.
i discovered this very interesting channel. i find it interesting that the person who makes this channel started doing a series on world war i and then world war ii, when we are currently experiencing a global problem. so i decided to try to share each of the videos from these two series and comment on them as we go. the aim is to open the discussion on the company, because it is an extremely difficult subject to broach, and this, in my opinion, more than usual.
in this capsule, a detail that struck me is this willingness of the population to want to participate in the war. obviously there are not a lot of details on this subject, however i note that there is a certain willingness to break the family routine in order to gain recognition from society. a parallel to what is happening right now is the willingness to transform the normal course of things to sort out a situation in order to gain some pride on the part of the company. did this event happen simply because the media at the time managed to make it seem like the right thing to do? was it the right thing to do? i have no idea at the moment. could they have settled the conflicts without the violence? at least, it is clear that even 100 years later, conflicts are not always resolved without violence. it seems that there are fewer that are resolved without violence. however, what about emotional abuse? in short, the youth of this time is ready to go to the front, which prompts me to question myself about our place in society. why do people come to the conclusion that their lot will improve after going to war? is there a little will to change things in their current life, but they don't have enough recognition in the eyes of society to make it happen? or is it just a sense of belonging to a nation that must be defended?
what is special about problems in technology is that the problems of the past are often the same as they are in the present, but on a different scale. in the capsule, there is a mention of a communication problem. there is an enormous amount of information and the facilities are not always the most effective for communicating to leaders. communication is certainly one of the problems at the moment. at the individual level, it doesn't seem possible to make sense with all the information there is right now, firstly because of the phenomenal quantity, but also the confidence in knowing what information is of good quality. . i say quality here, because, like the leaders of that time, information received may be true or false, but just because it is true does not mean that it is useful in the situation. just as erroneous information could very well be better because it describes a situation close enough to reality to react better. ultimately, we are not well equipped to make sense of the situation and we certainly have gaps in communicating well with each other.
that was what i had to say about the first capsule.
isn't that the guy who was talking to us about unceded mohawk lands and the like with mayor plante?
> unceded mohawk territories
yes, here is his conclusion:
> false, claim many historians. “if we look at the physical evidence, nothing supports this thesis. it does not hold water ”, proclaims laurent turcot, professor in the department of human sciences at the university of quebec in trois-rivières (uqtr).
you have to be really naive to believe that singh wouldn't attack him. he wouldn't even shy away from using disavowal and when that rekindled the separatist flame in quebec, he would just start screaming even louder at racism.
quebec will respond in block.
nobody sees the answer to the betrayal of françois legault, who qualified the plc as * dangerous *?
he is responding to hostilities. it's communication.
let's hope for a majority liberal government!
to add to your favorites
we have to remove our crosses in public places to accommodate.
the other side should be tolerated their beliefs.
the only accepted racism is against christians as far as i can understand.
mr. legault's friend has the correct answer:
[  
on the other hand, unable to defend ourselves in the last debate ...
this is in response to legault's offensive against the plc. it should not be seen as a very serious measure.
no, but what an ass trick, the dude who said he was “sovereignist”, after the charter of values was “apartheid” in 2016 that he was not going to touch law 21, worse than he was going to do it.
go shit yourself and your father who is in hell.
if i understand: could sailing in quebec?
[deleted]
in a public office. as far as i can understand
so some sort of revenge?
eastern christians who are victims of religious purification, does that count as racism?
quebec must continue to assert itself under the bloc in the house of commons, and by increasing its autonomy under the caq. this should allow other salvos against quebec, enough to raise the dissatisfaction of quebeckers from all walks of life.
in any case we support you from france, the reactions of the anglo seem so childish and silly from here. i watched the leaders' debate in english, and seeing the amount of completely biased attacks against quebec and its “discriminatory laws”, on the part of the journalist in addition, i hallucinated. the anglo are doing autodafés on the express order of a few indigenous representatives, but while quebecers have a strict vision of secularism, oh no eh! it is bullshit. you are right to object.
it will turn into a wet mess if the conservatives win. it will get worse if trudeau has his majority government. more precisely, separatism in quebec is always based on contempt and abuse of the roc. with a centralizing and contemptuous liberal government, things will go in that direction. even more if it is a minority government with a large proportion of npd seats because they will give the francophobes nananes in singh to keep power.
obtain better control of our financial system and ensure that it works in our favor, in favor of all quebecers
and suppose we don't just want to watch the train go by and want to get involved. do you have any idea what would have the most impact? it itches me, i want to move, but i am not in any political network, i am not a partisan and i do not know anything about activism or political organization on the ground.
voting is not enough.
it's delusional indeed ...
i did not know that france had covered this assault.
volunteering for the bloc
mathieu bock-côté regularly speaks on cnews, one of the three big french non-stop news channels, i heard about the autodafe through that.
not sure it's really useful. there are only a few days left before the election and after, what do you want to do? isn't the fight going better from quebec, versus the resistance in ottawa?
from what we have seen over the past few days, the front is in ottawa.
do you think that we could see again a pro-independence coalition similar to the initial pq, or to the rin, reborn? as long as the vote is fragmented, it will not pass.
no idea, there's still a long way to go
bloc québécois, even though i strongly disagree with their positions on firearms and i would like them to be more critical about covid management. i am in a liberal riding where the bloc has the best chance of dislodging the liberal member as well.
the plc ... honestly i consider it a criminal racketeering which serves to give activists public jobs (see the scandals on the appointment of judges). i also do not condone the hate propaganda campaign against the unvaccinated that the liberals are trying to use for a majority.
the ndp, i voted for over a decade, but jagmeet singh's ndp is no longer jack layton's ndp. jagmeet singh is the politician who legitimately scares me, the guy is extremely intolerant, he considers anyone who disagrees with his positions a racist / sexist / fascist monster to be quelled by all means. recall that he wants the federal government to pass a law to have the right to arbitrarily criminalize political organizations as if they were terrorist organizations if it considers their positions to be "hateful" (and according to singh, the bloc is racist. , so...).
the ccp, sometimes i like their opposition to excessive liberal initiatives on social issues. and they're the only ones with a sane stance on guns. but i don't like their economic positions.
the ppc, the only reason i would vote for them is if i wanted to vote just to oppose covid management, otherwise i don't see myself in maxime bernier's libertarian platform ... but the demonization of the party in the media is ridiculous .
the greens, better not to talk about it.
i voted early this evening for the bloc. i was already pretty sure i would vote for them, but after the debate in english, forget it, bloc 100%. especially since singh's silence afterwards was deafening. trudeau and o'toole ended up saying the questions were out of place, but not singh. i believe it is because paul said what he is thinking in a whisper, but he does not want to lose votes in quebec. i appreciate the ideas of the ndp, but i do not trust this man who seems to hate us.
on r / quebec, there will be more npd votes (the wokist wing of qs is very strong).
block, already done.
> this sub picked up all the exiled cons banned from r / quebec so it gives a distorted picture of reality too
[12 days ago] ( today, i'm asking for your opinion my gang of idiots! 🤡
the difference between the results and those of air québec is quite striking.
i was thinking of canceling my vote since i didn't like my bloc mp too much, but i got wind that the liberal candidate in my riding is a scoundrel (actually the kind of guy who builds a fence on neighbor) so i voted the same block ...
i put pcc ... because for my job i need them otherwise it would be ppc
ppc. the liberals are pretty much 100% sure they'll come to my corner anyway and there is nothing acceptable about dealing with the pandemic for populist and electioneering purposes. i find that the pandemic has been a great excuse to make people accept extremely regressive measures and to associate its measures with the left, and that in the end, we do not really have a left or center-left party at the federal level. .
part of me has become more selfish with the pandemic and seeing how willing people are to sacrifice a lot of everything, especially the most destitute in society, if it makes them feel safe. i tell myself that the plc or the ccp wins, they will see the good of my investments and keep my taxes low, so i don't give a damn about the result, i just want to make money and stop working as soon as possible . i'd rather squeal trudeau out, but i'm sure after 6 years of o'toole many of us will love him either. it's still the same case.
my choice was ppc, without a candidate to represent my constituency, the 2nd choice was easy ... block
the bq is my 3rd choice behind the ppc and the pcc, but in the vast majority of barometer ridings, it will be played between the plc and the bq. i voted for the bloc.
i was also an ndp voter during the jack layton era. the party has not been the same since it was infiltrated by racial and intersectional wokism.
[deleted]
the npd is second there after the bloc which has 3x more votes, this is a major change from the last poll there where the npd was indeed first. it seems that the debate in english managed to shock even some voters npd
not that much. it is a noisy minority.
i've been dating this sub for a very long time, it's not all assholes anyway. but there is.
this poll except for the ppc will be more representative than the poll on r / quebec
and except for the ppc i think the survey here will be more representative of the result
i thought they had 338 candidates i'm surprised
of course the half-delusional mystic would say that.
it is to your honor to familiarize yourself with a culture which, for many, is richer than canadian culture (which is american, let's face it).
your feeling is not strange since, against all odds, more and more young anglophones are interested in the quebec sovereignist movement, while young francophones have never been so disinterested ... not? the world upside down.
and you're right, yves-françois blanchet is extraordinary, to the point where canadian subs-reddit claim him to govern all of canada.
i always have to say that quebec remains a better land of welcome for any linguistic or ethnic minority, because it imposes a better framework allowing the emancipation of each and every one.
what better way to familiarize yourself with quebec than its television landscape? what i like about television is that it is not subject to the globalization of communications imposed by the internet. television depends on the locale, so watching french-speaking television channels, both current affairs and talk shows, allows you to immerse yourself in its culture.
finally: television.
“the black book of english canada”
hi, i don't know a lot of books, but here are some suggestions:
the quebec code - jean marc léger - not a political book but rather a study which aimed to identify personality traits specific to quebecers. they present 7 if i remember correctly. the process is rigorous. they also present the origins / historical context of these shared traits.
the conclusion being that we are a mixture of french, amerindian (from the northeast) and english traits
the black book of english canada - normand lester - i've never read it pcq i'm a little lazy, but i've only heard good things about it all my life. apartment an ultra well researched book, everything that is presented there is founded. here is the description of the book: overview of canadian history identifies injustices, discriminatory practices, racist and hate speech, encouragement of violence and infamous actions by politicians, journalists and anglo-canadian intellectuals against french canadians, amerindians, japanese and jews.
finally, i really liked the historical series which presents the history of quebec, from the very beginnings until today. it is a bit dated but the quality is excellent. it is: epic in america
the presenter, jacques lacoursière, is a renowned historian
first of all, thank you. you may not know how encouraging it is to see someone come out of the mold and leave this bubble, and that a good politician like blanchet has the power to do that.
i really recommend the youtube channel ["chaîne du québec"] ( for lots of great documentaries on the history of quebec! i particularly recommend "quiet revolution in quebec" to better understand where today's quebec comes from and its challenges.
otherwise, for history books, jacques lacoursière is certainly one of the best historians we have had and his books are of excellent quality. i also recommend "the history of quebec in 30 seconds" by jean-pierre charland. super concise and it taught me a lot of things even to me who is a history enthusiast.
there are also a lot of super good essays that are constantly being written on quebec issues if you want to understand them better. it's more my kind of reading so i know better. here are a few, older and more recent:
- option quebec - rené lévesque
- why i am a separatist - marcel chaput
- govern or disappear - pierre vadeboncoeur
- rhapsodie québécoise - akos verboczy
- multiculturalism as a political religion - mathieu bock-côté
if you have to read just one book on this list, i absolutely recommend rhapsodie québécoise, because it tells a story quite similar to yours. i really believe that you will find your way there and that it can be your gateway to french-speaking quebec.
good luck and don't hesitate to send me a message if you want to talk about quebec!
* the history of quebec for dummies * by éric bédard is a good starting point. then, you could deepen with other books on more specific periods.
full of love. it feels good to read that.
to understand how canada was born i recommend an excerpt from [to the voters of champlain county] ( by jean-baptiste-éric dorion years l 'avenir, november 28, 1851.
"the english government was not animated by more human feelings towards the canadians during the polling of canada than it was towards the acadians during the capture of acadia. if the thing had been possible, nothing proves to us that one would not have acted with the same barbarity towards our fathers and that one would not have adopted the means of export on a more large scale, to get rid of them and their posterity. but there was a great difficulty: the canadians numbered 60,000 and occupied a vast territory. the transport of all these people would not have been easy. however, we would have liked to get rid of this french population which was "an obstacle to the prosperity of the english colonies" in the english style of the day.
english gold, power and patronage backed by force rotted irish political society. the gangrene of political corruption has infiltrated all ranks of its population, to the great detriment of its national and political interests. ireland sold and delivered to england by its own representation; ireland united with england and subject to foreign legislation; ireland without representation, so to speak, in the english parliament; ireland tyrannized by unjust and arbitrary laws has struggled in the anguish of death for more than half a century. ireland becoming angular by the effect of its unnatural institutions, impoverishing itself day by day by the enormous taxes with which it is overloaded, withers, and depopulates in an extraordinary way; one would say she was dead or dying under the blows of her political assassins.
however, there are still large tracts of uncultivated land, but there is no more space; there is still air but there is no freedom; there is still work, but the burden is heavy and its people cross the seas to breathe, - go to the united states, to gain prosperity and enjoy the blessed american freedom.
we wanted to destroy the acadians, we drove them out, transported them, dispersed them among a foreign population, far from their native soil, in a single day, after having confiscated their herds and their properties. acadia no longer exists ...
they wanted to assassinate political ireland; the blow was fatal, she weakened, she got angry, she destroyed herself. ireland is degenerated, it only presents the aspect of a political corpse.
we wanted to lose the canadians; the work has begun, it is continuing, but will it be accomplished? english gold, power, patronage and corruption play a big part. let us be careful not to be england's instruments in the work of our own destruction, as has unfortunately happened too often.
i will not undertake to recapitulate all the facts of our political history since 1760 to 1837 to bring out the roundabout means that we have adopted to bring about our extinction as a people. sometimes we saw a council governing the country in an arbitrary manner; sometimes we heard the proposal of a parliament from which catholics would be excluded; later the abolition of the french language in public affairs and a host of other proposals equally iniquitous in their tendencies, as bad for us in their results.
let us come immediately to the great dream of england: to the anglification of the canadians, to their loss by a forced and disadvantageous union with a population foreign to its language, its customs, its habits and which would have us in its dependence.
lord durham, envoy extraordinary to the english government, to inquire into the real cause of the troubles of 1837 and 38 made a report in which he stated that if he had been canadian he would have revolted against the government of the fifty colony years before 1837. he recommended that england change its policy towards us; to unite the two canadas; to invent a system of government whose appearances would be popular and by which positions would be given to the principal canadian leaders; to build a railway through all the english colonies from lake superior to halifax and then unite all the british provinces under one government. by this means, he said, you will silence the canadian leaders and you will drown the french population in the midst of the english population; it will disappear and all will be well.
lord durham's report threatens to come to fruition.
the union of the two canadas imposed on our population despite its strongly expressed will and well known to england was made with the aim of losing us and if we judge from the fruits it has already borne, we are certainly approaching the abyss which will have to engulf us.
let us examine the act of union for a moment and see whether we owe more today than ten years ago to approve its content, to suffer the consequences, without protesting or without asking for its recall or for modifications such as these. can bring us to a better state of affairs.
lower canada was under martial law; its constitution had been suspended; many of its representatives were expatriates; its revenues were voted by england without its consent; a special council composed almost exclusively of what our population had of the most bitter enemies had been created by the english government to impose its will on us. the current chief justice, sir james stuart, who presided over this council, was charged with preparing the act of union in 1839. his plan granted representation based largely on population numbers, but judge robinson, of the high -canada, obtained a leave of eighteen months which it employed to intrigue in england to make introduce in the act of union the system of the rotten boroughs and to make it worse than it would have been without it. the special council accepted the union's proposal and to complete its infamy, it did so in the name of the people of lower canada.
in upper canada the proposal was accepted by a parliament elected by fraud and brute force, which lord durham denounced as vile and undignified, and whose existence he unfairly prolonged in order to have the proposal approved.
essential.
valentine's menu will tell you enough about where we're going in tk
what a great idea, does a particular channel have that you think would be best? i've often heard of the show 'everyone's talking about it', can you check that online?
i would add mathieu bock-côté for the intellectual positions.
my suggestion if you only have one book to read (and are able to find it) would be "why i'm a separatist" by chaput. everything is there, or almost. it is a clear and accessible text, it deconstructs quite well the usual criticisms of separatism. old, but still relevant today.
england having obtained the assent of the famous special council in lower canada and its servile parliament of upper canada, the english parliament passed the act of union which is the basis and essence of our system of government. the eighty thousand signatures of the inhabitants of the districts of trois-rivières, sent to england to protest vigorously against the union's proposal, had no weight in the balance.
the opinion of the special council and the determination of england prevailed, and the violated province of lower canada, married against her consent, was delivered to upper canada.
the elections of 1841, the first general elections made under the act of union, left in the memory of everyone who witnessed them memories that will never be faded. corruption, intimidation, violence, everything was put into play to ensure the government a majority willing to ratify the iniquitous union of the two provinces, the forced marriage of upper and lower canada. finally, we wanted to have the consent of the father of the bride and for that, we tried to corrupt him, to intoxicate him; he was even given strong blows with sticks to get him to sign the contract, but the people of lower canada still stubbornly refused because they were aware of their duties to themselves and to their posterity.
the demoralization produced by the syndenham election of 1841 left deep layers in canadian political society from which it is unlikely to recover anytime soon.
how is it then, you will say to me, that after elections held on the question of the union, not a single voice was heard in the first united parliament to ask for its recall? ah! it is painful to have to admit it, because the corruption of the government had already won over many former canadian hearts.
england had invented the beautiful and ridiculous responsible government in the colonial office. lord durham had recommended that she share power with the canadians and that she would amuse them, weaken them, destroy them by this tipping system which produced no good, always and always evil in lower canada. it will be remembered that the district of montreal did not send a single request to england against the passing of the act of union. however, the people of this district were as opposed to the union as anywhere else. but the opposition movement was stifled by the bigwigs of montreal, mr. lafontaine in the lead, who already predicted that two years later he would govern the country and enjoy unlimited patronage and capable of destroying three quarters of the beautiful political conscience of our country. and that is why our parliament, like the irish parliament, accepted the union while the people it represented cursed and cursed it again.
what advantages did you get from your union with upper canada? - none. always advantages for upper canada. nothing for the bottom. we had no public debt, we have one which is enormous for the country's resources. we paid very little in taxes, now we have exorbitant ones.
lord durham's report is being fulfilled to the letter, we have been united in upper canada without consulting us and in spite of us. we were forced to do the halifax railroad business without consulting the people of the country and beware! tomorrow they will impose on us the union of all the british provinces of north america without your knowing how or why if you still send to the house a representative ready to approve the government in everything and everywhere. "
do you have a television at home? look at radio-canada, noovo, tva, lcn, rdi, artv ... the first three are available without subscription, simply by air.
otherwise, here is a website that brings together several channels and programs: 
but conventional television by antenna (or subscription) is always better.
thanks for the snippet! i have never considered / observed union before as a colonial and assimilative project. it feels good to see another perspective; i am a little self-disappointed not to have examined the history of my country with a more critical eye during all these years. above all, we do not hear about canada like this in the english media in quebec - perhaps for the natives, never for quebecers.
i'll have to read a lot more. thank you, i have a lot to learn.
unfortunately i do not have a full television, and i will not have one for a few months to come. however, that does not prevent listening to broadcasts on the laptop. thank you for the link!
well, martineau and bombardier have long maintained this fantasy of seeing françois legault achieve sovereignty. to do so, we will have to receive much more than the latest attacks, we will need a majority bloc in quebec so that we can take it full in the next term.
* martineau did not know who to vote for, but the stupidity of the debate host convinced him to vote for the bloc ... if you believe that ... i have a fortune in nigeria and i need 10 thousand dollars to take it out and i'll share it with you. *
\-[andré arthur](
if the thick man in martineau votes for the bloc, it is clear that i am voting conservative. monsignor legault guided me!
there are fools in voters from all parties, and the conservatives are clearly not spared.
he said it all, as always.
i wonder if he's going to talk about it today on cnews. it is an attack endorsed by the highest organizations in society, "we must talk about it".
ok, i have to come back ... that's what i hated your criss of the sovereignist movement.
are you going to stretch that out for a long time. go read the comments of the majority of the world elsewhere in canada and they found the reporter thick in criss.
slacker with canada, this country that hates us.
i have studied the history of quebec since its creation, and especially since its conquest by the english. you should get started, and then you will resume thinking about your "going to have to come back".
it's not just a little movement from the 70s and hippies, pot smokers who listened to harmonium ....
if you don't fight a bit with the anglo-saxon system, you're not out of the woods ...
sorry but
do not
the media have spent the last 18 months dividing the population and pissing off a significant part of it. they are now caught with a herd of rabid bulls who want to hear nothing more and who are going to run on the ccp and the ppc. they had 18 months to slack in the shit and talk about the roc but never did.
it's a last blitz to prevent the enraged herd from reaching their destination on the 20th. it's magic: last week of the elections and poof! i treat you more toothless, i scare you more with the delta and let's all put together hand in hand towards the bloc (which has always supported the liberals but that, we forget to say it)!
let's see who will bite ...
journalists represent no one in society. crunch it outside and we can talk about it
yes you are heavy. majority of anglos loved blanket
the majority of anglophones do not prevent the canadian elite from seeing us as complete old-fashioned.
as in any society, only a minority holds the power. and the one who holds it in english canada does not particularly like us.
yeah, i'm not convinced as to the exact reproduction of the accent of each era, which would have deserved people from different regions.
i always thought it should be the same ("translated") text that should be used
with this column, patrick lagacé plunges fully into these contradictions. see when he denounces the hypothetical shortcut between o'toole and the misogynistic anti-abortion crackpots that infiltrate his party. the crude shortcut isn't between o'toole and his supporters' beliefs, it's between pro life and misogynistic crackpots. it is literally the same shortcut that leads canadians to denounce secular bloc supporters as racist and xenophobic crackpots. so we must be consistent, we will not stop the race for hysterical indignation if we ourselves participate.
it does not improve when he embarks on the case of annamie paul. the * condescension of hyperprogressists *? i don't want to piss off, but condescension and a feeling of moral superiority are patrick lagacé's bread and butter. we are talking about a guy who was on the verge of calling to let his fellow citizens die like dogs because they do not adhere to his so-called educated conclusions. it is fine to denounce the almost religious fervor of the leader of the greens, look at yourself in the mirror patrick because usually it is you who takes pleasure in playing the inquisitor of good and evil.
moreover, and i am convinced of it, we can therefore add his name to the long list of those who will tear their shirts off on this story only to sweep the national question under the carpet. in any case, the box likes it more or less and it is much easier to publish * if the school was important (3 798) * or i do not really know another paper in which he will position himself reluctantly against the fact to let his fellow citizens die.
objection your honor !!!!
we will not be able to agree, we have borne allegiance to the king of france and you to the british queen.
you did not conquer us by war but by treaty, otherwise we would no longer be of this world.
and this is how quebec became secular and preserved its "french" language.
he rebuked annamie paul, this highly contemptuous and contemptible person.
at this rate, the ardent quebecois federalists will be converted to sovereignty in time to say so.
the host's question was stupid and ill-conceived. all parties / candidates have their problem / skeleton in the closet.
that of the bloc is its islamophobic caucus with these 4 beautiful open-minded people who would never dare to diffuse the slightest false racist exaggeration on a particular religious / ethnic group (i am obviously sacastic).
members of parliament who represent quebec constituencies and sit in the communes.
this is where the challenger had to be from the other parties, it is the only achilles heel that i can find.
she missed out on the hunt and the result is perfect for the bloc.
yfb is the winner of the debate thanks to the host and is not publicly challenged for its tolerance of racism in its ranks. compared to the moral standard he demands of others, he has given them the equivalent of a pichnotte on the hand.
hes laughing all the way to the bank. he's smart and a very good politician, i tip my hat to him (no sarcasm).
double hypocritical standard when racism is directed by bloc candidates towards muslims and when it is directed by the debate leader towards quebec.
one weight, two measures.
the host gave the same caliber of excuse that these deputies gave the last election (ie a bogus explanation which is not one).
i am still waiting for a real apology from both camps for their words which 'bashent' an ethnic group in particular.
i see a blue wave filling up with deputies in qc for the bloc so what happened to the debate could not have been better for yfb.
totally agree.
patrick lagacé reacts like an arsonist firefighter when his "club" decides to start the fires where he lives instead of the toothless ghetto at the bottom of the city.
beautiful essay of the media world which tries to recruit a population that it has maintained in fear for 18 months. the anglos will not cause any death or hospitalization in our "breathless" health system, the only metric that has been sunk in the throats of the population and which will act as a focal point on voting day.
we have not pledged allegiance to anyone. even if it was, we were betrayed. i certainly do not belong to the french monarchical league which today has absolutely nothing in common with me.
it will not arrive. they reap political gains, fill up with virtue and then we move on. if there was truth in what you say, we would already be sovereign. contempt does not date from yesterday.
i was talking about the start in new france not today because i know that we have abandoned us.
you still see the defeat of 1995 as a very bitter sovereignist. things change. most of the people i know who voted caq are now asking for separation. we must stop asking the french speaker for revenge who dared to vote "no" in 1995, otherwise we will never be free.
we live in a time when the elector's memory is 3 weeks. we are already starting to forget the journalist's name. in a week we will have forgotten the words and in 2, that there had been a debate.
we don't have enough memory to stop the perpetual health emergency, so the country's history ...
i'm not asking anyone for anything. i see. and note, often, that disturbs. a large part of canada's political stability depends on _not_ discussing constitutional issues. search for "abeyances".
whether i am a federalist or a sovereignist does not change anything in the scheming of 95 and does not change that parizeau was (awkwardly perhaps) right. i don't want to punish anyone.
what a jerk this guy is. a communicator with an empty head, as required for the job. it has just lit, today, in 2021, screeching where in the last 30 years this idiot!?!?! in tombuctú? in the moukmouk islands?
most likely it's bullshit. he pretends to try to gain credibility with the separatists who deign to listen to him.
it makes you wonder if jonathan trudeau had his head hidden in the sand. did he just dip into it? because it's not new. louise beaudoin in [ss wolf] ( the caq [under the balaclava of the kkk] ( françois legault as [white supremacist] ( just open my eyes, but i guess the guy was still digesting his hysterical milk rush against acd.
without joke there. i'm not sarcastic or anything. but what is your problem when you are actively federalist ???
i can understand being separation agnostic and saying “mehh i have too much to lose fuck that.”
but to really say to yourself “wow i really love the federation, i love it.” you have to be mental.
the english wake up
so his beliefs have the strength of a soda cracker.
at the next good animator, he will change camp again?
it does not matter whether you are for or against bill 21 if the positioning of an animator shakes your convictions you will change your mind like the seasons 4 different positions per year.
it will go from vegans to anti-gluten to pro-petroleums in the next 6 months.
big nonsense.
those of us who still believed that the roc liked us, deep down ... until this bitch journalist asked his villainous question just don't exist.
my big disappointment: why didn't yfb, quite simply, leave the tv set on the spot after hearing the "question" asked?
so as not to harm his chances of filling up with votes from those who listened to the debate in english?!?
truly !?!
[deleted]
> most likely it's bullshit.
that's what i think too. the guy collects virtue points with 0 effort like most quebec columnists do (never seen one take out his wallet in the style "i match your donations for cause x).
in fact, this is not the first time he has made this kind of statement. its last dates back to la joute in 2018, following the journalist's biased question, which implied that law 21 was racist. he had told mathieu bock-côté that he was starting to consider sovereignty.
let's face it: the issue of sovereignty has changed since 1995. in the past, a linguistic confrontation, today a cultural invasion (eg: wokism). several former federalists have gone to the sovereignist clan in recent years, where the caq of françois legault has allowed the opening of a passage to move from one bank to the other in what was atrait of independence.
he's not the smartest, which is why i believe him to be sincere.
> so his convictions have the strength of a soda cracker. at the next good animator, he will change camp again?
because i don't want to hear activists on the radio?
it's also that you don't realize how yesterday's attacks on yfb were nationwide attacks. it is not at all the same impact as becoming vegan or pro-oil, which are first and foremost individual beliefs. no, here it is the whole national collective conscience which was shaken in its integrity.
it is not just the facilitator but the entire hierarchy.
yes, these people exist. comfort and indifference dear friend. not everyone in quebec 1. knows its history 2. is able to form a coherent thought and 3. understands the canadian system. a lot of people believe very strongly that we came to this country willingly, for example. few can name the year the current regime was founded.
then in fact, the majority of people in the roc probably don't give a damn about us in general. we are talking about a very specific class of people, mainly in positions of power. the mass of the ordinary world, not sure that they hate us as some imagine. but it is definitely a different people.
because there are people of different opinions, it should not be seen as a sort of identity redemption otherwise we are heading towards aneurysm.
why didn't yfb leave the set? why would he have done it? that would legitimize the point that quebecers are racist. no, he was right, not only undergoing repeated attacks, but by being the only one to calmly defend himself.
yesterday he would not have won the debate if he had quit.
maybe the good thing about mass immigration and multiculturalism is that it adds a bunch of people (like you) who are completely ignorant of the political tradition and precedents of this country (which are in the most part unwritten) and push the federal governement to do stupid shit like using the disallowance power, which would certainly cause a constitutional crisis. i mean, go for it and see what happens afterwards... but the truth is that the english canadians are not stupid enough to give you people the steering wheel of the country yet, but of course they won't say it in your face because that's how they roll.
i absolutely do not believe it. jonathan trudeau is by no means a woke, he collects no points of virtue. he is a right-wing liberal, so no moral claim.
i believe it is sincere since it has never been able, and does not have the capacity, to deceive the glances as some imply it here.
we must stop seeing evil everywhere for two seconds. yesterday evening, quebec was attacked directly. to believe for a single moment that half of the quebec family did not see anything there is a deception.
$ 100 that is cane crap.
yfb is not the nation it is a politician. it plays the same game as the state of israel when you criticize their policies / actions they immediately say that you are anti-semitic.
no, we are criticizing the israeli government and not its nation / people.
whether we are for or against the law, it is governments that we do not talk about joe blo or pierre-jean jacques in his living room.
it is a very brilliant political move from yfb with its defense of israel and the host cannot be liberal pcq she has served on a silver platter the argument that yfb can repeat excessively by the 20th. it is almost as if she were a block worker, her stupid questions are a golden gift.
there is a very important distinction between a people / nation and its government yfb is a very articulate and very intelligent man he understands the difference between the two and he knows exactly what he is doing by confusing the two in his speech.
he is returning to his advantage the stupid questions that have been asked of him as the intelligent politician that he is.
by attributing the comments of the facilitator to the roc systematically, we do the same thing towards the roc for which she is criticized in the way she describes the qc.
neither she is an ideological ambassador for the roc nor law 21 which targets around 1% of the population of a particular religion represents the qc at 100%
the two societies are not homogeneous blocks with sheep all going one way or the other.
the two are very heterogeneous societies.
i tip my hat to legault (even though i'm not a fan of the caq) because bill 21 is a pretty incredible advantage-cost chess move.
not doing much concrete, he created a political wasp nest to the advantage, but very little is said about seniors who spend a week in their excrement in chslds, or mushrooms in high schools and their useless vaccination passport. there are even elders with bandages with skin that grows over the bandage, their living conditions are so appalling.
if only our elders from chslds or the children of the dpj were followed with the same passion and fervor that we are afraid of a veiled woman who teaches in elementary school to the point of passing laws to prove a point.
as if the judicial system and the police forces of qc lacked guidelines as in the third world and did not already have mechanisms to ensure compliance. if your great-great-great-grandfather had had a bar, you couldn't sit on the liquor and gambling board
it is a law a la don quixote which hits windmills, but grows beating dragons in its head and it makes waves until the federal debate.it is a stroke of political genius for a situation that affects about 1% population.
everyone angry for or against the law has been rolled solidly in the flour by the caq.
i don't believe the law21 is racist, i just think veiled women have been used as political pawns by a guy who has an interest in not having discussion and public opinion focus too much on quality and management. of the social services of the qc nor on its management of the pandemic à la charlie chaplin.
to see r / canada, it is not at all the same tone as that of the media class with regard to quebec. there is a sort of generalized contempt, ironically systemic racism, that is normalized and viewed as legitimate by the anglo-canadian elite.
who's top, who's bottom?
who is it? (for a breton)
i like more françois legault aka the feudal lord with permanent emergency powers and o'toole who wants to cut funds for early childhood.
what tells you they don't chisel?
the outgoing prime minister and the leader of the leaders' debate.
haha it's 100% scissors
> "it's not something i wandered over, ad lib. it was a question that was verified ["vetted" in english] by several levels in the organization before moving forward, "the president of the polling firm angus reid, shachi kurl, explained to who had been entrusted with the animation of the only debate of the leaders of english language.
so it's even worse because it means the whole organization is rotten from the bottom up.
> the producer of the debate and responsible for editorial matters is a media group comprising, on the english side, aptn, cbc, ctv and global. its spokesperson confirmed to le devoir that an “official editorial committee for the debate in english”, made up of production managers, producers and journalists from the four media, had validated the question. he also defended its relevance. **
systemic racism, right?
yes it was pretty obvious
it's a bit boring. in a normal country we would talk about it for a few minutes and then there we go, we move on.
quebecers seem to like being insulted and then bulging their chest. not sure you understand, but what do you want. it's been going on for centuries, obviously many people like it.
a normal country does not contain an annexed territory and a conquered and subdued people.
i tend to agree with you.
especially since this false debate has just eclipsed all the rest of the issues.
environment? economic socialism? nah, they supposedly insulted a quebecker that i'm going to vote for him. it is the equivalent for me of voting trudeau because he is beautiful.
i think that's the lot of many countries, we just have to think of usa, france ...
what ?!?
contempt takes many forms. however, he drinks from an abundant and common source: ignorance and stupidity
france?
please specify what you are referring to? what is wrong with what i said?
i don't see what is controversial in what i said?
but after all, france and the usa are not subject to anyone. they have all freed themselves from the yoke of domination, whether royal or colonizing.
i am talking about internal peoples, indigenous in the case of the usa and for example bretons, vendeans, alsatians etc in the case of france (in relatively recent history).
but in both cases it has no relation either. the split with the indo-europeans dates back to the early middle ages, it is not quite transposable in the same way as situations that arose 380 years ago.
yes that's what i mean. we cannot simply speak of a "conquered and submissive" people, we are a special case.
quebec is undergoing a cultural invasion. we have to get out of this mess before we are exterminated by us imperialism.
> i thought we had gone elsewhere in 2021
since 1760, it's always the same damn thing. what happens, quebecers react strongly, the english retreat, things calm down for about thirty years and then they start again. it suffices for them to believe that the quebec people are completely submissive for them to reveal their durhamist intentions.
nice response to the reporter who asked about the quote:
"no, not if you know the rest of it."
quebecers are ... fascinating!
not surprisingly, it's been a long time since english canada had a grudge against quebec. when you have a culture and the others don't, it makes people jealous.
in any case, in the video extract, he is really solid blanchet.
they started the debate in english with a good old quebec-bashing round?
she's a cunt
it's a failed comic…. a frustrated politician unable to be a leader… what a shit!
quebec has a culture?
failed comic….
well yeah, coming from the moderator besides from that! fuck neutrality.
journalists are made propagandists.
change my mind.
ok. we vote annamie paul. it's gonna be so much better.
i do not catch her? what do you mean?
it is certain that some are in there at the bottom of the box.
however, i'm not sure it's the whole gang?
the consortium maintains that the question was perfectly correct and is not problematic;
> the question was explicitly about these laws. the question did not state that quebeckers are racists.
i don't know about you, but the way the question is asked, it very strongly implies that quebec definitely has a problem of racism, and therefore, that the laws mentioned are too (question translated by radio-can, l emphasis is on miene);
> *** you deny that quebec has a problem of racism ***, yet you defend legislation such as bills 96 \ [french official language, editor's note \] and 21 \ [secularism \], which marginalize minorities religious, anglophones and allophones. quebec is recognized as a distinct society. but for those outside the province, please explain to them why your party also supports these discriminatory laws.
if, as the consortium says, the question was explicitly about laws, then why the first part? i would completely agree with the consortium if the first part was not present. but if we take the first part into account, the question assumes 100% that quebec is racist (it was a "loaded question" as our anglo cousins would say!).
that it is not used for much except to be the talkative ...
well, tell yourself that the question has been approved and validated by the entire media consortium on which rests, among others, cbc and ctv.
this is true for most politicians.
it was nothing more than a debate taking place in another country, such were the first sentences of the panelists at rdi following the end of the debate, visibly stunned.
let those who believe that quebecers are canadians get up and go to ontario.
these constant attacks on a people are so normalized that they are totally legitimate for the moderator of the debate, no less than the president of the angus reid institute, wanting to be a chair of neutral study on trends and policies.
it was so incredible to observe the theory of systemic racism literally applied to quebecers which emerged in the form of bias, dehumanization, abject condescension, and an arbitration explicitly disadvantaging yfb by its delay of 4 minutes (!) on the others by the moderator who refused to make up for it!
the theory of systemic racism, that is, this unconscious discrimination embedded in the system, was entirely real yesterday towards yfb, and not only by the moderator, no it was necessary that the speakers, the journalists as well as citizens, put a layer back, not to mention annamie paul who, in her supposedly cordial invitation to discuss the theory of systemic racism with m. blanchet, betrayed an apparent contempt for him (she did not look at him once during his intervention which exuded disgust, sketching facial expressions showing terrible condescension).
with the realization of systemic racism unfolding before our eyes, the climax came when yfb was accused of renewing this same theory and of being discriminatory towards minorities in quebec! can you imagine two seconds the extremely gaping contradiction between the words of the actions ?!
i'm not the oldest here, nor the youngest, but i've never seen anything like it in my life.
yves-françois blanchet did not only have the best performance of his life in a debate, but he stood first at the front. his speech on nations, in response to a young indigenous citizen, will go down in history.
the quebec nationalists could not have dreamed of getting better, they won the jackpot last night, so much so that r / canada is now claiming it to rule all of canada.
unfortunately, i saw nothing else in this debate so much that the attacks on quebec eclipsed the words of the other leaders.
for people who are wondering what the connection is with r / quebeclibre, well first of all, some of these experiments took place at mcgill university and also because it is a violation of the code. of nuremberg which stipulates that there must be free and informed consent of the individual with regard to medical experiments. right now, our government is once again flouting the nuremberg code, not only with coercive measures, but also with hatred towards defenders of our rights and freedoms and anyone who opposes the measures. no matter what you have to say about the measures, whether they are working, whether they are the best way to recover from the crisis, anyone who participates in the coercion towards the medical experiments is liable to be convicted of a felony against. humanity. despite the fact that the government seems to be improvising, it is clear that what the government is telling us is not representative of what it actually planned. for example, before putting the health passport in place, the government announced that it did not intend to put it in place. then he told us that it would only be in case of necessity in places where there would be outbreaks. finally, not only is the project already ready, but it is being used by force in certain sectors ~~, including the hospital, where even for a childbirth, the attendant must have received medical treatment (starts october 15) ~~ (to be reconfirmed). another example, when we asked the prime minister what the purpose of isolation camps was, he told us that it would be for people who travel and need a place to quarantine, that it would be voluntary. however, not only is it a forced quarantine, at an unknown destination, but in addition, there is a forced medical test. it is time to end the hatred towards people who dare to defend individual rights and to reprimand the media which contribute to the hatred and division of the population. if these measures are really for the common good, there should at least be an agreement to allow people to exercise their fundamental rights with regard to medical treatment. obviously, there is absolutely nothing planned to accommodate people who want to exercise their basic rights and we have no evidence that the government will stop. indeed, we had a scale of 75% of the population to receive the medical treatments requested. now that it has been met, the scale has simply increased.
what is presented in this documentary is proof that we should have the right to doubt medical institutions and to discuss them openly. contrary to what some people hear, dissenting opinions are not a sufficient condition to intern a person for medical reasons in order to protect the public. we must have the right to be wary of medical institutions as we must have the right to receive the services offered by the system, since we are all equally part of this system, whether we agree or disagree with the medical treatments. requested by the government.
the mk-ultra project is a real, absolutely true conspiracy theory. moreover, the famous american terrorist "unabomber" was the subject of this experience, which he says he has retained aftereffects for the rest of his life.
nature is sacred to native americans. ask the indigenous knowledge keeper.
total impunity for mohawk criminal scoundrels as tar leachate poisons the st. lawrence. we were really shot in the foot for allowing the assassination of corporal lemay to pass by these savages. see, when we set the precedent that we will never do anything, they on the other side get busy and not wisely.
the good old liberal modus operandi, to appoint his friends judges in exchange for financial compensation then to rely on the government of judges to invalidate the laws of quebec. so much the worse for the myth of the independence of the judiciary!
the motto of the liberal party is "un chum c't'un chum", it is well known.
the appointment of judges in canada is a farce. it is a process where the final decision is made in the most opaque way possible by the federal cabinet (and the federal appoints virtually all judges except those of lower courts, for example, the federal appoints judges of the superior court of quebec and the court of appeal of quebec).
it is even more serious when, since the charter in trudeau, the courts are able to overturn the laws passed by the national assembly.
the title should specify: a liberal donor who is also the partner of his campaign manager ...
it is still surprising to what extent these shenanigans do not cause much waves in english canada. yet it is not they who firmly believe in the independence of the judiciary? who firmly believe in their famous * rule of law *. are they stupid enough to make themselves believe that the process is different on their end?
quebec absolutely must wake up and leave this abusive "marriage" with english canada which only despises and insults us.
quebec federalists are like battered women who refuse to leave or file a complaint with the police.
but since there is obviously no police in canada, quebec must come to the realization that this "marriage" will cost it its sanity and perhaps even its future.
that we propose a canadian referendum to reject quebec, i approve anytime!
it was so anti-quebec that even the bozos from / r / canada seem embarrassed and compliment blanchet. so try to make believe that there is no anti-quebec feeling after that ...
* no time: we are in the middle of a pandemic. however, we always have time to talk about bill 21. *
the pandemic is over for us but not for you, part # 431.
so many quebecois prefer equalization before enforcing it, the worst that a lot of them are so called "conservatives", yeah "keep" the bs.
well, i've been around r / canada, and against all odds, yfb is popular everywhere. not ironically, canadians are clamoring for him to rule canada.
like what, the canadian press = / = the people.
this is the story of the last years of the media. doesn't have a grounder
you will find a long thread of tweets by the author at the bottom of the main tweet
he makes a mistake by saying that the notwithstanding clause is not necessary for bill 21. he is right, it is not discriminatory. but the role of the supreme court is to impose * canadian multiculturalism * on quebec and the judges will be happy to misinterpret everything and invent new rules to carry out their work.
chalice that it feels good to read this, thank you.
in fact, it is not that they misinterpret, it is that they interpret through the anglo protestant prism which places the freedom of religion as supreme freedom above all the others (suffice to read the preamble of the canadian bill of rights). in their conception of freedom, freedom of religion excuses absolutely everything except physically hurting someone.
there are several possible ways to underweight the freedoms between them when they come into conflict. the english have theirs, we have ours. what is ironic is that in the eyes of english canadians, who supposedly place diversity as the cardinal value of their society, this diversity absolutely stops at the ideological level. it is forbidden for them to have a different conception of society than the anglo-saxon conception. a ban whose application falls to the supreme court of canada.
i believe, on the contrary, that he wishes to force the court to refuse the law in order to lead to a constitutional crisis.
small reminder, linguists are unanimous on the question: anglicization or borrowing from elsewhere have no link with the extinction of a language.
it is nonsense.
sometimes i ask myself if i am lucid or senile.
at least you're wondering.
its depends on the situation lolll
the moderator begins with the unceded territories, misery.
ah well, in english the official introduction places us in unceded territory.
bunch of mustard eaters.
who even today can say that quebec is part of canada in view of this debate? it's incredibly disconnected from quebec.
hahaha
blanchet
go
"i am the first of my kind." - paul
yuck.
in any case, many of them have more anecdotes than plans ..... it's almost a chapter of their life before each answer ....
blanchet's speech on the reconciliation of nations will go down in history. i shed a tear. a big moment.
canadians are just totally incapable of not adding a dimension of identity to a subject, everything must revolve around sexual orientation, race, gender, systemic racism, discrimination ... ** what delirium! **
blanchet asked if we would talk about francophones in the country and was told yes. it's gone by the wayside, right?
annamie paul, what a condescending little person without merit!
this debate was a lawsuit against the quebec nation. that we leave this damn country of shit to the most screeching.
mr. coletto: "canadians are just starting to tune in".
phew! blanchet who asks o'toole to repeat in english that he was not going to pass a pipeline through quebec.
il a refusé: "we're not gonna let that happen".
so this is it.
do we have a chat room or something? no need to pollute here.
has trudeau just announced that he wants to repeal the indian act?
go see blanchet's speech after the debate. excellent.
the problem for quebec is very simple. any quebecer who watches the debate in english understands very well his place and what is at stake. his interests are secondary in this country. it is very clear if we take the trouble to listen to the debate.
on the other hand, when the time comes to vote, trudeau speaks french well enough to confuse the voter. it's an emotional choice that certainly appeals to a lot of voters more than singh and o'toole.
this is not the debate it is a discussion of the debate by journalists.
much more useful and informative than the debate itself
this country is of abysmal hypocrisy.
but as trudeau said in the french debate, being indigenous is a matter of inner feeling above all. so, since i am a new native, the land belongs to me.
well, i'm going back to the taliban twitter account.
even if i laugh yellow, at least i have fun.
eric du aime 😂
labrèche is a better duhaime than duhaime.
wow a conspirator in la presse?
is that why cpp anti-vaccines favor fries and big macs?
quickly where are the decryptors !!!!
nice try bro
blanchet is far too familiar with trudeau. i find it funny blanket but not on it goes
i agree, this was arguably the most important quote in the debate because of its form and harsh virulence.
as for the article, richard martineau's catchphrase about radio-canada is mind-blowing ...
since his reference to journalism stops at lcn, he probably didn't understand how important a debate of the leaders of a g7 government is to the rest of the world, who were invited to ask questions yesterday, from congo to austria ...
i have no particular criticism to make for the debate on radio-canada. but i would have some for the friends of richard martineau at lcn, who thought it wise to return only 20 minutes to the debate without any panelists or dedicated program, while radio-canada gave not one but three different media coverage. live at the same time, simultaneously, on the 22h newscast, on rdi then on the radio. so put that in your head, martineau.
more or less agree. as long as a large percentage of quebec federal deputies are from the plc, trudeau is entitled to tell us what to do and what to think. yes, we all know that he aims to impose the anglo protestant way of thinking in quebec, but the world votes for him knowing that. so that means that a significant number of quebecers, including ethnic origin, agree. obviously, this is deplorable, but what do you expect, a large percentage of our fellow citizens are colonized.
i think it will backfire on blanchet and bring more votes to trudeau.
anglo fiefdoms that vote lpc regardless of the candidate, in my book to me, that does not justify saying "they have the right to tell us how to live".
you think ?
i think trudeau no longer seemed crazy trying to convince us that he was "quebecer" ...
but still according to him in quebec there is no distinct culture, just canadian multiculturalism.
the important thing for blanchet is that it serves him, and it has served him. he had his incisive and very violent retort.
if you read it right, i'm not talking about anglo strongholds. look at the electoral map of quebec, plc candidates were elected outside the waste island. the plc has not yet suffered the same fate as the plq.
according to the latest polls, 96% of trudeau's electoral weight in quebec is french-speaking. believing that english speakers fully feed trudeau is wrong. the only province where trudeau is ahead, and the only way he can win, is in quebec, through the francophone vote. if it were to lose its lead in quebec, it would not form a government.
diversity is our strength.
or according to machiavelli: divide the better to reign.
you, me, most of the people on this sub, it touches us. not sure that the average citizen cares that much. in my opinion for an average voter, the ardor of trudeau "i am as much quebecois as you!" will work. there are tons of people, at least to the most educated, who follow politics in a very superficial way.
it seems to me that trudeau has always recognized the quebec nation.
trudeau is quebecois, one cannot take away from him, it is besides the one and only reason why quebec votes for him. quebecers have never voted for anything other than quebecers since 1956 ~.
blanchet didn't attack him on this point, but it's quite strange that it provokes a personal reaction from trudeau. did blanchet hit on an insecurity?
the vote is for sure as superficial as a politician's crocodile tear!
it's very relative, honestly i find that someone like boucar diouf has 100x more the soul of a quebecer and the love of quebec than trudeau ...
being a quebecer is not just a place of birth, but also a state of mind.
ye ontarien
this is the argument of purity that must be avoided at all costs.
i think you would change your mind if you had a beer with trudeau, away from the cameras. where his edge is in his vision of the country. for him, the "real business", the "real government" is in ottawa. the more the federal government becomes stronger, the more the provincial becomes insignificant and does nothing but administer bébelles. what many quebecers oppose, without really stretching and separating.
there's a lot more quebecois than the madwoman who thinks herself an aboriginal is aboriginal ... that said, it's still a liberal blunder.
you can be many things, but he is indeed quebecois.
you seem to forget that 60% of francophones voted yes in the last referendum, not to mention the infiltration of the pq by the secret services and all the rest of the scandals.
like a divorce request refused to a battered woman because the legal system is favorable to the one who mistreats the other.
historically, when one country conquered another, it was to steal its resources, not to make it free.
either we remain a minority within canada and die slowly or we become the majority at home, in our country, quebec.
well yes he is a quebecker, as quebecker as these english-speaking quebecers of italian or greek ancestry who swear to leave quebec in the event of independence because they have the fleur-de-lis tattooed on their hearts. an opportunist quebecer, one might say, a quebecer in montreal, a canadian in vancouver and a citizen of the world in geneva. either that or it's a lot of shit.
we can accuse émilie nicolas of many things, but not of lacking consistency because her chronicles are always very funny. in it she exposes her blatant historical ignorance. the layoffs following the consolidation of the hudson's bay company in 1821 and the end of the fur war? the fur war is the franco-iroquois war or the beaver war in english. this conflict ended with the great peace of montreal in 1701. i don't want to piss off, but spending 120 years of history in silence is not disgusting for historiography.
then after claiming that only members of the western métis nation in good standing are métis, that is ridiculous. maité labrecque saganash is métis, mary may simon is métis, samian is métis and strangely none of them belong to the métis nation. konrad sioui, ex-grand chief of the huron wendat with blue eyes and red hair, is obviously of mixed race. there is a way to denounce the pseudo amerindian charlatans without talking bullshit.
> it would be a tedious exercise to compile a complete list of bogus career aboriginals unmasked in recent years.
* if she is telling the truth, that would mean that she is an accomplice in this masquerade by avoiding mentioning examples and / or chronicling them to wash her stables.
* if she says wrong, it's an attempt to drown the fish.
in both cases, it smells like a splashed thief looking for an exit in panic. is the broadbent foundation's network of contacts on fire?
ka eats her late.
however, she should be the first to denounce that for a long time the children of native american women who married a white man lost indian status. only children with an amerindian father retained their status. this means that a bunch of "white people" are not considered indian despite the fact that they may have as much indian blood as others who have their card.
[
basically, what interests emilie nicolas is to denigrate quebecers as much as possible, to the detriment of the consistency of her speech when necessary.
zou vill eat zhe bugs
why would cows get scanned?
zou vill own nosing and zou vill be happy
[i want my protein block!](
normally they have a sanding number in the ear to identify them. i don't think there are any farms that use qr codes for their animals, because it's impractical (as shown in the picture). on the other hand, a bar code after the ear? certainly! her medical records will be easier to find to know if it is soon time to steal her child or to put an arm in her ass to force her to be pregnant.
to find out if they will be edible at the slaughterhouse.
oy vey !! conspiracy!! complotism !!!
ah, ok. so we will be cows in our turn.
an invasion.
we all remember well how she previously prided mbc of being offline; "what world does mathieu bock-côté live in?"
i love watching detractors drown in their bias flow.
in total drowning, clinging to anything such as any questionable amalgam available or appealing to other "educated" such as mr. luc "everyone should die like in wuhan" ferrandez, a bastion of humanism against all the hypocrisy exponents circulating.
it is in this moral collapse that we can see the true nature of our media-political complex transpiring. guy debord spoke of the contempt that this caste has towards the spectator (the despicable man) and the americans have the expression * circle the wagons *, a reflex of colonists who put their convoy in a circle when attacked by the natives or brigands ( representing the "we stand between us"). if we put the 2 together, we arrive at a frighteningly clear representation of the ideological lines of certain people ...
> i want to write “so die, motherf **** rs! "
like what she is from the school of thought of the moral paragon patrick lagacé!
nah, but really what a disjointed text with no tail or head. the entire column is based on reaction and the lady didn't even take the time to read the definition of reactionary. a reactionary does not oppose change, that's a conservative, a reactionary wants to reverse change. not strong. especially since she admits to being slightly off-center at the end of the column, it would be better for her to desert the pages of the non-profit organization la presse and to take care of herself.
i just want to emphasize one thing in relation to your comment.
you mentioned that la presse is an npo. it is much worse. it is a registered charity (obe). the difference is not trivial.
an npo is simply exempt from income tax by virtue of its legal status. the obe, for its part, is not only a tax-exempt non-profit organization, but it can also issue tax receipts to its donors so that their donations are tax-free.
historically, the obes are religious organizations that took care of the most disadvantaged or even certain organizations that had an obvious humanitarian mission such as hospitals.
obe status is granted by the minister of revenue.
i didn't mean to make you any more depressed, but indeed, the federal government used its discretion to grant la presse favorable tax status normally attributed to entities with an obvious charitable mission such as suppers and hospitals.
he ignored more than 400 years of jurisprudence to do this and honestly made the word "charity" meaningless.
although i do not remember having read patrick lagacé descend so low.
if so, lagacé may be a liberal leftist, but he's not woke (at least by far).
as far as i am concerned, the anti-coffee is above all an opportunity to see the blind bourgeois clique panicking who trivialized the woke invasion.
i have never seen a charity inundate me with advertising like that in their publications, not to mention the appeals for donation.
> registered charity
thank you for the detail. i found the [reference] ( on the site of the cra and ....
* type of charitable organization: other purposes that benefit the community *
simply mind-boggling. you have to have the forehead all around the head.
thank you for that clarification!
remember his column in which he told that only the intervention of his doctor friends had driven from his mind the idea of letting the unvaccinated die like dogs. a nice guy!
ahhh the wokes, they still haven't figured it out. it took a madwoman to literally sow the fertilizer of censorship so that we could finally question the first nations on the issue, who unequivocally condemn the auto-da-fe act by seeing it as an act of provocation.
the wokes, victims of their success.
it's not the woke, the problem is the “savior”. there are plenty of things you want at bipoc when we never asked for that. it's the flavors that exaggerate 😂😂😂
[deleted]
are you going to whine again?
legault worries me but trudeau almost has froth on his lips so he's insane.
i find these words completely unacceptable coming from a prime minister, namely openly calling on voters to vote for the ccp. even donald trump has never allowed himself such personal interference in the electoral processes of other governments. for me, this is a precedent rarely achieved before in quebec.
i concede a point to those who already called mr. legault a despot. when arrogance goes to your head, it looks like this.
how do we do to vote in the minority?
(i ask for a friend)
what he says is true, but do you agree that it is extremely ironic that legault is saying that? y speaks in a mirror.
it will take a strong bloc that will work with the conservative otherwise no chance that the conservative will stay for long.
trudeau is never allowed to go and tell quebec to vote for the plq instead of the caq ...
i don't think it's that surprising, nor that legault is a despot. we are faced with multiple legitimacies that have been battling the powers since 1763. i understand that it might disturb that legault is getting involved, and i myself find it a little surprising to see him go, but in a way i find that healthy.
healthy because in the minds of many people there is a hierarchy of governments: federal over provincial. this is what all the party leaders other than blanchet want us to swallow. this is the essence of the federation project, to end up centralizing enough to have only one "national" government. this necessarily implies the dissolution of specifically quebec political power. legault is opposed to it.
trudeau is not shy about abusing spending power and overriding provincial jurisdiction in a paternalistic way. he does not hesitate to speak for "all canadians" despite having collected only one vote in three. he doesn't shy away from "being there for us" which, in effect, means he doesn't shy away from spending _our money_. he is not shy about hiding the cost of vaccines from us. he is not shy about keeping our money in ottawa and then offering it to us with all kinds of conditions. he's not shy about anything, in fact. so i believe legault is fair game.
on the other hand, will it work? i doubt. i think people will be afraid of o'toole. this is basically the message i get around me.
finally, if trudeau really wanted to win the largest number of seats in quebec, he would not have to do much: a single tax report for quebec, transfer of tax points to quebec, transfer of immigration skills. there you have it, the bloc no longer has a raison d'être and we move on. the reason he is not doing it is because it violates his and his party's vision of canada. it is against this vision that legault is opposed.
obama did it for biden.
but i think a province has the right to say who wants it as a country yeah. it would be different if legault would have been active
block. you don't have to be a supporter of independence. the party will never take power and cannot lead to secession on its own. on the other hand, a strong bq deputation in ottawa necessarily implies more room for quebec - this is what the western provinces have begun to understand. this is all the more true in the event of a minority govt.
you vote block
legault thinks of himself as kingmaker.
he thinks he is all-powerful.
i agree, but this assumption is based entirely on semantics at best.
for any republican who defends democracy, a fundamental value of our society, legault has gone too far. it does not promote living together at all. on the contrary, it reinforces this unbearable cult of the individual who undermines our civilization.
one can easily assume that the call to vote for the ccp was made on a personal basis rather than a head of state, which is more disturbing ...
obama did not speak out on another government, especially since obama was no longer in office when he spoke in favor.
yes of course. i think it's going too far _on both sides_.
obama is the first ex-president in history to have encouraged americans so much to vote for biden in this case. same during trudeau's re-election.
and legault wants his 3rd link, the only heritage that will have after the passport
obama did not interfere in the election of a government while in office as representative of the state.
i'm not sure what you're trying to prove, but let go of the bullshit.
do you see a false air in his testimony? performed, acted ...? your observation is correct.
i can't repeat it enough, but here's what we're dealing with in wokism:
there are two categories of wokes: manipulators and manipulated, nothing else. in the first case, antisocial individuals who seek to infiltrate the structures, in the second case weakened and hypersensitive individuals who are ready to have their skull filled in order to feel alive.
but still, there is another term much better known to describe this dichotomy between manipulated and manipulators as reproduced here: a sect.
i identify as prime minister.
rachel dolezal canadian.
“i agree with mr. trudeau when he says that we must not tell aboriginal peoples what to do and what to think. but if it is not necessary to tell the aboriginal peoples what to do and what to think, why is it telling the quebec nation what to do and what to think? "
probably the strongest segment of the debate. it was above all the manner and the repartee in which yfb brought his intervention that made this very unexpected moment.
it's good that the pq is waking up a bit ... but legault has been abusing the health emergency for 17 months now.
legault is made the chief despot of caquistan. there will be no return to normal in the near future.
about? we applaud this awareness, but it's a little understatement for my taste.
17 months later, we "wake up" a little bit for a press briefing, then we go to bed again.
> on point
are they good for another 2 years before confirming there is abuse?
too late sth ... you have backed them from the start. too late. you will be passed by duhaime and his gang
i'm not sure i like what i'm reading. behind a facade criticism, the pq proposes to pass laws to the national assembly to make certain measures permanent. which ones?
if there is an advantage to the health emergency it is that if it is lifted the most abusive health measures immediately fall because they are imposed under the state of emergency.
if the national assembly decides, the advantage could be to at least accept that there is a public debate. however, i do not trust the opposition more than legault.
we cannot afford to have a law that establishes the vaccination passport permanently or almost permanently. the state of emergency must simply be lifted.
too little too late guys ...
so, what the fuck you gonna do about it, pq?
honestly i would live well with the obligatory mask in the hospital .. that's all
the pq became senile, like everyone else before dying.
adios quebec, i had a good time. see you next year in polynesia without all these shitty delusions.
as has been done elsewhere, we are removing the state of emergency ... but not before passing laws that represent the same thing. from temporary to permanent ... * abracadabra * ... arruda transforms temporary into permanent!
yeah, it should always be mandatory in the hospital.
except that the mask is absolutely useless if you have no symptoms. and even there, their effectiveness in blocking the droplets sent into the air is highly questionable.
several staff members wore the mask before the pandemic, it was even very common.
well, a little ten-year-old guy comes out indoctrinated by his teachers to make the chefs feel guilty about the environment, pathetic!
annamie paul scuttling the entire debate ... 😂
what a lack of good manners ... his plan is to pull the rug out from under singh's feet? she is reviving the ndp!
how heavy, how heavy.
let's get out of this crazy circus. the canadian empire can stay, we can send representatives there, but good heavens let's stop sending billions a year there and then beg and receive crumbs under conditions.
it is pathetic.
annamie paul who admits it: the people of her constituency "work in essential services", but still touch the pcre.
hmmm...
question for the mohawk guest, in the name of reconciliation, would you be prepared to stop flooding montreal with contraband handguns from the united states?
nice biased selection of questions. ms. landry who asks to encroach on areas of jurisdiction.
in the trash, the constitution!
the use of the child to talk about climate change is abject. poor him.
phew, patrice who quotes blanchet in 2013 ... yeah!
guess he's gonna show pictures of justin in blackface?
youtube
"canadians will go back to the balls" - justin trudeau
yes, a blow to the balls.
my personal ranking for this debate:
1- blanchet
2- singh  
3- trudeau
4- o'toole
5- paul
privitisasé services, to return to vaccination!
justin trudeau, proud quebecer born in ontario, educated in british columbia who speaks in simultaneous translation, she is good that one!
let's be serious, party green, npd and bq will never be in power ..... and trudeau is a first buffoon. is it normal for a francophone to prefer that he expresses himself in english? i imagine there is only one option left!
at least the green party is more unifying than trudeau
exactly. it is shameful. poor child!
we use a child but there is no problem when it is a good cause!
what were we saying about the anti-masks who took their children away?
haha i just saw the flow. can you squeeze the words even more into his mouth.
we're going to create a generation of climate anxiety. how dare to be afraid at 10 years old, cries of parents and teachers of mard.
this is such a bad debate, they all try to spit out their poison without substance. we will see for the rest but i do not give myself 20 minutes before picking up. france does not want it.
because the 125 has sth makes you want to separate. check your sanity buddy
mrs. mercier who tries to make natural "ah i see that you have your pen". annamie paul who opens her debate by declaring herself in unceded algonquin territory.
i look at this and in fact i wonder if canada is not going to implode on its own rather than by the separation of qc.
it will take several months before our neurotic confiners draw the logical consequences.
for now, my patience is declining
they will never admit the scale of the scam
they have just understood what many of us were trying to explain last year ...
> we are deeply troubled and worried, writes csc providence spokesperson lyne cossette. we were confident that suzy kies was of aboriginal descent. [...] we had relied on his word.
hahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha
hahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha
hahahahahahahahahahahahaha!
so if thomas gerbet of the cbc had not written an article, the school board would have continued. and if mr. gerbet had been assigned elsewhere, who would have sold the wick or dared to denounce publicly? a conspirator on youtube was probably more watched in 6 months than in 11 years .....
i am sure all of this will help the liberals / ndp. / s
as if your origins justify your actions. ostias of assholes ...
if you want to laugh beyond measure, take a look at some of the answers on this thread.
"the wokiske is an invention of the reactionaries"
and?
my god ... i don't even know what to say so much that it seems extraordinary to me. i'm still absorbing the news.
so awacak, an organization created in the wake of the financial windfall that is bill 79 estimates that 200 children have died, but in march had not identified 45 and his lawyer is only working on 50 to 60 cases, the precision j 'tell you! and yet there is nothing surprising, it is the government which will pay the costs of the investigation so why not turn the most banal of anecdotes into a scandal, it's free money!
anyway, and otherwise, initiatives like this are stupid. 200 died, maybe 45, 50 or 60 you never know with their oral tradition, but yes, 200. over what period? during this same period how many died in circumstances clear of all doubt? it should be remembered that infant mortality and child abuse is still a scourge that particularly afflicts amerindians in 2021. so we can't imagine in the 60s! but hey, we will have the chance to write at our expense a story of which we will be the villains, we really feel the ambient systemic racism.
from what i understand the doubt they have is that several of these children are not really dead but were rather given up for adoption without the consent of the parents and that the hospitals have knowingly tried to erase the traces of this. in their documentation by adding that they were dead. regardless of the number of children or the period of time over which it happened, you have to be solidly insane to either put a child for adoption behind his parents' back (except if it is a case of dyp let's say) or not even deign to inform the parents of the death of one of their children.
considering that at the time the nurseries were overflowing, this scenario is extremely far-fetched. would we believe that rather than giving a family to the children of the large centers, we preferred to airlift at great expense children at the point of death from the bottom of the fly to steal them from their parents? then what, the pilot smoked the cigar with a high hat and a monocle?
have you read the entire article? i find that the reported facts are all the same strange, in one of the cases the medical report indicates that the child is cured, then without any other note they write "dead", indicating the location of the cemetery, but once returned to the cemetery , no trace of the place where the child would have been buried. would have to compare to see if such neglect was common at the time, but at first glance it's still weird.
anyway, we can agree that it's moron / crazy / heartless not even to notify the parents of the death of the child and to choose for them where to bury him.
of course i read the article and it is a collection of stories of early deaths as there have been hundreds of thousands in quebec. strangely, when it comes to native americans it is always a plot, a machiavellian plot.
i would be very glad if you were right. if it's like you say, then the investigations won't find anything and that will put an end to the endless procrastination of the native american community. however, i do not share your optimism.
suffice it to see the last psychodrama that took place in the west on the same subject and in whose name the flags are still at half mast. we went from genocide through abuse and rape to mass graves to anonymous graves and finally to neglected graves after the retrocession of residential schools to the amerindians. since then it has disillusioned him on the amerindian side, but they will never be sorry. i hope you're right, because frankly it's you that i find optimistic. we will not get out of this delirium until we stop tolerating it.
the com team behind it is self imbecile, self masonic 🤷‍♂️
i do not understand?
white power!!!!
check their hand
i saw that they make a kind of ring with their fingers. what does it mean?
either they troll us on purpose or it's a masonic sign
😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂
it's such a stupid situation.
this old boomer bitch who calls herself the keeper of knowledge, who has the authority to choose which books are acceptable and which are not.
people around who have never thought about burning books is something you'd expect to see in the fucking third reich, or when the great library in alexandria was burnt down. this idea that a book should be destroyed instead of talking about it is a big step towards theocracy, fascism and willful ignorance.
me, yesterday:
> it is under the impulse of a "guardian of knowledge" whom i would like to see a dna test to verify the origins that she claims and who seems to have self-proclaimed this position of "guardian of knowledge".
whether it was covid or something else, who was right? it was kchoze who was right!
addition: little extra "kchoze was still right"
me, yesterday again: "and the community follows its dictates without asking questions, because asking questions is wrong, it is re-victimizing the victim of colonialism by questioning his life experience or other bullshit of this kind."
trudeau's reaction: "asked to react on tuesday to the outcry caused by the initiative, liberal leader justin trudeau criticized the choice to burn books, but he added: < <ce n'est pas à moi, ce n'est pas aux non-autochtones de dire aux autochtones comment ils devraient se sentir ou devraient agir pour avancer la réconciliation.> > "
as a reminder, it's been [eleven years] ( that this arsonist charlatan has been working his way with his pseudo native american identity. vice president of the native americans of orillia, president of the group of native women of orillia, commissioner of native americans, chief of the georgian bay friendship society program, program developer for simcoe county, president of the native american commission from ontario, program developer and facilitator for vision quest, etc ...
see, this pathological liar wanted to burn all 5,000 volumes in a huge pile, but the covid thwarted her plans. all this on the wind, blatant lies or what the liberal party calls self-identification. this is what happens when we fetishize the native american identity, some invent one like [filmmaker michelle latimer] ( -identity-1.5845310) or [marie-josée parent] ( the first elected non-native american of the city of montreal. this dynamic leaves us at the mercy of charlatans if not the mentally ill, it must stop.
the clotaire rapaille of the turtle clan
i contemplate this story which crumbles before my eyes with ugly satisfaction ... the plc which plays the virtue, a woke which monopolizes the words of others, radio-canada which undermines the trudeau campaign, the double - dubious standards of the plc on the identity, the hypocrisy of the tolerance camp, the inquisitors of good religious conscience, the unequivocal condemnation and disavowal by all the first nations, the instrumentalization of minorities that the wokes know to be weakened by centuries of injustice ...
what a great week. i'm already looking forward to tomorrow.
typique upper-middle class suburban white woman syndrome.
not to tell the natives how to be them, for them. you don't have to discriminate them _with_ words and not _with_ feelings. we must not tell them how to do it, not to be with them for the suffering ahead. it is not up to the candians to tell them who to burn.
"... a step in the right direction ..."
- justin trudeau
trudeau's most reasonable statement yet, yet no wonder
so 11 years of cheating and going all the way to pm while matante ginette gets fact-checked in the 2nd dubious post she publishes on facebook.
this is how it works.
we work hard
\ - justin trudeau
the statement is not in itself wrong, but its use in the context (where "non-natives" burn books because a woman calling herself "natives" says she is shocked by them) is absolutely ludicrous.
ok, they can feel whatever they want, but why should i comply with all their requests without asking a question, without also having my own feelings and actions on my side?
in life, everyone is entitled to their feelings and opinions, but no one has the right to expect the rest of the world to bow to their every whim, ignoring their own feelings and opinions. .
trudeau's statement oozes hypocrisy. he says < <ce n'est pas à moi, ce n'est pas aux non-autochtones de dire aux autochtones comment ils devraient se sentir ou devraient agir pour avancer la réconciliation.> >, does that mean he's giving them a blank check? i think a reasonable person could interpret it that way. i mean, trudeau says all the time that he wants to work for reconciliation with the indians, but it would be up to them to decide the whole process? so it's a blank check.
if so, i hope he is prepared to pay billions and butcher provinces to give territories to the amerindians. but we all know he's not ready to do that at all. for trudeau, the so-called reconciliation is a big session of self-flagellation of the white man, the cultural castration of the west and in the end an evening of kumbaya dance at the mont royal tamtam.
ah well yes, candidates driven only by the greed, here a yoga coach, it gives what it gives! i can't wait to see the one-year deadline expire, something tells me that the ranks of the pab will be thinning out for a while.
do you remember the "you are paranoid, you exaggerate" accusations of trivialization and other gaslightning?
i would like to come back to one of them, in particular intended for mathieu bock-côt, because i also like the taste of resentment.
chantal guy: "i wonder what world mathieu bock-côté lives in. in any case, i don't want to live there".
well yes, mrs. guy, in what mode do you live? this is the question we all ask ourselves! obviously, what everyone saw coming for miles, has passed you completely under the radar!
mr. legault who allows himself to interfere continuously in the federal campaign. that criticism of the plc and the ndp despite certain comments from the ccp and the bloc which would also have deserved a little indignation on his part. the petticoat of arrogance sticks out.
> the cpe program has therefore proven its worth.
ah good? and yet after 24 years of existence there is still talk of a shortage of places despite [the stagnation of the number of births] ( ). we play yoyo with the price list to cover the deficits inherent in the program despite [the starving salaries granted to educators] ( -wages-people-employees.pdf). we just have to look at the promise of dominique anglade, $ 6g for 55,000 seats. take out the calculator, it is $ 109,000 a place as said that a new family daycare place costs the government $ 0.
so, what about the silly tax credit criticism ... of course, parents are too foolish to figure out for themselves what they want for their children. we have to believe that the free choice and the empowerment of parents is conservative and backward. better we will be held by the hand by the ruler mom from the cradle to the grave. anyway, nothing to fear, we can clearly see the excellence of our public services!
> we have to believe that the free choice and empowerment of parents is conservative and backward.
even pierre dubuc's l'aut'journal was moderate at the time in its position by stipulating that the withdrawal of the tax credit for the establishment of childcare centers went against the free choice of parents and could lead to serious consequences. conclusion: a good bad idea and it comes from people at the antipodes of the fraser institute.
cut 3x in 5min .... looks like it's not that much ...
the guy had better not listen to the debates on french tv, he's not going to like that for sure! haha
how long has the doctor been talking in total? like 3 minutes? a real farce. all the traditional media in quebec are corrupt.
it's like the headlines of newspaper articles, the goal is not really to inform, but to put certain ideas in people's heads. as here, the idea is to make believe that it is thanks to the injections that there has been a decrease in hospitalizations, despite the doctor saying exactly the opposite. it's horrible what is happening in quebec, the medical world must be supervised, the measures that we have been given from the start are disgusting and it continues ... even if in the newspapers there is hatred towards a party of the population, it does not seem sufficient for people to understand that it is enough, that the medical world has no business interfering in our lives at this point to discriminate and stress the world by destroying their life by coercion towards measures of so-called medicine.
well you can skip the ends or the conspi speaks there.
i would have gladly watched the original video rather than a pompously conspiratorial version on a youtube channel just as out of touch with reality as it claims for québécor.
there is nothing very dissenting in the speech of dr. béliveau, it is an observation shared by an immense fringe of experts.
luckily we have conspiratorial youtube channels to tell us the truth, eh?
put some ...
can you give their number to pm legros?
he is certainly aware of the dissent, possibly including that of horacio arruda as he often expressed it in the past.
now that we have confirmed that it will never go away, can we stop treating it as a pandemic and end the grotesque measures?
>several leading health experts, including white house chief medical advisor dr. anthony fauci and stephane bancel, ceo of covid vaccine maker moderna, have warned that the world will have to live with covid forever, much like influenza.
whoops. we forgot to circulate this info to our media? 🤡
we follow the science but only that which makes our business in quebec? 🤡
everything to avoid saying * endemic * ....
it's time to stop the bullshit!
so i will have to continue to wear my anti-covid suit for eternity. :(
they have said that you have to learn to live with it. what they haven't mentioned ... living with the virus includes all measures.
the passport came in and it's life now.
i have the solution :
it's not the first time i've heard this one. justin is a superior mind, but he * plays the game * in front of the audience, mostly to please.
yes of course.
it is not impossible. it is well known that in the eyes of the typical com counselor, the average voter is a complete jerk with an iq below 80. how to address these people other than with empty formulas? they say to themselves. for the generation of communicators, the entire political domain is reduced to a series of key words and key phrases. a bunch of formulas invented in * brainstorms, * optimized with * focus groups, * to be finally memorized and then regurgitated by the trained macaques we call politicians. it's not for nothing that we see a lot of media alumni in politics: the best way to find macaques is to go look for them at the zoo.
any politician, no matter how smart, who listens to his communications advisers sounds at best like a first-year schoolteacher and at worst like a special educator addressing mild morons who haven't yet learned to differentiate. their nostrils from the fridge.
ok. but why does he lose his means as soon as he has to leave the script? if it was a higher mind, we wouldn't even discuss it. it would know.
when will the alarm bells ring out? we are undergoing a cultural invasion. of all the invasions, this is the worst and the most subversive. wokism has no other goal than to destroy western civilization.
when was the last such precedent? during the rise of christianity in the roman empire to lead, almost two centuries later, to the complete and definitive collapse of the roman civilization, that is to say the one and only western civilization preceding that of the european renaissance, more than 1000 years later, that is 1000 years of reconstruction to return to the same civilizational stage preceding the collapse of the last civilization.
postmodernists, wokists, is your rage worth it? why not build on top of it rather than raze everything? civilization is an eternal construction.
tintin, great bulwark of white supremacism in the west!
the "guardian of wisdom".
what an arrogant, self-centered idiot.
> why not build on top of it rather than raze everything?
it looks very interesting to me despite some exaggerated notions (eugenic purity?). i imagine that the pre-nazist context of the time was more suitable for this type of statement.
what a surprise, the english who deny the existence of the people they want to destroy.
and the emsb is not a school board but a woke sect.
"vive le québec libre" worse in french.
with the 125 to sth ... you really want to be a live nation there.
everyone knows that the of quebec is not a * nation *, it is an insult to canadians to say it of the nation for the * national *. it is not the nation to tell the nation that of the truth for * everyone * and the * asymmetric * inclusiveness of the nation. it is not necessary to separate it but to connect it for the future of the children for the canadian nation.
brands
the opinion of the emsb is inconsequential, according to the intellectual givemeadrink.
i laughed ahahah.
at least, they assume, but from there to saying that "the only precise word to use to define the reality of quebec is" province "" aka conquered territory and that the quebec identity is only fantasies and fabulations, i i'm not sure they'll make a lot of friends here ...
do you want to let the english decide whether we are a nation or not?
except that anyone who is not a gourd knows very well that canada is a federation of several nation-states and administrative territories.
by definition, any province that is not a territory (alberta, bc, quebec, ontario, etc.) is a nation. in addition, given that quebec has never signed the canadian constitution (as i said, anyone who is not a squash knows under what conditions this happened) and therefore retains the right of prerogative on its territory in the as it was when canada was a confederation.
in addition, a nation shares its own language, ethnicity and culture. canada is heir to anglo-proteatant culture, cultural heirs to england, mostly ethnically slavic and anglo-saxon germanic. while quebec is franco-catholic, cultural heir to france, and ethnically predominantly from different regions of france (germanic franks and visigoths), irish, and scottish (celts), and mixed with the populations of different indigenous tribes. there is absolutely nothing that connects us culturally to cannada-english other than the fact that we are the common fruit of western civilization offshore. we don't even share the same civil law code.
it is not insulting. english canadians should be proud of their heritage. which is not ours. and they don't have to feel insulted for being different from us, as long as they let us live in peace.
the english, under harper, have already decided that quebec is a nation, in 2006.
very few mps voted against, almost all liberals, unsurprisingly.
there are no insults for the canadians and ottawa to decide it for you, sir. you can't deny it for the eleventh time, i see it say, you don't have to shout it just you have to accept the facts, in canada * for all candiens *. you are not talking about alberta, you are talking about canada.
thank you
the problem remains and will always remain our anglo-quebecers
"that this house recognize that quebeckers form a nation within a united canada."
it is intentionally restrictive.
go for a walk. when you know how to write, come back and talk to us.
thank you.
i do this on purpose to write like an anglophone who slaughters french. sorry.
they really don't want to let go. while the largest mask study failed to find a significant effect for the fabric mask and a shabby effect of 11% fewer cases in two months with surgical masks, as denmark abandons its vaccination passport after having reached a satisfactory vaccination rate (lower than that of quebec!) and plans to abandon all measures this week, while sweden announces the end of all local measures at the end of september ... we have a prime minister who is putting in place a vaccination passport and who insists on maintaining all current measures for the foreseeable future.
not to mention trudeau who talks about provincial vaccine passports as an interim solution for a year before the federal takes over (for until when?).
there are measures that seem dangerously close to being sustainable. will anger growl one day or the majority, reinforced by the media that are docile to power, will come to terms with this "new normal" in the long term?
it is those who have been sold the vaccine passport as a way to get the "good" vaccinated back to normal who are not going to find it funny. the vaccination passport thus only represents a loss of freedom for the unvaccinated without any gain for the vaccinated.
in the meantime, we are a little over 3 weeks after the [demonstration] ( against the health passport where the politico-media caste predicted the 'massacre. today, the massacre is 0 dead.
too many people have * called * the bluff. they won't go away anytime soon.
although the three hypochondriac clowns have yet demonstrated their total disconnection with reason and reality and they persist in wanting to continue their so modestly named health "measures", i wanted to give you some optimism.
today, they never mentioned that the vaccine prevents transmission, they emphasized the individual protection it gives. all the delirium about "protecting others" was no longer explicit.
legault nevertheless pointed out that the politicization of vaccination was problematic and that for the past few weeks there had been a very contemptuous attitude towards the unvaccinated in the public debate which had to end.
it's very thin as a consolation, i know, but we can say that there has been a small change in attitude, especially since dubé's open letter announcing that it was better to forget collective immunity ( he should have known it for just 3 months but hey.)
i think the next few weeks are going to be decisive. immunity to infection will continue to decline in those vaccinated and one should be in a similar position to israel, ie as many vaxx as unvaxx in cases and about 50% of hospits in double vaxx.
we will see what they will do by then, but the more time passes, the more the weariness of the population increases and the more vaccine immunity decreases.
in the meantime, we really have to hope that trudeau eats a volley.
two weeks to flatten the curve. the 28 day challenge. the curfew will only last a month. the vaccine is the key to freedom. the freedom passport. it recalls a famous phrase from claude péloquin.
fake la our angels are made outcasts?
unbelievable. i wonder when the population is going to have enough.
they really want the 2022 elections to be the fucking pandemic?
seriously, what the fucking goal is if the vaccines do not work according to legault. is there something coming up that scares them extremely so that we slow down as much as possible the return to a normal society and therefore economy and that even trudeau needs to be re-elected to push his debt? for 4 long years, either trying to cringe his camp?
thank you for your comments, i realize that i am not alone. thank you r / quebeclibre gang to exist.
made 100% vaccinated, they will find a way to say that it is not enough, that we must aim higher.
when will the delirium stop?
legault has just shot himself in the foot. it paved the way for the imposition of the end of emergency measures by the supreme court.
you want to live in an apocalyptic movie, keep nodding.
the only party that is against compulsory vaccination is that of maxime bernier.
anyone else noticed he said vaxx passport for patients too? and then when one of the last questions in english was put to him, he said not for patients yet, let's wait and see october 15th where the situation is or ?! i don't even fool around to listen properly.
> for the unvaccinated without any gain for the vaccinated.
the spectrum of the 3rd dose and the vagueness in the use of the elastic term * adequately vaccinated * will lead to a certain inference: since * adequately vaccinated * cannot be applied to an absolute number of doses due to latecomers ( eg someone starting their first dose of 3 today) and with ever-changing guidelines it will most likely be based on xx days since the last dose instead.
this will de facto result in the revocation of the vaccination passport for those who believed in a "one shot deal" and who are no longer up to date. some will not find it funny.
thank you for this optimism! i didn't listen to the lecture because they hurt my brain, eyes and ears, and other quotes from legault sound so much more frightening. maybe the marketing consultants suggested legault have some for everyone?
i hope trudeau gets screeched out and therefore the ccp comes in, but i would be overjoyed to see the ppc take down the 10%. but i think it's too tight in the polls then it's going to hurt the ppc (and the ndp).
excellent analysis. it gives me the impression that they are preparing the ground so as not to lose face completely and to keep the sheep on their side.
and yes, it is fundamental that trudeau arrives, otherwise i am seriously worried about our future.
you have the commentary that looks the same as what i've been thinking for a while. when it will be kiff kiff like israel and the united kingdom, the whole cassette will be "derubaniser" (reference for the 30 years and more nostalgic lol) even i think that they are made more hospitalization and death in the vaccinated due to poor immune responses maladaptive to variants.
but one thing is certain, the goal and the finality in my opinion is the pass. he will stay in place because he is the start of his digital identity project due for around 2025. this is why the pass is a digital qr code and not a piece of paper that we show. it is absolutely necessary to scan, showing the vaccination status is not enough. scanning is an act that leaves a digital trace, so everyone has to have their pass to exist digitally. vaccines are the lubricant for creating digital identity. very little info and very little risk so as not to scare. it is the beginning of a new identity card where no citizen will be able to escape authoritarian digital surveillance. google it: "quebec digital identity". it's not an obscure project, it's a project that they openly talk about as a future pride of quebec. the qr scan will become a biometric scan and the confidential personal information of our entire life will be there. so we will be scanned to go absolutely everywhere. we obviously need considerably more robust and faster internet bandwidth for these millions of scans every day ... and for the suspension of the pass by the authorities for bad citizens. the 5g network will surely be well established in 2025, which will ensure the ability of the internet to operate this new collossal digital world. paper money will probably disappear eventually .... it's not the joy to think about that but ... what to do? with a people who have never had to put their lives in danger for their freedom? it's harder and harder to believe in an uprising
*beatings will continue until moral improves.*
according to [ma'am legault] ( yes and they eat all the shit: you have to protect the vaccinated from the unvaccinated because uh ... search me because i am not.
also, the word * visitor * hides another: * natural caregiver *. so we come back as in march 2020: no nurse to change the diaper and no caregiver to help with meals. result: death of thirst in his layer full of mustard.
they were "angels" only as long as they obeyed the party line.
now it is the stake for those who dare to question authority.
denis coderre, anti-woke candidate, now pro-national (compared to plante) ... the world upside down. i am not complaining. to think he was the federal henchman not so long ago ...
well. to hell with the durhamists.
studying federalism is the best way to become a separatist ... this is what happened to parizeau ...
it was while writing a speech on the subject of federalism on a train headed for banff on behalf of the federal government that parizeau realized that quebec's independence was necessary.
he does it all the same out of pure electoralism.
parizeau, coderre, same stature, same fight.
i agree with your conclusions, but even if coderre told me without laughing that he is a sovereignist, that would not convince me.
something tells me that he does not care and that it is electoralism.
most sovereignists were federalists in the past, myself during part of my adolescence.
but he does it anyway.
if we have to analyze all the motivations of each elected, there would only be the pure-hearted wokes to govern us. we don't give a damn about the motivations as long as it serves us.
he has his reasons, the important thing is that he fulfills his obligations
the patriots were also federalists ... they did not want the independence of quebec, they wanted the independence of canada from great britain.
he reacted without wasting time, the most appropriate thing since the scandals of the last few weeks, among other things the swift and unequivocal condemnation on the will prosper case. his words follow his actions on it at least.
with the woke and anti-quebec delirium, it takes someone with balls who will not be able to substitute their stubbornness and outspokenness for the little compassion of a box of cereal made in plante.
remind me, when was the last time that valérie plante denounced the smuggling of handguns by the mohawks? it really takes nerve all around the head to ask to tighten the screws to the legal owners of firearms when this jug presents the founding member of a street gang as candidate for mayor of the dompe that is montreal north.
it speaks of courage but does not mean from [where] ( the weapons could come from. we live in a simulation and we * benchmark * our intelligence every day.
i imagine that by giving up their old stolen land, they will have no more weapons / s
i'll buy a few to protect myself when the police are disarmed 👍
the solution that has already been chosen is to bring in a young immigrant for each new retiree.
i am the one who voted "i have another proposal"
1- stop trusting the government for your old age. there won't be a cent left when it is our turn.
2- cancel your contribution to the rrq and invest your money elsewhere (stock market, real estate and especially the future cryptocurrency)
this is the problem with the government it's a ponzi scheme
i just have a question for you:
1- does the rrq have an actuarial deficit?
according to the official assessment, the answer is no:
[**  //www.retraitequebec.gouv.qc.ca/fr/publications/nos-programmes/regime-de-rentes-du-quebec/evaluation-actuarielle/pages/evaluation-actuarielle-du-regime-de -rentes-du-quebec.aspx **] ( actuarial-valuation-du-rentes-du-quebec.aspx)
so there you have it, you don't need to come up with any solutions since there is no problem to solve.
> as workers will retire at some point, there will be more and more retirees, so there will have to be more and more workers to compensate. the system is therefore based on an infinite growth of the population
do you know that people get old and die?
again, is it viable? can you just have a system that doesn't give more cash to those who already earn more? a system that does not penalize those who work harder / for a long time? you can have 40 children, you will not have more money when you retire than the other who does not have any, despite the fact that you have contributed more than him to bringing in new workers (no offense to anyone). i think we have to stop getting carried away by gluttony and stop forcing people to bet their future (the casino is made for that!) ...
> a young immigrant for each new retiree.
it will take 4 (said on the tune of arsenic pudding)
i would be more in favor of that than embarking on a state-organized pyramid chain, but i think financial security in retirement doesn't hurt.
isn't the premium rate increase a problem? isn't it a problem that everyone is getting less down the line? paying more for less is a big problem! there is no deficit because we accept to be ...
yes, there are also people being born i suppose? ..
the state can pay the world to have children. but an adult takes 18 years to do so too late for boomers.
> force people to bet their future
are you talking about personal savings?
i took a look at the detailed report and they consider a constant contribution rate between now and 2068. obviously this is based on a bunch of assumptions which are debatable, but not by me as i know not enough that. as a layman who doesn't know much about it, i would question the 2% inflation that was considered, i think it might be more than that, but i don't know how it affects the result. it depends on the distribution of the assets of the rrq fund, and i do not know this distribution.
yes, people are born, grow old and die. what they don't do is grow old and stay alive forever, which would require endless population growth as you say.
boomers are already getting their money and not having to contribute a lot, the system has worked for them so far. by the way, i do not see who would make children by thinking of making money .. the level of productivity per person continues to increase, jobs are replaced by machines, we just have to find a way to ensure that it benefits to more people.
no, i am for real savings (savings, investments, etc.) but against having to bet that the next generations will agree to pay my pension. i do not believe that the youngest are going to steal from me the wealth that i have built (at least i hope not), but any government can abolish the rrq to get elected if that's what the world want, which will probably happen.
with the aging of the population, as is the case at the moment, there will eventually be fewer workers per retiree; workers will therefore have to pay more without receiving more and / or the government will have to push the age of admission until we do not even know if we are going to reach that age, neither of these two options is interesting for the workers.
yes, the shrinking of the base of the age pyramid is a very well known phenomenon and has been predicted for decades. and in case you don't realize it, the rrq is about $ 650 per month.
getting the big fit kids out on the bs and getting them involved is a good option.
can we predict when the bubble will explode? there is certainly a limit to what people are willing to pay, the system i am proposing is based on the economy and not on demographics, we could even have worried about having more children.
everything woke turns to shit
what? stereotypes in humorous comics ?! at the stake!
it seems to be really absurd from a to z, we ban books for one name or another, or because the portrait of native americans is not rosy enough. it is under the impulse of a "guardian of knowledge" which i would like to see a dna test to verify the origins that she claims and who seems to have self-proclaimed this position of "guardian of knowledge". and the community follows its dictates without asking questions, because asking questions is wrong, it is re-victimizing the victim of colonialism by questioning his life experience or other bullshit of this kind.
a total lack of courage going hand in hand with a desire to signal its virtue and its support for "reconciliation" which is reminiscent of the phenomenon of zérocovid fanatics, also obsessed with their image and by the signaling of virtue in supporting as visibly as possible a collective approach without questioning anything, participating in an outbidding of "virtue". a virtue which here approaches the most zealous authoritarian conformism.
the irony is that by claiming to fight against stereotypes, they also propagate it on their own. they want an angelic image of native americans, as a population living in peace and harmony with nature until the arrival of the wicked european colonizers. that too is a stereotype. human beings are human beings everywhere on earth, we all have a part of light and a part of shadow. the amerindians during colonization were neither angels nor demons, they were men, a reality that had become socially undesirable.
do not draw the parallel with the nazis ... do not draw the parallel with the nazis ... do not draw the parallel with the nazis ... do not draw the parallel with the nazis ...
where are we going? burning books is something that is done in totalitarian regimes, otherwise it is completely stupid and useless. wokism is a very worrying drift, it will have to be attacked head-on eventually and put an end to it before it continues to get worse and worse.
i didn't think it was possible for us to fall so low. i think we should skip the century we live to move on to the next just to pretend this century never existed and not be ashamed of the rest of our existence.
if the instigator of this auto-da-fe which for once effectively remembers the worst hours of the last century does not understand the ignominy of her initiative, she should be evaluated in psychiatry. especially coming from someone who claims to be peoples without writing having known only prehistory, should have more respect for the civilizing medium that is the book. see, with books no one needs to trust the antics of a weirdo with a bachelor's degree in psychology, just open the book and see for yourself.
red alert
here we are, obscurantism by censorship, the inquisition.
"book burning is the deliberate destruction by fire of books or other written materials, usually carried out in a public context. the burning of books represents an element of censorship and usually proceeds from a cultural, religious, or political opposition to the materials in question."
we delete our memories because they are too sensitive to look head-on ... to simply repeat these memories, because nothing to prevent us from remembering them.
how many weeks before the nuts at uqam do the same? u / jelsaispas
> a flame purification ceremony was held in 2019 to burn around thirty banned books, for educational purposes. the ashes were used as fertilizer to plant a tree and thus turn from negative to positive.
> the author of the video for the students is suzy kies, presented as a keeper of indigenous knowledge.
why do i feel like the concept of * purification ceremony * constructed for this occasion is totally invented and comes from nowhere in indigenous culture, just like the title ms. kies gave herself .....
band of nazis !!!!
how do you want the natives to teach their children what is racist and why it is wrong if there is nothing racist left. the worst part of all this is the whites that it offends and not the natives.
yes, and it is justin trudeau's indigenous advisor who encourages ontario schools to burn politically incorrect books ...
lol, tintin is a perfect case to demonstrate the change in colonial attitudes.
the next step: burn all the asterix and obelix, because they encourage grossophobia and stigmatization of short people!
indeed
this is why the people of the ** traditional left ** are doing all they can to crush the wokeness virus which is trying to take control of speech ...
i was banned from a certain sub for drawing a parallel between nazi propaganda and woke propaganda.
the question is not there. these works describe a moment, a slice of the perception of history and society - moreover, it is fiction. to burn them is to erase and promote ignorance. * mein kampf *, for example, is always in bookstores with the prefaces necessary to situate it properly in time and in the socio-economic context. ** it is important to remember so as not to repeat the same atrocities **. to make it disappear would be a mistake. and then, what about the bible in the name of which the most barbaric crusades and the most controlling and inhuman laws (i remind you of what is happening ** now ** in texas) are sunk in the gorge? by force for centuries. this work still has a special place in the libraries of these moralizers. regardless of color or culture, humanity repeats the same patterns and that is why we must keep the tools to remind ourselves if we want to get by. what we see there is censorship, the index and it is unacceptable.
you're right, but so is he, because erasing the past leads to repeating it
> i do not see anything dramatic in receiving an annual dose of vaccine, if it allows our societies to reconnect with life in the long term.
funny false dilemma for a pathogen which in the end only mowed down a tenth of one percent of the population. to reconnect with life on a lasting basis, it will first be necessary to admit that the present pandemic is not a vital danger to the population. let's get out of the delirium. what we have been learning over the past two years is not living with the virus, it's living with our lousy health system.
you vill eat zhe bugs !
... it's living with our ~~ shabby ~~ health system whose maintenance has been abandoned by political leaders who have lied to us.
if you let a house go bad for 40 years without any maintenance, would you say it's run down because it's a bad house?
our very acceptable health care system, even if it may not be the best, has been consciously abandoned by *** ideology ***, period.
> what we have been learning over the past two years is not living with the virus, it's living with our lousy health system.
this is another thing that has amazed me since the start of the pandemic. it is often said that you should never waste a good crisis, so the pandemic seemed to me the perfect opportunity to unlock the health system once and for all. put the college of doctors in its place, expand the role of super-nurses, bring specialists who take advantage of the system into line, offer decent working conditions to nurses in order to stop the bleeding towards private agencies, make good rationalization care and stop doing unnecessary things (like putting a peacemaker on a 95 year old senile alzheimer's).
i would have liked to see legault do as rené levesque during the nationalization of hydro québec put himself in front of a blackboard, explain everything that is wrong with the health system and clearly explain how he will unlock everything. but that would have required competence and political courage, qualities that are very rare among our politicians.
in addition, mbc avoids talking about the economic aspect of vaccination which is controlled by 2 corporations listed on the stock exchange with the primary objective of profit, at all costs. it is also added that the latest public health directives concerning medicago, johnson & johnson et cie have turned the whole into a ** cartel ** due to the inaccessibility to a pool of unvaccinated candidates and to multiple attempts to sabotage the competetion. there is an economic flaw here that will have to be noticed one day.
columnists can argue about the sex of angels, moderna's stock has risen from $ 50 to $ 430 in a year, and beautiful yachts have been bought with public money.
but is this really the case? health spending continues to increase to stratospheric heights until it monopolizes half of the state's revenue. financially at least, it is difficult to see the abandonment. and yet on the ground it is difficult to see the results. as for me, it stems from the fact that in health, as in everything related to government, there is absolutely no accountability. mandarins are so armored that it's easier to promote an incompetent than to fire them.
to give you an idea, a few years ago, the hospital where i work inaugurated with great fanfare a new wing of research and teaching at the cost of hundreds of millions of dollars. very modern, the ultimate. of course all the gratin was present, the deputy, all the board of directors, the deputy minister, etc ... however, in my hospital, good year, bad year, a design defect in the drainage of the parking lot leads to flooding of the subsoil during heavy rainfall. suffice it to say that the deputy, the ceo and the deputy minister are not there when the blue collar workers tear down the walls and install the dewatering equipment. we don't cut tape for a piece of pipe, but we need it and we won't get it. as for me, it is quite representative of what is wrong with the health system.
there. a user whose nickname escapes me had a very interesting thought in a previous thread. imagine for a moment that the sums swallowed up to allow workers to cease their activities have been invested in health. we are talking about an injection of $ 100g for quebec alone, $ 100g over 18 months gives a nasty boost!
yes it is. here is one of the most convincing examples of abandoning the task.
[the price of drugs is increasing faster than the budget allocated to them:
"... from 1996 to 2005, \ [... \] the expenditure growth rate of the ministry of health (msss) was rather 5.5% and that of the program of pharmaceutical services and drugs of the ramq of… 14.1%.] (
the ministry of health is facing a *** structural deficit ***. it is obvious that if we keep the same practices we come to a dead end.
(same article) when we compare ourselves, at the international level, we do not console ourselves, on the contrary: canada spends $ 735 per capita on drugs, the highest amount after the united states ($ 988). note that the
new zealand and australia, ** which have adopted purchasing policies **
** generic drugs **, spend only $ 363 and $ 517 per capita respectively on drugs.
these are the * ways of doing * that we must change in health. do not stupidly increase the budget from year to year in the hope that the situation will resolve itself! in this regard, the creation of pharma-quebec that amir khadir proposed when he was at qs is a good kind of solution that addresses * the cause of the problem *, not just the symptoms.
i made this remark there in another thread. maybe it was me.
but yes clearly it would be more rational to have done so.
they preferred to make believe that the covid was the plague and created a society of cacas-nerveux neurotics.
and yet we applied the remedy recommended in the article. we have established a public drug insurance plan. results? since 1997, the annual premium has increased from [$ 175] ( estimes-al-epoque.php) at [$ 710] ( 400% increase! it's 16% per year, so it's even worse than for the period analyzed.
if it was as simple as the price of the tablets, something tells me it would be done and not with a new government license. buying salbutamol instead of ventolin will not resolve chronic absenteeism. it will not solve the dilapidated buildings either. it will not solve the decreasing productivity of physicians either.
what amazes me about commercial radio stations is how conservative they are in their choice of music. this is as true for music in english as it is in french. in both cases it is always the same tide. it's as if their only concern was to avoid displeasing good women aged 45-55, that's all. after that they complain that no one is listening to them, lol.
not listened to music radio for at least 12 years. i am doing very well, thanks to soundcloud.
someone upstream rotten supply and demand then vomited it up. it is the industry itself that is to blame after having spent the last decades destroying french music.
the public ** is not there ** for safia nolin et cie, stop imposing it on us.
just take 98.5, there is practically nothing in french in their evening musical programming until a certain time when the less impressive titles of patrick groulx and laurent paquin are played in a loop. can't we do better than rock comedy?
quebec anthem dedicated to the mediocrity of radio stations:
same case, spotify and well content to listen to what i want ...
worse not be forced to endure celine, lara and safia ... from the chalice of torture.
i just listen to the radio at work and i can tell you that you don't miss much
safia nolin followed by ariane moffat ... no one deserves such suffering, not even my enemy.
i do not always understand it from the, forgive me the expression, of the language used by politicians in canada, in our country. it must be added above all government priorities, for canadians, for all canadians. agriculture and the economy are priorities of our government, we must grow trees before planting them from seed, with the land in the north. quebecers and all canadians know that our efforts that we have put in, that we are putting with them, for the future of the environment and all important subjects.
vote libral.
inside the head of justin trudeau
there is a lot of echo
inside the head of justin trudeau
blackface is beautiful
as retarded as usual, this gabriel. she was free to choose whether she wanted to make her money by slapping strangers' faces like her life depended on it (hehe pun intended) or not. no one forced this woman. they make me laugh when they attribute everything to "capitalism". between, i never want to disrespect a deceased person, but it's the risk to take when your level of intelligence reinforces the idea that it is justified to make a living hoping to hurt a stranger in order to gain prestige.
as we all know, the only motivation in life is money. or if there was maybe other thing (s)?
oh cow, what a bunch of bullshit. is it capitalism that imposes undue risks on athletes? you will tell the swimmers of the gdr my friend! nah, it's really disgusting to make political mileage so low on the tragic death of the lady in question, especially coming from a peddler of the deadly ideology of marxism. if gnd wants to pay his salary as a deputy to mexican tomato canes, he's free, otherwise he will spare us his venom.
ah yes, bad capitalism. thank you gnd for having me explain why i should be a socialist by someone who earns 3x my salary paid with my tax money. thank you.
very relevant as a reflection.
to hear it, she should have stayed home starving ...
that's when your ideology teaches you that absolutely the whole of the history of the world can be summed up in a struggle between the haves and those they rob.
in addition, someone who has little experience in the job market (like a large part of their electorate)
we assume like gab that she really did this for the $ 1800 rather than the sport. considering the price of plane tickets and accommodation, i'm not sure. maybe she made the trip differently, but she would have eaten up a good chunk of that money. she had been in quebec for a while, that's what i thought i read in a mexican article.
those who have power (like the religious) and those who obey them.
i don't want to get into a debate at this time, but you have to admit, it's a little too simple.
neither do i
it is true that this new hospital center is one of the most impressive in the world in terms of technology, while the maisonneuve-rosemont and sacré-coeur hospitals are falling into ruin.
but obviously no wifi for patients
free wi-fi for everyone throughout the chum.
in all health establishments in quebec.
no, i'm saying that the wi-fi is free at the chum for absolutely everyone without any code or authorization. most of the other hospitals charge patients for wi-fi.
ah well that's at least that
... if it has planted itself 0.04% of the 2 billion yen it has already done a lot ..
the best response to quotas
> as a white woman, i don't think i am in a position to understand these subtleties of her culture.
but dark idiot, it is not for you to understand its culture, it is for her to understand that we do not call the enemy "our brothers"
especially since a bunch of muslims also said she was thick for using "my brothers" to talk about the taliban.
a very feminist country according to the anti-racist and decolonial collective.
let us salute this initiative of our brothers the taliban which will revive the afghan textile industry!
> it will be complicated from a practical point of view, we do not have enough teachers
just send them the feminists who populate the university departments.
faintness..
sacred src!
there are also 6 stranded planes and american hostages but hey, these are just details. we're not going to bring out the ghost of jimmy carter and iran!
> a very feminist country according to the anti-racist and decolonial collective.
can we send amir attaran?
he is so against law 21 that he should feel right at home.
islam is right about women.
to compete with china? very good idea!
who is?
i would tend to agree with the conclusions of christian ~~ rioux ~~ dufour, the culture of freedom is far from being acquired. it is precisely with events like these that we are able to observe the durability of the old parish fund of quebec. faced with the unknown to the devil, freedom, what we want is from a strong man who announces the good news what françois legault embodies and what is reflected in the voting intentions.
i cannot help but notice to what extent the poverty of the media offer contributes to the phenomenon. for the past 18 months, all the media and all the media have of course been talking about radio-canada / la presse and tva have eaten in the hands of the government. very difficult for mr. madam everyone to form an opinion contrary to the liberticidal approach of the government when they are stigmatized on all sides as quasi-murderers at the departure of grandmothers and today of grandchildren. in such a context, how to oppose the constantly evolving health dogma?
one of the only lucid voices in quebec. he puts his finger on the sore spot.
after 18 months there are so many layers of lies, half truths or superimposed errors that it's almost impossible to change course.
there we are stuck with vaccine segregation and the "argument" of our good confiners is that it protects the vaccinated (false and insane) and that it protects the unvaccinated from themselves (because of course it is is up to the government to manage the personal risk that i take, according to the polls).
for how long will the delirium continue?
would our ancestors be proud of us? we weigh on a ti piton to have drinking water, we have heat pumps to have an ideal temperature, we live 80 years minimum in cotton wool, and the behn we have which behn afraid of dying, we have to stop the wooo. before covid it was the bad terrorists, and after that what will it be? in any case at the time that we were being invaded by barbarians at least we were afraid of something real, criss that we are in moumoune (me included).
> everywhere as near murderers at the departure of the grandmothers and today of the grandchildren.
the ironic thing is that during the days of the islamic state we were careful about * amalgamation *. a truck crushes people in nice? we must show restraint, a call for calm! a bomb / kill at a concert? be careful what you say, we don't know everything, you have to be neutral. anyone who dared to release a * stigmatizing amalgamation * was blacklisted. even used * bearded * was enough to attract the wrath of the intelligentsia who today like to say * toothless *.
and if we go back even further, we remember alexandre livernoche and the conclusion that pedophiles and their privacy should be protected by all possible means, even if it means relocating them close to primary schools without informing local families. don't * make * stigmatizing amalgamations * here!
and what about the * tough on crime * approach of * dictator * stephen harper! he and senator boisvenu! they dare to raise their voices! a chance that our * pro-liberties * journalists did not hesitate to say that * criminals * deserved respect and that conservative stigma has no place in quebec!
but today, all is well: we have a certified scapegoat and the entire media-political class has regained its courage by magic ... but only this scapegoat: the others are still in the dead corners.
didn't you mean christian dufour?
i agree with your analysis, but on the other hand, it is the majority of the population that eats out of the government's hand (extremely high approval rating). there are of course a few dissenting voices, including this article, but nothing that does not seem to me to be under-represented at first glance.
after a lie you continued to believe the kidnapper.
christian dufour has always been the one who sees things coming with a head start.
> for how long will the delirium continue?
everything will stop dry when wall street decides: either in reaction to the end of the trillion subsidies or via the * economic correction * (or crash for those who do not endure the semantic dances). in both cases, wall street will ask to restart the economic machine. and quickly because we are not making enough cash at the moment.
our ancestors literally went to school at -30, crossing a 10km forest to get to school, very often without lunch and being sick.
we? we complain about the end of the world sitting in our armchairs in front of netflix.
phew, what a typo, thank you for the clarification!
let us not forget either one of the great taboos of the quebec model, the crass mediocrity of public services and more particularly of the health system. we cannot admit that the bench of the guardian angels which swallowed up half of the state's revenue is rotten, stale, a good kick in the door and the whole house collapses. and yet the minister tacitly admits that if we are being imposed what is increasingly akin to martial law, it is to preserve the ever-diminishing capabilities of the system. unfortunately, there is no way to question this national shame.
the remains of our governments
it's wrong. "start over" suggests the guy has quit ... and he never quits.
yes, ensaf haidar and nabila ben youssef the wolves of white supremacism, we will have seen everything! to paraphrase professor attaran, denying he's a careful whore is like denying the earth is round.
there's a quickie in hqa's post, will you be able to find it?
>! decolonialist anti-racist qs collective still with the qs brand as if nothing had happened. did you trust the media to believe that qs was completely separating from this group? 🤡! <
quebec lives "rent-free" in its head
i do not understand the importance that is given to this guy. he has his opinion, whether we find him stupid or not it's freedom of expression. he doesn't like bill 21 and there are people in qc who don't like canadian multiculturalism.
each company has its approach.
well good news: the qc does what he wants and the roc does what he wants at home. what we think about it or not does not change anything at all.
the fact that yfb mentioned his name makes it important when it could be simply ignored.
he is not an elected official, he has no authority and can throw up as many texts / opinions as he wants on the qc, nothing changes as it is insignificant for the qc.
he lives for free without paying rent in the minds of lots of people.
crazy people like him are everywhere. as there are racist and anglophobic freaks in qc. thick people who have internet access to talk nonsense is not exclusive to one side or the other.
the good solution with the freaks (on one side and the other) is to ignore them and not give them a platform. this guy has a platform guaranteed by those who have a fixation on him
someone asked him to calm down during the election i think ...
he took a break to praise the quebec health pass. it also explains why some in the political-media sphere who were on his back ignored him for a certain period of time ...
because it is a university professor who has his salary paid by our taxes and in the same university we fired a quebecer because she read the title in the book, if you want to go blind it is your personal choice.
we do not stop progress.
"it is terrible for the murderers, they will no longer be able to reach their victims while enjoying their rights." 😅
full article:
if this is not a joke, it is scary. those who oppose it will surely be called conspirators.
technocracy, the "worst case scenario"
it reminds me of the debates in france on refugees. a politician had swung "* we cannot close the borders! we have national and international rights and obligations to respect. *"
the next day, charlie hebdo attack: borders closed.
this news about australia. whose logic seems to be designed by karen on facebook, only confirms what i was thinking: when a politician says he can't do x because of rights, that's wrong: it's because he doesn't want to do nothing. so, if we deduce the whole thing, we can therefore conclude that elements of crime like street gangs, pedophile rings and the like have been ** intentionally ** ignored.
it's very biased as an excerpt from an article (obviously without sharing the entire article in the publication 🙃)
it's just for people who are in their 40s when they come back from travel not for everyone. quarantine had been in place in a good number of countries since the start of the pandemic, sometimes even in hotels without permission to leave which is a lot more restrictive than this. in canada, a security guard came to see you 1-2 times at home by surprise, that's all.
who did i kill?
this is not a joke.
welcome to communist china!
let's see, how lucky we are ignoring some criminals! did you not know that [disparity in incarceration rates stems from systemic racism] ( determination-penalty)? it is also particularly glaring [among the amerindians] ( who are counter to crime by racism systemic ambient.
the full article has been posted since day one. on mobile, reddit does not allow adding text to links.
the hotel's solution is much preferable to implantations of facial recognition technology which may ultimately serve as a precedent for the implementation of other anti-freedoms measures.
once the technological inefficiency of the health passport has been demonstrated (this is already the case, banally admitted by minister eric cairo), where are we going to go to counter falsifications and other easy fraud? since the quebec of the caq always prefers to import solutions from elsewhere, that of australia would appear possible. do we want to go towards that knowing that eric caire has no consideration or competence to manage a system of such magnitude?
it's just a joke, it's not true. 😅
funny enough that you are a real estate developer to learn later in the article that the guy was a daddy. then it was quite transparent, we present an archive photo where giuseppe borsellino attends nicolo rizzuto's wedding anniversary, anniversary [which began under the air of coppola's godfather] ( //ici.radio- canada.ca/info/2020/01/lino-saputo-joe-bonanno-chef-mafia-enquete-autobiographie/). but hey, a great philanthropist, comment section closed, the whole of quebec is in mourning!
never heard of it.
le fox news / one america news français.
he is in his place.
never have watched cnews to regurgitate such nonsense.
write "who" on youtube and we'll talk about it again.
ni fox news...
dewors globalism!
it is not by threatening bodily harm and endangering the prime minister's life and declaring this situation as a climate of war that things will certainly improve. 🤦
he has the right to say whatever he wants, but he also has the right to refrain from saying bullshit.
that is to say bullshit.
edit 1; oh my, there are mad max fans who are all angry and downvote me. is it the fact that he is known to have forgotten secret documents with his ex, the playmate julie couillard?
or that it's a first-time jerk who is the wish.com equivalent of donald “the orange boar” trump in canada?
bernier is a globalist (free market), but not a globalist (contrary to neoliberalism). his ideal is the absence of total control of the (libertarian) state.
poor devil. he tried to be a northern trump with pathetic false posters that he had to take down in his penultimate campaign.
he should go to florida in the land of man 🍊 and see if there is an entry job in the republican-qanon party.
it's a better match for his backslid ideas than here. even the beaucerons have let it down.
bravo.
it is so well said.
bravo.
mélenchon, like it or not, but god damn what an unparalleled speaker.
uh, no.
above all, the art of oratory has been so lost that it passes for a tribune of genius.
there's nothing wrong with recognizing talents in your opponent.
what a great man he was.
he must turn around in his grave to see where we are.
he called himself a "communist" but is it a nationalist party ?!
i mean, are you a communist to appropriate our electrical infrastructure? pcq it was a box of good idea.
quebec historiography in connection with nationalizations suffers from the survivor bias. hydro-quebec was obviously a stroke of genius. on the other hand, we hear less about the nationalizations of asbestos, iron, the steel industry or shipyards which ended in bitter failures leading to the disengagement of the state. so without launching accusatory tirades reminiscent of those directed at the cuban regime, we can conclude that the lévesque governments were ill-advised in their policy of nationalization.
big capitalists who have money to lose in a change will call everything a communist.
for the american right there are communists in canada / qc because you can go see a doctor for free without paying $ 500 / month in insurance and you don't pay for your insulin 1000% more than you should (which big pharma charges people in the usa)
to hear them talk about public health in canada, we are armed revolutionary bearded men who live in the forest like che guevara back in the days.
i have never been neither a federalist nor a sovereignist. personally right now i would never vote bloc because of the four islamophobic mps from the last campaign who were spreading hateful lies about muslims on social media and the way yfb just brushed it off with an apology that isn't. not.
if the same type of lies had been told by anglos on the qc we would have pulled our hair out, scalp included and not trivialized it like yfb just to make it talk as little as possible as yfb does pcq it was too late to replace its candidates and did not want to lose its 4 seats.
rené lévesque would never have accepted a false / hate speech in his training for his political gain.
a leader like him i would vote tomorrow morning for without hesitation. we have empty shells of a politician compared to him in 2021.
i believe that rené would not have sided with the 4 moral refuse 4chan / qanon style which sits under the banner of the bloc at the moment.
a real man of principles who really dreamed of a country
i imagine these industries slashed it along with the rest of the rust belt in the usa. victim of chinese free trade and cheap labor? the difference being that it was the state that paid the price.
why they nationalized dying industries that would be my question.
not being a party to the decisions of the time, i can only speculate, but something tells me that we suffered from a collective union-leftist delirium. we thought we could do better than the wicked private companies, in addition wicked private american companies that eat french canadians with evil english at their head. we still have bursts of this delirium nowadays with the mirage pharma quebec. as if the government having absolutely no expertise in pharmaceuticals, the government which failed in all its responsibilities could compete with the giants of the field in the generic market because developing new molecules has forgotten that.
sonia mabrouk = sophie durocher and more sophisticated?
it's been obvious to people who know the latest international data for months.
meanwhile, the quebec government and public health spend months in denial and pretend they can stop the fucking virus, pushing ever more hysteria.
he finally admits it. it is the beginning of an admission of failure by our globalist leaders.
i've been saying this for a long time, and honestly that's what they should have done from the start: accept that the virus is circulating and adapt our health network accordingly.
when we think of all this money wasted unnecessarily on all sides (forced confinements, ecps, surveys, etc.), when we should have invested all this from the start to have a greater capacity for care ... is sorry.
> instead of looking for the date when all this will end, we will have to learn to live with the virus. we will have to accept a certain number of cases and a certain number of hospitalizations, if we want to get back to a normal life.
[
so the minister has just confessed what u / kchoze has been saying for months. some mods in other subreddits won't be happy.
next step: say the word * endemic *.
it's been more than a year that we predict, that experts are censored for saying it ...
when your political goals override science and morals
🤦🏽
i continue to hope that the vaccine passport is mainly there because the government has realized that constantly pumping fear has created a big gang of anxiety and vaccinated people who are not ready to go back to their way before then that this 'is therefore a measure to slowly return to normal. government authorities may themselves be plagued with anxiety issues, coming to believe in their own anxiety-inducing spins of all facts and events. obviously * our government * will continue to be opportunistic and blame immorally unvaccinated people for all problems.
we will not only learn to live with the virus, but we will have to add it to the list of cold viruses in a few years and live with it as we live with other endemic coronaviruses.
let's see if their "return to normal" is done with, or without, the passport. 🤷
they know everything until they know nothing.
imagine that the federal government has invested 50% of the 400 billion spent in health care instead of forcing people not to work.
> it is the beginning of an admission of failure by our globalist leaders.
on the contrary, they put their pockets in their pockets and were able to implement additional control measures on the population while paying for a nice little vacation at the taxpayer's expense (while the ti-poor are tearing each other apart. with the others, moreover ...).
and then hey, the big drug companies made tens of billions of dollars and didn't have to obey any laws anywhere on human experimentation with new processes. checke ben the contributions being made go to the political parties and to the "philanthropic" foundations of our "leaders" ...
bottom line, it's just a mega-scam.
thanks for the wink.
the annoying thing is that the more the facts prove that you are right and that you were better informed than the majority rather than misinformed, the more people hate you.
for example, i was blocked by a particularly toxic user after months of back and forth when i pointed out that my prediction for the peak of the spring wave came true. shouts on the verge of insult (always initiated by him by the way), that's fine ... but having to admit that the one he considered a fool spreading disinformation was right, it exceeded his limits.
i was right about:
* the arrival of a wave in the spring of 2021 and the moment of its peak
* the fact that the hospitalizations of the spring wave would not be as worse than those of the previous waves
* the fact that lifting the curfew would not trigger an epidemic rebound
* the fact that fabric and surgical masks were of questionable utility against aerosol transmission (laboratory proven, they only filter 10% of aerosols)
* the fact that natural immunity is as good, even stronger than vaccine immunity
* the fact that the virus is endemic
* the fact that vaccines would not bring herd immunity because their efficacy against transmission was too low
but being right before others does not restore my reputation, it only points some toxic users even more against me.
i would also like him to admit, that accepting that a part of the population does not want to be vaccinated is normal. now where we are in the pandemic, those who are not vaccinated will probably never be. they made their choices, can we stop stoning them in the public square? because this is a lack of leadership from our government.
yep. he just wants to prepare his gang which is emotionally invested in the "measures" that will have to be moved on. at least that is positive.
the problem is that it's been 18 months since "scientific consensus" was replaced by "media and institutional consensus". in short, the media and bureaucrats think of themselves as arbitrators of truth and information watchdogs against the threat of disinformation, and they even target senior experts if they say anything other than what they want. hear. the "scientific consensus" they claim to defend is fictitious, produced by the intimidation of scientists to force them to join it, and the ostracism and exclusion of those who refuse to bow.
not to mention the harassment campaigns by trolls on twitter, reddit and other social media to harass and intimidate experts who still dare to stand up for free debate and scientific facts.
i hope you are right because the alternative is worse.
he will not be able to go back immediately with his beautiful segregationist contraption.
if it's like in denmark which has had it since april and which will soon be withdrawing it, we left for 5 months of passport.
a withdrawal after the holidays might look good as a timing.
remindme! 5 months (do you work on all the subs this cossin)
we could all save time and tell ourselves right away: they don't know anything.
exactly what the federal government should have done for several years, pay the health transfers that the provinces badly need.
trudeau's management is a failure all along the line, let's hope the majority of canadians realize it and unload him on september 20.
i no longer see you on r / quebec. i'm curious, did you get a ban or just pick your fights?
it's as if i read myself ..... finally someone of sane! .... but when you are in the minority, you are wrong even if you are right .... why the government still pushes their publicity shout for the vaccine is insane ..... in fact it's because they don't want to admit that they are not qualified to run a province .... is there- there someone who knows if a country in the world has returned to "normal" ... not australia anyway;)
the loser of the debate is everyone who listened to it.
but what does antoine robitaille smoke?
make you push a column and ask for a democracy which is less of the shit than politicians with zingers in cane!
do you think trudeau won the debate?
he certainly hasn't lost it.
in my opinion he lost.
o'toole looked significantly worse, considering he can make gains in quebec he looked completely lost
o'toole was no better or less worse. there is only one loser: jagmeet singh.
justin is like an onion.
only showers of superficiality.
no content.
clearly we have not had the same reading of the debate. trudeau did not do better or worse. the only one who failed is jagmeet singh. the others, they neither improved nor worsened.
am you the only one here who is unable to listen to a leaders' debate without having the same reaction as when someone creaks on a board with their fingernails? the amount of fallacies, shortcuts, and silliness that the chefs swing among themselves literally provokes a physiological reaction to me so it annoys me. i'm not exaggerating, it's 100% true.
if that were only that .. a master class of fallacies, rhetoric and manipulation would be interesting, but the whole thing is gibbered in such poor french that it's just insulting to see it go.
it's a bit like watching theater, except the actors aren't that good.
seriously, what happened to the talent of a speaker.
televised debates are the bottom of the barrel of democracy.
no demonstration, only rhetoric. cut the floor and shout.
unfortunately, i agree with roof 100%. i have seen elementary school children persist with better arguments.
good question. ultimately i would tolerate the monotonous tone of a professor of geriatric philosophy if they had something intelligent to say, but that's too much to ask, apparently.
you speak of a bastard vocabulary to write that!
what do you do for a living, planting bombs in medical clinics?
1) it's not pro-abortion, it's pro-choice, like the government does not have to manage the bodies of women and all must have access to health care.
2) it's not anti-abortion, it's pro-rape, pro-poverty, pro-sexual slavery
even being pro abortion is broad and there are several levels of being pro abortion.
it doesn't have to be a means of contraception
and if we let the woman only choose sure no problem. let the father opt out of his role.
the question is not the right one, we must rather ask ourselves if we are for or against access to a safe abortion for pregnant people.
prohibition or criminalization is unlikely to reduce the number of abortions significantly, before its decriminalization in 1988, approximately 70,000 abortions were postponed annually in canada (this does not count all the non-postponed abortions, performed under possibly questionable). since 1988, there have been around 100,000 per year in canada. ([ danemark(
recriminalising abortion would probably just lead to a decrease in safe abortions (aka clinical, hospital or pharmacological) which would be offset by an increase in unsafe abortions, accompanied by the problems subsequent to these abortions.
nobody talks about it because there is almost unanimous consensus on the matter, even on a sub like this which has a few very religiously right-wing users (even nomos is pro-abortion / pro-choice).
so yes it reflects reality quite well.
i am generally pro-choice. that being said, i am uncomfortable with the idea of an abortion when the child could survive on its own outside of its mother's body, and if a party suggests a law limiting abortions at this stage of pregnancy, i wouldn't take offense, especially since it's common in europe to see laws limiting selective abortions to 14 or 18 weeks gestation.
i am also stunned to see how “pro-choice” activists adopt a downright “pro-abortion” discourse at times. [genre] ( but that doesn't call into question my position that abortion should be legal in general.
the right-thinking media do not want to broach the subject, but there is no social consensus in quebec on aberrations like sex-selective abortions and late (and unnecessary) abortions funded by taxpayers.
we could be very surprised at the results if we consulted the people.
i remind you that canada is one of the rare countries in the world (with a handful of asian communist dictatorships) that does not have any law governing abortion. even in sweden, there are legal limits on abortion!
100% anti-polls reddit
what worries me on this subject is how it seems relatively forbidden to talk about it. it's a little understandable, because there are misogynists who put everything on the fault of women ... but without falling into misogyny, there is still a real question to ask. abortion is a possibility offered by the medical industry. first of all, they already give the possibility of making genetic selection on humanity. indeed, if your child is supposed to have down's syndrome, they will warn you and suggest abortion. there are big questions to be asked about the impact it has to let people decide who will come into the world and who will not come into the world based on genetic characteristics that, in the end, are chosen by the medical industry. do you understand where the problem is? the medical industry is doing research to supposedly give people tools to make a choice on which child will be kept. there are people, for example, who have been told that they are expecting a child with down's syndrome ... twice. and both times it turned out to be wrong. medical error? possibly, this is an example of what is at stake. but what would have happened if it had indeed been down's syndrome? in this case, the family was ready, but giving birth to down's syndrome, maybe that's not what makes functional families, nor a particularly efficient society. maybe on the contrary, it is something that we should deal with differently. abortion has an influence on society, it is something that should be discussed and i only bring a point of view. on the other hand, before starting to say that it is necessary to supervise abortion, it would also be good to ensure that the parent is supervised, because it is not just the woman's responsibility to take care of a child. child. i'm not saying that you have to frame abortion, just that you have to have respect for people who want to discuss it (as long as it doesn't fall into misogyny) and stop burying the discussion. it is a medical procedure and we are entitled to ask questions.
i am already waiting for the stones, but excluding the infinitesimal scarecrow of pregnancies resulting from rape or incest to see the more realistic one of the fight against dysgenism, i am against abortion. i have never been convinced of the moral validity of the murder of healthy children who are just waiting to be born. my body, my choice? pregnant children have a unique genetic code that is independent from either the mother or the father. they are not an extension of the body of one of the two parents, they are beings in their own right. otherwise, if we follow this stupid logic, infanticide should be decriminalized, the nature of the child does not fundamentally change as soon as it crosses the cervix. if it is agreed that it is morally acceptable to smash a little toddler into a thousand pieces, tear off his limbs and crush his head a day before his birth, why is it not the case a day after? ? surely because killing children is disgusting, so you have to be consistent.
i am aware that in quebec we like to pretend that the debate is closed, but obviously this is not the case since abortion is not regulated by law. if the collective decision were so set in stone, we would have no problem establishing the scales surrounding the killing of unborn children.
yes i am against abortion. yes i am a believing christian. no i have no complex about it.
op could go live in texas and come back to give us some news.
yes i speak on behalf of all women and all human beings who have the right to decide what it is with their body / uterus.
i speak in the name of respect for the freedom of all indeed.
the fact that 40% of the responses are not pro-choice says a lot about this sub. not to mention the biased as fuck question.
pro-choice, not "pro-abortion". if my girlfriend got pregnant when it's not the right timing, i would still not be in favor of having an abortion, but the fucking choice is the same to her it's not me who is going to tear the bat to pass this . caliss
this sub has nothing to do with independence anymore. people are promoting the ppc but not the bloc. it is a sub of frustrated far right.
[deleted]
"1. my idea, which is clearly the best and the one that makes good sense, and the most human"
2. yours, which is horrible and wicked, anti-woman and tyrannical "
it's not that simple bozo. it's very pretentious and self-centered to see the world this way. people's values and ideas vary on several factors, not just "nice and nasty", seems to me that this should be done right out of high school, apart from the karens, of whom you have a similar discussion.
i don't even disagree so much, the government shouldn't be deciding whether a woman should keep her child or not, but it's just silly to see people that way
it's not at all black and white in life, the world makes me kid when they use pro ci anti that ... gain simplistic ...
abortion is a natural right so that you don't have to change your entire life when you mess up. or is a victim.
but, it must be well supervised. too many young people do not pay attention, some use it outright as a method of contraception, and we must seriously discuss the ethical side of accepting to change what the human being has always been.
far be it from me to defend anti-abortion positions, but i believe the author is first alluding to a consenting pregnancy of all kinds. reducing the debate to "bomb clinics" is almost censorship.
you still fall into conspiratorial clichés where the medical industry would fight in secret to perform abortions ... it's completely bewildering, and contradictory because a child with down's syndrome would cost much more in care than a healthy child.
abortion in the health system is ethically framed roughly equal to assisted suicide. the doctor who makes a diagnosis does not have the right to recommend an action to the mother and / or her family until it is decided before, and he can even give more details on the ease of treatment. live with down's syndrome today than 40 years ago.
we must stop with this bullshit seeing the experts as the instigators of bad faith. it is a blatant lack of confidence and a position that betrays the integration of certain groups of people into society.
go live in texas
we can immediately see with your language that you are closed in your ideas if you believe that abortion is having fun violently killing a child.
an embryo has no conscience, and i hope you don't attach religious importance to it. the goal of abortion is to prevent a child from starting his true existence in an environment that does not want him. many anti-choices put a lot of importance on the embryo, but do not give a damn about helping its living environment where it will have to grow up, putting the blame on the mother, while she finds herself in a difficult situation that she may not have had full control.
you see the pro-choicers as bloodthirsty, trying to think about the real life that the child will have to live.
i am so shocked by trudeau's politicization of the vaccine. he again said that the unvaccinated were a threat to children.
this is not only false but implicitly a call for violence. if your children are threatened you have the right to use force to protect them.
what makes it even more tragic is that the pandemic is over in the real world. it only continues in the imagination of the most frightened because of the completely stupid propaganda of the media.
and we have come to suspend the civil liberties of a minority because it is set up as scapegoats by the majority. i don't think people realize the gravity and the unprecedented historical nature of what is happening.
my performance ranking:
1. blanchet
2. o'toole
3. trudeau
4. singh
note: trudeau's abrasive and divisive discourse on the unvaccinated is scary for a government leader. just for that, he deserves to lose power.
trudeau starts out in good shape. we'll see if he holds.
the format is really cacophonous.
singh who does not differentiate between health protest and racism / homophobia ... goddamn ...
on youtube?
> i am so shocked by trudeau's politicization of the vaccine. he again said that the unvaccinated were a threat to children.
i will be told that i am exaggerating, but i remember the anti-semites of the middle ages who let it run [rumors that jews kidnapped christian children and sacrificed them in their temples] ( wiki / blood_libel).
telling a population that an identifiable minority endangers their children by their very existence has a very long and dark history.
i had the same feeling. trudeau's speech scares me. he is not worthy of being in power. he deserves a good election beating, and i hope that is what will happen.
> he again said that the unvaccinated are a threat to children.
and he also said that the fourth wave is a wave of the unvaccinated and that we should not stop having elections because of a 20% of unvaccinated.
so if i understand correctly, by calling an election, trudeau is a threat to children according to trudeau. in their narrative, going to vote in person is going to be risky for our children.
trudeau has the advantage of attacking the protesters since he probably has to gather all the pro-measures. he has no benefit from soliciting the unvaccinated 20% who would not vote for him anyway.
> note: trudeau's abrasive and divisive discourse on the unvaccinated is scary for a government leader. just for that, he deserves to lose power.
he deserves to be prosecuted criminally for incitement to hatred on the basis of article 319 of the criminal code.
trudeau was demolished from the start. consequently, he divided canadians over the question of the vaccine. for me it's a big lack of leadership.
singh it wasn't bad just empty sentences a bit like o'toole
on video:
not on youtube
tokebekicitte! ️
unfortunately you are not exaggerating. one of the problems we have is that people in general were born during the post-1945 golden age and that they forget an irreducible truth of civilization:
history is tragic.
misfortunes and disasters will befall us. it is not because we all have smartphones that we are incapable of the worst acts of barbarism.
**[blood libel]( 
 >blood libel or ritual murder libel (also blood accusation) is an antisemitic canard which falsely accuses jews of murdering christian children (or other gentiles) in order to use their blood in the performance of religious rituals. historically, echoing very old myths of secret cultic practices in many prehistoric societies; the claim as it is leveled against jews, was rarely attested to in antiquity. it was however, frequently attached to early communities of christians in the roman empire, reemerging as a christian accusation against jews in the medieval period.
^([ )[^(f.a.q)]( | )[^(opt out)]( | )[^(opt out of subreddit)]( | )[^(github)]( ] downvote to remove | v1.5)
it's really scary because justin sunshine trudeau has a very, very radical and brutal speech.
i am not vaxx. i had the covid.
i will go and get vaxx to travel but when it comes to living in my own country i do not accept being brutalized to have me injected anything particularly because anyone who knows how to count knows very well that the benefit of the vaccine is exclusive to the vaccinated person.
hearing trudeau talk about "privileges" made him sound dictatorial.
this is why the bloc must take its 4% lead so as to give us a minority pcc government.
well, he's not completely wrong since 3/4 of the last covid19 hospitalizations were unvaccinated cases. he's not completely right, but not completely wrong either.
indeed that is the bet he is making. that does not prevent the fact that it is dangerous speech to baselessly accuse a minority of "threatening your children".
if it collects all of the promises it suggests that there is a fairly low ceiling for "promises".
absolutely.
the x axis is not graduated. this graph can justify any interpretation. graduate your axis hosts.
may well have 40 million more cases and will always have fewer deaths.
i would be curious how many deaths on average alberta have per year from the flu and average over 18 months.
if we get to 2300 deaths why would we panic if we have the same number of deaths. it's gonna be annual and 1500 people a year gonna die thats all
alberta has generally done very well so far ... maybe that's why they're having a big wave right now (british columbia too for that matter, as well as the two north american states. west, [oregon] ( and [washington] ( which did never seriously relaxed the measures). the waves seem very regional, the northeast of america also sees a very moderate wave at the moment, just like us. is it because of the management of the crisis or simply because they have already given in previous waves (just like us)?
alberta's approach right now is not based on controlling the epidemic, but relying on the vaccination to make the wave manageable without causing too much damage. if alberta fails, it's going to be a bad sign for the ability of vaccination to end the crisis for good.
keep vaxxing, there will be more variants.
luc montagnier nobel 2008
i wanted to post the one from quebec next to where the bump is almost invisible but this sub allows a single photo.
check out radio can to compare. it's very obvious that things are not going well in alberta.
these stats are rubbish, cmon kevin, there is no disease caliss cabochon ciborium at 70 qi ...
i wondered where they were, the anti-vaccines had almost convinced me. 😅
see you looked for sweden? since august 31, the measures no longer exist. the result was immediate. 😉
[deleted]
to clarify, i know it's not the op's chart, but i'm pushing my mark in his direction so that he routes it to whom it may concern.
these are days since the start of the pandemic. it's written on the site but i just screenshot the graphics zoomed in
the problem is the number of intensive care units that cause a lot of collateral death beyond a certain threshold, because it jams the system, delays operations and prevents treating people with other illnesses. their number of intensive care has exploded beyond 100 already, and this in a province which has half of our population, with no sign of slowing down.
i also show these numbers in the photo
the vaccination rate in alberta is very low.
zzzzz
in bc the curve is the same and they have not taken away your favorite measures.
it's cherry picking.
just yesterday they were praising the great successes of alberta. go on the alberta sub it's panic. and the prime minister has been missing for 3 weeks. presumably on vacation outside
within a few weeks / months, the curve in quebec will do exactly the same thing, vaccine or without vaccine, measures or without measures. it would start to be the time to consecrate the population's patience and turn to the disastrous management of the health system.
you cut out the most important part. i give you a 10% penalty and you have until tomorrow 3pm to give me the corrected version. disgusted.
it is lower than in quebec, but it is not particularly low. on a per capita basis, they delivered just about 10% less dose than quebec, and british columbia has the same vaccination rate as quebec, but is experiencing a wave just a little smaller than that of alberta.
you were the one who spoke about alberta yesterday. i respond to those who brought it to me as an argument, i said that i had not followed everywhere and that i would watch
i'm watching right now, my stomach hurts. 😅
i am sure my cell i put what fit in the screen while remaining readable. it's on the canada google radio site "follow real-time covid".
we see that mbc is rather cautious in his criticism of health measures but we feel it rather moderate and against endless passports and confinements.
i really think that the accusation of "conspiracy" is a kind of rhetorical smoke bomb the object of which is to confuse or even stifle public debate on covid.
it is used to immediately associate any criticism with near mental illness among many, while the "real" conspirators are largely in the minority and even marginalized.
mbc does not underline enough in my opinion the very great radicalization of the government and its supporters who for 18 months continuously violate the constitution, the fundamental rights of citizens and who for only a few weeks have established vaccine segregation without scientific argument and push employers to introduce a form of compulsory vaccination.
there is a sort of obsessive vaccine idolatry and a frightening dehumanization of a minority at work.
the original sin in this pandemic is essentially the following: on the one hand, having exaggerated the severity of the disease and not having explained the stratification of risk according to age. on the other hand, having succeeded in imprinting in people's minds the superstitious belief that non-pharmaceutical human interventions would "control" the epidemic.
add a layer of successive cynical government scapegoat designations and here we are.
> there is a sort of obsessive vaccine idolatry and a frightening dehumanization of a minority at work.
after that you wonder why we do not take the conspirator seriously.
there is nothing "conspiracy" in these words, only observations. you may disagree with these, but an accusation of "conspiracy" is stupid, unfortunately it is the result of the intellectual shortcut created by this hype around the term "conspirators" to ridicule and remove from the debate public anyone who criticizes the government and its approach.
you talk about "scientific consensus", you're going to have to tell us how you are so sure you know what scientific consensus is. it's always funny that those who say "believe the experts" always know what the experts believe and say, and it always just happens to be in tune with their own ideas!
the reality is that a scientific consensus must be built on data, the data on the effectiveness of the containment approach is not that strong, for every study that says containment is useful, another says it is not, and the few benefit-cost studies show that containment has an excessively unfavorable benefit-cost ratio.
we could talk about anders tegnell, the swedish public health chief who continues to defend his management approach without containment and mask, and currently [sweden is having a normal summer with fewer cases than virtually all other european countries] ( : //ourworldindata.org/explorers/coronavirus-data-explorer? zoomtoselection = true & time = 2021-05-27..latest & facet = none & pickersort = desc & pickermetric = total_cases & hidecontrols = true & metric = confirmed + cases & interval = 7-day + rolling + to + average & relative population = true & align + outbreaks = false & country = swe ~ fin ~ nor ~ deu ~ fra ~ esp ~ gbr ~ ita ~ dnk ~ european + union). isn't he a scientist? is he not opposed to the containment + mask approach? doesn't that show that there is no consensus?
we could also talk about martin kulldorf, a harvard public health expert, strongly critical of containment. or john ioannidis, emeritus epidemiologist at stanford university, who also criticizes the containment measures. are they not scientists?
"there is a scientific consensus ... as long as we exclude the scientists who do not agree." it's not the club argument you think it is.
if you follow the mainstream media and social media "influencers" there is consensus, but because conflicting information is ignored, "experts" who don't say what reporters want to hear are no longer reminded. a consensus based on the exclusion of anyone who does not think the same, no matter the arguments or the facts, is not a consensus, it is an echo chamber.
where is the plot in there?
explain to you how we try to vaccinate everyone without exception even if (1) the risks of covid are stratified very very strongly according to age and (2) that the vaccines do not prevent transmission and cannot lead to "collective immunity"?
where is the reason in it? where is the seriousness? you can repeat hollow slogans as much as you want that doesn't make them any less hollow.
the reason? the serious?
the vaccine is shown and has never even been promoted by its manufacturers to prevent transmission.
0-19 in quebec we have 0 deaths from covid in 18 months and 20-29, 11, 30-39, 22, 40-49, 45, 50-59, 215 etc ... we do not vaccinate 0-49 if it does not prevent transmission but causes a risk let's see 1 + 1 = 2
> 1) the risks of covid are stratified very very strongly according to age and (2) that vaccines do not prevent transmission and cannot lead to "collective immunity"?
just that, comment objectively against the scientific consensus, against what we know about viruses and vaccines, it shows how much you do not even understand the basis of how a vaccine works, how evolves and how virus is spread.
it's just disheartening, and the worst part is that you think you are the minority who really understand the problem.
there's just nothing to do, you live in a paradigm completely out of step with reality
you only demonstrate your ignorance.
infection survival rates :
0-19 = 99.9973 %
20-29 = 99.986 %
30-39 = 99.969 %
40-49 = 99.918 %
50-59 = 99.73 %
60-69 = 99.41 %
70 + = 94.5 %
just tell me it's not stratified by age.
something else. given the r⁰ ~ 8 for delta and an efficacy of 66% against infection which decreases over time depending on:
collective immunity is impossible according to the head of the oxford vaccine group. are those who designed the astrazeneca there?
feque spare me your condescension because it is only based on your lack of intellectual rigor. you're just late.
w ... t ... f ... 78 deaths in quebec under 49 out of 11,000+ and you contradict that it is stratified ?!
he's not the one who says that it doesn't prevent transmission and that herd immunity is now, once everyone is vaccinated "out of reach lol", it's the cdc, the who, the nih, fauci, israel ....
man i'm really scared when i see people ready to promote their opinion as the truth when they don't understand absolutely nothing ...
the us is gone, go booster shot (3rd vaccine) for all, israel 3rd vaccine or you lose your vaccine passport ... and people continue to put their heads in the sand like an ostrich, hoping that the difficulty will avoid them. ..
the worst part is that these poor people think they are well informed. they support segregation on the basis of pseudoscientific propaganda and drape themselves in virtue.
fucking clown world.
it should always be remembered that the majority of decision-makers are old, ie 60+. they are afraid and do everything to reassure themselves by imposing unnecessary restrictions to bully the young people of their youth. no study shows that wearing a mask reduces the transmission of the virus, disinfecting the hands every two minutes does not change the transmission as well. only that by disinfecting the hands, it will cause damage to the hands in the long term. and the vaccine passport, as many others have mentioned is only a form of population control and although the government does not make the vaccine mandatory, it does so subtly by denying access to the premises. entertainment. a vaccinated and unvaccinated person can both catch and spread the chinese virus.
the passport is a constraint instituted by woke imbeciles who look to the usa and france to find ways to piss off the world. even if 100% were vaccinated, there would still be cases .... we are not ready to end it. end of 2022 at least. good luck to all .
yes but we can now say of [young people under 30 years old] ( now. 🤡
so yes, young people under 100 are congesting hospitals. 🤡
hmm, it's more convenient for the big hypochondriac clown to show the data separated between vaxx and unvaxx on the other hand.
i would like you to stop thinking for yourself, please, it's clearly your fault that we are still in a pandemic.
freedom comes through submission, obviously.
it's nice to see that there are still people who are not under the hypnosis of the government and the media! in my entourage, i have the impression that everyone finds it normal what happens. it freaks me out that they don't see the manipulation going on.
you worse your logic, go hide yourself damn it! quebec stepmothers don't like to be contradicted.
thank you for this comparison which illustrates once again how the government interprets the numbers as they see fit in order to continue their speech of fear and manipulate the masses. it's really despicable, shame on them.
broadly agree, but i have to add a caveat. for masks, there are a few observational studies that went back and forth, some saw a correlation between wearing the mask and reduced contamination, others didn't. there, a prospective study was carried out in bangladesh on a total population of more than 300,000 people which concluded to:
* a statistically significant 10% reduction in symptomatic infections with masks
* the reduction was only 5% in villages using cloth masks, and it was statistically insignificant
* the reduction was 11% in villages with surgical masks and it was statistically significant
mask fanatics hailed this study for proving an effect, but in fact, if the study has a statistically significant effect, the estimated effect is tiny, just 10% fewer infections over two months. not to mention that a study of this size is known to generate type i errors (excluding the null hypothesis by mistake, therefore concluding that there is a significant effect when there is none).
my interpretation of the study is that it seems to demonstrate some effectiveness, especially for surgical masks rather than fabric masks, but that effectiveness is minimal, at a level where one can reasonably wonder if it's really worth it, especially insofar as the virus will be endemic and therefore we can assume that in the end, everyone will go through it, which would mean that the mask only delays the moment of infection very slightly, but does not reduce not in the end the number of hospitalizations or total deaths that will be attributed to covid (unlike a treatment that would also have the effect of reducing mortality by 10%, which would be worthwhile because it would save lives in the end).
in short, even if the study seems to indicate a slight effect, the decision as to whether this effect is worth the trouble of implementing mask wearing obligations is still not necessary.
grave the old people are so afraid that they will say anything.
esti that the media have the gift of pumping us with their misinformation.
i would like to see an article on babies who die of the flu this winter, i think that would make a nice report. a blow gone, why not pump the fear thoroughly? article of children who die on the front page every day, let's cover all diseases.
then the cases of rsv are on the big increase in quebec, soon they will surely tell us about the children who are hospitalized by the rsv who are also exposed to the covid virus in hospital and test positive and they will pump fear afterwards. saying that it is the variants that hospitalize children.
he also likes to include children under 12 when separating data between vaxx and unvaxx. we see above that young people are a significant percentage of cases. it helps boost the case numbers for the unvaxx group.
squeal well said.
the unvaxxed at this point is a bogeyman
a simple question and their whole house of cards collapses; how is it that after 1 year + in a pandemic, a variant that appears in india ends up on the other side of the earth, in quebec?
your safety and that of your parents is not their priority.
very well said. if only more people understood this logic.
question like this: if a young person is hospitalized for rsv and tests positive for covid in the hospital ... is it counted as "covid hospitalization"?
it is so disgusting the current campaign to make parents believe that delta and the unvaxx are going to kill their children.
speaking of "booster" (read english), pharmaceuticals are pushing for a boost in the usa anyway (3rd dose) .... its all about money ... pharmaceuticals have so much power, they dictate to the government what to do ... they sign agreements with the various governments that they will not be held responsible for possible side effects ... the kings are the pharmaceuticals.
yep. what matters to them in the end is politically surviving the pandemic. even if it involves lengthening it psychologically and violating our rights.
the lack of transparency from the inspq about the counting of the number of covid hospitalizations makes me really not sure.
this is the case in the uk anyway.
personally, it is the speeches of justin trudeau who present the unvaccinated as threats to public health that endanger the vaccinated and their children that disgust me the most. presenting a minority as a threat to public health has been a prized tactic of hate demagoguery governments for millennia. and in addition, he is pushing for vaccine passports to ensure that this minority is easily identifiable and to increase the chances that they will be victims of harassment, insults and discrimination of all kinds.
i'm not kidding, i believe justin trudeau should be indicted for incitement to hatred under [section 319 of the criminal code] ( -46 / section-319-20030101.html), but there would have to be a lawyer with balls to do it.
i am okay. trudeau's statements are so false and demagogic. the problem is, the propaganda machine is completely delusional. this is not going to end well. politicians must let go. people will become violent.
give more to disabled people unable to work, moreover in a simplified way, anytime. on the other hand for the régis des rentes ca works more less since it is a plan to which one contributes unequally. you contribute a lot, you withdraw the maximum, you contribute little, you withdraw the minimum. especially since no one should expect the régis des rentes to meet all of their needs. in retirement, to live well you need a pension, investments, rrsps. then it's not out of reach, a little $ 20 per week in the solidarity fund is not bad after 35 years.
as for the kilometer tax, we already have it: p yes, taxes constitute [50% of the price of fuel] ( international-markets / transportation-fuel-prices / fuel-consumption-taxes-canada / 18885). the more i use my vehicle, the more i consume, the more i am taxed. so i am not sure that taxing the use of a taxed vehicle that consumes five times taxed fuel all paid for with taxed money at source increases the quality of the roads or reduces the associated costs. these sums, if collected by the government would melt like snow in the sun with no apparent benefit.
you have the right to give your opinion ...
why i support the first proposition: an unconditional basic income would allow those who want it to continue working in order to earn more money (and therefore to continue paying taxes), the system would pay for itself , unlike the current system which is struggling with an aging population.
why i support the second proposition: i am realistic, i know that kilometer pricing is the only way to have well-maintained roads in quebec (therefore less maintenance costs for our vehicles). if you add a decongestion charge during peak hours, you can easily afford to waive registration and driver's license fees and maybe even the tax on the purchase of a vehicle. as a bonus, we would have clear roads at all times, so the highway would remain what it is supposed to be, a fast lane!
what do you think? i posted this to get your opinion and talk about other things than the covid!: d
contre base on anything the government touch turn to shit
no to both.
do you want something simpler?
everyone, regardless of their situation, must contribute.
we identify and assess the capacities of each and everyone and we adjust according to what people bring. without putting a direct number or too rational logic. an artist can contribute a lot in a different way and that's crucial. an average basis to ensure the survival of those who do not help in principle but to encourage all those who can participate to do so. the problem these days is the lack of action in the face of problems which are nevertheless within easy reach of being solved. the system is unable to adapt in due course.
> on the other hand for the régis des rentes ca works less since it is a plan to which one contributes unequally. you contribute a lot, you withdraw the maximum, you contribute little, you withdraw the minimum. especially since no one should expect the régis des rentes to meet all of their needs. in retirement, to live well you need a pension, investments, rrsps. then it's not out of reach, a little $ 20 per week in the solidarity fund is not bad after 35 years.
and here is the problem! in the end, the government gives more financial assistance to those who have made the most money in their lifetime, which does not make sense! in reality, this money comes from new taxpayers, those who have children will not receive more than those who do not, despite having contributed to this new workforce. i agree that part of the retirement fund has to come from the worker's investments / savings, so someone who earns more can put more aside, but i am against this pyramid scheme which favors the richest and does not not reward those who feed this pyramid .;)
> as for the kilometer tax, we already have it: p yes, taxes constitute 50% of the price of fuel. the more i use my vehicle, the more i consume, the more i am taxed. so i am not sure that taxing the use of a taxed vehicle that consumes five times taxed fuel all paid for with taxed money at source increases the quality of the roads or reduces the associated costs. these sums, if collected by the government would melt like snow in the sun with no apparent benefit.
the fuel tax does not take into account the hybrid / electric cars which are more and more popular and which will be the only vehicles sold from 2035. yes, the govt has not disclosed to us its famous plan for that. . obviously, if we had a kilometer tax, the state would have to pass a law to guarantee that the tax revenues are invested in the roads!
> i know that kilometer pricing is the only way to have well-maintained roads in quebec
why would a kilometer rate work more than if the same money were raised by taxes and license fees and driver's licenses?
i'm really not a fan, but i hate being "cenné".
seems to me that it's more pleasant to live without constantly having an expense meter running through your head.
cars are also often not the ones that damage the road, but the big trucks. if they paid their share more and passed the bill on to consumers, then we would have more of a user-pays effect.
but in your approach you estimate that the cost would be high enough to clear the roads. i doubt it, without public transport to replace, people will just deprive themselves elsewhere before depriving themselves in automobile expenses. if we really went into the kilometer cennage, it would be in our interest to have as many cars as possible at all times since they pay and hardly damage the road. once there we could do as some places for electricity and charge less outside peak hours etc.
unfortunately, that's life :/
> the fuel tax does not take into account hybrid / electric cars which are increasingly popular and which will be the only vehicles sold from 2035.
it's not the cars that break the roads, it's the trucks. and they will stay on gas for a long time to come.
exactly. the disabled cannot claim the privileges of a worker because they are not even fit to work. it is completely contradictory. as long as i am, a disabled person would receive the equivalent of the average salary in quebec after taxes
> why would a kilometer rate work more than if the same money were collected by taxes and license fees and driver's licenses?
the registration and driving license fees are far from sufficient, for the tax no one wants to pay and that's the problem!
> i'm really not a fan, but it's because i hate being "cenné".
>  
> seems to me that it's more pleasant to live without constantly having an expense meter running through your head.
i suggest that we charge only the freeways, so you can avoid the tolls if you are in no rush, otherwise you will probably be happy to pay a fee to get to your destination on time.
> cars are often also not the ones that damage the road, but large trucks. if they paid their share more and passed the bill on to consumers, then we would have more of a user-pays effect.
indeed, but it must have a system to detect when these trucks are on the road. the kilometer tax takes into account the type of vehicle, so the trucker pays more per km than the motorist.
> but in your approach you estimate that the cost would be high enough to clear the roads. i doubt it, without public transport to replace, people will just deprive themselves elsewhere before depriving themselves in automobile expenses. if we really went into the kilometer cennage, it would be in our interest to have as many cars as possible at all times since they pay and hardly damage the road. once there we could do as some places for electricity and charge less outside peak hours etc.
i am not sure that the congestion tax can make all the expenses profitable, but i propose that the tax revenue be redistributed to motorists. the purpose of this tax is precisely to ensure that fewer people use the road by increasing prices during peak hours (at one point there is a limit to what we are willing to pay!) :)
lol, the trucks are already running on a reserved lane specially designed for heavy vehicles, if we increased the tax on diesel they would just have to refuel elsewhere and it would kill local businesses.
they don't always drive on reserved lanes.
* by concentrating in it the image of a possible role, the star, the spectacular representation of the living man, therefore concentrates this banality. the star condition is the specialization of apparent lived experience, the object of identification with apparent life without depth, which must compensate for the fragmentation of productive specializations actually lived. *
\ -guy debord, the society of the spectacle
a nobody who complained would have been flushed the next nanosecond.
it's been like this for decades, princess durocher had to endure it for us to talk about it .... really?
you need the hammerhead pie to tell you. criss get up you're minister of health and go see. no need to see if en beauce is used in french.
if she was dead, would we have failed as much as we did for joyce?
poor little mourrial eh, it doesn't fly high ...
well done for guy debord's quote ... it sounds like a lot of stuff, but it's clearly beyond my comprehension abilities ... or he's a very bad teacher.
it's clear, it's not as if the minister of health had something else to do right now than to come and visit for each complaint. / s
i think the minister of health has other things to do during a pandemic. i am extremely satisfied with his handling of the situation, a liberal minister would never have made this effort.
guy debord is quite heavy and it took me a few readings to understand but in short:
* what tv does is a commodity $$$$$
* veudette = merchandise = $$$$$
* what looks at her is not worth the m .... because it is not a commodity.
* veudette which has an event = $$$$$ (veudette dlc). it's like putting new chrome mags on a tank.
conclusion:
1 million people who have an event = $ 0 \ * 1,000,000 = $ 0.
a tag that has the same event = $$$$$$$$.
so the minister is traveling for the tank (veudette) with the new mags (not served in french).
hard to be brief but that's about it. on the other hand, he discovered the secret of infinite cash: tv that speaks to itself (show a which invites b and show b which invites a)!
haha! hey if you do a real literary column on the entertainment company that would be excellent! i tried to read it one day but after spending 2 chapters having to reread each sentence 2-3 times i got tired ...
> ◆ may 21: seizure of firearms as part of the malsain project. 6 weapons, seized, carl lehoux-allaire accused of trafficking in prohibited weapons.
were the weapons registered? 🤔
must be because of systematic racism or choi
worse climate change. but the three are linked.
i laught
what they are stupid these conspirators anyway.
i read "constipationists".
it must be said that it is really in bad taste!
i thought the greens were working for their priority: the environment.
ecofeminism? what is this new delirium ?!
"against all odds"
what a surprise i did not expect it at all.
we don't care about the greens in qc and the qc doesn't care about the greens.
their two deputies are coming out of the maritimes, but it's smart on their part. it's getting people talking about them.
whether it is for good or for bad, what counts for a party that we do not care about is to talk about them.
i think it's strategic to get on the map. whether we find stupid what is said or not is another story.
a new buzzword from sandra paul.
it means to put a tree in the ass to fight the parachuting or whatever ... the case where the guys control the women with the pink razors ...
"in green and against all" ? 🤷
interesting. i'm sure our four clounes will do _at least_ as well tonight.
today is a very dark day in the history of quebec.
the prime minister sets up a system of segregation for his own citizens.
we will not let it go.
and no restrictions lifted in the businesses that will apply it.
the targeted businesses will discover the joys of entropy.
some foreigners on temporary visits will have more privileges when they get off the plane than hundreds of thousands of quebecers.
getting vaccinated is not complicated. the real horror is that we are still caught with all these measures because of the stubborn egotists who refuse the vaccination.
"but it will take a booster every year" yeah pis. it takes 5 minutes. whining caliss pu capable
meanwhile in denmark: 
> with 71.6% of the population fully vaccinated, the scandinavian country of 5.8 million inhabitants should soon find a daily life similar to that before the pandemic.
september 10, the date chosen by the executive to lift all restrictions, after having already relegated the mask to oblivion in mid-august, it will no longer be required at all.
the epidemic is under control, we have record vaccination rates, health minister magnus heunicke assured friday, justifying the lifting of restrictions.
remember that the vaccination rate in quebec is among the highest in the world, now 80.8% of people adequately vaccinated. despite this, legault still maintains the health emergency and continues in its totalitarian drift, while the sheep people approve and ask for more.
will you come to understand that the authoritarian attitude of the government is counterproductive !? i hesitated for a long time to take my second dose, why? because i felt like i was being pushed in the ass and i don't appreciate that for a second, especially when it comes to a medical decision. so i educated myself, read the studies, calculated what the risks of the vaccine versus the risks of the disease were, and ended up going, but after quite a bit more consideration than if the government would have grumbled with patience. because you see, when i get pushed in the ass to do something, it doesn't encourage me to do it, it rather arouses my suspicion. i believe that i am far from being the only one.
so, please slack your udders gang of tabarnak germaines.
it's just three weeks, why are you panicking.
it's just a mask.
it's just a 28 day challenge.
it's just christmas.
it's just a one-month curfew.
it's just a vaccine.
it's just a vaccine every six months.
aye bodé, there is a very high proportion of the unvaccinated who would go in 15 minutes if we told them the end of the measures.
explain to me again how vaccination is freedom without looking like a complete jerk.
good chan.
the only reason we are caught with measures is people like you who do not understand that the measures are unnecessary and imposed by the government for political reasons.
we are talking about boosting every 5 months
> the real horror is that we are still caught with all these measures because of the stubborn selfish people who refuse the vaccination.
vaccinated people spread the virus just as much as unvaccinated people.
ah that's all it takes to make all our problems go away ... take the injection and poof, pfizer has never bribed doctors to sell its drugs. pouf, humans are happy without being in a family environment. poof, there was never any hate speech in the newspapers. poop, mk-ultra was just a joke. pouf, you could actually make cellular calls at an altitude of over 1000 meters by plane before 2003. pouf, governments are transparent. pouf, they lived happily and had all their injections.
i have a lot of unease when a gang that screams for the vaccination is also the same that has nothing to say when people wait in the emergency 10-15 hours, if it is not closed (hello urgencies!) . hospital capacity at 403%? yeah, worse? are you sleeping in the hallway? ha! ha! sucker!
i have my memory pre-march 2020 still very fresh and there are currently too many virtuous hypocrites who were scolding the population before the pandemic who are going out of doors for my taste.
"very strong"
no. squeal not. you're starting to disrespect so i'll stop it there. you argue with your emotions, not your head.
"policy components"
> "but it will take a booster every year" yes pis. it takes 5 minutes. whining caliss pu capable
you
also you: duh ... you speak with your emotions !!!
lmao. go back and get your neighbor scanned and haired, that makes you a good citizen ^^^ tm
i men caliss of the vaccine, my position on the measures has never in relation to the caliss of vaccine, but the esti of orwellian nightmare in which one finds oneself because of this one. you will notice that i am not targeting you personally, because i have the values in the right place and i forgive you for not knowing what you are doing.
seriously are you an automaton?
you don't need a conspiracy to see the government rule by polls with complete nonsense of logic and science.
do you think you are sophisticated at throwing up slogans circulated in a loop by the press?
wow i give you 10/10.
hate the sin. love the sinner.
what about the rest of the planet?
yes, the collective psychosis has affected most of the countries of the west.
except that there are literally hundreds of experts who are against the kind of policies you support in the name of your knowledge of absolute truth.
i thought it was going to be a lot more serious considering the title of your post.
what exactly do we blame for its transparency? because we have much worse every day.
it is understandable, la journaliste wanted to ask her questions about the "wrong think" she had ... which has no turmoil here ...
maxime bernier, i'm not capable, the conspirators get on my nerves ... but, the lady has the right to do what she wants without eating a fish tank for her political ideas and without having to justify her business ... so yfb has to kill this before it goes on the smear campaign.
what they criticize him for is not letting the deputy fall into the journalist's insidious questions. worse since it's radio-canada they had to blame something.
i am very impressed by the abysmal stupidity of minister cairo in this matter. you have to have a lot of talent to screw up so completely.
we can understand that the minister does not appreciate that his team passes for patent incompetent following a leak in the media concerning the vulnerabilities of the application of the health passport ... but the stupid reaction of the minister will ensure encourage the proliferation of such leaks in the future because the white hat will refuse to speak directly to the government to fix the problems and will instead go to journalists. gorgeous.
i've been working in computer security for thirty years and i've never seen a gang as bad as this gang. frankly more two of spades than that, it's hard to beat.
if you can't be a hero become a villain
minister cairo is not stupid. he has a mandate from his boss legault: nobody can show a weakness in his vaccination passport publicly.
the population does not have the right to know that his system is not secure because that shows how he governs like a cabochon family man.
he doesn't care legault whether it works or not so much people don't know it. he is not concerned that people may have fake vaccine passports.
eric caire has always had the reputation of a legendary idiot, and this since the electoral campaign of 2018 which saw the caq bring to power. gabriel nadeau-dubois was one of the most combative to raise his stratospheric stupidity.
the minister for digital transformation does not have the slightest idea, experience, knowledge, knowledge, pragmatism, notion - in short, an absolute incompetent - of the subject to which his position falls, to then expel any
contribution of real competent citizens.
paradoxically, china treats its citizens the same.
"the man points at the moon, but the idiot will see only the finger" - gabriel nadeau-dubois to éric caire.
we can stop the euphemisms. these are criss de tarlas and ostis of incompetent people who will have to be removed from their posts. eric caire, it is a waste who lied on his cv by inventing to have a university degree, and he was propelled minister tabarnak.
what do we expect? he's the kind of person who spawned the "technologically retarded duck."
but where is the problem? what critical information could hackers extract by the application? although it is easy to create fake passports, they will not be of any use. especially since the fake passports were created in large part from information published voluntarily on social networks. at that point, it is a bit of their problem as well.
well, you're still euphemistically.
the problem is the lies of the government and and the way the government tries to silence any opinion / information that sheds light on its lies / false information.
it is an extremely serious problem and it erodes democracy. the national assembly is not of much use in this case because there has never been a situation in the history of qc where the government has taken emergency measures for a year and a half and is not justified in the face of it. national assembly.
neither do we, by the way ...
so hahaha
she's a very smart woman in this case
mbc makes a good diagnosis.
for trudeau and the liberals, "to be a canadian is to be a liberal and to be a liberal is to be a canadian". trudeau's favorite formula is to say that the ideas and behaviors he does not approve of "have no place in canada". i also agree that the best outcome of the election would be a minority conservative where they would be able to survive with the support of the bloc.
as to why the liberals went into election so disorganized ... i believe they believed they could ride the popularity of governments because of the patriotism generated by the covid crisis, and also because they fear an epidemic resumption in september that would make them look bad, the people who claim that vaccines will end the epidemic in canada. however, in fact, the canadian government has signed supply contracts for vaccines until 2024, with options to extend them, and enough to vaccinate the entire canadian population each year.
this suggests that, despite trudeau's promises, the federal government is banking on:
1. vaccination will not produce herd immunity
2. vaccine immunity worsens within months, requiring regular re-vaccination
and he is betting billions of dollars on those eventualities. the words are inconsistent with the actions, and liberal supporters become hysterically angry when called back. we already see the liberal mods of r / canadapolitics cleaning up anyone who contradicts the liberal narrative too effectively, we can see the panic that sets in.
the best scenario is that the bloc can chip away at the advance of the plc in quebec, the only province where the party is ahead, to end up with a minority conservative government.
the worst scenario: a new element brings the plc back to a majority situation
so much the better.
i hate the conservatives and their politicians who want to turn society back 150 years.
but between them and trudeau, i believe they win by default.
except that the bloc more often supports the liberals than the conservatives. i will never understand this illusion that quebeckers have that the bloc and the ccp are natural allies, but this is not really the case.
from a truly conservative point of view, it is hard to see the difference between the conservative party and the liberal party. just the other day, i saw an ad from o'toole who was at pride celebrating “sexual diversity”.
[ outre( 150 years ago, really?
the ccp is roughly center-right economically, center-left socially.
the conservatives are less centralizing than the liberals and are more open to listening to quebec's demands for autonomy. and if they are in the minority, they will not be able to act in the social field without compromise with a progressive party or with the liberals.
do not.
sorry, but this is absolutely wrong.
if we come back to our stephen "erections" harper, he has twice tried to reopen the abortion debate. which has been law in canada since 1988.
once with his law which would cause an individual who kills a pregnant woman to be charged with double murder (therefore, the fetus is a life according to the law, etc) and another time with his 4th trio deputy, stephen woodworth, who tried to reopen the debate directly.
that is if we ignore the fact that the conservatives are actively working against any climate regulation, when they choose not to ignore it outright.
[
[
we must not kid ourselves here. conservatives are anti-social progress and anti-evolution.
😂 "socially left center". the leader may be socially central, but much of the rest of the pack is clearly conservative on this point.
62 voted against the ban on conversions of lgbt therapies (thus more than half of the caucus), they tried to reopen the debate on abortion and voted in majority for the motion in question just before the end of the session parliament, about fifteen conservative candidates openly question climate change and the importance of tackling it, etc.
translation: nothing will ever happen in the house of commons and we will have to go back to the polls in 2 years again. i pray that if a conservative government is to be elected, that it will have a majority.
i do not see what is conservative in not conserving the environment. it is not a conservative position. it is more of progressivism; the logic of the infinite development of an increasingly destructive modernity. note, on climate issues, nobody does anything sincere, because there are too many big business interests that have their hands in the pockets of the political class. in terms of the environment, it is almost desirable to go back 150 years, before the damn tanks, and oil, overconsumption, and the paradigm of infinite growth that is promoted by each party, from "right" to from the left. you can vote for the ndp if you want, but even they will tell you that we have to grow the economy, and inevitably, that means messing up our resources and the world that nature has left us and that a true conservative would like to protect against change. other than that they just stick around on dirty environmental taxes and rates, but they agree that he has to be fucked up.
the issue of abortion is a bit of a false issue that we use to bash the ccp. it is a bit of the kind of workhorse that the media allied with the plq choose to give the impression of a real difference. nothing and no one in canada can ban abortion, at least until the demographics of canada change dramatically in several decades, because of leftist immigration policies. o'toole is no more going to allow his party to tackle it than sheer, who was unable even to say that he personally didn't like the idea, even though his party wouldn't do anything against it. they know that there is nothing to do because even within their party, the general opinion is that it is an acquired right, even a fundamental one.
there may be a few fellows in the depths of alberta who will try to surreptitiously pass legislation to make it a little less available to the goodwomen who live in the depths of the woods and who don't want to have to drive. an hour to go get sucked off the offspring. as soon as it becomes known, it will cause a scandal and o'toole will have to exclude the type from the party, remind canadians that his party is not going to come back on abortion, blah blah blah, commitment to women and equality.
for the rest, the ccp openly celebrates pride, talks about equality, and is pro mass immigration. i don't know which party for you is the perfect example of "social progress" and "evolution", but if that is not an example ... the ccp is not much more conservative than it is. 'much of the american democratic party.
may be. it has to come down to a question of what they post. they advertise themselves as center-left, while dragging out evangelical albertans. i agree that it's a bit of a schizophrenic party, which no longer really knows what it keeps, but not from there to saying that they "want to take us back 150 years 😠 !!!!!"
in the end, everyone finds noon at their door: the conservative will look favorably on the ccp while the liberal will do the same for the plc. everyone preaches for their parish. political parties are not just one-dimensional entities, they are several things at the same time.
yes. i am going to vote for whoever is better able to dethrone the plc in my riding. the ccp or the bloc, like. i don't care even if we agree that they are quite different parties. at least the ccp is pretending to support more power for qc, so it's a win-win.
a boyfriend is a boyfriend!
criss of tabarnak.
it is fortunate that they did not do so because quebec was not ready to obtain its independence, any more than it is now. we could have a 100% turnout and have 100% channels for the "yes," it has no value in the face of the force and you can make sure the english wouldn't even hesitate for a second. use it to dictate our destiny.
if we want independence, let's do it with a feather in our right hand and a club in our left hand. let us make sure we are able to defend our choice against the imposition of no or partitionism by force.
i don't agree with your opinion, but i respect it!
the clan of the name as well as the federal government, highly cheated the ballot! because in my opinion, if the majority were yes, i am convinced that they knew well too well that the nation would have done everything to enforce this referendum!
are the bad english guys in the room with us right now?
are you seriously denying the story? where do you sincerely believe that, unlike every other time in the history of mankind and canada, the conqueror would accept the liberation of the submissive people? at best, we could expect an imposed partition of quebec followed by embargoes.
frankly we are not in 1700, it is a fundamental right of self-determination. they will not send the army here, and if that is the case, we are too few and without an army to think of armed resistance
nothing is more naive than the person who believes that his rectitude will protect him from the armed man.
if yes, is more naive the one who believes that he will take up arms successfully against an army at the cutting edge
like the vietcongs?
....
come on i pick up from this conversation and leave you in your imaginary delirium
when you defend yourself, you don't need to dominate the other, you just need to make sure that it isn't profitable to attack yourself. anyone with an iota of political knowledge knows this. all you've done by invoking "yes but the army is my team" is prove to everyone that your contribution to the debate is worthless.
but not surprisingly from someone who thinks he's a nerd because he comes here to troll.
> a group considered by canada to be a terrorist entity.
recognized as "brothers" by the canadian government through its federal minister of gender equality.
he's clearly on the csis payroll (and probably the watchlist as well) so they'll let him spout his nonsense without pissing him off.
by letting him say his bullshit in public, he will attract to him the little budding terrorists who are stupid enough to fall into the trap and they will be watched by the secret services. the government's strategy is not stupid. with as an additional bonus the promotion of radical islam in quebec, which is a destabilizing factor in society, which is in line with canadian interests.
it is unfortunate that a sympathizer to a terrorist organization is listened to and given importance to this point.
the spokesperson for the demonstration against bill 21 ...
we can see what is behind the accusations of "racism".
with the uqam building just behind, a sacred coincidence.
he will be able to enter his home 😊
> the president of the "quebec committee against islamophobia"
when i hear that "it's just a minority" when we talk about religious fuckées worse than it's islamophobic to criticize their religion ...
tse when "it's just a minority" controlling afghanistan, iran, iraq, syria, palestine, saudi arabia, pakistan etc ... you still "just a minority "??? is she or the chalice of supposed majority who are not stupid?
to say that charkaoui has long been supported by the useful idiots of the quebec and canadian left ...
another montreal imam celebrates the taliban victory:
[
what are we still doing in this serious country ...
a jar of honey, what.
anglos and immigrants voted 99% no in 1995 ...
fat, lette, and bearded version. to each his own i imagine.
good pay, but is funding the police the right thing to do?
should we instead fund organizations for psychological assistance and support, or invest in rehabilitation?
hard times create strong men, strong men create good times, good times create weak men, and weak men create hard times.
guess where we are in this wheel 🙃
it was important not that they forgot to put the writing "inclusive" in the text! lol
> should we instead fund organizations for psychological assistance and support, or invest in rehabilitation?
we should send more social workers to the street gangs to tell them that they are not smart and stop it right away ... that's for sure that will work.
no, but increasing the shootings in montreal-north is clearly the right thing to do
/s
no idea, it's your story.
good old chef michel
and if your knives don't cut, you have to sharpen them! and contrary to what it might be, it's easy. what should be remembered in the guideless technique is that the angle does not matter so much, the important thing is to keep the same angle.
[knife sharpener in good condition] (
there are also the stones in the water, i tried to find a simple video, i didn't find any, but in short, no need to equip yourself with several stones or to cook. a medium-grained stone (~ 800 to 1200) is sufficient. [sharpen with a water stone] (
ha, the onion was already cut in half!
the black book of english canada is so concrete at the level of its sources that no english canadian or federalist critic has dared to attack it other than by accusing the author of all the evils. it is an essential reference work qualified as "hate historical literature" by don macpherson himself, a guarantee of the quality of the work.
some critics have lamented lester's killer comments throughout the work, but the text is structured so that the reader can easily separate historical facts and quotes from editorial comments. the book is made like any other black book elsewhere (black book on communism, black book on the status of women, etc.) which also contain the editorial comments of the authors without anyone seeing any problem.
another book by norman lester that i really appreciated is his investigation into the secret services. it's as interesting as a john the square as far as i'm concerned.
[
it is a book that should be compulsory reading at cegep.
each accusation that lester brings to english canada is supported by one or more historical documents. the source of many of these documents is, ironically, the national archives of canada, which affirms their validity.
some passages are so shocking that they seem improbable, although historically true.
we end the reading by saying to ourselves that it is not possible that so few quebecers know the truth about the treatment that english canada subjected to their ancestors, grandparents and even their parents.
thanks for this review. should read this someday.
oh yes, an excellent book that destroys anglos, all quebec children should read this book before the age of 10 to save them from anglo-canadian brainwashing.
thanks for the recommendation!
it's definitely meant for schools.
i thank you for your column on dune, i just read the first one and i really enjoyed it.
> what does this mean in concrete terms?
the bloc is necessary because of the question of double legitimacy. in 1982 when trudeau repatriated the constitution and added the charter of rights against the will of quebec, all the members of the national assembly had voted against, while the federal liberal members of quebec voted for the commons. trudeau said at the time that his mps were just as legitimate as those in the national assembly, and he was absolutely right.
the function of the block is to be a kind of watchdog. an alternative vote to prevent the federal parties from taking us for granted. in the british parliamentary system (therefore ours), it is important to change the vote once in a while, it is a question of basic political hygiene.
as the bloc represents quebec nationalism, this means that when the federal parties make policies that go against the national interest of quebec, we have a choice of vote that allows us to notify them of our discontent by them. punishing in elections. it is a method of negative reinforcement to train federal parties to act in our interests.
how can this help create the winning conditions for independence? when members of the bloc shine the spotlight on canadian butts to harm quebec, it has the potential to increase support for independence if these stocks are serious enough. during the sponsorship scandal, voting intentions for independence had exceeded 50% for several months, but unfortunately we were stuck with the plq in quebec at that time.
> are we more likely to call a referendum with more mps in ottawa?
not really, for that it is in quebec that it is played. on the other hand, having the bloc as a viable option dissuades the federal parties from doing too much harm to quebec.
the only way to make quebec independent is to bring together a majority of quebecers around the project, whether they are white, black, asians or others, whether they speak french or another language, whether they are straight or gay or trans, whether macho or feminist, whether left or right, whether conservative or woke.
when i look at quebec at the moment, what i see is division ... camps which look at each other with suspicion and which curse each other ...
when rené levesque originally created the pq, it was a coalition of right and left.
i think that if quebec wants to become independent, we will have to forget our differences and recreate this coalition.
as mbc said:
"i prefer to live in an independent left-wing quebec than to live in a right-wing canadian province".
the bloc puts the interests of quebec forward, it should not be seen as a fundamentally sovereignist party
thanks for the comprehensive comment!
totally agree. unfortunately, i see a lot of people change their minds as soon as a party or leader makes a decision that is not aligned with their own political compass.
we will fight for our freedom, we will see the politics later
just take a tour of this sub and there are some for whom what is not white or french speaking does not come from here
this sub picked up all the exiled cons banned from r / quebec so it gives a distorted picture of reality too
all the banned were not stupid ... some were banned because the modo of r / quebec misunderstands the comments and substitutes their understanding which is not always correct ...
i was banned for having said that ** jacques parizeau was right ** (that quebec must be independent for its economic development, that canada harms the economy of quebec), the modo understood that i had said that jacques parizeau was right to talk about ethnic voting when nowhere in my comment did i mention that ...
the difference between the modo and me is that i know the story of jacques parizeau since the 1950s, while he seems to know only his unfortunate comment on the evening of the referendum.
for me jacques parizeau is a keynesian economist who studied in paris and london, who was a federalist until the day when the federal government asked him to do a study on canada's economic issues, a study which convinced him that quebec should be independent. his conversion took place on a train between montreal and banff, a 3 day trip to banff where he was to give his talk on federalism.
and r / quebec to keep these pompous dart.
i was banned because i gave my opinion on someone who was throwing up on quebec, yes i was vulgar but not as much as him.
there are good people on r / quebec but the pompous clique i'm more capable.
and thanks for calling me a jerk, i'd rather be a jerk and stand up than be a pompous dart and walk on my knees.
i agree that jacques parizeau must have had one too many drinks and it was a difficult moment to digest.
but a public figure is responsible for what she says into a microphone and the commentary was not pretty. he was probably the first to regret it.
an immigrant who arrives in qc yes is authorized by the federal government first but selected by the qc afterwards. a person has the right to vote as they see fit, whether for the independence project or the bloc pot.
publicly blaming a group for its political defeat in another more violent country could have meant a threat to the integrity of the group being singled out. parizeau is lucky to have said that to qc / canada and the situation did not go beyond an inappropriate comment. he could have had blood on his hands elsewhere in the world.
as far as immigrants are concerned, it is not a homogeneous block, or at least much less than in appearance. i was born here to a latin american mother who arrived in qc at 39 years old. she is poorly educated and has a hard time writing her own language; i won't speak to you about her french or her english.
school and languages are not her cup of tea and during this time when the referendum was at its peak she was insulted several times in the stm buses by being told we speak french here.
she had voted for the pq once but never since they insulted / shouted her for it. she is a federalist forever now.
i am divided, i was lucky that she did not have to educate myself and her personal experience would also make me lean towards federalism. what i found that the sovereignist movement was lacking was to reassure people who come from countries destroyed by the war of the beauty of the national project.
there are people who do not understand that for many immigrants a national project involved war, violence and having to migrate elsewhere for a better life.
i know that it is a gang of colonists, probably without any form of education, those who insulted my mother and that m parizeau surely had one too many glass in her body.
but i have never felt that the national project of quebec clearly calls out to us as immigrants. m believe that m parizeau was not wrong on his remark, but not from an ethnic point of view, but because the pq campaign did not send the necessary message to ethnic groups to try to seduce them and show them that they would have their place in a beautiful common national project.
we stopped at the basic message that we all know about canada / qc and that will rarely appeal to new groups.
i sincerely believe that a more robust campaign to show an inclusive national project with a broader message open to all groups other than just anglo / franco could have tipped the scales for a sovereign qc.
i would like someone to explain to me one day what a national inclusive project is concretely. do we fund kumbaya sessions at the mount royal tam tam every day of the week? every native quebecer is shamed by the whip and must self-flag every sunday to atone for the sins of his ancestors who built this country with their sweat and their blood? all in beautiful public autoflagellation processions as in the good old days of the bubonic plague!
why not the establishment of death squads of tolerance whose objective will be the hunt for "racist settlers"? should you also build a concentration camp for tolerance like in south park?
i'm sorry, but the sovereignist conversion of the majority of immigrants, i don't believe it for a second. we will not convince economic immigrants to take a risk in relation to their standard of living to end a national conflict they don't give a shit about anyway. at best the pq will be able to bury some by making them believe that independence will improve our economic situation immediately and with certainty, but relations based on lies do not tend to last long. the reality is that even if we can argue that independence will make us richer in the long term, the short and medium term effects are too uncertain to be predictable and therefore constitute an inherent risk in the process. this risk is the main argument of the federalists, and they are not wrong to insist on it because it is the strict truth. running after the "separatists" on sunny days is a waste of time, the only separatists worth it are those who are ready to face winds and storms for the cause.
[deleted]
let me explain to you an inclusive project: which encourages you to participate and which reassures you about your place in the national project.
we don't need to explain the national project to a native quebecer, that's his story.
but will a latin american woman who was insulted on the buses for not speaking french as if she was born here be challenged by the colonial past of qc? possibly not.
she is an immigrant who arrived legally in canada and accepted by quebec. it is not a backward one or someone closed of mind. i know many like her who would have been challenged by a sovereignist party with a speech that would have guaranteed them that their rights would be respected and they would have their full place in a sovereign quebec.
i did not experience the first referendum and the second yes campaign and vote included and i can guarantee you that the miscalculation of the yes campaign was not to woo this segment of the population sufficiently.
i come from this community and understand their reality and way of thinking.
your caricature of suggestion of tam tam and kunbaya shows exactly the misunderstanding of this electorate.
it was surely people with your mentality who planned the campaign.
hahahaha that's hilarious as an answer. i am not closed to the sovereignist project. pti my mother lives in europe and i live where i want nobody forces me.
at the moment i live in a canadian province.
> i know many like her who would have been challenged by a sovereignist party with a speech that would have guaranteed them that their rights would be respected and they would have their full place in a sovereign quebec.
oh yeah, can you tell me exactly what right the separatists threatened not to respect? the last time i checked, the pq is a "liberal" party (in the sense of political liberalism) which defends the same basic rights as the majority of all western parties.
> but will a latin american woman who was insulted on the bus for not speaking french as if she had been born here be challenged by the colonial past of qc? possibly not.
poor little pit. obviously, we exclusive racist bad guys have a monopoly on shitting immigrants. it never, ever happened that federalists threaten to deport certain immigrants who voted yes, such as a certain denis coderre for example
[
or more recently a bunch of anglos and anglophone immigrants readers of * zie gazette der montrealer zeitung * who wanted to return ensaf haidar to saudi arabia since she showed up for the bloc. impossible in the land of katimavik!
it's boring but human bullshit and wickedness are of this world. if you allow yourself to form your political opinion about native quebecers from its worst elements, i dare to hope that you will grant us the same privilege to form our opinion of cultural communities.
> let me explain to you an inclusive project: which encourages you to participate and which reassures you about your place in the national project.
practically this translates into what political proposals? completely empty multicu blabla? endless demonstrations of ostentatious virtue with anglo protestant sauce? is this what you want !? i dare to believe that you are smarter than that collectively.
boy it hit a little nerve eh? relax 'my big one' you're anonymous here we see your maga red cap but not your name you're ok;)
is patrick lagacé the least aware of what he says in the world? seriously?
yes, there is radicalization at the moment, and if lagacé wants to know who is responsible for it, let him look in the mirror. let us recall his constant chronicles to spank on any person critical of government policies, that he treats of "conspiracy", "covidiots" and "toothless". recall that a few weeks ago he wrote a column in which he presented an argument in favor of letting the unvaccinated die like dogs by depriving them of treatment if they are sick. oh, he's been rebuffed enough by doctors to end his column by saying that basically the unvaccinated people deserve to die, but because we're good people, we won't. in short "you deserve to die, but say thank you because we will not".
not to mention all the revengeful policies that lagacé supports to piss off unvaccinated people to the extreme. he is in favor of taking away their jobs, depriving them of fundamental rights, exposing them to discrimination at all times and encouraging harassment of them.
and after all that, he starts yelling "why are people mad at us? this must be disinformation, right, we need more censorship!"
no, sacrament, he who sows the wind reaps the storm. this radicalization is the reflection of the hatred that you have been spewing over hundreds of thousands of people, even millions of people for more than a year. and trudeau, who also took part, now that he left his bubble and went to meet the population and that popular opinions are no longer filtered by those around him, sees for the first time the resentment of a very of the population that he has despised and ridiculed for over a year.
we should also mention the extreme hypocrisy of lagacé, who complained of an exaggeration when anti-vaccine pass protesters sported a yellow star of david, and who in this column allows himself to qualify protesters against trudeau as "uncle macoutes", who were a sort of militia armed with machetes used by the duvaliers to assassinate their opponents during their regime. isn't that an exaggerated and hyperbolic comparison, lagacé?
in a democracy, how one obtains a peaceful discussion is by treating dissidents with respect and allowing them to participate in public debates. since the start of the crisis, the media, led by lagacé, have done everything to exclude any dissenting voice, any different opinion, and to expose those who hold them to a constant stream of insults and insults, encouraging people to turn against their parents, their brothers, their friends, their colleagues, if they say something that is not officially approved. if the media have lost the confidence of part of the population, it is the media's fault, period, which has done a dirty job and is in no way faithful to journalistic principles. it is not because there are alternative media on social media that traditional media has lost public trust, it is because traditional media has lost public trust that many are turning to alternative media. (very variable quality). and the media deserve what is happening to them.
pat thinks he's superior. if you don't do like the others, you are the problem. pat licks the boots of everyone who will make his career prosper. an abject being who thinks he is the good god. another good-for-nothing who is on all the stands. individual freedoms are crumbling because of pro-woke like him.
okay, but we are still waiting for your article on radicalized leftists.
from the start, lagacé, martineau and d. bombardier have done just that, radicalize the right-thinking. it will burst, it can no longer hold.
i have a hard time understanding how the editors of la presse and jdm do not feel that things are wrong here. it's so big it's almost impossible.
wordless.
> it is because the traditional media have lost the confidence of the public that many are turning to alternative media (of very variable quality).
that's what i think too. the alternative media would have remained of negligible influence if the traditional media had been content to be neutral.
for example, we are in the beginning of the 3rd week after the demonstration against the health passport. who will dare to follow up on "outbreaks"? who will dare to ask questions about the credibility of the prevailing winds if nothing happens? no one in mainstream media but joe bine on youtube is going to do it and everyone is going to watch.
another example, the demonstration of health professionals this saturday. a small [article] ( tendentious la presse, absolutely nothing in the jdem and patrick lagacé who [retweet] ( his girlfriend who despite her mask and her 2 vaccines is still afraid. in the meantime, people without official qualifications like andré pitre [attends] ( at the event while we * are not at all supposed to go through him or anyone else * with the millions who give themselves in the media. it is not because the alternative media are good that their influence is increasing but that the traditional media are collapsing at high speed v.
the disconnection is going to be fatal with the next generation which does not have a tv and for whom paying $ 2 for a newspaper is too expensive.
i read that comment yesterday, and i came back to reread it today because you understand the inconsistency and hypocrisy of his speech.
the reporter screams in pain as he hits you.
> i have a hard time understanding how the editors of la presse and jdm do not feel that things are wrong here. it's so big it's almost impossible.
it sells subscriptions and it gets clicks, i guess. hatred sells. the distress, suffering and death of people are exploited to gain attention and ensure that readers come back again and again.
what percentage of their income comes from government grants / announcements?
not to mention the non-profit status of la presse, which normally meant that they were not to get involved in politics ...
elections * in the midst of a pandemic * (to paraphrase i. hachey) and no journalist to show this heresy.
we live in a simulation.
the bloc must make the big difference in this campaign. it is obvious that a good section of its voters is, say, skeptical of health measures while another more caquist or sometimes a little leftist adores the restrictions.
it will be difficult for him to pull out of the game. however, blanchet has the advantage of being the only chef to really speak french.
i suggest to yfb to change its attitude towards people who die from causes of commorbidity. the causes of co-morbidities like smoking and especially sugar tend to be higher than the vaccines that some claim to have a direct cause.
> however, blanchet has the advantage of being the only chef who really speaks french.
do you ignore maxime bernier like all the so-called "classic" media?
in fact, i said that especially with a view to the debate in which maxime bernier will not participate. which is totally illegitimate. he should be there.
and i prefer "depraved media" instead of "traditional" or "classic". it describes them better.
enthoven 🥱🥱🥱
still no hateful comments after 3 hours of posting this ?, it's getting better. 😍
the entire maintenance is quite passable
yes we don't learn much
what would be the best is that those who already have the passport cannot be illegible.
"offer"
it's just the taxpayer's money that comes back ... but only for the good guys
but 1.6 billion to forgive all student debt? unimaginable!
wtf “vaccine segregation” ?!
you just have to get vaccinated ...
but when the world thinks that vitamin d, hydroxychloroquine, horse dewormers and screeching blood is going to do something ... we end up with that.
the vaccine doesn't work, i know i have been on bs since 1982 ... scientists know nothing.
or even improve schools, chslds, hospitals!
we can talk about hiv apartheid if you prefer.
exact. the ** i have the ** ** virus hits hard.
the question should be the same whether we are "in the midst of a pandemic" or not. do the illuminated and charlatans have the right to tell their nonsense or can we muzzle anyone under any pretext?
what annoys me is that adding the little “in the midst of a pandemic” gives a small group the full authority of what is correct to say or not. we were able to very quickly observe the kind of excesses that this allows with social networks that blocked users who asked questions or who published verifiable facts.
first it was in the name of the health emergency, then of public health, but it immediately became in the name of social cohesion, then for the benefit of pressure groups and finally for the benefit of the whims of the government.
there is an extreme dishonesty in the link that she makes between the remarks she reports from radio center-ville and those of choi.
> on august 19, jeff fillion informed his listeners that those under 30 who ate their vegetables and who played sports, “they don't need a vaccine, these people”.
>  
> those who get sick are the elderly, diabetics or overweight, he explained. those who do not take care of their health. so let us go with your sanitary measures. give us back our freedom, forgiveness, our freedom ...
>  
> what are the managers of radio x doing?
>  
> nothing. nothing at all. they are silent. they hide.
choi's comments may be exaggerated, but are not entirely unreasonable. it is true that the very, very large majority of people who have been very sick with covid are elderly and in poor health.
for example, on the inspq website, there is a page for "[preexisting conditions] ( where we learn that while 59% of people who were diagnosed with covid had no pre-existing condition, these same individuals only represent 3.2% of deaths. the figures are so low among those under 40 that the inspq does not provide any data on the mortality of these age groups without a pre-existing condition. by elimination, we can still discover that there were 8 deaths among those under 40 without a pre-existing condition against 137,707 cases, or a mortality rate of 0.0058%, 1 in 17,000 approximately. it is the same probability as dying from a traffic accident within a year. considering that a 1 in 17,000 chance of dying in a traffic accident is a reasonable risk that does not justify preventing people from driving or walking, why is it that 1 in 17,000 is not? not a reasonable risk for a disease that people only get once and then they are immune?
so when the choi presenters say that healthy young people are not at risk and do not need a vaccine, it is a position that is defended in light of the information available.
by presenting this position as deserving of censorship, it is isabelle hachey who is delirious at full speed and who spreads disinformation alleging that covid is an existential threat to everyone, regardless of their age and state of health, fueling total hysteria. compared to covid, the kind of hysteria that is not without cost because the hysterics at hachey and lagacé have already cost us less home prison in the form of unnecessary curfew. it must be said the truth, these commentators are constant sources of disinformation guiding government and public health decision making and have cost us a great deal collectively. if there is anyone who deserves to be told to shut up, it's them!
i do not see why it is delusional to say that healthy young people do not need the vaccine. i'm 43 and had the delta variant last week. i had a fever for 7 days, that's all. i haven't overcrowded any hospital. what a flu. now i am naturally immune, which probably gives me better protection than covid vaccines.
radio center-ville is the choiradiox of toothless french-speaking whites in quebec, but in montreal? 🤡
is isabelle hachey going to follow up on her hero, xavier "all conspirators are white supremacists" camus? tsé, [it's not nothing] ( ! 🤡
we start to change records a week before the pass. who will crack the boulechite of the last 6 months at la presse? 🤡
mark of the beast?
[
??
at least the vaccine tastes good.
just a reminder that we were already told in 2018 about id implants made from micro-needles used to administer vaccines and prove vaccination ... 🤘
exact. the pandemic has been going on for about 18 months.
the sauce begins to be stretched and by dint of changing the reason behind, we only indicate that everything is very beneficial to a class of society and its collaborators .....
our level of tolerance towards the enlightened should be inversely proportional to the danger they represent to themselves and to others. in the case of covid, they are no more dangerous than hysterical columnists like madame hachey, so if we tolerate this madwoman there, we should also tolerate linda the anti-vaxx.
amen
exactly.
> the question should be the same whether we are "in the midst of a pandemic" or not.
the "in full pandemic" is just to illustrate its point ... and the urgency to be less cave ...
for example:
you screech the fire at home, you kneel down crying hoping that mexican jesus saves your xbox?
no, it's not the nightmare. it is still less time than usual.
> the truth must be told, these commentators are constant sources of disinformation guiding government and public health decision-making and have cost us a great deal collectively.
they gave us several straw men who turned out to be wrong without ever apologizing.
the first was the * young person who visits his elderly at the chsld 8 times a day * to explain the chsld debacle. we put the blame on the "visits" which are unfortunately rare and the natural helpers who were prohibited from access to avoid blaming the institutions which transported the patients between the establishments and which exchanged the contaminated personnel. here, we can detect a pavlovian reflex towards the feeding hand.
the second was the * uneducated french-speaking white man from quebec * to describe the "typical anti-vaccine" and cast gall on it when it is the ethnic and religious minorities who are the most reluctant. who remembers hélène buzzetti's tweet who had the misfortune to take a picture of something other than the official turkish head in flagrante delicto of non-compliance with sanitary rules? here, it is the pavlovian reflex to avoid groups that can give you back the change of the coin that is present.
these commentators erect parallel realities in their own petty interests and refuse to take the blame.
edit: i just remembered the [mind-boggling] tweet ( from luc ferrandez. no criticism of isabelle hachey on this. is it too much a friend of a friend at cogéco?
> i do not see why it is delusional to say that healthy young people do not need the vaccine
it doesn't take 97 years to get sick and take the hospital bed of someone who needs it more ...
> radio center-ville is the choiradiox for toothless francophone whites in quebec, but in montreal?
no, radio center-ville, is it the choiradiox of montreal's toothless multiethnic multiculturalism?
but the risks are minimal. the risk of hospitalization for someone under the age of 30 is about 0.5%, and most who enter hospital leave quickly. it is not young people who clog hospitals.
even now, when 91% of the population over 60 is vaccinated at two doses, these account for half of covid hospitalizations, and those under 30 represent less than 10% of these.
> take the hospital bed of someone who needs it more ...
and it is you who determines who "deserves" a bed more than another?
human rights are really under attack these days ...
no indeed, it seems that the incubation period is much shorter: p
quite certain that georges laraque was 74 when he returned to the hospital.
worse the guy who died after getting it at the gym de quebec ... eille the guy was 94 years old and went to the gym and was super active outside ...
the problem is not that you pound him, go and lick all the sick people you want ... the problem is that a doctor has to take care of the tarlais who wanted to know nothing about the vaccine and the bed that he takes, when it could go to someone who does not want to die.
> and it is you who determines who "deserves" a bed more than another?
>  
> human rights are really under attack these days ...
if you are sick psq you did not want the vaccine you do not deserve to take the place of another ...
georges laraque is 44 years old, he left the hospital 3 days after entering it. he is a prime example of what i am saying.
yep, if we don't like a party because of a single opinion / idea / proposal, we'd better not be interested in politics ... there won't be a single party to vote for ...
blanchet opted for the best electoral strategy that it is: neutrality, by returning the ball to the national assembly. this is a good way to harvest both pro and anti-3rd link.
it must annoy the pq to see that the bloc is not in the same state of decomposition. pretty sure blanchet would make a better pq leader than pspp.
except that a position can reveal an attitude of a party that has an impact on your confidence in it. for example, the third link is so much an indefensible project ... astronomical cost, harmful environmental effects, cheaper and more efficient existing alternatives (eg: putting tolls on bridges or improving the supply of public transport), the fact to put up with it and pretend it is a "green" project makes anyone who takes that position look very, very bad.
at the same time, i can understand the frustration of the citizens of quebec. we agree that we are far from a coherent and comprehensive energy transition plan, and that while we have scruples about the construction of the third link, we are building a package of infrastructures in montreal, many of which are still in progress. the logic of everything for the car. in fact, the city of quebec will continue to grow for a while, so it is necessary to orient this development with infrastructures, whether it is the third link or something else.
the only two "recent" constructions (in the last 10 years) are the a-25 and a-30 bridges which exist to bypass montreal, and the two bridges are tolled and must be self-driving. -finance by it (which means that the only toll bridges in the region are bypass, while going to congest montreal is free ... complete nonsense). otherwise, all major work in montreal is replacing existing structures, such as turcot and the champlain bridge.
but for the 3rd link, some suggested a toll and the promoters of the 3rd link yelled "want everything want nothing pay want everything want to pay anything" until papa legault tells them "don't worry, you will have everything without paying anything ".
if i remember correctly, there were discussions as to what the new champlain bridge could be tolled, but that too the politicians dropped that rather quickly.
i think that my second point remains valid: if we do not direct the development of quebec towards the south shore with the third link, we direct it by where? and with what? in the absence of a coherent plan to solve this problem i will not blame the promoters and elected officials for going easy.
personally, as far as i'm concerned, i would be for a third link, but rail to break cn's monopoly on the quebec bridge and move passengers and goods between the south and north shore.
tolls are as popular in politics as tax hikes ...
to say that it took four years to learn that under the cover of the big bad trump and [the tweet] ( on the other, a nigerian septuagenarian from toronto was doing the treats nigeriens at roxham road. it's a good one there!
lol, "the passage of asylum seekers". is there a war on the outskirts of canada that i was not aware of?
the correct terms are: human trafficking and immigration fraud.
yep, a year in jail for trafficking people, and the media downplaying that. our society is really in free fall.
we have been surprised for a long time that we know that the world passes without problem ... easy to imagine this scenario
she's in jail to get them in.
and the government had set up shelters in the olympic stadium to accommodate them.
i don't understand anything. [temporary shelter] (
messamble that they are going to put a 70 year old 4 year old in prison for why so insignificant. our justice system is a joke in bad taste.
i was told at the time on the other reddit that the villainous trump's tweets are enough to qualify the us as a territory in civil war and that with the third country treaty, immigrants could land in this country and pass through. next, mex .... no, canada.
it can't be invented.
this is without counting [the multiplication by four] ( of * asylum seekers * on social assistance after this fiasco signed trudeau.
pq do you ever invent silliness?
in quebec, it's better to be a wealthy liberal contributor than a [hairdresser from thetford mines] ( de-la-dressing-de-thetford-mines.php).
[in the eyes of the dpcp.] (
interesting, but you have to be seriously out of touch to believe that quebec is a "small town." nice analysis of via rail's problems anyway.
quebec is a big village
hahaha i am completely, this expression sharp considering its inevitable invocation as for the return of the nordics, but it is not false. on the scale of quebec, our capital is a large city, the second in importance and the seat of political power, but overall it is far from being a big city. still, we can give it to this little kiwi by reminding him that quebec is more important than all except one of the cities of new zealand and especially twice as important as its capital. take this, paige!
let's hope that via rail will move forward with its dedicated tracks from quebec to montreal. terrebonne, joliette and trois-rivières are on the route. especially considering that the connection with ottawa will necessarily take place and that the tracks will be on the ontario side, the least thing is to be paid for that.
“his community of mental reference is first of all afghan. it is only in this way that we can understand this astonishing“ us ”.
it's amazing, knowing that ms. monsef has been in canada since the age of 11. why is it locked in its origins?
but, in fact, canada practices extreme multiculturalism. it pushes individuals not to define themselves as citizens belonging to canada as a whole, but as ethnic and cultural quotas under the umbrella of diversity.
and that is ms. monsef's role in the federal cabinet.
she is not present there for her particular skills, much less for her judgment, obviously, but as an ethno-religious quota. "
the only reason why she is a minister, she is there by what she fills two cotas ... she has no business there at all but trudeau, instead of the world who know what they are doing, whatever gender or ethnicity, she is there because she is an afghan woman. period.
what she had to say and what she had to do there, there is no one who knows ... it's a military question and foreign affairs, the minister of transgender and goat fodder has no screeching words to say ... but in addition she chose "nos freres" as words ...
chalice.
[deleted]
it's not everyone who has the mbc mentality or some quebecers who find multiculturalism a bad thing.
the best example is the uk where there are scottish people from wales, english people and people in northern ireland who have cultural affiliations in a political bloc.
we can understand them from the history of quebec and the mentality of the people who still live on the plains of abraham and have not yet had the information that the war is over and generals montcalm and wolfe are dead.
but unlike this type of article / line of thought it is possible to be part of a collective while maintaining a cultural distinction.
i am giving you the case of a certain province within a certain confederation that we call a distinct society .... that is multiculturalism.
those who are afraid of it is because their openness to the world is as big as a box of matches and are insecure about anything that is not like them.
no, a quota of equity (woman) and ethnic (afghan immigrant).
scotland and quebec are 2 nations that want to separate from the countries with which they are linked.
quite frankly, a country that has suffered from a thirty-year civil war and whose peace is ensured only by walls 18 feet in the air is not exactly a good example of serene cohabitation. on the contrary, it tends to demonstrate the practically insurmountable challenges of multinational cohabitation.
besides, we shouldn't be under any illusions, the concept of a distinct society, of a quebec nation or whatever is antithetical to [canadian multiculturalism] ( laws / c-18.7 / page-1.html). only amerindians have the right to their national identity. for all others, our state doctrine indicates verbatim that all foreigners must be free to maintain, enhance and share their cultural heritage, that this dynamic is a fundamental characteristic of canadian identity and heritage and constitutes a resource. invaluable for the future of the country. maryam monsef is the perfect example of this being part of the * canadian collective * while remaining in love with her brothers the taliban.
well yes, so that is to say ok for a canadian minister to identify herself first with the taliban?
[deleted]
i share the same opinion!
the former editor of le nouvelliste (who belonged to the desmarais) is the liberal candidate in trois-rivières.
he went to his former colleagues to ask for funding. he told them they could use their spouses' names to keep up appearances!
in addition, this same francoeur wrote an editorial in july 2020 where he criticizes trudeau for his "elastic ethics", his "favoritism" and his "perfect stupidity"! it was in connection with the we charity scandal.
the president of the professional federation of quebec journalists doubts the legality of francoeur's gesture and accuses him of putting his former colleagues in a situation of conflict of interest.
francoeur himself served on the board of the fpjq for years. he couldn't ignore that his actions were illegal. the conservatives have filed a complaint with the commissioner of canada elections and the bloc québécois member for the riding is a trained ethicist!
at 100% vaccination, they will no longer have scapegoats, they will be forced to look in the mirror.
i like your optimism.
at 100% vaccination, they will blame those who have not had their booster.
then those who continue to interact socially in a full pandemy.
they cannot reach 100%. there will always be people who do not want or cannot get the vaccine because of health problems (such as allergies that put them at too high a risk of anaphylactic shock). so they will always be able to blame the small number of unvaccinated people for their own failures.
i would also be very curious to know what proportion of unvaccinated people, especially in the advanced age groups, are mainly because they have contraindications to vaccination.
it's right there. but above all if you dare to challenge the government in the slightest way, you are a conspiratorist.
more power why basically? reproduce the plq's migration policy? we can't wait for montreal north because with leaders like this, the areas of wilderness can only multiply!
good the legaults lovers will pitch on cpc and bq
it would mean controlling the movement of people inside the country as well as in china.
"mr. legault is also asking that quebec have full control over the family reunification immigration category, which represents 24% of immigration to quebec," he said.
this category is under the responsibility of the federal government, which does not require any knowledge of french, recalled the prime minister.
“we have a very specific request \ [to the parties \]: do you agree to transfer the“ family reunification ”category to the government of quebec? one of the first things we would do, of course, would be to put conditions on the knowledge of french for these people. it is a question of survival \ [from french to quebec \]. ""
yeah also like the nazis, because legault is a nazi.
yes, but it speaks french very well in montreal north: p if our government had the slightest intention of alleviating the demographic decomposition of quebec, it should appeal to abolish family reunifications and the reception of refugees.
i agree, but it's a start.
if knowledge of the language becomes a sine qua non for family reunification, we will mathematically end up welcoming fewer family reunions.
the 40-year-old pakistani cousin and the 65-year-old jamaican matante do not speak french and they will have all the hard time learning it ...
is it just me who finds it a little sad to see?
bread and games for the plebs
i must be getting old but the first thing i thought of was the [parade scene] ( of the joker in batman.
willing to bet these are fakes.
ahah like pitching bananas to monkeys.
no, you're not the only one. but hey, how many times do you shoot in 4k with a gimbal and suddenly people start throwing money in the air in the middle of a crowded street?
> according to data released tuesday by us officials, the effectiveness of pfizer and moderna vaccines against infection has fallen from 91% to 66% since delta became dominant in the united states.
>  
> in addition to the characteristics of the variant, this could be linked to the fact that the efficacy decreases over time: it falls from 88% to 74% after five to six months for pfizer, and from 77% to 67% after four five months for astrazeneca, according to a british study released wednesday.
>  
> this is what is pushing more and more countries to consider a booster dose (most often a third dose).
>  
> all these parameters lead to a mathematical absurdity: to achieve collective immunity without any barrier gesture "more than 100% of the population should be vaccinated", underlines mr. sofonea.
[i] ( [the] ( //www.reddit .com / r / quebec / comments / ooqt9j / vaccination_90_est_le_nouveau_75 / h60hivn /) [dis] ( [from] ( [weeks] ( didyou_h% c3% a2te_au_mois_doctober / h7jt6p5 /). and i believe that their approximations of efficacy against infection are even too optimistic because they depend on data from discovered cases, but vaccinated people are often asymptomatic and do not get tested because they believe they are protected. so, i very much suspect that there is a strong circulation of the virus which flies under the radars among the vaccinated. note that a randomized study of pcr samples in the united kingdom showed that vaccinated people were only about 50% less likely to be positive on the pcr test than unvaccinated people, and that the recent moderna study estimated the efficacy against infection of their vaccine at only 55%.
what insults and scornful comments i've eaten for months, not to mention unwarranted bans by mods frustrated with what i'm saying, when my only sin is being right before others.
i have already posted another comment, but i think i need to add a remark.
the government probably knows that collective immunity is impossible, and it has been for at least a month or 2. the problem is that it does not want to admit it because it has promised that it is coming. as it has always done when its policies failed previously, the government is reacting by refusing to admit that it does not work and by looking for scapegoats to blame for making the population hate them rather than criticizing the government. government.
soft containment was not working this fall? legault blamed "ceusses which do not respect the instructions" (["it is not true that a minority of quebecers will endanger the majority of quebecers"] ( / 1755718 / covid-legault-quebec-situation))
cases continue to rise despite hard containment around christmas? legault blamed the young people who party at night. then the "touristatas" who travel in the midst of a pandemic.
and now, with the failure of herd immunity by vaccination, they will blame the unvaccinated, encouraging a completely uninhibited hatred towards them to the point where several columnists let the idea hang over just letting them die like dogs. 'they are sick. we're not the only ones, the toronto star outright posted opinions calling for “[let them die] ( on its august 26th edition!
what saddens me the most is that people fall for it every time!
israel: 60% of hospitalizations are double vaccinated.
a public health doctor said the vaccination was a failure.
they realize that people with weak immune systems do not respond well to the virus even when vaccinated.
do you buy some popcorn because it's going to cry here soon.
he was broken long before
it's really funny how at the end of the day it is the much-maligned "conspirators" who seem more and more to have been right.
a quick calculation: the pfizer vaccine is effective against the delta variant at 66% at the base, and loses effectiveness after each month (-14% after 5 months). this means that it would be effective (theoretically, more detailed studies would be needed) against the delta at approximately 52% after 5 months. knowing that the oldest (50 years and over) have for the great majority received their second dose during the month of july, that does not bode well for the coming year 2022 ...
hence the idea of starting to give third doses, and so on, but it remains to be seen if the population will follow indefinitely.
> what insults and contemptuous comments i've eaten for months, not to mention unwarranted bans by mods frustrated with what i'm saying, when my only sin is being right before others.
and they're still frustrated from what i've seen. a real basket of crabs, always on the hunt for the slightest bug seen in the microscope to proclaim loud and clear that all the arguments given are false.
after the first 3 months of the pandemic it became political. have been there since that time and they know that if they backtrack their careers are over.
honestly i'm not sure if they "know". i think that in the internet age, individuals who know how to search for quality information and at the fringes of knowledge are better equipped than the big public service machine to be on the cutting edge of technology. information available.
on top of that, i don't want to insult anyone, but from experience in the context of my professional practice, the most competent people in a given field are rarely found in the public sector.
i believe that public health is overwhelmed by the rate at which science is evolving and that it is not fragile enough to pivot at an acceptable speed under the circumstances.
add to that the perverse political incentives that the government has to never be able to admit its mistakes and then you have the absolute disaster that we see.
people fall for the trap every time because they operate exactly like government: they don't want to admit they were wrong, and would rather have scapegoats to dump their emotional diarrhea on rather than hand blame. in the right places and risk having to look in the mirror at the same time.
collective psychosis is beautiful.
i blame the calisses of communications advisers. since day 1 it is clear that it is they who decide well before public health (just to compare how much they have invested in surveys versus in clinical research). com counselors are the scourge of mankind. for the good of all of us, we should line them up against a wall and shoot the whole gang. it would be the first step towards a better world.
to the person reporting their comments for "misinformation:"
feel free to prove it by answering him.
sunk cost fallacy. people don't want to admit that they wasted so much of their time, and made so much effort, with little or no real results.
my hate club follows me, it seems.
unfortunately, that says a lot about the degradation of the ability to hold discussions in the current climate. there is no longer any attempt to discuss, to bring arguments to convince, we are in the authoritarian attempt to force into silence anyone who makes remarks that disturb.
by the way, is it just that comment or are you getting lots of reports for my comments on covid in general?
just two comments at the same time tonight.
he will surely send the responsible criminal to the gulag
if i remember correctly (the site is still down), you must give the exact date of the injection of the vaccine and also its brand. for the average person, it is difficult to obtain but for the exhibitionists of the last months ....
on the other hand, a qr reader will disclose it and this information will still be obtained. back to square one.
this nabot desbois is a finished and expert asshole to beg!
he should thank him
it's amazing the tea towels that go through the presses of le devoir these days. vietnam is a despicable communist regime that ignores basic rights, so be it. but still? should we understand that if vietnam is an open-air prison, we should welcome the weakening of fundamental rights in our country? it is difficult to follow the author's liberticidal reasoning.
speaking of ignorance, what about the now typical unpacking of figures without context? 9,000 dead in vietnam in the past two months? either, but year after year, more than [11,000 vietnamese die each month] ( 633,000 dead in the united states? a big two-tenth of one percent of the population over 18 months versus the [3,000,000 americans who die each year] (
"35,000 soldiers, 'volunteers' and health workers took to the streets of ho chi minh city to enforce health measures"
militarizing is the next step for everywhere. the more liberticidal countries start first. look at australia and you will find the canada of this winter there my friend.
obviously there is never anyone responsible for anything here. i remember that at university in engineering we got our ears cut off about bill c45. according to this law, a professional who does something stupid that causes permanent injury or death can be criminally prosecuted even if he obeyed company policies. but it's bullshit, if this law was not used for the megantic accident or for the explosion of neptune technologies in sherbrooke, two cases of obvious professional negligence, then it will never be useful.
like what [the hashish trafficker] ( reaper of our elders and moreover big liberal donor is not the desired scapegoat.
a commission of inquiry for the thousands of deaths in chslds? no! it could embarrass the caq ...
katasa group ...... oh yes: beautiful promo pages in the journal de montréal in [december] ( -chowieri-du-groupe-katasa) and [february] ( last. a winner like that, we're not going to mess him up ....
as a former colleague would say, * in charge of everything and responsible for nothing *.
or on the contrary, point out the disastrous record of the liberals.
so let's see chalice, this passport is supposed to be for going to fun / non-essential places where several people meet.
a home is essential. i have not seen a notice but i doubt it will hold water in the housing court.
they are trying the same thing in the united states and in ontario. the truth is, it's absolutely illegal, but when your country has been torching for 16 months with the charter of rights and freedoms, legality every day becomes a matter of opinion. in class i guarantee you that it does not hold water. vaccines are authorized by emergency measures only, without urgency means no right to vaccinate, therefore no right to make vaccination compulsory until health canada gives its proper approval and even if health canada approves it. at 100% it would still play on the fine line of legality. worst is, the delta variant has a ro of 8, so even with 100% vaccine it would spread at almost the same rate.
well, let's also require proof of religion and others
if he asks for proof of vaccination for the security of the residences. i will ask for proof that there are no people infected with aids, stis and other diseases that can be transmitted.
there are those who like the authoritarian powertrip that is installed with the defeat of the covid.
by the way, it's illegal !!
nope.
yet another way to filter future tenants, but illegally!
the funniest thing is that people still think that we are doing this to react to an unforeseen virus. haha
most housing blocks are subject to emphythéose conditions (quebec civil code) an eviction or death unconditionally gives the landlord the business of the landlord, and it is also through this that the owners have full control over his home because a lease is a dismemberment of property from which on the contract (lease) can display the conditions that the owner chooses (rights on real estate transfers).
if you ever come into a situation where you are being asked for medical information or pressured to seek medical treatment, ask for signed proof that the individual or entity is withdrawing access (whether it is a job, a local, a near, etc.) this should make the individual or entity reluctant to withdraw access to you and perhaps allow to be a little more accommodating to your needs, as you will have proof denial of service which could have repercussions in the future.
> please note that this list was produced to facilitate an understanding of the activities and places targeted by the use of the vaccination passport. what is not specifically named in this list is not deemed to be excluded.
so no idea because the government didn't specify it and what isn't named the answer is "maybe yes, maybe no."
in my opinion, yes, since the right of priority is not the same as that of common law.
it holds ample.
> people experiencing homelessness would be exempt from the obligation to present a vaccination passport to access dining rooms and restaurant terraces.
how can you prove that?
the loop holes are endless.
what about the government's reaction? "we're going to file a complaint with the police against this hacker" ... the guy did them a favor, but they'd rather blame him than attack the security problem head-on.
how much did this app cost for fun.
quebec customs officers ... unpaid that's the real scandal.
📱 [hack eeet!](
it clearly does not deserve a debate in the national assembly. françois legault is omniscient and omnipotent.
"by already knowing the date of birth and of the first dose he was able to find the date of the second dose"
nasty scandal, we are annoyed, you are the same
it's always the same story with the old croutés who understand nothing about technology.
it allows you to copy the qr code ...
the pm assured us that christian dubé was good at it! nothing to see here.
who is useless without id
i'm starting to think the liberals want to lose on purpose.
conspi theory: maybe a big economic crisis is coming and they know that it is better to come back in 4 years with a new leader and a new image than to lose in 2 years.
he might think so, but he never said that.
marde post criss. i'm not a liberal, but to publish this is more miserable than the minister's clumsiness.
yeah, i thought about it. somewhere i think justin wants to lose so he doesn't have to deal with a pandemic, leave this tough time to the conservative party, then better come back in a few years.
not just there minister of the condition of women. what a beautiful contradiction.
this government is incompetence at its best. justin makes him laugh internationally. the other leaders don't even want to shake his hand.
you know, bringing someone back for the one and only reason that they call you a moumoune is not a good way to prove that they are wrong ...
moumoune.
ignore michel vaudreuil. it is the current quebec horizon garbage diffuser.
this minister is also the result of gender / race & cie quotas. incompetence embodied.
han? i haven't made any report. just my comments here. i do not understand. i said my opinion on his post that's it.
aaah! ok, thanks.
100% right !!
ah, someone reported their comment as hate propaganda.
i think there is a bit of exaggeration on this file. was the minister clumsy, yes certainly.
two things are poorly understood: firstly in the muslim world it is common to call someone 'brother' without it being an emotional bond as the word would be for a western catholic precisely.
the minister herself is a refugee from the start of the war 20 years ago and is well aware of the cruelty and brutality of the taliban. she has always denounced him before and after this remark as well.
the taliban are in a position where nationals of canada and other countries are currently in danger of death and / or their physical integrity as well.
have you ever heard a communication in a hostage situation that begins with insults and yelling at the kidnappers? no, the goal is to try to have the best possible situation in order to get our nationals out of the trap that is afghanistan now with the return of the taliban to power.
we can certainly accuse the minister of clumsiness, but if we take the time to read and listen to her communication entirely before and after the (very awkward) remark, her experience and her historical position towards the taliban, it is possible to understand that she does not sees them in no way affectionately or ideologically as brothers. she herself experienced their horrors.
there is a double standard and a bit of outrage because everyone who tears their hair out on their scalp understood for the remark not to mention the whole of the communication does not say a word about the horrors that women, children and other innocent people live and will live now.
these same offended because she said 'our brothers the taliban' of this group which commits atrocities are the first to say that we have too many people here already if we propose to save some children caught in the atrocity.
there is certainly an incredible awkwardness in this remark, but as much if not more oppotunism and false outrage on the part of all those who have climbed their curtains and ripped their tunics in this situation.
not a word and / or any outrage for the thousands of innocent humans who are going through unspeakable atrocities at this time.
it's not me, anteka. but it's okay to ask me, i thought the moderators had this kind of information.
[deleted]
no, there is no username attached to the reports.
indeed. it pays politically but they are the first ones complaining because some anglo says something wrong about qc but they have that same attitude they accuse anglos having toward them with first nation people.
same people are the agressors and the victims according to their political needs.
cool ! thank you !
we have a giant apple tree. we had to make 30-35 liters of compote to date + some pies and crumbles. we simply freeze the compote.
ah nice to see that you are able to post something other than conspiracies :)
i thank america every day for granting us tomatoes. i always eat it, all the time, everywhere. i have so many that i end up with stocks that end up rotting, so i make canned candied tomatoes, to avoid losses, which i take out very often for sauces.
it's worth it! is that a lot of maintenance?
j't'un compotiste!
should be watered to keep the apples beautiful. this year we didn't, but the apples are still very beautiful (our best year in 6 years).
i learned this year that you have to prune it in winter. finally, half the apples fall to the ground before we can pick them, feck we have to scrape them.
it's not so much work.
i too would have to prune my apple tree, but i'm a little scared because it was damaged by the stained woodpeckers, so i thought i would let it regenerate before pruning it.
nature always takes care of itself! an autonomous factory.
live the freedom
long live independence
emphasis makes understanding difficult.
* we went from a * small gang * to 60,000. 🤡
* * "and in the context of a serious shortage of manpower, quebec does not want staff to fall ill due to inadequate vaccination." * i am sure that staff on permanent ost will rush on the vaccine to stay on permanent tso. 🤡
* * "mr. dubé however recognized that compulsory vaccination could cause service breakdowns due to employees slamming the door, especially in certain montreal hospitals where the vaccination rate stagnates at 70%." * must be the radio from quebec. 🤡
* so we ask for 95% vaccination for the population but 70% in hospitals .... no pressure. 🤡
* in the meantime, [no compulsory vaccination in the police] ( because in quebec, authority leads by example. 🤡
* also at jdm, [josée legault] ( is ecstatic. she surely has an idea against the breakdowns of services that are likely to happen. 🤡
* a [another article] ( from the cbc which blames the patients (aka, in quebec, we serves the state instead of the state serving us). my little finger tells me that there will be no mention of the 60,000 mentioned above in the form of an article titled "nursing patients exasperated by unvaccinated staff". 🤡
it’s going to be fine. 🤡
this is unacceptable. we must denounce this totalitarian drift. compulsory vaccination is a serious violation of individual rights.
so to recap, are we going to send home the only employees whose status covid negative is assured, thereby leading to service breakdowns to restore public confidence in the health system? how many beds dedicated to covid will we have to subtract from the [800] ( that we remain on the [6,000] ( hospitals-danielle-mccann-minister-of-health) originally declared? the minister even tacitly admits that the tri-weekly screening is in fact only a disguised coercion measure ... it could have been improvisation and unwillingness in this crisis management. the preliminary opinion that the minister claims to have also contrasts with [the one issued by the public health ethics committee] ( -vaccination-obligatory-workers-health-covid19.pdf? fbclid = iwar0ianmr2yltahsqdne6fdkudn-sncdkkuwyiihfsi_ydxi-0ofjbnsvmqi) in the first quarter of this year.
i dream that the 60,000 is leaving. see them shake the knees a bit.
break in service 😂😂😂😂 well, nothing is required and everything will be fine ducon
i hope they will be suspended and without pay please
employees should threaten to resign en bloc. what a bunch of clowns.
i run to buy a goodie bag at the convenience store (local) because they told me to buy local!
the article says 30,000. what a nightmare that there are so many covidiots in the health care system.
i am sure that we will soon be shown this preliminary opinion as well as the points which influenced public health to make this important shift ...
it's not because you don't want a two-dose vaccine concocted at lightning speed, which loses its effectiveness after 6 months so we're talking about 2,3,4,5 vaccine etc ... which doesn't prevent transmission according to the cdc, fauci, nih, who all say the same thing and trudeau bought some for until 2024 ... a mandné wakes up is not the miracle promised in august last year the covid was practically disappeared this year we have 300-400 cases per day with 75% of the vaccinated population
you don't have to be in the majority to be a danger. he already is
the absurdity of yesterday is the norm today.
the last fad i read on this sub right here: systemic racism is the root of the shootings.
the collapse of civilization live.
so ... basically these are the same requests as in 2019.
we can see what happens to the caq's autonomist policy of making "big gains" for the quebec state.
another scandalous subject sloppy by the spurious coverage of hqa. i would have liked to broach the subject, but first of all i remember the dishonest shortcuts of the ideologues at the helm of hqa for whom the truth deserves no respect. as if trudeau were directly linked to cannibal rapists ... a story worthy of qanon. in the end, this shameful coverage overshadows the substantive issues of the original article, which did not need to be reinterpreted, semi-doctored and shortened to serve hqa activists. political activists are fools, but we already knew that.
it is bill c-16 passed by trudeau which allows murderers and "trans" rapists to be transferred to women's prisons and to be in contact with children.
there is a difference between signing a law and "trudeau delivered children to a rapist of cannibal babies".
a little rigor.
it's also funny that we left there, 20 years to be killed ... and there it is our "brothers" ... because we do not mean the real business since we is afraid of offending a gang of bearded stingers in afghanistan.
i do not see what is wrong. the west concedes defeat. now we have to keep making money.